06-11-2020||Calcutta||Green immersion in south Dum Dum ghats||A total of 201 out of the total 500 Durga idols in the South Dum Dum municipal area were immersed this year following the green immersion norm drawn up by the West Bengal Pollution Control Board in two local water bodies in association with the civic body. While 148 idols were immersed in Debi Ghat off VIP Road near Ultadanga, 53 idols were immersed in Tank No 4 in Dum Dum Park. About 77 Lakshmi idols were also immersed in these two water bodies. The immersion model was prodded by directives of National Green Tribunal (NGT) and National Mission of Clean Ganga (NMCG), which mandated about three years back that there should not be any immersion in the open spread of the river Hooghly and immersions should be organised in dedicated ponds. NMCG guidelines state that “adequate arrangements should be made for designated idol immersion sites within municipal area or bank of river Ganga and its tributaries by constructing temporary confined ponds with removable synthetic liners at the bottom”. This has also been reiterated in the subsequent directive of the National Green Tribunal. NMCG recently reminded the state government of the mandate through a letter. “The ‘idol Immersion Points’ should be cordoned off and barricaded. Synthetic liner may be placed in the bottom, well in advance” reads the NGT order, dated October 6, 2017. “We created a model immersion system in two ponds in South Dum Dum, where immersion was organised as per the NMCG and NGT immersion guideline,” said state Pollution Control Board (PCB) chairman Kalyan Rudra on Wednesday. PCB sources claimed that under its watch, the municipality barricaded part of the water bodies to earmark for immersion, spread out a synthetic lining below the water to arrest the deposits, regularly cleaned the floating idol structures and garbage; and no mixing was allowed with the rest of the water body by deploying sand bag buffer. The Telegraph Salt Lake however found on October 27 that the designated immersion area in Debi Ghat was full of litter and hardly any manpower was in place. “We received a complaint on the second day and immediately made arrangements to clean the immersion zone,” said a senior PCB official. Panchu Roy, chairman of South Dum Dum Municipality, admitted that it was difficult to stop the mixing of water between the barricaded part and the rest of the water body and shared that the system would be in place till the observance of Chhath puja. Roy pointed out that both the crane and manpower were organised to shift the idols immediately after the immersion. South Dum Dum Municipality sources admitted that about 300 idols were immersed like earlier years in other water bodies of the municipal area with little regard to environmental norms. “This is the first year and hence there were a few problems. We will definitely improve both qualitatively and quantitatively next year,” said a municipal official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-248
06-11-2020||Calcutta||Salt Lake's EC Block community hall gets an extension||A wing of EC Block community hall was inaugurated right before the Pujas with MLA and minister Sujit Bose and councilor Tulsi Sinha Roy coming down for the occasion. The entire building now has capacity for 750 people. “Our community hall was built in the late 80s but it has got several extensions periodically,” said Rudradeb Mukherjea, vice-president of the block. “The newly added portion used to be an open space but huge trees fell on it during the Amphan cyclone. While clearing the debris, we thought of using the space to expand our hall as well.” When hiring the hall for ceremonies, tenants would frequently hang up a shamiana over this space and make use of it, sending the message that an even bigger hall was quite welcome. Abiding by social distancing norms, the capacity of this new ground floor hall is 150 but once the pandemic blows over, it shall hold 200 people comfortably. Their ground floor now has two halls that can be used as one if the partition is removed. The first floor has a library and a banquet hall while the top floor has a learning centre where needy students are taught English, mathematics and computer. “Despite the additional concrete space, we decided not to hold our puja in the community hall this year as it is an enclosed area. We would not have been able to control crowds during anjali,” said block secretary Mouli Nath Maji. The new space was erected at a cost of Rs 11 lakh, of which Rs 1 lakh was sponsored by the sports and youth welfare department, under the infrastructure development work head. “Sujit Bose helped us with this,” said Mukherjea. “Additional funds were raised from savings from the block along with generous donations from residents Manjusha Das Ghosh and Mihir Chatterjee.” The auditorium has, in fact, been named Justice SP Das Ghosh Hall after the late husband of Manjusha Das Ghosh. “My husband had humble beginnings in rural India but he worked hard to become a lawyer and then a judge. He always wanted to give back to society so after his untimely demise I thought of furthering his cause,” said Das Ghosh. Bose congratulated the block for its latest addition. “And it’s a nice gesture to name the hall after eminent residents. That way their memories will stay alive with the next generation,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-248
06-11-2020||Calcutta||CA Block youths conduct quiz, air chat shows over loudspeaker||One of the best things about the Durga Pujas is the interaction with friends and neighbors and CA Block didn’t let the pandemic put an end to that. Youths of the block picked up the mic and conducted chat shows and quizzes that were echoed across their lanes using loudspeakers. So Snehasis Mukherjee, a businessman and part-time RJ for Saptami, asked listeners to call in and share their memories of the puja in the block. Laxmi Kanto Sukul, the first president of the block (and puja) committee back in 1979, dialed in to share his experiences of raising puja subscriptions in the initial days. “Back then, this was a Herculean task. People would head the other way if they even met me in the market, to avoid paying,” he laughed. Another RJ, Arnab Sen chatted with listeners who called in to share their experiences of puja 2020 and to explore if they were facing problems following the rituals online. Souradip Basu posed riddles that attracted not only residents but also pandal-hoppers. “We were really happy with the response. I thought I would have to announce our phone numbers four to five times before anyone dialed in but we started getting calls after announcing the number the second time itself,” said Souradip. “Even visitors to the pandal would call or come and give the answers in person and we would have to tell them that the games are for residents only. But they would wait for us to ask the next question and that really encouraged us.” Anirban Sinha was one resident who called in to answer enthusiastically. “This puja has been different. We all are experiencing it from our homes through social media and loudspeakers so this was a fun event to take part in,” said Sinha. “And I know it became popular as everyone from my family was trying to reach them over the phone but we only managed to connect once as it was always busy.” Mukherjee, who was also the coordinator of the puja this year, said the initiative had been taken to involve residents, “particularly senior citizens, so they wouldn’t feel left out in this pandemic year,” he said. Vijaya meet post-puja, the block celebrated Vijaya sammelani virtually. Little Radhika Banerjee welcomed everyone by singing Sree Krishna Govinda and Nishita Gupta danced to the dandia beats of Chogara tara. Ankita Roychoudhury dressed up in a red sari and sang Rabindra sangeet — Akash jure shuninu oi baje and Amar nayan bhulano ele while Salouni Das danced to Aigiri Nandini. Anushree Mukherjee sang Kahin deep jwale aana from Chitchor and Alokparna Chakraborty set the perfect puja mood by singing the classical Boro anondo hoy. “Some NRIs hailing from the block were eager to send in their entries too but ultimately did not manage on time,” said Mukherjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-248
06-11-2020||Calcutta||Eastern High kids do up pandal with art||The pandal at Eastern High in New Town was cordoned off with a rope. At the entry stood a guard, sanitizing hands of visitors. And taped to the rope all around the pandal intermittently were paintings, some with sketch pen, some with color pencil and some with water color. Some carried messages on chart paper. “The puja committee asked us to create awareness. We decided on posters as the medium,” said Sanhita Das, a Class VII student of Salt Lake School. The children divided themselves into sub-groups, choosing to work on three topics — Covid-19, dengue and water and environment. While Sanhita had two more in her Covid-19 group, Maitreyee Roy worked alone on the last-mentioned topic. “Sanhita helped me at times,” said the Class VII student of Our Lady Queen of the Missions. Their posters were accepted with open arms by the puja committee. “It feels great to have people coming up to see and read our posters all through the Puja. We are overhearing some comments. Those who know us are coming up to praise us,” said Sanhita. Asked whether the involvement and appreciation made the 2020 puja more fun, they stridently shook their heads. “Half our friends are not allowed to come down from their apartment. There is no sit-down lunch which is so much fun. As we are not having on-stage cultural programs this year, yesterday we broke into a dance together on the field just for fun. We missed our friends,” they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-248
06-11-2020||Calcutta||Meet over meal: Uniworld City gets supper club||A club to go out, meet people and explore places together, that too over a meal or a drink. Uniworld City now has a supper club that lets its residents do just that. UWC Supper Club is the brainchild of Priyanka M, a Masterchef India Season 4 finalist who is a resident of New Town’s biggest housing complex. “The supper club concept is fairly popular in the West. There are supper clubs in Delhi and Mumbai too. But Calcutta did not have any. So I thought of starting one in my own complex which by itself is a 100 acre township with over 3,000 people,” says Priyanka, who is now working as a culinary consultant. “At Uniworld, we have groups on cricket, wellness, running and cycling, but nothing on food. This will bring foodies together,” she added. An invitation link in residents’ WhatsApp groups garnered 175 entries overnight. And on November 1, the first meet and greet of the supper club took place with about 25 members attending. Among them was Sunita Chandra, a college teacher, who came with family. “Earlier when I stayed in BA Block in Salt Lake, I used to be very active culturally. Here I have joined the music and dance club but was looking for more action. My son is also in the hospitality sector. So I happily signed up.” Siddhartha Pandey said he was looking for a chance to socialise. “Digital meetings cannot replace the experience of sitting face to face, talking and laughing. We were eager to go out after staying cooped up at home for months. This club gives us a chance to get to know our neighbours and bond with them.” The safety factor was high on everyone’s mind. Chandra admitted she was initially hesitant about attending the first meet. “But Priyanka assured us that the venue would be sanitised and well-ventilated. Also here we knew what kind of people we would meet,” said Pandey. The venue was the verandah of Legendz Cafe Terrace at Mother’s Wax Museum, which Priyanka runs. For most members, it was their first visit. “The view was mind-boggling. It must be the only location with such a view of Eco Park,” said Vaibhav Gupta, who runs the neighbouring star hotel Ibis Rajarhat. “New Town itself has so many food and beverage options that we need to break this habit of people here of travelling all the way to the city proper to dine out. The club will allow us to explore these options together. Social distancing need not mean isolation,” he said, adding that he was looking forward to visiting the Biswa Bangla Gate restaurant with fellow members. “I will also invite them to the alfresco garden at my hotel.” Priyanka has a lot of plans with the supper club. “We can do food trails, explore new restaurants, have wine pairing sessions, invite chefs to cook special dishes for us… I can tie up with venues so that they offer us privileges and special packages when we visit in group.” The club still being in its formative stage, there is no membership charge for now. “I plan to take it across New Town by the end of the year,” she signed off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-248
06-11-2020||Calcutta||Lapses in Covid care in Calcutta||A number of doctors and health-care workers, including nurses, were not properly monitoring the condition of Covid-19 patients in hospitals in Barrackpore, Khardah, Barasat, Naihati and Ashoknagar in North 24-Parganas, a team sent by Sasthya Bhavan has found. Members of the team said that at some hospitals, patients with low oxygen saturation levels were lying unattended. At others, no one was found regularly checking on patients and regulating the flow of oxygen even when the saturation level was satisfactory. In several hospitals, doctors were not scrutinising X-ray reports of patients with chest infection. As a result, the turn-around time of patients in these hospitals was getting longer. Between Wednesday and Thursday, the team of experts visited at least six Covid-19 hospitals in North 24-Parganas, including a few private ones the state government has acquired to treat people suffering from the coronavirus disease, to check the condition of patients. The district has been recording the highest number of positive cases after Calcutta for some time now. At several of these hospitals, the team was shocked to find a laid-back attitude among doctors and health-care workers engaged in monitoring Covid-19 patients, most of whom were admitted with mild symptoms. “At a private hospital in Barrackpore, we found a patient lying with 33 per cent oxygen saturation and no one had noticed it. On inquiry, it turned out that the mask was defective and it was replaced,” said G.K. Dhali, the head of the department of gastroenterology at SSKM Hospital, who was leading the team. “At some hospitals, patients were not being monitored. We told them what to do.” The pipe that supplies oxygen at high flow to patients with low saturation level was found lying outside the nostrils at a number of hospitals and there was no one to check it. In some ICUs, the team came across patients who were being given 20 litres, 25 litres and 30 litres of oxygen every day even though their oxygen saturation level was 98 or 99 per cent. “This shows that doctors and nurses had not bothered to check on the patients,” a team member said. Junior doctors at some hospitals were found not interpreting ECG and X-ray reports properly, resulting in a delay in assessing the health of patients. "There were 11 patients in the ITU of a hospital in Barasat. When we went there, we found that some didn't have their masks on. In some, the probe — a slender medical instrument used for investigation by attaching it to a tube —was lying disconnected,” the team member said. “There aren't any shortages of doctors. But there is a lack of round-the-clock monitoring.” The experts told the doctors and health-care workers at these hospitals that the government had provided all necessary equipment and all they would have to do was regularly visit the patients and monitor their health. “We visited the hospitals not to criticise the doctors and health-care workers but to help them perform their duty better,” the member said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-248
06-11-2020||Calcutta||1 dead after truck hits scooter in Calcutta||A man riding a scooter died after a truck carrying LPG cylinders hit him in Beleghata on Thursday morning, taking the road death count to eight in November, police said. Raju Santra, 46, was moving in the same direction off CIT Road as that of the truck. He was hit as the truck tried to overtake him from the right. He lost his balance on impact and came under the wheels of the truck, the police said. Santra, a resident of Nalini Sarkar Street, was declared dead at NRS hospital. The police said he was wearing a helmet at the time of the accident. “The truck fled after the accident. Officers of Beleghata traffic guard have traced the vehicle’s registration number; a search is on for it,” a traffic police officer said. “A case of causing death by negligence has been started against the driver.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-248
06-11-2020||Calcutta||ICSE council seeks Calcutta schools’ feedback||The ICSE council has sought feedback from school heads on teaching, coverage of reduced syllabus and Classes X and XII assessments. The council sent a circular to school heads on Thursday, saying the feedback is important as it has started preparations for the 2021 exams. The heads have to answer two questionnaires related to students appearing for the ICSE and ISC exams in 2021 and submit them online by November 11. In July, the ICSE council had asked schools to answer two questionnaires regarding the status of online teaching, coverage of the reduced syllabus and assessment and evaluation. Thursday’s circular was addressed by Gerry Arathoon, the chief executive and secretary of the council. The council has reduced the syllabuses of Classes X and XII twice since July because of “significant loss” of teaching hours from March. “Since the board exams are close, the council is naturally concerned… coordinators will collect the data from teachers to answer the questionnaires about the board classes,” a city school principal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-248
06-11-2020||Calcutta||Fraud in UK from call centre in Salt Lake  ||Four directors of a call centre in Salt Lake were arrested on Thursday for allegedly duping many people from the UK, Portugal and South Africa in the guise of providing software services. Police said the accused would coax the victims into installing a software in their computers, which would lead to installation of a spyware that would enable the fraudsters to gain control of the devices. The men who were arrested were Gurdeep Singh, 45, from Entally; Santosh Kumar Yada, 31, from Behala; and Howrah residents Abraz Ahmed, 30, and Jasim Anwar, 31. The police said they were part of a group of six who owned the call centre, which functioned from a building in Sector V’s EP-GP block. “We are looking for the other two men,” said an officer of the cyber crime police station in Salt Lake. “The call centre had at least 150 employees, who would call up people overseas. Employees of the call centre would call up foreign nationals and dupe them by claiming that they provided solutions to problems related to software and viruses. They used to make VoiP calls using at least 70 computers.” The employees would convince their victims that they were calling from a software major and offer to resolve problems in their computers at a nominal fee, the officer said. During the course of the conversation, the callers would ask the victims to install a software that in turn would give them remote access to the victim’s computer. Once they did so, the callers would take over control of their computers. When the victims would try to pay them for their “service”, the callers would enter an amount much higher than the “nominal fee” they had demanded. Bidhannagar police commissioner Mukesh said they had launched a drive against illegal call centres. “We are making regular arrests. This is part of our drive,” Mukesh said. The police suspect the gang had duped foreign nationals of crores of rupees. A case has been started under IPC sections related to cheating, fraud, forgery and criminal conspiracy, and also under the Information Technology Act. Illegal call centres have mushroomed across the city, the police said. Over the past few months, the Bidhannagar commissionerate has arrested many suspects who allegedly cheated people across the globe posing as employees of software giants or promising high returns for a place to install mobile towers. In most cases, the alleged fraudsters convince their clients to install software in their computers through which they could access the device.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-249
06-11-2020||Calcutta||Local trains to roll out from Wednesday||Suburban trains, suspended since March 23 as a precaution against Covid-19, are set to roll out again from November 11 with roughly a fourth of the pre-pandemic strength, railway officials said after a meeting with the Bengal government’s representatives on Thursday. There was no official announcement from the railways or the state government on the number of trains that will run. Nor was there any final decision on access control at porous suburban stations. A formal announcement is likely on Monday, along with a detailed set of standard operating procedures for crowd control and train operations, sources in the state government and railways said. “To start with, we plan to run 362 trains (181 pairs) — 114 pairs in the Sealdah division, 50 pairs in the Howrah division and 17 pairs in the Kharagpur division. We want to increase the number of trains gradually, in keeping the volume of passengers,” said a railway official. Before the pandemic, around 1,500 trains ran every day in the three divisions, ferrying over 35 lakh passengers. The Howrah and Sealdah divisions — where 407 and 915 trains would run daily, respectively — are under Eastern Railway, while the Kharagpur division is under South Eastern Railway. The Covid-19 protocols already in force on special long-distance trains — which make wearing of masks and thermal scanning for body temperature mandatory — will be applicable to passengers of suburban trains, too. Railway officials said the state government would have to deploy police at the stations to check unauthorised entry. “It will not be possible to deploy Railway Protection Force personnel at every station. The state government is working on the modalities of crowd control. The modalities will come out in black and white as SOPs on Monday,” said a senior railway official. Railway officials also pointed out that since the trains would run for all passengers, it would be impossible to stop people with a valid ticket from entering stations. “In Maharashtra, local trains started running for essential service providers identified by the state government. It was easier to control the crowd by adopting a pass-based system. Here, there is no way to stop a person with a ticket from entering a station. We can only stop a person without a mask,” said an official of the Howrah division. Public health experts and doctors fear that a reduced fleet and absence of access control at small stations in suburbs will trigger a surge in Covid cases. The Sealdah division has around 175 stations in the suburban section. There are 28 RPF posts and around 40 GRP posts. “We need at least three cops at every station. They have to work in two shifts. Without the state government’s help, it is impossible to have every station manned,” said an official of the Sealdah division. The frequency of the trains will be adjusted according to the time of the day, said railway officials. Some of the suburban stations are small but see a huge rush during office hours. Three men in uniform are unlikely to be able to control hundreds of people. The initial plan is to run trains with 50 per cent seating capacity, Alapan Bandyopadhyay, Bengal’s chief secretary, had said after a meeting with railway officials on Monday. The seating capacity of a suburban train is 1,200. A packed suburban train in rush hours carries well over 2,500 people. Multiple railway officials on Wednesday said it was almost impossible to adhere to the plan. An official of the Howrah division said additional services were not ruled out on the first few days if there were too many passengers. State government officials present at the meeting said the SoP had to be framed by this weekend and the railways had to advertise the schedule and time table of the trains extensively. “We are in sync with the state government. It is a good thing that the suburban trains will finally start running from Wednesday,” said Aneet Dulat, the additional general manager of Eastern Railway. “The resumption of trains is welcome. But the number of trains has to be sufficient. Otherwise, social distancing protocols will go for a toss,” said Rabi Biswas, a resident of Seoraphuli in Hooghly who was a local train regular before the Covid pandemic. “The trains barely had an inch to stand in the morning and evening rush hours. Fewer trains will only add to the rush,” said Biswas, who works at a pharmacy store in Burrabazar. Like hundreds of others from his hometown, Biswas has been travelling to the city and back in crowded buses over the past few months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-249
06-11-2020||Calcutta||School reopening not before December: Mamata||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said the schools, which had shut down in March because of the Covid pandemic, would remain closed at least till the first week of December and a decision on reopening would be taken after that. “Schools will remain closed till the first week of December and the government will see after that,” Mamata said at an administrative review meeting at Nabanna. Sources in the school education department said the chief minister’s comment followed feedback from officials of the department who had met on Monday to discuss the possibilities of reopening schools. Since the Madhyamik and higher secondary examinations are only months away, there is a plan to start reopening with the students of Classes IX, X, XI and XII. “A detailed guideline has to be worked out to execute the plan. Therefore the government is taking time,” said the official. Another official of the department said the government was unsure about reopening schools because a large number of Covid cases — despite a recent drop in the active case count — are still being reported from across the state. “The situation may worsen as another round of festivals is approaching and there could be gatherings in public places. There is a fear that the virus could become more virulent in winter. So, the government is not saying anything on when schools will reopen,’’ the official said. In Bengal, the number of government-run primary schools is close to 52,000. State-aided secondary and higher secondary schools total 12,000 and 7,000, respectively. Besides, there are scores of private schools. An order signed by the chief secretary on Monday stated that in-person classes and assemblies in schools (including anganwadi centres), colleges and universities would continue to be disallowed as a precaution against Covid. Mamata had said towards the end of July that the government might reopen schools and colleges on alternate days in September “if the situation improves in August’’. The plan had to be scrapped as the Covid situation continued to be grim. “The Covid situation is constantly fluctuating and the government is unwilling to commit to any dates now,’’ said an official of the education department. First-year classes at state-aided colleges and universities are likely to start on digital platforms in December. The University Grants Commission on Thursday sent to all state governments a guideline for physical reopening colleges and universities. “We are reviewing the advisory,” said an official in the higher education department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-249
06-11-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta schools bank on parents to bail them out||Several city schools have pinned their hopes on some parents “to rise to the occasion” and bail them out from financial difficulty by not seeking waivers. There are some parents whose income has not been affected, the heads of some schools said. If they pay the fees, it will help schools generate salaries of their employees and keep the institutions afloat. In a Christian missionary school, 60-odd parents have said in the past five days they don’t want any concession. In another Anglo-Indian school, parents of 50 per cent of the students paid the fees for the entire year months before the court order. That is the spirit of the high court order as well but it is a choice parents have to make and schools cannot make it binding on them, a school head said. “We believe there will be several parents who will not go for the concession. There are some who cannot afford but they have dignity and they don’t seek waivers but say they will pay in instalments,” Devi Kar, director of Modern High School for Girls, said. “Parents do value the education given by schools.” Kar said schools could not continue using their savings and that there would be ongoing expenses like affiliation and maintenance. Also, schools have to take care of members of the support staff who look up to the employers for protection at such times, Kar said. Although many services are not being used by students from March, schools have to bear annual maintenance charges to keep them running, many school heads said. These include computers, fire equipment, AC units, lifts, water filters and security agencies. “There is no rebate on these heads; the tuition fee, too, does not compensate for that. If parents stand by the school at least we will be able to make both ends meet,” the head of a Christian missionary school in central Calcutta said. There are additional expenses on digital platforms and some schools have to subscribe certain products against a charge. “The expectation is that some parents will pay the fees and it will help us. But ultimately it is the parents’ choice,” Krishna Damani, trustee of South Point, said. At Don Bosco Park Circus, close to 75 per cent of parents have paid the fees till October, the authorities said. “Many of our parents are central and state government employees and some get allowances for their children. Those who can afford should pay,” principal Father Bikash Mondal said. Terence Ireland, principal of St James’ School, said 50 per cent of parents had paid the fees for the entire year. “These parents have helped us to tide over this period.” “If some parents rise to the occasion, it will help schools to sustain financially,” Ranjan Mitter, the principal of The Future Foundation School, said. Some schools have announced concession but have requested parents not to go for it if they can afford to do so. “Parents understand the kind of effort teachers put in during online classes, creating videos, doing assessments and all. In some cases, teachers share their screens to help students understand better and parents are appreciative of it. We expect there will be parents who will not go for the concession,” Aruna Gomes, principal of Loreto House, said. If parents do not respond, some Loreto schools will have to dip into their reserve funds, Gomes said. “It is not for a couple of months but for a long period of time and that is what makes it more difficult.” Institutions must be preserved and there are parents who “understand it is in their best interest and they will not want their children to suffer”, Kar of Modern High said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-249
06-11-2020||Calcutta||Curbs for Kali puja pandals, temples||Kali Puja pandals will be “no-entry zones” like the ones for Durga Puja this year but since they are more in number and smaller than Durga Puja pandals, only up to 5 metres from them will be part of the restricted area, the high court ruled on Thursday. The court had ruled that 10 metres from big Durga Puja pandals and 5 metres from the smaller ones would be treated as no-entry zones. The high court also banned processions during immersion of Kali idols and said the immersions “should be low-key affairs”. The restrictions, imposed as a precaution against Covid-19, will also apply to Jagaddhatri and Kartick Puja pandals across the state. The division bench of Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Arijit Banerjee, which issued the order, said the no-entry zone would include “an area of five-metres beyond the pandals on all the open sides”. “Except for dhakis, the five-metre zone has to be kept completely free at all times,” the court said. Only 10 persons will be allowed in the covered area of a Kali, Jagaddhatri or Kartick Puja pandal “where the covered area excluding the dais is up to 150 square metres”. The order said: “For pandals with a covered area between 150 square metres and 300 square metres excluding the dais, the number of persons at any point of time may be 15. For bigger pandals, in excess of 300 square metres in area excluding the dais, a maximum of 45 persons can be within the pandals at any given point of time.” At temples, the police have to ensure “that Covid protocol is maintained”. The court said: “The local administration and police will ensure that there is no overcrowding within the temple precincts or outside. This will apply particularly to the Dakshineshwar Kali temple, the Kalighat temple, the Tarapith temple, the Kalyaneswari temple in Rupnarayanpur and other Kali and Shakti and other temples all over the State, till the lockdown is completely lifted.” The court asked the administration in the districts where the Kali pujas are held in a big way to ensure that its directions were conveyed to the organisers “well in advance”. “The local administration in Hooghly, particularly Chandernagore, has to ensure that the directions are made known to the Jagaddhatri Puja organisers well in advance so that appropriate steps can be taken. Similarly, in those pockets where Kartick Puja is held in a big way, the local administration should take appropriate steps well in advance. In Uttarpara, Barasat and other areas where Kali Puja is held in a big way, the local police and administration should make the citizens and the organisers of public pujas aware of these directions immediately,” the order read. The state government had earlier said that the pandals had to be open on all four sides. The bench added that sanitisers should be available at the pandals, wearing masks would be mandatory and distancing norms had to be maintained always. “Immersions should be low-key affairs and processions for such purpose will not be permitted,” the bench ordered. It has prohibited the “use of bands and lights” during immersion. The police will have the discretion “to provide for staggered timings so that the immersion ghats are not overcrowded”. The bench passed the order following a PIL by Ajay Kumar De seeking a court order on maintaining pandemic protocol during the festivals. The bench said the restrictions imposed for Durga Puja seemed to have had the desired effect. “Indeed, the usual crowding at puja pandals during Durga Puja was, more or less, absent. Whether as a result of the measures taken or otherwise, there does not appear to have been a spike in Covid cases, till at least a week after Durga Puja. It is thus hoped that if similar directions are issued for the conduct of Kali Puja next week, it may… (be) to the benefit of the citizens of the state,” the order said. The kind of processions that may be allowed for Chhath Puja will come up in court on November 10. The court added: “Since Christmas is some distance away, no directions in such regard are issued at the moment.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-249
06-11-2020||Calcutta||Blanket ban on firecrackers easier to enforce: Cops||A blanket ban on firecrackers should be easier to implement than a selective ban that was in force on Diwali last year, police officers said hours after the high court ordered a complete ban till the end of November. Law-enforcement agencies, following the order, will shift their focus on cracking down on the points of sale without having to waste time or energy to differentiate between legal and illegal firecrackers. Last year, bursting of firecrackers producing sound up to 90 decibel at 5m from the source were allowed within a two-hour window on Diwali. However, dozens of incidents of bursting of banned firecrackers were reported from across the city. In Calcutta and the outskirts, there were 15 cases where people were taken to police stations and prosecuted or fined for bursting banned firecrackers. Most of the complaints were from highrise buildings and housing complexes. During the pre-Diwali period every year, Calcutta police conduct extensive searches and raids to seize banned firecrackers. “In previous years, whenever we would catch someone carrying firecrackers, we would have to check whether those were legal or illegal…. This year is going to be different. Any firecracker we see on the road — be it a chocolate bomb with a fancy name or a simple sparkler — will be seized,” said a senior officer of Calcutta police. The high court on Thursday directed the government to ensure that there was “no use or display or bursting of firecrackers at all during Kali Puja and Diwali celebrations. For this purpose, only wax or oil-based diyas would have to suffice, for the greater good of the citizens and in larger public interest.” The court has also instructed the police to maintain strict vigil to ensure there is no sale or purchase of firecrackers in any form. Keeping in mind the Covid pandemic, no baji bazar (firecracker market), where only legal firecrackers are sold, has been set up in Calcutta. In the run-up to Diwali in previous years, thousands of people would drive to manufacturing units in Champahati and Nungi, in South 24-Parganas, to buy firecrackers at a cheaper rate. The police would usually try to maintain vigil on such sales by setting up checkpoints. “But we would be a little lenient if we saw families with children in a car. But this year there will be no exception,” an officer said. Pollution control board officials, too, said the vigil would be stronger this year. Every year, the PCB and the police would have to depend on “spot evidence” such as empty boxes of firecrackers to prove that those were banned items. “This year, bursting of any firecracker will be illegal,” a senior officer said. Environment activist Subhas Datta welcomed the court order and said it would have been better had the court defined the nature of punishment, too, for violation of the blanket ban. Police sources said helpline numbers would be published where citizens could report any bursting of firecrackers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-249
06-11-2020||Calcutta||Few takers for CMC Covid test centres||The number of people undergoing Covid-19 tests at the 72 rapid antigen testing centres the Calcutta Municipal Corporation had set up in the past two months is below expectation, civic officials have said. Requests from housing complexes to test their residents through special camps have dropped as well, an official said. Several factors are responsible, he said. A decline in enthusiasm among ward coordinators (the outgoing councillors) to mobilise people to go for tests, a general decline in interest among people to know if they are Covid positive and a drop in Covid test rates at private laboratories are the main factors, the official said. “The CMC has the capacity to test more than 4,000 people through a combination of rapid antigen and RT-PCR tests every day; but hardly 1,200 people are getting tested daily,” the official said. The Indian Council of Medical Research has approved both tests. Rapid antigen tests give results within 30 minutes whereas RT-PCR tests take at least a day to give the results. But RT-PCR tests are considered more foolproof, which is why the ICMR has said those testing negative in rapid antigen tests but have Covid symptoms should undergo RT-PCR tests. A positive rapid antigen test result, though, is final, the ICMR has said. Role of ward coordinators: “We have noticed a decline in interest among ward coordinators, who had played a crucial role in encouraging people to get themselves tested in the early months of the pandemic,” a CMC official said. They used to persuade traders, bus drivers and conductors, auto drivers among others to get themselves tested. Isolating someone who tests positive is important to check the spread of the infection, the official said. A Trinamul ward coordinator said there was a difference between being an elected councillor and a nominated one. “That spirit among coordinators is lacking. Many ward coordinators are not sure if they will get tickets when elections happen.” Drop in test rates: The state government’s decision to cap Covid-19 test rates at Rs 1,500 has allowed many families to go to private laboratories, an official said. The state government brought down the rate from Rs 2,250 to Rs 1,500 on October 12. “Many people can now afford the test.” Asymptomatic and in isolation: People are averse to getting stuck at home, the official said. “Earlier a lot of asymptomatic people got themselves tested at our centres. But when they tested positive, it meant they had to remain isolated at home for 14 days. Many people didn’t like this. They had no severe illness but could not run their businesses or join work… now those who don’t have any symptom are unwilling to go for tests.” Many Covid positive people may not have symptoms but they end up infecting others, the official said. Fewer test requests: In the initial days in August, the daily number of test requests from housing complexes was high, a CMC official said. “We were unable to meet all requests in a day. Now there are days when we don’t receive requests from any complex.” People need to be retold, if needed, the significance of getting themselves tested and isolated till the time a medicine or vaccine is available, many officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-249
06-11-2020||Calcutta||Activists to ask highrises to shun fireworks||While the state environment department chooses to bank upon online awareness mode to minimise fireworks this Diwali, green activists plan to target the high-rises and housing complexes directly to push their ban-baji agenda. Both insist that considering the Covid-19 situation and warning from the physicians’ fraternity that the situation will deteriorate further if fireworks pollution impacts the already poor air quality of mid-November, the burning of fireworks should stop altogether this Diwali. “Personally, if you ask me, I am in favour of a ban on baji during Diwali. However, as a petition has been filed in Calcutta high court over the issue, we need to wait for the court’s final verdict. We will do whatever the court will direct,” environment minister Soumen Mahapatra told The Telegraph Salt Lake. Burning of fireworks leads to the production of gaseous substances like sulphur dioxide, oxides of nitrogen dioxide and the like. While sulphur dioxide irritates the respiratory system, oxides of nitrogen increase oxidative stress and affect the protective mucosal layer of lungs, magnifying the risk of attack from viruses like Sars-CoV-2, say doctors. The minister further pointed out that his department and the state pollution control board would organise a series of awareness meetings to drive home the importance of bursting little or no fireworks this Diwali. “We will hold separate online awareness meetings with non-government organisations, school students and definitely with representatives of highrises to put across the message. Members of doctors’ forums and police will also participate,” stated the minister. Sabuj Mancha, a platform of environmental organisations across the state, points out that while spreading awareness is important it is unlikely to cause significant change in habits unless the administration takes strong action against offenders, particularly in the highrises which cause maximum violations. “Last year, the state PCB found several violations in a number of high-rises and even lodged FIRs against them, including those in the Lake Town area, based on a complaint filed by Sabuj Mancha. But effectively no concrete measures were taken after that. They basically went scot-free,” complained Naba Dutta of the green platform. While PCB chairman Kalyan Rudra promised to look into the issue of alleged inaction against errant highrises, a senior official pointed out that the onus was on the police to take appropriate action. In this context, this year Sabuj Mancha has decided to approach the civic authorities and the police to rein in the highrises from bursting fireworks. “We have already raised the issue of highrises in a recent letter sent to the chief minister. Further to that, we will soon write to the civic authorities in Calcutta, Bidhannagar and South Dum Dum as well as the NKDA along with local police heads, appealing to them to ensure that the experiences of last year do not get repeated,” said Dutta. Dutta shared that a delegation from the platform would soon meet the minister, state PCB chairman Kalyan Rudra and PCB member secretary Rajesh Kumar to push the demand of completely barring fireworks this Diwali and keep the high rises under strict vigil.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-249
06-11-2020||Calcutta||Virus march in festive season||Virologists had predicted an explosion in the number of Covid cases after the Pujas but as of now daily new cases, though on the rise till Monday, have not hit the roof. Experts, though optimistic, would however, rather wait to see the week through before patting people on the back for showing restraint during the festive days. The growing reluctance among a section of people to go for tests despite showing Covid-19 symptoms is also taking away from the capacity of the numbers to reflect the true picture, warn doctors . “Despite our best efforts, residents met at large gatherings during the Pujas. They went to restaurants, roamed about without masks. The virus has an incubation period and those affected should start feeling sick by November 6 or 7,” said Pranoy Roy, mayoral council member in charge of health, Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation. “We are afraid that figures for fresh cases might rise further this weekend.” Even if those affected by the virus have got fever by now they are likely to have popped a few pills for three days before getting a Covid test done. The results too would take a day more to arrive. The corporation area, pointed out public health specialist Anirban Dolui, was logging 120 to 130 new cases daily for about two weeks before the Pujas. “We need to be watchful for another three-four days for the incubation period of five to 14 days after exposure to be completely over. The Covid test results need to be monitored till the end of the week for the effect of the Pujas to be understood,” said Dolui, who is one of the three co-ordinators for the state government’s home isolation monitoring team. Figures of new cases have been on the rise since the end of the Pujas. Dwadashi (October 28) saw a jump to 136 from 95 the day before. The highest spike with 142 new cases, was on November 2. For two days after that, the numbers have dipped — 102 and 114 — but experts are not sure if the downward trend will continue till the end of the week. A senior civic health official preferred to be optimistic. He said he was keeping fingers crossed that the worst was over. “It is true that we need to keep an eye on the figures for another four-five days but trends so far suggest that the figure is unlikely to spiral like it had in Kerala after Onam.” According to predictions of virologists on the post-Puja situation in Bengal, new daily infections would have been close to 200 by now. “But that has not happened,” he argued. Abhik Ghosh, a CB Block-based ENT specialist who is the co-ordinator of Protect the Warriors, a forum of doctors formed to provide support against Covid-19, said though there was no explosion of new cases across Bengal after Durga puja, figures were showing an upward curve in some pockets of the city like Salt Lake. “The picture will be clear at the end of the week. Even then, it is unlikely that the 4,000 new infection figure will double or treble. Still, we need to be careful with Kali puja and Diwali coming up. That will lead to another round of shopping and social mixing.” Six teams of four doctors each from Protect the Warriors had inspected 100 Durga pujas across the city and provided inputs on organising the festival in a safe way. “Many pujas had done their bit,” Ghosh said. Though the high court order making all Durga puja pandals containment zones largely cleared the pandal-hopping crowd off the streets at least till Saptami, mixing, Roy  points out, was on ever since Puja shopping started. Early October had seen a pre-Puja shopping spree and experts had warned that crowded marketplaces could be the site of the virus spread. Even though the footfall was not a patch on that of previous years, pujas like Sreebhumi, FD Block, BJ Block, AK Block and AE (Part I) drew sufficient crowds to make virologists see red. Not to mention how crowded restaurants like Oudh and 6 Ballygunge Place were all throughout the festive week. While smaller and sporadic gatherings seem harmless, they are enough to lead to a spread. “We saw how friends and families gathered at homes and restaurants over the past weeks and many neither wore masks nor maintained social distancing,” said a doctor attached with the Infectious Diseases Hospital in Beleghata. “If even one in a group was an asymptomatic patient, he could have infected nearly everyone around.” Health officials said irrespective of rural and urban pockets, the number of cases across North 24-Parganas has been rising steadily with more than 800 cases being reported every day. The rise of infection in the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation area reflects the same trend. If on October 3, the total number of cases from the district was 53,441 and 641 fresh cases had been reported, on November 3, the corresponding number was 78,847 with 862 new cases. One can compare that to the September 15 situation, when the Puja shopping frenzy had not reached its peak. The total number of cases on the day had stood at 42,669 with 516 fresh cases reported in the district. The state health department figures take into account the number of tests done from a particular area from different testing centres as well as people admitted in hospitals and Covid-19 safe houses. These figures are then collated with the reports collected by field workers in terms of door to door visits conducted by them. The department, bracing for a rise in the number of cases this season, have added 50 high dependency unit (HDU) beds to the Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute (CNCI) in New Town, which is a corona treatment facility, thus doubling the previously available number of HDU beds. A dip in Covid-19 testing is worrying experts. “We have copies of prescriptions from doctors advising tests but those patients are not reflecting in the ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) portal. This means they are simply not coming for tests. The stigma and inconvenience associated with isolation are making them wary to be officially identified as Covid positive,” Dolui says. Some doctors are also to blame. “They are the one who are simply prescribing medicines and asking people to rest at home without taking a test. ‘Test korlei positive asbe, so do not bother’ is what they are telling patients.” This, he explains, means that the mildly symptomatic patients are getting cured in a few days on a few doses of Paracetamol and then resuming life, bypassing the stipulated period of isolation. “They are ending up spreading the infection. This is a dangerous trend.” He shares the trend being observed in CT scan reports in pathology laboratories. “Earlier, four to five of every 20 chest scan reports indicated Covid. Now 11 or 12 of every 20 reports bear the indicative ground glass opacity. That means if the symptoms are there, maximum cases are turning out to be Covid,” Dolui said. Testing at the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation’s swimming pool facility has also gone down. “People are going for private tests in which swab collection takes place from home or are simply sitting at home with fever without testing,” a civic official said. When testing started at the swimming pool in Central Park in July, the official recalled: “Such was the rush that sometimes we exceeded our initial daily quota of 30 by seven or eight and had to argue with Nilratan Sircar Hospital to get them to accept the extra samples. Now we are collecting way below capacity. On Monday, barely 19 people came.” Even at Bidhannagar Sub-divisional Hospital, a senior official said, there has been no rise in the demand for tests over the last couple of months. “We are still conducting 70 to 80 tests daily,” he added. The health department is holding sessions to train doctors on the treatment protocol to follow for patients approaching them for individual consultation. “Some doctors are making delays of four to five days in prescribing tests. We are stressing that tests should be done on the day itself when symptoms appear so that they do not infect more people. It is true that the viral load would be higher as the days progress but RT-PCR is a test sensitive enough to catch Covid strains as soon as symptoms appear,” Dolui said. Apathy towards moving to safe homes to quarantine oneself after testing positive has caused the closure of the safe home run by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation in Sector V. The Royal Courtyard Banquet Hall, a Nicco Park property, which was being used for the purpose, was de-requisitioned by the corporation on October 6. “There were no patients for almost a month. Those who are well to do stay in home isolation or get hospitalised. It was usually people from Duttabad and some slums of Rajarhat who were going there. Now NKDA has its own safe home and the situation has improved in Duttabad compared to the days when it was a containment zone. If there are any asymptomatic or mild cases needing institutional isolation, we are sending them to NBCC Square in New Town which is affiliated to CNCI,” said the civic health official. NBCC Square has a capacity of 150. Even there, barely 20 or 25 beds are occupied, sources said. The NKDA’s safe home, opened in August, currently has eight patients in the 20-bed facility. Another practice that has caused the rise in infection is the tendency among some to wear the mask imperfectly or remove it at the slightest pretext. Senior health department officials, in an October 29 meeting with the North 24-Parganas district administration, had warned that nearly half the people of the district were not adhering to the order of wearing masks and that this could result in a spurt in cases. Health department officials told the sub-divisional and block development officers to immediately start enforcing the mask rule with the help of police. If needed, more people could be booked for not wearing masks and repeat offenders could be fined rigorously, the officials were told. Health officials said the visitor turnout at pandals in parts of Bidhannagar, South Dum Dum, North Dum Dum, Baranagar, Kamarhati, Panihati, Barrackpore and Barasat had jumped on Ashtami and Navami and that while most pandal-hoppers wore masks, many were spotted  without them. Since the police was busy in law and order duty back then, there was not enough prosecution for violation of the mask rule. Puja organisers, one hopes, have learnt a lesson after Durga puja and would be cautious before the festival of lights next week. The most tragic case was reported this Monday from Baisakhi Abasan, where a lady who was on the all-woman organising committee, died in hospital. “This lady roamed the complex collecting subscriptions and attending meetings with other committee members without a mask. She would even berate others for wearing one,” said a resident. “We are all worried about who all may have got infected from her. The rest of the committee is in quarantine now.” At BE (East), about half the core committee of their Durga puja was down with Covid-19 and it was well into the festival before most of them came out of quarantine. Those affected point at a fellow-member who apparently moved about despite being down with fever. “It was much later that we realised she had been popping paracetamols to keep her fever under control. She moved about without wearing masks and one by one six out of the 12-odd women in our core committee were down with Covid,” says a member. Before they knew it, there was community spread. “One of our  members was hospitalised and the octogenarian father-in-law of another even lost his life,” said the lady, who is still weak after recovery. This year BE (East)’s puja was organised by an all-women’s team and the challenges were compounded by the Covid crisis. “We had to get labourers to build the pandal over video call when most of them didn’t even have smart phones. Then no one was being able to go meet the advertisers who came to select spots to place banners; those of us supposed to get the idol from the sculptor were in quarantine…” recalls the member. “We couldn’t have pulled this through without the blessings of Ma Durga.” The members are now preparing for Kali puja but they have a stern message for puja organisers across the township: “Please care for others. Wear masks at all times and do not leave home if you are unwell. Else you put all your neighbours’ lives at risk.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-249
06-11-2020||Business||WhatsApp rolls out payment service in India||WhatsApp on Friday said it is rolling out its payments services in India after receiving nod from the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI). In 2018, the Facebook-owned company had started testing its UPI-based payments service in India, which allows users to utilise the messaging platform to send and receive money. The testing was limited to about a million users as it waited for regulatory approvals to come in. On Thursday, NPCI - which runs the Unified Payments Interface (UPI) used for real-time payments between peers or at merchants' end while making purchases - allowed WhatsApp to start its payments service in the country in a "graded" manner, starting with a maximum registered user base of 20 million in UPI. "Starting today, people across India will be able to send money through WhatsApp. This secure payments experience makes transferring money just as easy as sending a message. People can safely send money to a family member or share the cost of goods from a distance without having to exchange cash in person or going to a local bank," WhatsApp said in a blogpost. It added that the payments feature has been designed in partnership with NPCI using UPI, an India-first, real-time payment system that enables transactions with over 160 supported banks. In June this year, WhatsApp had launched 'WhatsApp Pay' in Brazil - making it the first country where the service was widely rolled out. In India, WhatsApp - which counts India as its biggest market with over 400 million users - will compete with players like Paytm, Google Pay, Walmart-owned PhonePe and Amazon Pay. "Payments (service) on WhatsApp is now available for people on the latest version of the iPhone and Android app... We're excited to join India's campaign to increase the ease and use of digital payments, which is helping expand financial inclusion in India," it said adding that users will need to have a bank account and debit card in India to send money through the platform in India. WhatsApp said it is working with five banks in India - ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank, Axis Bank, the State Bank of India, and Jio Payments Bank - and people can send money on WhatsApp to anyone using a UPI supported app. "In the long run, we believe the combination of WhatsApp and UPI's unique architecture can help local organisations address some of the key challenges of our time, including increasing rural participation in the digital economy and delivering financial services to those who have never had access before," it added. WhatsApp noted that its payments service is designed with a strong set of security and privacy principles, including entering a personal UPI PIN for each payment. "There is no fee... because its WhatsApp, you know its secure and private too. With UPI, India has created something truly special and is opening up a world of opportunities for micro and small businesses that's the backbone of the Indian economy," Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg said in a video message. He added that the payments service will be available in 10 Indian language versions of WhatsApp. Interestingly, the approval for WhatsApp came on the same day as NPCI limited a single third party like WhatsApp or its rivals like Google Pay or Walmart's PhonePe to handle only 30 per cent of overall UPI transaction volumes by putting a cap. This is expected to allay fears of potential monopolisation. Recently, PhonePe had announced crossing the 250 million registered user milestone and over 100 million monthly active users (MAU), and had 835 million UPI transactions in October with a market leading share of over 40 per cent. Google had 67 million monthly active users in September last year, and on the merchant side, it had over three million active merchant's data for June 2020. Google Pay has not shared any updated stats since September 2019. UPI processed over 2.07 billion transactions in October (worth Rs 3.86 lakh crore), up from over 1.8 billion in the previous month, as per data from NPCI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-242
06-11-2020||Business||10 lakh consumers postponed  car purchase during lockdown||About 10 lakh consumers postponed their car purchase plans because of the pandemic-induced lockdown between April and July 2020. This was revealed in an internal study conducted by Hyundai Motor India Ltd (HMIL). Eighty per cent of such buyers will be driving the sales of cars till March 2021, Tarun Garg, executive director, sales and marketing, HMIL, told reporters after the launch of the new i20. However, Garg warned that the pent-up demand witnessed now may not continue in the next fiscal. The South Korean company on Thursday launched the fourth-generation i20, a premium hatch that will be priced in the range of Rs 6.79 lakh to Rs 10.79 lakh till December 31. Thereafter, the introductory prices are likely to be revised. Suzuki Gujarat plan Japanese auto maker Suzuki Motor Corporation (SMC) is preparing to begin production from its third unit in Gujarat from April next year. Maruti Suzuki India said Suzuki Motor Gujarat Pvt Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of SMC, has completed construction of its third plant at Hansalpur, Gujarat. Eeco recall Maruti Suzuki India  is recalling 40,453 units of its multi-purpose vehicle Eeco to fix an issue with the headlamp. The recalled units were manufactured between November 4, 2019 and February 25, 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-242
06-11-2020||Business||Birla Corporation posts highest ever cash profit in single quarter||Birla Corporation has posted its highest ever cash profit and EBIDTA in a quarter amid a heightened tussle over the control of the company and the MP Birla group to which it belongs. Harsh Vardhan Lodha chaired the meeting of the board which approved the results. The Birla family has vowed to file a contempt petition against Lodha and others before Calcutta High Court. Lodha claimed that a division bench order had allowed him to continue as chairman (except on the strength of the shares of Priyamvada Devi Birla’s estate), a legal position strongly opposed by the Birlas. While the Birlas argued that the estate holds sway over the controlling block of shares of BCL, Lodha claims the share to be only a fraction of the promoters’ block.  Lodha is expected to chair the board meetings of the other listed manufacturing companies of the group — Universal Cables, Vindhya Telelinks and Birla Cable — over the next few days. A fresh legal challenge by the Birlas will be possible only after the HC resumes after the puja vacation. Stellar performance The steller performance by BCL — which also reported an 88.6 per cent year-on-year net profit jump at Rs 166.62 crore and a cash profit for the jute division — was highlighted by the Lodha camp on Thursday to blunt the Birla narrative that performance of the company has deteriorated during the reign of Lodha. The compounded annual growth rate of revenue and net profit stood at 11.41 per cent and 16.9 per cent, respectively, between 2003-04 and 2019-20.  EBITDA for the September quarter at Rs 403.85 crore and cash profit at Rs 327.86 crore saw a growth of 21.7 per cent and 43.2 per cent, respectively. Revenues at  Rs 1,675.41 crore were up 1.7 per cent. Emami profit Post-tax profit of Emami has increased 19.7 per cent to Rs 114.52 crore during the September quarter compared with Rs 95.67 crore a year ago.  Revenue from operations increased 10.4 per cent to Rs 653.86 crore from Rs 592.12 crore a year ago Spencer’s Retail Spencer’s Retail on Thursday reported a consolidated net loss of Rs 45.05 crore for September quarter of 2020. The company had posted a net loss of Rs 39.56 crore in the July-September period a year ago.  Revenue from operations stood at Rs 616.65 crore against Rs 699.48 crore in the year-ago period. EBIDTA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortisation) margins of the company during the quarter increased to 32.1 per cent compared with the similar period last fiscal at Rs 185.58 crore. It said that the company closed the second quarter with a sound performance defying the Covid challenge. The growth momentum was sustained by the health and hygiene segment along with sequential recovery in the personal care brands.     During the quarter, rural markets continued to perform better aided by government packages. All the channels posted convincing growth with e-retailing tripling it's revenues during the quarter.     International business grew 11 per cent in terms of both profits and margins, the company said, adding that cost control measures and benign raw material prices helped in the betterment of the margins. While that may still be 10 days away, the Birlas had been sending letters to the directors on the board of the listed companies and key management persons not to allow Lodha to participate in the meetings, and threatening to file contempt petition. Lodha camp said such tactics were not new as repeated attempts have been made over the last 16 years to disrupt and obstruct the functioning of the companies. They cited three attempts by Birla side to thwart business expansion plans of BCL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-242
06-11-2020||Business||RBI's new co-lending scheme  for banks and NBFCs||The Reserve Bank of India on Thursday came up with a new scheme for co-lending, which allows banks and NBFCs to jointly provide loans in the priority sector. The rules replace the earlier norms framed two years ago. Banks are permitted to co-lend with all registered NBFCs, including housing finance companies, based on a prior agreement. The earlier scheme was limited to NBFCs-non-deposit taking-systemically important (NBFC-ND-SIs). The RBI said NBFCs shall now be required to retain a minimum 20 per cent share of the individual loans on their books. Banks and NBFCs shall prepare board-approved policies for co-lending and place them on their websites. A “master agreement” may be inked between the two partner institutions which shall include the terms and conditions of the arrangement, the criteria for the selection of the partner institutions, the specific product lines and the areas of operation, along with provisions related to the segregation of responsibilities as well as customer interface and protection issues. The RBI notification further said that NBFCs will be the single point of interface with the customers and shall enter into a loan agreement with them. The agreement should clearly contain the features of the arrangement and the roles and responsibilities of the non-banks and banks. The ultimate borrower may be charged an all-inclusive interest rate as may be agreed upon by both the lenders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-242
06-11-2020||Business||Quess Corp sees gradual uptick in demand for blue and grey collar jobs in India||Fairfax-backed hiring services firm Quess Corp sees a gradual uptick in demand for blue and grey collar jobs in India after the Covid-19 pandemic pushed up the unemployment rates in the months of April and May. The staffing firm, which had acquired online jobs platform Monster in 2018, estimates an annual potential of 60-65 million transactions in these segments (including migrant workers) as it launched an app based hiring platform called QJobs on Thursday. “Blue-collar workers have been among the hardest hit in the wake of Covid-19 and the need of the hour is to ensure that the workers are able to find employment, based on where they are located and what they are able to do,” said Suraj Moraje, group CEO and executive director, Quess Corp. Blue collar jobs typically include employment opportunities in industrial establishments and factories whereas grey collar jobs include low level tech jobs, entry level associates, BPO specialists, delivery personnel etc. The bulk of demand is expected to come from sectors such as e-commerce, telecom, re etail, manufacturing and security services, according to the firm. Sectors such as banking and fintech are also seeing a growing demand for back office roles. The annual potential estimate factors in new additions, unemployment and attrition in these segments. Around 56 per cent of the hiring will happen from job portals followed by referral programmes and recruitment agencies. “We think that the worst is behind us. Going forward we should see healthy recruiting behaviour across segments,” he said in response to a query from The Telegraph adding that the company has seen more that 1000 employers who have already come on board on QJobs. In the beta phase, the app already has over 70,000 jobs posted across the country and has crossed more than 150,000 installs. “With QJobs, we aim to offer a smooth and seamless job search experience that helps job seekers find the best suited job as per their requirements, while also ensuring that employers have access to a large pool of talent,” said Ajit Issac, CMD, Quess Corp.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-243
06-11-2020||Business||New players in commercial coal mining||Commercial coal mining is attracting new players with Fairmine Carbons bagging a block in Jharkhand and Chowgule and Company emerging as the highest bidder for another mine in Madhya Pradesh. Fairmine Carbons was the highest bidder for the Rajhara North (Central and Eastern) block in Jharkhand, offering 23 per cent revenue sharing. The firm pipped Adani Enterprises and two others to bag the mine. The Ranchi-based company was formed in July 2020 and is involved in the manufacturing of coke, refined petroleum products and nuclear fuel, according to reports. For the Shahpur East block in Madhya Pradesh having geological reserves of 63.36 million tonnes, Chowgule and Company made a final bid offer of 41 per cent revenue share. Chowgule is a Goa-based shipyard company. JMS Mining Pvt Ltd and Sarda Energy & Minerals Ltd were in the race for the block.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-243
06-11-2020||Business||Securities Appellate Tribunal dismisses RIL appeal||The Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) has dismissed an appeal filed by Reliance Industries (RIL) against a March 2017 disgorgement order passed by Sebi. The tribunal on Thursday said there was no question of the regulator’s direction to disgorge over Rs 447 crore being “harsh or a penal action” as it was an equitable remedy. Sebi’s order had pertained to the sale of Reliance Petroleum Ltd’s (RPL) shares by RIL in November 2007. “Nothing has been taken out of the appellant’s own funds/assets in the process. Since it is only an equitable remedy there is no question of that being harsh or a penal action,” the majority order by the two members — C K G Nair and M T Joshi — said. RIL on Thursday said it will challenge in the Supreme Court the dismissal of its plea by the SAT. “The company will examine the order passed by the SAT. All trades carried out by the company were genuine and bona fide. No irregularity can be attached to these transactions. The company, under proper legal advice, will prefer an appeal to the Supreme Court of India and is confident of vindicating its position,’’ RIL said in a regulatory filing on the bourses. The whole-time member of Sebi had in the 2017 order prohibited RIL and 12 other entities from dealing in equity derivatives in the F&O segment of the stock exchanges, directly or indirectly, for a period of one year from the date of the order. It also directed RIL to disgorge an amount of Rs 447.27 crore along with interest of 12 per cent per annum with effect from November 29, 2017 onwards till the date of payment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-243
06-11-2020||Business||Saudi Arabia’s PIF to invest Rs 9,555 crore in RRVL||Saudi Arabia’s Public Investment Fund (PIF) is investing Rs 9,555 crore ($1.3 billion) for 2.04 per cent in Reliance Retail Ventures (RRVL), the retail arm of Reliance Industries (RIL). With this funding, RRVL has mobilised Rs 47,265 crore from global investors such as Silver Lake, KKR, General Atlantic, Mubadala, GIC, TPG and ADIA. These investors had also acquired stakes in Jio Platforms — the digital services subsidiary of RIL. PIF had acquired a 2.32 per cent stake in Jio Platforms for Rs 11,367 crore. The investment by PIF in RRVL values it at a pre-money equity value of Rs 4.587 lakh crore ($62.4 billion). This is 7 per cent higher than the valuation of Rs 4.285 lakh crore for the other investors. All of them have so far cumulatively picked up 10.54 per cent in RRVL. The announcement, which did not come as a surprise, was made after the market hours. Earlier, the RIL scrip settled with gains of around 2.18 per cent or Rs 41.65 at Rs 1,955.10 on the BSE. A statement from RIL said the investment will strengthen PIF’s presence in India’s economy and in the promising retail market segment.The transaction is in line with PIF’s strategy to invest  in innovative and transformative companies globally and develop strong partnerships with leading groups in their respective markets, the statement said. “We have a long-standing relationship with Saudi Arabia. PIF is at the forefront of the economic transformation of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. I welcome PIF as a valued partner in Reliance Retail,” said Mukesh Ambani, chairman and managing director of RIL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-243
06-11-2020||Business||US election results set investors to gobble up stocks||Investors across the world were in a tearing hurry to gobble up stocks as they dumped the possibilities of adverse policy consequences in the wake of a fractured mandate in the US that is yet to pick their next President while a divided US House is expected to keep regulatory excesses in check. The positive sentiment swept the domestic bourses, too, aided by better-than-expected corporate results. The equity benchmarks on Thursday settled at near nine-month highs with the Sensex closing above the 41000-mark for the first time since mid-February. Rallying for the fourth straight session, the BSE Sensex surged 724.02 points or 1.78 per cent to close at 41340.16. The Sensex also wiped off all its losses for the calendar year; the bellwether had closed at 41306.02 on January 1, 2020. The broader NSE Nifty zoomed 211.80 points, or 1.78 per cent to finish at 12120.30. State Bank of India was the top gainer, soaring 5.63 per cent following strong second-quarter results. The rally came even as a tight US presidential battle saw Democratic candidate Joe Biden inching towards victory. However, the attention of investors was focussed on the policy environment under the new administration. According to investors, even if Biden wins, a Republican held Senate would block any moves by the the Democrats to tighten regulation and raise corporate taxes.  Investors are also expecting less confrontational trade policies with China and other countries under a possible Biden and Republican-controlled Senate. The optimism led to stocks ignoring factors such as rising number of Covid-19 cases globally and poor economic growth.  Derivatives The BSE on Thursday said US regulator Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) has allowed the exchange’s brokers to accept derivatives orders from US clients. The move will enable trading members to accept futures and options (F&O) orders from customers located in the US.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-243
06-11-2020||Business||Modi seeks investments worth $1.5 trillion, offers lower tax rates||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday made a strong pitch for investments in the country’s infrastructure sector at a virtual meet with the world’s top 20 sovereign wealth funds and pension funds and the shoguns of India Inc. Modi sought investments worth as much as $1.5 trillion while offering lower tax rates and other incentives to manufacturers while stating that his government was determined to tread the path of fiscal prudence. “If you want returns with reliability, India is the place to be. If you want stability with sustainability, India is the place to be. If you want growth with a green approach, India is the place to be,” Modi told the Virtual Global Investor Roundtable (VGIR) 2020. The government aims to attract funds of up to $1.5 trillion into its ports, roads, and other projects under the National Infrastructure Pipeline. The Prime Minister promised foreign investors “returns with reliability” if they came to India. The government is banking on infrastructure to be the growth driver of the economy which is expected to contract by double digits in 2020-21. The efforts to attract foreign investments in infrastructure come at a time around half of the proposed funds by 2025 will have to come from the private and foreign investors. The pandemic has severely hurt the sector, which has shrunk 15 per cent in the first half. The government also needs to convince investors about swiftness in the execution of infrastructure projects. As many as 441 infrastructure projects, each worth Rs 150 crore or more, have been hit by cost overruns of over Rs 4.35 lakh crore owing to delays and other reasons, according to a report by the government’s ministry of statistics and programme implementation. The roundtable was attended by pension and sovereign wealth funds, including Singapore-based GIC Pvt. Ltd and Temasek Holdings, Qatar Investment Authority, International Development Finance Corporation, Pension Danmark, Japan Post Bank and Korea Investment Corporation. Together, these funds have assets under management worth about $6 trillion. The government has already announced tax reliefs in this year’s budget, making their incomes exempt from long-term capital gains, interest and dividend tax. Indian business leaders Mukesh Ambani, Ratan Tata, Deepak Parekh, Nandan Nilekani and Uday Kotak attended the virtual meeting. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and RBI governor Shaktikanta Das also attended the meet. Modi will now meet the investors separately over the next couple of weeks. The Prime Minister said he was addressing “some of the best financial brains who can convert new areas of innovation and growth into sustainable business propositions”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-243
06-11-2020||India||JNUSU to boycott varsity's convocation ceremony over research fund cuts||The JNU Students' Union (JNUSU) has decided to boycott the varsity's convocation ceremony later this month over alleged research fund cuts and vivas of many PhD scholars not being conducted even after submission of the thesis. “In yet another brazen display of arrogance and insensitivity, despite not even conducting the viva of many of the PhD scholars more than a year post submission, the JNU administration has announced convocation on November 18,” JNUSU President Aishe Ghosh said in a statement. “Students of JNU earn their doctorates through years of undeterred hard work and overcome insurmountable odds to be able to submit their theses. However, the administration true to its character has decided to insult the research scholar community,” she said. “Despite not even conducting viva for a majority of passing out scholars, the farce of this convocation is being organized to satisfy the egotistic departing Vice-Chancellor,” she added. Ghosh claimed, “Eight hundred rupees are being extorted to attend an online session and receive an online degree with absolutely no concern for the students who have nothing in the way of experience except the empty platitudes of a VC who has worked tirelessly to try and jeopardize their research. The university has cut funds for journals, bungled recruitment and dismantled research.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-574
06-11-2020||India||No relief for Arnab Goswami at the moment ||There was no immediate relief for Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami, arrested in a 2018 abetment of suicide case, on Friday as the hearing on his interim bail plea before the Bombay High Court remained incomplete. A division bench of Justices S S Shinde and M S Karnik said they would continue the hearing on Saturday because of lack of time. "We will assemble for this matter specially tomorrow noon," the court said. Arnab Goswami on Wednesday was arrested from his Lower Parel residence in Mumbai for allegedly abetting the suicide of a 53-year-old interior designer and his mother in 2018. Later that night, Goswami was remanded in judicial custody for 14 days by the magistrate’s court in Alibaug, which rejected the plea for police custody. Goswami is presently lodged in a school in Alibaug which is designated as a Covid-19 centre for the Alibaug jail. Anvay Naik, who owned Concorde Designs Pvt Ltd, had left behind a suicide note saying he was ending his life because of non-payment of dues by Goswami, Feroz Shaikh and Niteish Sarda. According to the note, the three owed him Rs 83 lakh, Rs 4 crore and Rs 55 lakh respectively. An FIR had been filed against all three but the case was closed in 2019 when the BJP government was in power. On Wednesday, Naik’s daughter Adnya and widow Akshata told journalists that investigation into the case was “suppressed only because of Arnab Goswami”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-575
06-11-2020||India||AAP govt's nod to prosecute Umar Khalid in Delhi riots case||Police have received prosecution sanction from the Kejriwal government against Umar Khalid, a former JNU student leader, in connection with a case related to the February communal violence in northeast Delhi, officials said on Friday. "We have given prosecution sanction in all the Delhi riots related cases registered by the police. Now, it is up to the courts to see who are the accused," a senior Delhi government functionary said. The sanction has been received against Khalid in the Delhi riots conspiracy case, in which he was booked under the stringent anti-terror Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). A senior police officer said that police have received prosecution sanction from both the Delhi government and the Union Home Ministry against Khalid in connection with Delhi riots conspiracy case. "We have received prosecution sanction against Umar Khalid in connection with a case registered against him under the UAPA. We have received sanctions from both the Delhi government and the Ministry of Home Affairs, the officer said. The officer said that the prosecution sanctions against Khalid were received a fortnight ago and added that the Delhi Police can now name Khalid in their supplementary charge sheet. "To prosecute one under section 13 of the UAPA, we need sanction from the Ministry of Home Affairs, which we have already received. For prosecution under section -- 16,17 and 18 of the UAPA, we have received sanction from the Delhi government," the officer said. Khalid was arrested on September 13 under the UAPA act in a case related to communal violence in northeast Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-575
06-11-2020||India||Appeasement politics hurting Bengal's glory, rues Shah ||Stressing that there was a need to restore Bengal's "lost glory", Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday said the present "appeasement politics" in the state has hurt its age-old tradition of upholding the nation's spiritual consciousness. Maintaining that Bengal is the land of luminaries such as Chaitanya Mahaprabhu, Sri Ramakrishna and Swami Vivekananda, Shah said the state once used to be the centre of spiritual awakening in the entire country. "However, the politics of 'tustikaran' (appeasement) has hurt this glorious tradition of Bengal. I hereby call upon the people of Bengal to wake up and perform their responsibilities to bring back the glory of the state." The top BJP leader, who visited Dakshineswar temple on the second day of his two-day visit to the state, was taken to the sanctum sanctorum of the centuries-old shrine, where he offered puja to the goddess. "I prayed for the well being of the entire state, the country and its people. We prayed that the country retains its position of glory in the world under the leadership of (Prime Minister) Narendra Modi." Shah was greeted at the temple by members of state BJP Mohila Morcha, including its president Agnimitra Paul, who blew conch shells and put a 'tilak' on his forehead. The Union minister, after offering prayers, headed to eminent vocalist Pandit Ajoy Chakraborty's music school-cum- residence 'Shrutinandan', where he met his students and family members.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-575
06-11-2020||India||Lokayukta notice to Odisha official ||The Odisha Lokayukta has served a notice to chief secretary Asit Kumar Tripathy to submit replies to various queries on the procurement of personal protective equipment, masks and sanitisers by the state government by November 23. On Wednesday, two senior IAS officers — industries secretary Hemant Sharma, who was earlier heading the procurement committee, and managing director of Odisha State Medical Corporation Limited, Yamini Sarangi— appeared before the Lokayukta for a second time and submitted their replies. In their deposition to Lokayukta Justice Ajit Singh, the officers reportedly said everything was procured according to the government rules and there was no deviation. The two senior officers had earlier appeared before the Lokayukta on September 14. The Lokayukta had asked why Sharma had been removed from the purchase committee and under what circumstances. The alleged irregularities in the purchase of PPE kits came to light when 20 trucks loaded with PPE, masks, and sanitisers were not allowed by the government to unload at the warehouse of the medical corporation on May 24. The trucks remained standing for a week before being allowed to unload the materials. Later, the government decided to accept the PPE kits only and returned other products like masks and protective gears. The Opposition had targeted the government on the alleged corruption in the purchase of these materials. As the issue snowballed, the Naveen Patnaik government relieved Sharma from his responsibilities as the purchase committee head. A delegation of Congress leaders led by Sudarshan Das had met the Lokayukta on July 17 and submitted an eight-point memorandum on the issue. A 12-party delegation led by the Congress had met governor Ganeshi Lal over the issue and demanded that action should be taken against the guilty officials. The BJP had also targeted the ruling BJD on the issue and alleged that the Odisha government was encouraging massive corruption in the purchase of PPE kits. Das said, “As head of the administration, the chief secretary has also been brought under the ambit of the investigation by the Lokayukta. Transparency was terribly missing in the entire process of purchase of PPE kits. We are yet to get information through an RTI application on the entire procedure of procurement.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-575
06-11-2020||India||Modi Bihar letter betrays nerves||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday tweeted a letter addressed to the voters of Bihar, underscoring that he “needs” a Nitish Kumar-led NDA government in the state to ensure development. The letter, issued on the last day of campaigning for the final phase of polling on Saturday, seemed to betray desperation in the NDA camp. Ground reports from the two rounds of polling have suggested that large sections of voters were being driven by simmering discontent against the three-term Nitish-led government in Bihar. “Main Bihar ke vikas ko lekar bahut aaswast hoon. Bihar ke vikas mein koi kami na aaye, vikas ki yojnayen atke nahi, bhatke nahi, isliye mujhe Bihar mein Nitish ji ki sarkar ki zarurat hai (I am convinced about Bihar’s development. To ensure there are no shortcomings in Bihar’s development, development schemes don’t get obstructed, don’t go awry, I need Nitish’s government),” Modi said in the four-page letter on his Twitter handle. The letter was posted minutes before campaigning in Bihar closed at 5pm. Modi’s appeal came soon after Nitish sought to draw sympathy by telling a rally in Purnea that this was his “last” election. This remark of Nitish was also seen as a sign of desperation although sources later suggested he meant last election rally. Nitish anyway is not contesting the Assembly polls. The Prime Minister’s letter sought to again invoke the fear of “jungle raj” if the Opposition alliance came to power, underlining the need for order in the state for development. “Avyavastha aur arajakta ke vatavaran mein nav nirman asambhav hota hai (Development is impossible in an atmosphere of disorder and anarchy),” Modi said and stressed that only the NDA can provide this. Modi said “better infrastructure” and “rule of law” were imperative for the social and economic prosperity of Bihar. He claimed that since 2005 in the state, change has been ushered in and continuance of the “double-engine” government (the NDA at the Centre as well as in the state) was needed to take the process forward. Modi has addressed around a dozen rallies in Bihar and in almost all of them he has tried to resurrect the “jungle raj” fear. BJP managers feel that the only way to counter public anger against the Nitish government was to invoke fear of an RJD rule in Bihar. After two rounds of polling, several BJP leaders have started to concede that the strategy may not be working to the desired extent and hence the last-minute letter appeal from the top in a bid to change the drift of the voters. The BJP fears that the lure of jobs (RJD’s Tejashwi Yadav has been promising 10 lakh government jobs) may be driving young voters and blurring caste lines. Large chunks of first-time voters have no memory of the RJD rule that ended 15 years ago. “PM@narendramodi pens a heartfelt letter for Bihar’s people,” tweeted BJP general secretary and Bihar minder Bhupendra Yadav. “BJP ensured Bihar polls are fought on the issue of development, and the NDA under Shri Modi’s leadership will set Bihar on the path of unprecedented development,” he added. This was interpreted as urgency on the part of the BJP to use Modi’s assurance, despite anger against Nitish, in a last-ditch effort to get the voters to back the NDA. In his letter, Modi counted the different welfare schemes of his government to try and provide a guarantee to the voters to get them to back the NDA and ignore the failures of the Nitish government. The BJP had initially planned to undercut partner Nitish and gain the upper hand in Bihar but party strategists now worry that their plan could be going awry. They fear that if Nitish sinks beyond their calculation, he can also take them down along with him. “Nitish’s party is contesting half of the total seats. If the JDU performs very badly, as it appears to be happening, then it would be very difficult to reach the majority mark,” a BJP leader said. The party has also been banking on Chirag Paswan’s LJP to form an alliance post-poll and help the BJP form the government. But many BJP leaders fear the LJP may not win enough seats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-575
06-11-2020||India||Supreme Court glare on Covid tunnels and spray||The Supreme Court on Thursday directed the Centre to consider “within one month” a ban or regulation on disinfection tunnels, spraying, chemical fumigation and use of ultraviolet rays on people ostensibly to prevent the spread of Covid-19. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah asked the Centre to exercise its power under Section 10 of the Disaster Management Act. The court said the government cannot merely issue some guidelines and then say that the responsibility for enforcing them lies with the states and Union Territories. “There are hosts of regulatory measures of radiation for use of UV rays with regard to food and other articles. We are of the view that for spraying disinfectant on human body, fumigation or use of UV rays against the human body, there has to be regulatory regime when respondent No. 1 (Centre) itself is of the view that such use is not recommended…. “In the event the use of disinfectant on human body is to cause adverse effect on the health of the people, there has to be immediate remedial action and respondent No. 1 cannot stop only by saying that such use is not recommended,” the court said in its judgment. The court said right to health was a fundamental right and a facet of Article 21 relating to life and liberty of citizens which the State was bound to safeguard. The bench passed the direction while dealing with a PIL filed by one Gurusimran Singh Narula complaining about alleged indiscriminate use of disinfectant tunnel, public fumigation and the use of ultraviolet rays, etc, all over the country in the name of preventing the spread of virus. The petitioner had cited articles from various medical journals and World Health Organisation reports expressing serious reservations over such measures and had termed their use as “dangerous” for human beings as they are counterproductive and can lead to number of health complications including severe skin and respiratory problems. Agreeing with the petitioner’s contention, the apex court noted that on April 18, even the director-general of health services (EMR division), ministry of health and family welfare, had issued an advisory against spraying of disinfectants on people; yet several bodies and organisations started using spraying tunnels to disinfect people. “Article 21 of the Constitution provides for protection of life and personal liberty. The expression ‘life’ used in Article 21 has wide import and connotation. Article 21 encompasses a bundle of rights which have been recognized from time to time by the legislature of this Country and Courts of this Country including this Court. “Right to life as recognized under Article 21 is Right to live with dignity. Right to health is also recognized as an important facet of Article 21 of the Constitution,” Justice Bhushan, who authored the judgment, said. Accordingly, the court issued the following directions: “The respondent No. 1 may consider and issue necessary directions in exercise of powers vested in it under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, regarding ban/regulation on the usage of disinfection tunnels involving spraying or fumigation of chemical/organic disinfectants for the human beings.” “…There shall be similar consideration and directions by the respondents as indicated above with regard to exposure of human being to artificial ultraviolet rays. Looking to the health concern of the people in general, the aforesaid exercise be completed by respondent No. 1 within a period of one month.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-575
06-11-2020||India||India protests Pakistan gurdwara move||India on Thursday asked Pakistan to reverse its decision to transfer the management and maintenance of the Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib from the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee to the Evacuee Trust Property Board. New Delhi said that taking one of Sikhism’s holiest shrines away from the community hurt minority religious rights. The Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB), set up in 1960, looks after the properties left behind by Sikhs and Hindus while migrating to India during the Partition. Pakistan had on Tuesday notified the establishment of a “project management unit”, a self-financing body, under the administrative control of the ETPB for the purpose. The ministry of religious affairs and inter-faith harmony had taken the decision purportedly because the gurdwara needed more supervision following the opening of the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor from India last year. “This unilateral decision by Pakistan is highly condemnable and runs against the spirit of the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor as also the religious sentiments of the Sikh community at large,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. “Guru Nanak spent a considerable part of his life in Kartarpur and is also buried there. We have received representations from the Sikh community expressing grave concern at this decision by Pakistan targeting the rights of the minority Sikh community in Pakistan. “Such actions only expose the reality of the Pakistani government and its leadership’s tall claims of preserving and protecting the rights and welfare of the religious minority communities. Pakistan is called upon to reverse its arbitrary decision to deprive the Sikh minority community its right to manage affairs of the Holy Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib.” According to the ETPB website, it supervises and controls all evacuee land and property attached to charitable, religious or educational trusts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-575
06-11-2020||India||University Grants Commission issues guidelines for in-person classes||Universities and colleges outside containment zones have been given the go-ahead to restart classes in person in a phased manner with precautions for certain categories of students. The University Grants Commission on Thursday issued guidelines for the physical reopening of institutions of higher learning, which have been holding online classes in view of the pandemic. “Universities and colleges may plan opening the campuses in phases, with such activities where they can easily adhere to social distancing, use of face masks and other protective measures. This may include administrative offices, research laboratories and libraries, etc,” the guidelines say. The university vice-chancellors and college principals will take the final decision on reopening in areas that state governments deem safe. According to the guidelines, students in research programmes and postgraduate students of science and technology can return to classrooms. The numbers of these students are less and it would be easy to ensure physical distancing and other precautions, the guidelines say. Final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students may also be allowed to attend classes in person in the next phase for academic and placement purposes. However, not more than 50 per cent of the total students should be present at any point of time in class. For other students, such as those in first and second-year undergraduate courses and first-year master’s programmes, online or distance learning shall continue to be the preferred mode of teaching. If required, such students may visit their respective departments in small numbers for consultation with the faculty members with prior appointment. The guidelines suggest that no student can be forced to attend classes in person and the institutions can consider providing online study materials and access to e-resources to students preferring to study from home. The universities and colleges will have to follow standard precautions such as not allowing the sharing of hostel rooms, 14 days’ quarantine for returning students and conducting classes with a maximum of half the total strength. Hostels will be opened only if necessary but sharing of rooms won’t be allowed. Symptomatic students should not be permitted to stay in hostels under any circumstances, the guidelines say. Since residential students would be coming from different locations, they shall remain in quarantine and self-monitor their health for 14 days before being allowed to attend classes or other activities. This would also apply to students who furnish a negative Covid report. The UGC guidelines say that students, teachers and other staff members should download the Aarogya Setu contact-tracing app. The guidelines say the institutions have to ensure proper sanitisation at all learning sites, conduct temperature screening of students, faculty and other staff members, get everyone to wear masks and set up facilities for sanitisation of hands at entry points. Sitting places in classes, labs and libraries should be clearly marked by leaving every alternate seat vacant. Older employees, pregnant staffers and employees who have underlying medical conditions should preferably not be exposed to any frontline work, the guidelines say.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-575
06-11-2020||India||Kerala: Credit card hostage charge on ED||The family of the arrested son of the Kerala CPM chief has alleged that an Enforcement Directorate team held them hostage for over 26 hours and mentally tortured them to make them sign a fake seizure list that would have linked the accused to a drug peddler. The wife and mother-in-law of businessman Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of Kerala CPM secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, on Thursday alleged that the six-member ED team from Bangalore that raided their home in Thiruvananthapuram on Wednesday tried to force them to sign a seizure record that mentioned that a credit card belonging to suspected drug peddler Anoop Mohammed had been found in the house. Anoop and Bineesh have been arrested in Bangalore in connection with a drugs case in which two top Kannada actresses have also been picked up. Bineesh is being probed over a possible money-laundering angle to the case. Bineesh’s family insisted that the ED officials had brought the credit card with them and claimed that it had been found in his bedroom. The ED team had arrived at Bineesh’s home in the Kerala capital at 9am on Wednesday and left 26 hours later at 11am on Thursday, only after police intervened and the child rights commission served notices for rights violation of a child and two women. Other than Bineesh’s wife and mother-in-law, his three-year-old daughter was also allegedly held hostage. None in the ED had reacted to the allegations till late on Thursday evening. Bineesh’s wife Reneeta told reporters that they were not allowed access to a telephone. “They mentally tortured us by insisting we sign the document if we wanted Bineesh to come back home (from custody in Bangalore),” she said. “I told the officials they should have informed me about the card if it had really been recovered from our house. But they showed it only when I asked about the card details mentioned in the document they wanted me to sign,” Reneeta said. In its application seeking extension of Bineesh’s remand, the ED had on Monday informed a court in Bangalore that he had made illegal money transactions through others to avoid detection. The agency had also claimed huge disparity in cash flow to his bank accounts and the income tax returns filed over several years. Reneeta said the officials had not taken anything other than her mother’s phone. “They took nothing else from here,” she said. The ED eventually got two independent witnesses — two officials of the agency — to sign the document stating that the credit card had been found in the house. Reneeta’s mother Mini said the raid lasted hardly thirty minutes. “They went upstairs and then came down and after that they kept idling around between breakfast, lunch, tea and dinner. All the while we were forced to remain in a room,” Mini said, adding that the officials did not even allow her to have medicines. The raiding team was expected to arrive on Tuesday evening, but came on Wednesday morning. Bineesh’s wife and child have been staying with Reneeta’s parents since his arrest, so none was present when the team came. Reneeta arrived with her child and mother to open the house, following which they were not allowed to leave. Some relatives came to the house on Thursday morning since there was no information from the two women. The relatives squatted outside the gate when officials refused to let them in. Reneeta’s father lodged a police complaint and approached the child rights commission, pointing out that the women were not accused in the case. A family lawyer had made an attempt to speak to Reneeta and Mini late on Wednesday but was forced to go back by CRPF personnel deployed outside. While being taken for questioning at the ED zonal office in Bangalore on Thursday, Bineesh told reporters: “Let them (ED) do whatever they want to.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-575
06-11-2020||India||Bihar Assembly elections 2020: Bread and butter over stale Pakistan menu helps Opposition||The Opposition alliance in Bihar appears to have snatched a tactical advantage by maintaining unwavering focus on bread-and-butter concerns, assiduously avoiding the diversionary trap of emotive issues laid by the ruling coalition, as campaigning for the last phase of elections ended on Thursday evening. Senior leaders of the RJD and the Congress heaved a sigh of relief after electioneering ended without a blunder as their greatest fear had been the BJP’s expertise in hijacking the discourse, which the Opposition wanted to revolve around matters of livelihood and the failures of the government. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted after the curtains came down on campaigning: “Get ready, now the Mahagathbandhan government will deliver jobs, farm-loan waiver, halved electricity bills, free education to girls, justice and development for all sections of society, new industries and businesses. We will build a new Bihar.” Such confidence at the end of the campaign had appeared unimaginable earlier as the contest had looked like a cakewalk for the ruling JDU-BJP alliance at the beginning.  However, the ruling combine seemed to have messed up the strategy with a key ally, the Lok Janshakti Party, walking out with the professed objective of knocking incumbent chief minister Nitish Kumar out of the race. The clear numerical superiority all of a sudden degenerated into a hole-and-corner affair, sending out an insidious message to the voters that the BJP was working at cross-purposes with the JDU. Although BJP leaders soon realised the folly and tried to roll the perception back, LJP leader Chirag Paswan’s vicious attacks on Nitish and idolatry of Narendra Modi pushed the government deep into the wilder shores of farce. This also altered the perception that the Opposition was fighting a losing battle, creating the space for a new narrative before the start of the actual campaign. The RJD’s Tejashwi Yadav came up with the specific idea of giving 10 lakh government jobs, promising to sign off the plan in the first cabinet meeting. This caught the fancy of voters in a state buffeted by rising unemployment, a situation worsened by the pandemic and the resultant economic doom. Tejashwi didn’t commit the mistake of wavering into a bouquet of lofty promises and stuck to the job plan, developing it into the defining feature of this election. He struck a chord with youths and started attracting massive crowds. Videos of boisterous crowds uploaded on social media were not only feast for the eyes but also gave substance and legitimacy to the Opposition challenge. On the RJD’s Twitter handle, over 70 per cent of the posts relate to the huge crowds that the young leader drew. The enthusiastic response of the people might have helped the party draw up an uncluttered action plan with a unifocal push for jobs. The RJD’s language changed; it swiftly moved from the social justice plan to economic justice, creating a wider canvass for a party known for its Muslim-Yadav support base. Soothing winds of inclusive politics started blowing from the RJD camp, which surprisingly described the election as a “battle for truth and justice”. An appeal from the RJD to the people to vote for “real concerns” without any reference to identity politics showcased a transformation from the Lalu Prasad era to a new Tejashwi phase, weakening the BJP-JDU’s desperate attempts to scare the voters with the spectre of previous misrule. Both the Prime Minister and the chief minister stoked the memories of “jungle raj”, entreating voters to punish Tejashwi for Lalu’s failures, a demand that sounded unreasonable. Tejashwi took care to describe the people as “maalik” and started his speeches saying: “Sabko pair chhoo ke pranam (I touch the feet of all of you.)” At no point did Tejashwi display any sense of entitlement and arrogance, blunting the efficacy of the BJP’s campaign. When onions and potatoes were hurled at Nitish during a meeting in Madhubani, Tejashwi was the first to condemn it, saying: “This is undemocratic and undesirable. The displeasure should be manifested through ballots alone.” Alliance partner Congress, which is habitually animated by a national perspective, quickly adjusted to the pressures of local dynamics and complimented Tejashwi by highlighting the miseries inflicted by the lockdown. Rahul, too, tried to assure those sections of society that fear a Yadav dominance by saying at all his meeting: “I am here to guarantee that our government will look after the interests of every caste, every religion, every class.” While jobs kept shaping the discourse, the BJP tried to inject extraneous factors like Article 370, Ram temple, jingoistic nationalism and Pakistan. But the Congress-RJD-Left avoided falling into the trap. When Union minister and BJP leader Nityanand Rai asked whether the people of India would chant ‘Bharat Mata ki jai’ in Pakistan, the Opposition countered by asking whether the people of Bihar would ask for jobs, medicine and education in Pakistan. The outcome is an entirely different scenario before the final phase of voting on Saturday — while the ruling combine appears jittery, the Opposition is buoyant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-575
06-11-2020||India||Rajnath territory vow with silence on China ||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said India was “determined to protect its sovereignty and territorial integrity in the face of unilateralism and aggression, no matter what the sacrifice” but desisted yet again from naming China. Singh’s statement came just a day before the scheduled eight rounds of military talks between India and China to resolve the border standoff in eastern Ladakh. So far, the seventh rounds of talks between the two sides have failed to achieve any breakthrough and the Chinese troops continue to hold on to their newly occupied zones at multiple friction points since May. In an apparent reference to the ongoing border standoff with China, he said: “India is a peace loving country. We believe that differences should not become disputes. We attach importance to the peaceful resolution of differences through dialogue. India is determined to protect its sovereignty and territorial integrity in the face of unilateralism and aggression, no matter what the sacrifice.” Speaking on the Diamond jubilee seminar of the National Defence College, the defence minister said India had forged close relationships with like-minded countries such as the US, Japan and Australia that have common interests on security. “India has also forged a very special partnership with reliable friends like France and Israel. We value their support and will continue to build upon it in the future as well,” Singh said. He also mentioned India’s old ally Russia. “India also has strong, traditional and deep-rooted relations with Russia. Our two countries have weathered many a challenge in the past through our close understanding and appreciation of each other’s concerns and interests.” The minister also highlighted Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s outreach to countries in West Asia, South East and East Asia. “We have enhanced the scope and quality of our relations with Saudi Arabia, the UAE and Oman in the West and with Indonesia, Vietnam and South Korea in the East.” On Pakistan, he said the neighbouring country remained adamant in the use of terrorism as state policy. “However, we have achieved substantial success in working with progressive and like-minded countries to not only expose Pakistan’s regressive policies but also make it increasingly difficult to continue with its previous business as usual approach.” The minister said peace could only be ensured through the ability to deter war. “Perhaps, the most fundamental lesson that the roller coaster of the rise and fall of nations taught us was that peace cannot necessarily be achieved by a desire for peace, but by the ability to deter war.” A fresh round of military talks will be held on Friday along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Chushul sector. The Indian side has been pushing for disengagement from all friction points — Pangong Lake, Hot Springs and Depsang Plains — and restoration of status quo ante during the talks, but the Chinese troops have so far refused to pull back. Since May, the Chinese People’s Liberation Army has altered the unmarked LAC at several friction points and as per estimates they have taken over close to 1,000sqkm of India claimed territory. New commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps, Lieutenant General P.G.K. Menon, will lead the eight rounds of talks for the first time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-576
06-11-2020||India||Bihar Assembly elections 2020: Nitish Kumar tugs at ‘last election’ heartstrings||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday announced that the ongoing polls would be his last brush with electoral politics, prompting many to wonder if the veteran leader was fishing for sympathy in the face of growing discontent. Campaigning at Dhamdaha in Purnea on the last day of canvassing for the three-phase Assembly elections, JDU chief Nitish said: “Jaan lijiye aaj chunav ka aakhri din hai. Parson chunav hai aur ye mera antim chunav hai. Ant bhala toh sab bhala (Understand that this is the last day of poll campaign. Voting will be held a day after tomorrow and this is my last election. All’s well that ends well).” Although the chief minister’s comments left some in his party “speechless”, many in the Opposition and the public pointed out that the last time he had contested an election was in 2004. That year, Nitish had won the Lok Sabha election. Since becoming chief minister in 2005, he has not contested a popular election, choosing the Legislative Council route to stay in power as an MLC elected by MLAs from the Lower House. The chief ministerial face of the NDA, Nitish is not contesting this time too. Those questioning Nitish’s assertion feel it could be a ploy to garner sympathy to sail through what could be a difficult election because of rising discontent over steep unemployment, the pandemic-induced migrant crisis, lack of development, poor health infrastructure, misgovernance and corruption. Nitish, the NDA’s chief ministerial face, is also facing 15 years of accumulated anti-incumbency and has been cornered by the Opposition RJD and the Congress over the crises on multiple fronts. The senior leader also appears hemmed in by a more powerful and ambitious BJP. At the rally in Purnea, where Nitish was campaigning for the JDU’s Leshi Singh, the chief minister immediately followed up his “last election” comment with a question to the audience whether they would “now vote for her”. Nitish also appealed to the crowd to indicate their support by raising their hands. Voting will be held for 78 seats on Saturday. The Bihar Assembly has 243 seats. Nitish is now 69 and will be 74 by the time the next Assembly elections are held. JDU state unit executive president and minister Ashok Choudhary rubbished the insinuations that Nitish had made the claim for the sake of votes. “Nitish Kumar is a serious person and has a political standing. When he says something, it is with full seriousness and thought. Had this been for the sake of votes, he would have made the announcement before the previous phases of elections,” Choudhary reasoned. Some felt Nitish could be planning to focus on national politics. He had been the Union minister for surface transport, agriculture and railways at different times in former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s cabinet. Some chose not to read too much into Nitish’s claim, given his track record of flip flops. He had famously said after breaking away from the BJP and forming a Grand Alliance government with the RJD and the Congress in 2015 that he would “prefer turning into dust than shaking hands with the BJP again”. However, he left the alliance and formed a government with the BJP in 2017. JDU leaders expressed shock art Nitish’s comments. “I am speechless. I don’t know what to say. This is a topic that was never discussed in party meetings and we do not support such announcements,” a senior JDU leader said on the condition of anonymity. Many JDU leaders said they would appeal to Nitish for a rethink. Bihar JDU president Bashistha Narain Singh told The Telegraph that Nitish was a person with a record of “firm decisions and a determination to implement them”. “He had played a stellar role as a leader of the students' movement of the 1970s, the JP movement, as a parliamentarian, as a Union minister and as the chief minister,” Singh said. “As the JDU national president, this could be Nitish’s decision, but he is in public life and the suggestions of his political and party colleagues also matter a lot. I do not support his decision. He has given a new dimension to Bihar, changed it with his vision and implementation. He has much more possibilities in him. We cannot allow him to retire. We will appeal to him to take back the decision,” Bashistha, who has been with Nitish since 1974, said. Another fact is that the JDU has no leader at present who can fill the void if Nitish chooses to retire from politics. Yogi snubbed Nitish, while speaking at an election rally in Kishanganj, appeared to snub Uttar Pradesh chief minister and BJP leader Yogi Adityanath, saying nobody could throw a person out of the country and that nobody shall be thrown out. Adityanath, at another election rally, had asserted that “ghuspaithiya (intruders or illegal residents)” would be thrown out of the country, reviving fears over the NRC-CAA-NPR citizenship troika.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-576
06-11-2020||India||Arvind Kejriwal bans crackers in Diwali to counter Covid||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday banned crackers this Diwali and urged people to instead join him and other ministers from their homes in performing Lakshmi Puja on November 14 evening to spread “good vibes” to counter a marauding virus. Kejriwal made the announcement at a time the capital has been witnessing what he has described as a “third wave” of coronavirus infections. With Delhi reporting close to 7,000 daily Covid cases and experts warning of a “tsunami”, Kejriwal linked pollution to the rising number of cases. Pollution caused by firecrackers would only worsen the situation and could prove dangerous for Covid patients and also those who have recovered, health experts have warned. In a webcast on Thursday, he said: “The corona situation is deteriorating due to pollution…. If we burn crackers, we will be playing with the health of our children and our families. We are arranging for something different for Diwali this year. “On November 14, at 7.39pm, we will perform Lakshmi Puja together. I will be performing Lakshmi Puja along with the cabinet ministers, which will be telecast live on some TV channels. I wish to appeal to my brothers and sisters in Delhi to join in the puja. I believe that when the people of Delhi will perform Lakshmi Puja from their homes at the same time, celebrating the return of Lord Ram after 14 years of vanvaas (exile), celebrating the coming of Lakshmiji, it will generate a very positive atmosphere and good vibes in Delhi.” Kejriwal later tweeted: “Reviewed corona situation in Delhi and preparedness with chief secy, health officials and all DMs....Corona cases have increased due to festival season and pollution. It was decided to 1. Ban crackers in Delhi 2. Ramp up medical infra; oxygen and ICU beds are being increased in Del govt hospitals.” He said his government would move the Supreme Court to vacate a stay on the administration’s order to big private hospitals to reserve four out of every five ICU beds for coronavirus patients. On November 4, Delhi recorded 6,715 cases and 66 deaths. From October 25 to November 3, 50,616 new cases have been recorded in the capital, which is 13 per cent of all cases since the pandemic began. Of the 1,246 beds with ventilators in ICUs for coronavirus patients, only 360 were vacant on Thursday evening. Kejriwal’s office did not respond to queries on what they intended to do to curb the “third wave” besides performing Lakshmi Puja, nor did he reply to questions on whether his call to pray was congruent with constitutional secularism. In March, the chief minister had advised citizens to read the Bhagavad Gita to keep themselves occupied during the lockdown. A leading public health expert told this newspaper that if the laxity in physical distancing norms continued, the capital could face a “tsunami” of new cases that might be difficult for hospitals to accommodate. Oomen John, senior fellow at the international think tank The George Institute of Global Health, said: “We have seen a sudden frenzy of activity in Delhi, and many have completely lowered their guard. On the road, you can see 80 per cent of people not wearing masks properly. On their own, shopkeepers have decided not to restrict the number of people present inside a store.” He added: “The periodic spurts in cases are not due to any change in the behaviour of the virus but is dependent on the behaviour of people. In three to four weeks, things may get really bad in Delhi because of the behaviour of people. We may have a tsunami of cases…. We need to keep transmission of the virus at a rate where it does not overwhelm the public health outreach systems….” John said that countries like Vietnam and Taiwan had not seen any fresh Covid cases emanating within their territories in 200 days because of strict enforcement by the government and cooperation of the people. “The state needs to do strong messaging that anybody and everybody is at risk, and crowding in public places must be stopped…. If we had good data on people’s mobility — like data of mobile signals — then based on that we can see the effect of increased mobility on the number of cases. In proactive places, governments are better prepared for cases three to four weeks in advance and do positive messaging accordingly, based on such data,” John said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-576
06-11-2020||India||Auto-delete option after 7 days on WhatsApp||WhatsApp on Thursday said it would introduce a “disappearing messages” feature on its platform that would allow new messages sent to a chat to vanish after seven days. The feature will be rolled out to all users this month. The Facebook-owned company said the goal was “to make conversations on WhatsApp feel as close to in-person as possible, which means they shouldn’t have to stick around forever”. “That’s why we’re excited to introduce the option to use disappearing messages on WhatsApp. When the ‘disappearing messages’ feature is turned on, new messages sent to a chat will disappear after 7 days, helping the conversation feel lighter and more private,” it said in a statement. In a one-to-one chat, either person can turn disappearing messages on or off. In groups, administrators will have the control. “We’re starting with seven days because we think it offers peace of mind that conversations aren’t permanent, while remaining practical so you don’t forget what you were chatting about. The shopping list or store address you received a few days ago will be there while you need it, and then disappear after you don’t,” WhatsApp said. Earlier this week, WhatsApp had said it had redesigned the storage management tool to make it more useful for people to easily identify, review and bulk delete content that may be filling their phone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-576
06-11-2020||West Bengal||Statue jinx stalks Amit Shah in Bengal||Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday offered flowers amid much fanfare to a roadside statue in Bankura the BJP had identified as that of tribal freedom fighter Birsa Munda. But local tribal people said the statue had been erected not to the 19th-century hero but to an anonymous tribal hunter. While the faux pas outraged tribal communities that consider Munda their foremost icon, Trinamul claimed it was fresh evidence in support of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s allegation that the BJP is ignorant of Bengal’s culture and history. The BJP had tried to make amends by placing a picture of Munda at the foot of the statue after tribal leaders had highlighted the mistake, but this was construed as a “gesture of disrespect” by some. Thursday’s PR disaster for the BJP comes 18 months after people allegedly from a Shah road show in Calcutta barged into a college and vandalised a bust of Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar towards the close of the programme. That incident had allowed Mamata to portray the BJP as a “bohiragato (outsider)” to Bengal, a charge that has become a staple of her speeches in the run-up to next year’s Assembly polls and one that she repeated shortly after Shah’s gaffe on Thursday. Sangiri Hembram, a leader of the prominent tribal outfit Bharat Jakat Majhi Pargana Mahal, said: “In the official programme schedule circulated by the BJP, it was specifically mentioned that Shah would offer ‘floral tribute at Bhagwan Birsa Munda’s statue’.” “He then goes and offers tribute to that random statue of a tribal hunter. It clearly betrays a lack of knowledge of the basics of our culture and an unwillingness to learn.” Support from tribal voters had been key to the BJP’s surprising success in the Lok Sabha polls in Bengal last year. A senior BJP leader acknowledged that a key objective of Shah’s Bankura visit was to court Bengal’s tribal communities and that the howler could create an “unnecessary problem”. The statue, which stands at a crossing on National Highway 60A at Powabagan, 7km from Bankura town, has no plaque or signage. Local tribal groups said the National Highways Authority of India had erected the statue to an unknown hunter four or five years ago as part of a beautification drive. The NHAI could not be reached for confirmation or comment on why the statue was left unnamed. Munda (1875-1900), who died in jail after leading a rebellion against the British, was a religious leader and folk hero too. He spearheaded a tribal religious, millenarian movement in the Bengal Presidency, in an area that now falls in Jharkhand. “This is unacceptable from the BJP. This is unacceptable from Shah. How is it (the mistake) even possible?” Hembram said. “He (Munda) is the only tribal leader whose portrait hangs in the Parliament museum. An international airport (in Ranchi) is named after him. This is serious.” He added: “We came to know about this humiliation on Thursday morning. This is utterly condemnable from the Union home minister.” Hembram said he had called up Bankura MP and BJP leader Subhas Sarkar to inform him of the mistake. “After that, a picture of Birsa Munda was brought and placed at the foot of the statue. That is another gesture of disrespect.” Munda’s picture had been placed at the site about half an hour before Shah’s arrival on Thursday morning. The statue had already been garlanded. Shah threw flowers towards the concrete statue, immediately after which a district BJP leader requested him to garland the picture instead. “The fault is ours. Amitji is not to blame. The embarrassment is ours. We had briefed him wrongly. But we managed to control the damage at the last minute,” a senior BJP leader said. Shah later lunched at the home of Bibhishan Hansda, a tribal marginal farmer, in an attempt at an outreach. Bankura BJP president Vivekananda Patra cited the lack of signage indicating whose statue it was. “Some local tribal people told us it was a statue of Birsa Munda. However, after we came to know about the objections from a few tribal groups, we immediately placed a photograph of Birsa Munda there. Amitji garlanded the photograph,” he said. Biplab Saren, district secretary of the Bharat Jakat Majhi Pargana Mahal, said the BJP could have chosen better alternatives than placing Munda’s picture at the foot of the statue. “If they wanted to pay tribute, there were the nearby statues of Sidho-Kanho (leaders of the 1850s Santhal rebellion). They did not change the programme even after the mistake was pointed out,” he said. “Also, there is a statue of Birsa Munda at Birsa Bazar in Ranibandh, less than 60km away. Why could the programme not be held there instead?” Trinamul rubbed it in. “From Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar to Birsa Munda, the BJP and its leaders have no understanding of, or respect for, the Bengal pantheon of icons. They will forever remain a party of Hindi-Hindu-Hindustan,” Trinamul Bankura chief Shaymal Santra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-319
06-11-2020||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court bans use and sale of firecrackers in Bengal||Calcutta High Court on Thursday asked the Bengal government to “ensure that there is no use or display or bursting of firecrackers at all during Kali Puja and Diwali celebrations” and other upcoming occasions. “This direction as to firecrackers will be effective all over the state and will cover not only the Kali Puja and Diwali celebrations but also Chhath Puja, Jagaddhatri Puja and Guru Nanak’s birthday celebrations thereafter,” the division bench of Justices Sanjib Banerjee and Arijit Banerjee said. “Wax or oil-based diyas would have to suffice for the greater good of the citizens and in the larger public interest,” the court order added. The court lauded the efforts by the government and police to ensure a less crowded Durga Puja. The word “firecrackers” in Thursday’s order includes “all types of sparklers and the like, whether or not the use or burning thereof involves any sound or light being generated”. The court has ordered police to maintain “strict vigil to ensure that there is no sale or purchase of firecrackers of any form in the state between now and the end of the month. The police should make every effort to confiscate firecrackers and any kind of like material which have the potential to pollute the air”. Any violation of the order should be dealt with through “immediate” and appropriate measures, the court said. The state “will ensure that no firecrackers of any kind are brought into the state, except for immediate transit to another state”. The bench issued a slew of directives for Kali Puja and Jagaddhatri Puja organisers. “All pandals will continue to be no-entry zones” as with the Durga Puja but the barricaded area outside has been reduced. The state government had advised people to lay off crackers this Diwali and Kali Puja. The court said: “It is evident that there has been an endeavour on the part of the state to protect the air quality so that the respiratory problems that arise as a result of the infection are not aggravated because of the noxious fumes brought about by the use of firecrackers.” Complimenting the government and the police, the court said: “For a start, the state government and the state police need to be commended for the admirable conduct of the Durga Puja, despite the late directions issued by the court. By and large – there were some ugly exceptions – the Durga Puja celebrations all over the state, including in the city, were in accordance with the directions issued by the court, and both the police and the administration made serious attempts to ensure that the Covid protocol was maintained and hygiene was not compromised. Indeed, the usual crowding at Puja pandals during the Durga Puja was, more or less, absent.” The court said “it will be for the state to consider whether appropriate compensation or other measures can be taken” for cracker manufacturers. “For the greater good, a small number of persons involved in the firecracker business may have to suffer losses. The overwhelming public interest cannot be compromised,” the order said. The day’s directive followed a PIL by Ajay Kumar De seeking a court order on maintaining the pandemic protocol during the upcoming festivals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-320
06-11-2020||West Bengal||Mamata focus on creating livelihoods||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday underscored employment opportunities under the 100 days’ job scheme and Matir Srishti, and focused on grievance redress while chairing the 475th administrative review meeting at Nabanna. Her focus indicated that the state government was trying to address the lack of job opportunities in the backdrop of the pandemic and public grievances ahead of the 2021 Bengal polls. “Though we are No. 1 in (implementing) NREGA (as the 100 days’ job scheme under MGNREGA is colloquially called) in the country, there are some districts where it has to be improved,” Mamata said, naming districts like East Burdwan, Cooch Behar and Nadia, where the scheme has to be implemented more seriously. Sources said that primarily the chief minister is dependent on the scheme to create job opportunities across districts with many people lacking scope to earn post-lockdown. “Overall, the state has created more than 24 crore mandays in the past eight months, which is the best performance in recent past... Now, the chief minister wants everybody to get a chance to earn a livelihood in the difficult time and that’s why she cautioned some districts lagging behind,” said a senior government official. Mamata said that under Matir Srishti only two districts, Jhargram and Purulia, had done some work. Under the scheme, barren land in districts such as Purulia, Jhargram, Bankura, West Midnapore, West Burdwan and Birbhum would be used to set up horticulture, poultry and fishery projects. “In all, 50,000 acres have been identified and if schemes are implemented properly through self-help groups, more than one lakh employment opportunities can be generated,” an official said. However, only 10,400 acres could be used so far and 320 cooperative or farmer groups engaged. Mamata asked officials to organise fairs —  following Covid-19 protocols — to help rural artisans display their wares and earn some money. She also asked district authorities and departments to address grievances lodged with them or with the CMO.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-320
06-11-2020||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal active cases drop for 10th day||Bengal on Thursday reported for the 10th consecutive day since Durga Puja a drop in the total number of active coronavirus cases, reports our special correspondent. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said it was “a supreme blessing of the Almighty”. On Thursday, the state reported 3,948 new cases and 54 deaths.  The state registered the highest single-day recovery of 4,187 patients, taking the total number of cured people to 3,50,449, the health department said in a bulletin. The discharge rate is now 89.05 per cent, it said. The toll mounted to 7,122 with 54 more fatalities. The number of active cases was recorded at 35,953. Of the fresh fatalities, 15 were recorded in Calcutta and 14 in North 24 Parganas district. The remaining deaths were reported from several other districts. In the last 24 hours, 45,467 samples were tested for coronavirus in the state, taking the total number of cases to 47,78,975, the bulletin said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-320
06-11-2020||West Bengal||Fatal fall for jumbo calf in tea estate drain||A one-and-half month old elephant calf died after it fell into a drain in the plantations of a tea estate located in the Nagrakata block of Jalpaiguri early on Thursday. Forest officers said the animal died as other members of the herd to which it belonged, tried to pull it out of the drain. As the elephants inched closer to the drain to drag the calf, the earth caved in and the calf got buried under the rubble. On Wednesday night, a herd of 20 to 25 elephants entered the plantations of Debpara while moving to the Reti Forest from Diana Forest. “While moving through the tea garden, the calf fell into a drain at the plantations following which other jumbos tried to rescue the calf. We could hear the elephants honking throughout the night. However, as the elephants moved near the drain, the earth on both sides of the drain gave away and buried the calf,” said Budhua Topno, a garden worker. On Thursday morning, some garden workers spotted the calf’s carcass and informed the managerial staff. Soon, they told the foresters. The workers mentioned that at dawn, the herd left for Reti Forest as they failed to get the calf out of the drain. Foresters from Diana forest range and Binnaguri wildlife squad reached the spot. Also, Sima Chowdhury, an honorary wildlife warden of the state forest department, visited the garden. “It is an unfortunate incident. It is evident that other members of the herd tried for hours to rescue the calf but failed,” said Chowdhury. During the past few weeks, incidents of elephant depredation have increased in Nagrakata block, prompting farmers of a number of villages to start harvesting paddy ahead of time. In total, around 500 farmers, who are based in places like Nagrakatabusty, Sukhanibusty and Khasbusty which are on the fringes of Gorumara National Park and Champramari Wildlife Sanctuary are cutting away paddy from their fields because every day, particularly in the evening and night hours, elephants enter their field, devour crops and also damage them. “As we are harvesting early, we could be able to salvage only one-fifth of what would have been the actual yield if we could harvest the paddy in appropriate time. But recurring incidents of elephant depredation have left us worried. We cannot risk keeping the semi-ripe paddy in the field as there is every chance that many of us would lose the entire crop if we wait for some more weeks,” said a farmer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-320
06-11-2020||West Bengal||She hosted lunch for Shah, got job from TMC||Gita Mahali, a tribal woman hailing from a dusty village in Naxalbari block of Siliguri subdivision, had served lunch to Amit Shah three years back. Almost like Bankura’s Bibhishan Hansda did on Thursday. On Thursday, Gita joined as a “special home guard” in Naxalbari police station, the employment opportunity coming her way on a day the Union home minister was on a similar tribal outreach mission in Bankura. Ranjan Sarkar, the Darjeeling (plains) district Trinamul chief, who along with other party leaders went to Gita’s house to congratulate her, accompanied her to the police station where she joined her job. Sarkar alleged Amit Shah and other BJP leaders visit tribal households only to earn political dividends. “Amit Shah and his party colleagues dined at Gita Mahali’s place but did nothing for her. It is the Mamata Banerjee government that gave her a job, provided a house to her family and stood by them in the hour of crisis,” said Sarkar. In April 2017, Shah, who was the BJP president then, had been into the house of Raju and Gita Mahali who live in South Kotiajote village of Naxalbari (around 30 kilometres from here) where Gita had served her lunch. Immediately after his visit, state minister and Trinamul leader Gautam Deb was quick to rush to Naxalbari. He inducted the couple into Mamata Banerjee’s party and later handed over financial assistance to them for a house under a state-run scheme. The couple — both of whom were daily wage earners — were caught by surprise by such proactive moves of Trinamul, which many feel were made to outwit the BJP. In Siliguri subdivision, there is a sizable population of tribals in Naxalbari and Phansidewa blocks. The Trinamul leadership ensured that either Raju or his wife get a government job. Finally, on Thursday, as Shah reached the Bankura hamlet, Gita, accompanied by Trinamul leaders, reached Naxalbari police station. “The Trinamul government provided us with a house and now, a job. We had served lunch to Amit Shah but after his visit, no one from the BJP came to us,” said Gita. District BJP leaders gave a different reaction. “It is good that Gita Mahali has been provided with a job. We want to invite the Union home minister in our state time and again for such visits so that at least one member of all families he meets get similar jobs from the Trinamul government,” said Anandamoy Burman, the general secretary of BJP’s Siliguri organisational district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-320
06-11-2020||West Bengal||At lunch, chat with tribal host not part of menu||Bibhishan Hansda, 47, was within whispering distance of home minister Amit Shah during lunch on Thursday. But the tribal farmer from Bankura, who hosted the lunch as part of the BJP’s  tribal outreach, didn’t get the chance to speak to Shah. If Bibhishan did, he would have told the minister about his daughter Rachana, a 16-year-old diabetic. Bibhishan lives in Chaturdihi village of Bankura, around 13km from Bankura town where Shah held an organisational meeting with party leaders. Meeting over, Shah visited Bibhishan’s home to partake of simple vegetarian Bengali dishes — rice, dal, roti, traditional bhajas (fries), and aloo posto. But if Bibhishan had hoped this proximity would help him approach Shah for help in treating Rachana, a Class XII student who needs insulin twice a day, that was not to be. In the span of the 45-minute visit, Shah, who came with state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh and BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya, was surrounded by photographers and later by local BJP leaders, his family members said. Bibhishan said he and his wife can earn up to Rs 10,000 a month as farmhands, but spend over Rs 5,000 every month on Rachana’s treatment. A BJP supporter, Bibhishan said he was “proud” that Shah visited his home. “But I am unfortunate that I could not share with him my concern about my diabetic daughter.” “We did not get two minutes to tell him (Shah) about our daughter. Anyway, I was happy he came to our home,” echoed wife Manika, 36. Adhir Chowdhury, Congress MP and state unit chief, held a news meet on Thursday to slam the BJP for cosying up to tribal communities. “Nobody can forget the atrocities on Dalits, minorities and women in BJP-ruled states...Shah is eager to prove that his love for backward communities is greater than Didi’s. This brand of divisive politics of the BJP won’t work in a place like Bengal,” he said. The Behrampore MP, however, also blamed Trinamul for participating in “competitive communalism” in the state. “Both parties are now looking to take Bengal backward, to the path of casteism and exclusion…. In Bengal, caste was never a major issue. But that system is now being imported to a progressive state like Bengal,” he said. “The BJP and Trinamul are trying to create or deepen divisions for petty political dividends,” he added. Prior to the news meet, Chowdhury led a dharna in protest against alleged attacks on Dalits and women across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-320
06-11-2020||West Bengal||Stay civil: CM to pheyk do brigade ||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday lashed out at the BJP and home minister Amit Shah without naming either, advocating “basic decency” in politics. The chief minister, during an administrative review meeting in state secretariat Nabanna, broached the political subject hours after Shah attacked her in Bankura. “Nobody should cross the Lakshman rekha. I would expect and advise everyone to stay within their limits,” said the Trinamul Congress chief. “If I want to say, I also can say a lot of things. My Hindi vocabulary is not that limited…. “Uthakar pheyk do (Lift and throw away)”, I know what that means. If I say the same in reaction, will that be nice? Stay well, stay healthy, we wish the best for your families. Let good sense prevail before Diwali,” she added. Mamata was referring to the refrain of “Ukhadkar pheyk dijiye (Uproot and throw away)” that Shah and others in his party, such as its national president J.P. Nadda, resort to in rants against her government. Earlier in the day, Shah repeated the same in Bankura. Mamata also fell back on the BJP versus Bengal-and-Bengali theme yet again. “Always trying to defame Bengal, coming from elsewhere…. Everybody has regional, national pride. If that pride of Bengal is relentlessly attacked, people will not forgive easily,” she said. She accused the BJP-led Centre of intimidating IAS and IPS officers, referring to an alleged incident earlier this week when a BJP leader tried to intimidate a district magistrate and an SP from Bengal. She also accused the BJP-led Centre of overstepping constitutional bounds and trying to dismantle the federal structure: “This is not civil.” State police, the state government, they have rights and powers in their jurisdiction. The Constitution forbids the state from interfering with areas under the Centre and the same applies to the Centre, with regard to areas under the state,” she said. “We have been noticing...through various agencies, various people are being disturbed…If there’s anything according to the law that needs be done, there is a system in place, get in touch with the state police. Bringing police from the Centre and going on raids, without even informing us...this is unprecedented. This is not according to law, nor the Constitution. Both are elected governments,” she added. Mamata also attacked the Centre for delisting as essential commodities certain edibles, holding it responsible for surge in prices. “They have passed bills and removed onion and potato from the list of essential commodities, causing a skyrocketing of prices…. The poor are being deprived of basic food items. I am going to write to the Centre on this,” she said. Senior officials in the agriculture and agricultural marketing departments said Mamata raised the issue of deregulating commodities such as cereals, pulses, oilseeds, edible oils, onion and potato (by introducing Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020) to put pressure on the Centre in the backdrop of a sudden spike in prices of potato and onion. “Earlier, the state could have ensured no hoarding of such items. The chief minister pointed it out that the state can’t do anything after the Centre deregulated the items,” said an official. This, he said, was a smart move by the chief minister while her government was facing questions on the sudden hike in prices of agricultural produce. “The chief minister told the administration to conduct visits to the markets to take a note whether hoarding of such commodities is underway,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-320
06-11-2020||West Bengal||Poll bugle on tribal turf||Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday told his party colleagues to take a vow of securing 200 seats in the Bengal elections, and bury all differences to achieve it. The target set by Shah at a closed-door meeting with party leaders in Bankura became public when one of the attendees mistakenly streamed a part of his speech live on Facebook. “This is apparently an organisational meeting. But this is actually an opportunity to take a vow that we will come to power in Bengal with 200 seats,” he said. Shah is in Bengal on a two-day visit to take stock of the party’s organisation against the backdrop of factionalism in the state unit. Sources in the BJP who attended the meeting said that Shah referred to such incidents as fights in a large family. “He said that even if a father and a son fight, they will finally come together,” said a party leader. Shah also indicated the state unit would also have to be “accommodative” of people from other parties, especially the CPM, a source said. The BJP’s central leaders have trained their eyes on Bengal, said a source, after informal surveys apparently indicated a growing disenchantment with Trinamul rule. “We will come to power in Bengal with a sweeping two-thirds majority. The death knell of the Mamata Banerjee government is ringing. I appeal to the people of Bengal to uproot this government and give the BJP a chance,” Shah told mediapersons earlier in the day. In Bankura, when asked who would be the BJP’s face in Bengal, Shah said: “When needed, the face will come.” Some BJP leaders said meeting the 200-seat target was easier said than done. “Organisationally, we still need to do a lot of work to be in a position to win 200 seats... But one can understand that he set the target as a leader so that the party supporters get enthused,” said a state BJP leader. The source said that the Shah told party colleagues to cash in on the discontent with the Mamata government and create a narrative that the central benefits don’t reach Bengal because of the state government. “The central government benefits that should have reached the poor, farmers, dalits and the people from tribal and backward groups have been stalled by Mamata Banerjee,” Shah said in the interaction with journalists and later repeated it in the closed-door meeting. Senior BJP leaders said that Shah’s words were carefully chosen. “He was speaking in an area that has huge tribal population and they have voted for us in the last Lok Sabha polls... He sent out a clear message that the Narendra Modi government is sympathetic towards them, but Mamata Banerjee isn’t,” a state BJP leader said. Shah met some 200 representatives of socially backward classes in the evening. The de facto No 2 of the Modi government asked leaders of the state unit to reach out to these social groups and inform them of central schemes that might benefit them and how the state government created hurdles to it. Sources said a committee headed by BJP’s co-minder for the state Arvind Menon and national secretary Anupam Hazra was formed to liaison with these groups.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-320
06-11-2020||West Bengal||Bimal claims numbers, Binay counters them||Bimal Gurung on Thursday resurfaced in Calcutta and claimed 17 former Darjeeling municipality councillors who had joined the BJP were returning home to his Morcha faction. The announcement triggered a flurry of activities from the Binay Tamang camp in Darjeeling that paraded 16 councillors to prove Gurung wrong. Since Gurung announced his decision to dump BJP and join hands with Trinamul in Calcutta on October 21, the dynamics of politics has changed in the hills. The Tamang faction is with the Trinamul since September 2017. Both Gurung and Tamang are supporting Trinamul but at present hill politics is about consolidating supremacy among these two factions, despite both backing Trinamul. On Thursday evening, Roshan Giri, general secretary of the Gurung camp said that 17 Darjeeling municipality councillors had joined BJP on June 8, 2019 (after BJP candidate Raju Bista won the Darjeeling MP seat). Gurung, also present at the Calcutta media meet said: “We are welcoming the 17 Darjeeling municipality councillors who had joined the BJP, back home. We will hand them our party flags now.” Gurung reiterated that BJP had failed on their promise of finding “permanent political solution and granting tribal status to 11 hill communities”, which were stated in their 2019 Lok Sabha election manifesto,  and said that his party would give a “befitting reply” to BJP during the Bengal elections by ensuring Trinamul’s win. In response, the Tamang camp paraded 16 councillors and said that one more councillor is still with them but could not be present at the parade ceremony because of his illness. “Do a head count,” said Keshav Raj Pokhrel, spokesman of the Tamang camp. “Bimal Gurung only lies.” Darjeeling municipality has 32 wards and in the 2017 civic elections the undivided Morcha had won 31 seats. Of the 32 seats, one councillor has resigned, while two seats are vacant on account of death. This means there are 29 functionally seats and the majority mark is 15 as of today. Out of 29, one ward councillors is facing legal issues on her right to contest the election. Asked about Binay camp’s claim, Roshan Giri of the Bimal camp said; “17 councillors had joined BJP. Today, 11-12 councillors were present in Calcutta but many councillors are with us.” Technically, the Darjeeling municipality was dissolved, soon after the revolt against Binay Tamang camp civic body, in 2019 and an administrator has been appointed to oversee the functioning of the civic body. The state government had dissolved on grounds of “gross neglect or serious irregularity.” The state government’s decision has been challenged by some councillors and is pending before the Calcutta High Court , so the political control of the civic body cannot yet be discarded. Against this background, the developments centring on Darjeeling municipality, holds much importance, for hill politics. Binay Tamang and Anit Thapa, who were to return to Darjeeling today did not. This too has fuelled much speculations. Neeraj Zimba, GNLF leader who won Darjeeling by-election on a BJP ticket, however, gave a new narrative on the issue that might take centrestage in Darjeeling during next year’s Bengal election. “The next assembly election will be between Bengal centric politics versus Gorkha centric politics. Gorkha centric politics have won in the past (MP and MLA election in 2019) and the same will be repeated,” said Zimba while addressing the media in Mirik today. A hill observer said: “ Zimba’s narrative cannot be ignored.” Raju Bista, Darjeeling MP from BJP said that the councillors who joined them and left them had done for “personal convenience”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-320
06-11-2020||West Bengal||Durgapur Barrage repairs ‘over’ after 30-hour effort||Work to restore the damaged sluice gate no. 31 of the Durgapur Barrage ended on Thursday evening after a 30-hour effort and irrigation department officials said water from Damodar Valley Corporation’s Maithan and Panchet dams was expected to reach the barrage later in the night. Though the state government had not come out with an official statement on the status of the repair till Thursday evening, officials in the irrigation department who did not want to be named said that the job was over and that in keeping with the restoration deadline the government had requested the DVC to release water from its Maithan and Panchet dams from 6am on Thursday. It takes over 12 hours for water to reach Durgapur Barrage from these two dams in Jharkhand. Sluice gate No. 31 of the barrage got twisted on Saturday morning, resulting in water to gush out to the lower catchment area and severe water supply crisis and disruption in power generation. “We fixed the damage and sealed the gaps in the gate with iron sheets. We added more iron sheets to the old gate to strengthen it,” said an engineer of the irrigation department. The irrigation department began repair of the gate on Wednesday after 100 hours went into trying to dry the riverbed.  The state government had assigned the job to repair the damaged gate to three private agencies with around 100 technicians and labourers working since Wednesday afternoon. Irrigation department officials and engineers of SAIL’s Durgapur Steel Plant oversaw the process. The engineers said as the gate had been sealed it would not be operational till the government decides otherwise during the proposed overhauling of the sluice gates, the date for which has not been decided upon. In 2017, when the gate no. 1 of the utility was damaged in a similar incident the engineers had sealed it after strengthening it with additional iron sheets. The 692-m-long Durgapur Barrage has 34 sluice gates. An irrigation department official said there would be no problem if gate nos. 1 and 31 – both located on two sides of the barrage — do not operate. During monsoon 10 gates are operated to release excess water that accumulates in the upper catchment area of Damodar river. The gates are opened to release the water to the lower catchment areas that constitutes East Burdwan, Hooghly and parts of Howrah. DVC officials said that the Bengal government had requested them to release water from its dams in Maithan and Panchet so that the dry upper catchment area receives water. “We have released around 9,000 cusec of water from our two dams in Maithan and Panchet since Thursday morning,” said a DVC official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-320
06-11-2020||West Bengal||4 held with fake mark sheets||Four job aspirants from two districts of north Bengal were arrested in Balurghat of South Dinajpur on Wednesday for allegedly furnishing fake mark sheets in an interview for a job with the postal department. Police are trying to find out how the quartet, including a girl, obtained the fake degrees. Sources said the postal department had sought online applications to recruit 23 Gramin Dak Sevaks in North and South Dinajpur. Based on marks secured by the candidates in secondary (Class X) exams, some candidates were called for an interview at the head post office in Balurghat on Wednesday. Among those were these four from North Dinajpur and Cooch Behar, who gave certificates with 98 and 99 per cent marks. But their poor performance at the interview made the panel suspicious. “It was eventually found that all four produced fake mark sheets,” said Rajiv Ranjan Jha, postal department superintendent in Balurghat. The cybercrime police station in Malda arrested a man on Thursday for allegedly duping a woman of Rs 3 lakh while promising her a government job and giving her a fake appointment letter to her.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-321
06-11-2020||West Bengal||Remove Durgapur mayor, CM tells Firhad||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday asked municipal affairs and urban development minister Firhad Hakim to remove Durgapur mayor Dilip Agasty from his post for alleged “negligence” in work. The chief minister was visibly annoyed over the “poor” performance of Durgapur civic body in solving public grievances and wanted to know about it from the municipal affairs minister present at the meeting. “(Almost) 95.5 per cent of the public grievances are lying unattended at Durgapur municipal corporation. What should be done?” Mamata asked Firhad during an administrative review meeting of the state government at Nabanna on Thursday. Firhad immediately told the chief minister that Durgapur mayor (Dilip Agasty) did not work properly. “In Durgapur, the situation is that the mayor himself does not work properly so what do we expect from his officials,” Firhad told Mamata at the meeting. Mamata immediately asked Firhad to replace the mayor. “If the mayor does not work, then change him. You call a meeting as there is an elected board. Do whatever the majority will decide,” Mamata said. Later, Mamata said she had also received several complaints against Agasty during her visits to Durgapur. “I cautioned him several times. If anybody does not work, he has no right to occupy the chair and responsibility,” she said. She later described Agasty as a good man. “I respect his age. He (Dilip Agasty) was a government officer and good man. I have to think otherwise if any good man turned out to be good for nothing,” she said. Mamata also said there was a new trend of switching parties whenever anyone is questioned. “This is a new trend… Let them go to wherever they want to,” she said. Mamata also said the job (of the mayor) should go to  those who deserve it. “Give the responsibility to those who deserve it. Is there any dearth of efficient people?” Mamata asked. Agasty refused to comment on Mamata’s outburst. “I am completely unaware of what the chief minister said at Nabanna. I only came to know about it from the media. No one in the party has told me anything about this yet,” he said. The industrial town has plunged into distress following the Durgapur Barrage sluice gate crisis since Saturday. For the sixth consecutive day on Thursday, water scarcity continued to plague residents in both Durgapur and Bankura. West Burdwan district magistrate Purnendu Maji said they had distributed over 8 lakh water pouches in Durgapur town on Wednesday and more were given on Thursday. “We are also sending tankers in shifts frequently to the localities to meet the demand,” Majhi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-321
06-11-2020||Opinion||Trumped: Donald's indelible mark on the US||The presidential election in the United States of America has been singular in some ways. First, an impressive voter turnout did not lead to a decisive victory for either candidate in the fray. Second — this is no less significant — Donald Trump, the Republican presidential candidate, would be a satisfied man at the end of the day no matter what the results of the poll are. That is because Trumpism — the body of core values espoused by this maverick, controversial leader — seems to have left an indelible mark on America. This is borne out by the fact that in spite of the opinion polls predicting a relatively comfortable victory for his Democratic rival, Joe Biden, the race has been a lot closer than what had been expected. That only means that a substantial segment of the US endorses the Trumpian vision. Two elements are integral to this perspective. First, the resurrection of the principle of isolationism, which was the hallmark of American foreign policy in the 1930s. Mr Trump’s appeal, especially in the American heartland, remains formidable on account of his ability to effectively combine economic protectionism with insularity in foreign policy. The second — critical — dimension of the Trumpian formula is best expressed by the slogan, ‘America First’. This supposed prioritization of the nation over the US’s international commitments, too, has struck a deep chord. That explains the public support not only for Mr Trump’s strategy to lock horns with China but also for his explicit anti-immigrant ethic. A large number of Americans have been made to believe that their rights to education, employment and trade could be protected by building a wall — metaphorical or literal. Of course, the US turning a corner under Mr Trump cannot be viewed in isolation. Much of the global order, on account of the crisis in capitalism, remains under the spell of charismatic leaders who are promising their people a return to greatness. The clash between Mr Trump and Mr Biden in that sense is also a bitter battle between two different kinds of ethos. Multilateralism, institutional integrity, gender and racial justice, accommodation and global outreach — the trademarks of Mr Biden’s liberal pill to resuscitate the US — have been pitted against a shrill — bigoted? — conservatism. It is unlikely that the US would be able to purge the shadow of Mr Trump’s ideals any time soon irrespective of the outcome of the roll of the electoral dice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-121
06-11-2020||Opinion||Toxic fumes: Banning fireworks||Sir — The West Bengal government has ‘advised’ people against the use of firecrackers during Diwali and Kali Puja in view of the Covid-19 pandemic (“Advice against crackers”, Nov 4). The National Green Tribunal as well as doctors have expressed concern that fireworks-induced pollution could be hazardous for Covid-19 patients as the virus can cause more damage amidst an already volatile situation. It is disappointing that instead of imposing a ban on the bursting of crackers the state government has left it to the good sense of the people to refrain from it. It is well-known that even the threat of legal action mostly falls on deaf ears. Even when the common people try to protest against the use of firecrackers, they are met with verbal abuse from a section of the unruly revellers. The problem is that most political parties in India focus more on populism — to win elections and stay in power — than good governance. For the latter, one must take decisions that are best for the country and its people, irrespective of its consequences. In this context, the governments of Rajasthan and Odisha, which have prohibited the sale and use of fireworks, are exceptions. Jahar Saha,Calcutta Sir — The Supreme Court must consider imposing a total ban on the sale of firecrackers permanently, given that they pose grave health hazards. The smoke that emanates from bursting firecrackers pollutes the environment because of the chemicals used in them. During Diwali, the level of respirable suspended particulate matter goes up considerably, making the air unhealthy to breathe. Firecrackers also emit carbon dioxide, which causes global warming. The bursting of crackers also results in the generation of a great amount of non-biodegradable dry waste, that could add to soil pollution. Studies have shown that chemical particles also contaminate water bodies as they penetrate the soil and mix with the groundwater, rendering it unfit for consumption. R. Sivakumar,Chennai Sir — One must express one’s gratitude to the Mamata Banerjee-led government in West Bengal for its concern regarding the consequences of bursting firecrackers for Covid-19 patients. People are used to celebrating Kali Puja and Diwali with firecrackers, but this could create serious health hazards for many. One hopes that the people of Bengal heed the government’s advice and refrain from bursting crackers. Shyamal Thakur,Ramnagar, East Burdwan Stand tall Sir — Massive protests in Poland have succeeded in delaying the tightening of oppressive abortion laws in the country. In spite of the pandemic, people came out on to the streets in numbers to protest against the curbing of a woman’s right over her own body. It is shameful that even in this day and age, governments try to deprive women of their most basic rights, such as that of exercising her choice in whether or not to give birth. The fight must go on until such unjust laws are entirely repealed. Annesha Ganguly,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-121
06-11-2020||Opinion||Unreformed: Former Finance Secretary's anguish||The former finance secretary, Subhash Chandra Garg, recently revealed his anguish on being transferred from the ministry, allegedly at the behest of the finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman. What is revealing, however, is another observation that Mr Garg made in this context. In Mr Garg’s opinion, the government under the leadership of the prime minister has run out of steam for pursuing major economic reforms. Does this insider’s perspective then suggest a lack of interest on the part of the prime minister and the finance minister to make India a $10 trillion economy by 2030? This expansion and growth of the economy had been announced as part of the political agenda of the government as well as a specific target that would be pursued from the provisional budget of 2019-20. With a comfortable electoral mandate under his belt, there was no compelling reason for Narendra Modi not to make a beginning, or at least chart out a pathway, to the promised land of $10 trillion. Now, of course, with the pandemic and the unprecedented lockdown in the early part of the year, that target has become impossible to achieve. Even a $5 trillion economy is no longer feasible in the near future. The point raised by Mr Garg demands attention because it may help assess the real agenda of the prime minister. Mr Modi claims to be a nation-builder but is turning out to be yet another populist leader. The lethargy shown after the beginning of his second term was not expected of a leader who has pledged to turn the economy around. The moment was opportune. The economy had begun to slow down but, politically speaking, Mr Modi was in a solid position to undertake strong measures. Instead the government prioritized the construction of the Ram temple and a new Parliament complex: these issues seem to have distracted its attention from ushering in major economic reforms. After the pandemic hit, the options for serious reforms became limited since short-term relief measures and fiscal stimuli received top priority, warranting immediate action. Then, a little later, when the economy was really down and out from the effects of the lockdown, Mr Modi pushed for two sets of ‘reforms’ — in agriculture and for labour markets. These immediately became controversial because of their objectives and timing. Mr Modi had missed the opportune time to introduce these measures. He is also running out of time to unfurl a strong stimulus package.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-121
06-11-2020||Opinion||Keep a close eye: Social audits in India||The auditing agility of government programmes seems to have gained strength. After the recent floods in Assam, the state planned to carry out a social audit of relief measures to look into corruption and bribery. This is the first time that any government is trying to reinforce a social audit in the aftermath of a natural disaster. But when the nation is inundated with a plethora of fraudulent activities and policy paralysis is rampant, the nature and compass of social audits should be overhauled. In this context, the government is planning to institutionalize social audits in the National Social Assistance Programme and Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana-Gramin. Recently, the Centre ordered a probe into the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act in Punjab as it was alleged that funds were being siphoned off from the Central scheme. A multi-crore scam under the MGNREGA scheme in Gujarat was also alleged. Several people who are dead have been found to be not just ‘working’ under the scheme but are also getting paid. Jharkhand’s Social Audit Unit found that 48 per cent of people did not receive two months’ worth of ration during the lockdown under the public distribution scheme. There is no doubt that the ambit of social audits to actualize the pace of developmental projects is getting wider and has undergone a remarkable change. It is no longer restricted to areas like the MGNREGA and the National Food Security Act where the mechanism is meant to reduce corruption; monitor and ensure accountability; and elicit community participation and engagement. The basic difference between social audits and other audits lies in the fact that the beneficiaries are the auditors. In India, social audits were begun by Tata Iron and Steel Company in 1979. Later, such auditing mechanism gained significance after the 73rd Amendment to the Constitution which attempted to empower panchayati raj institutions and gram sabhas by arming them with such audits. This has worked wonders and made a landmark impact in some states. Andhra Pradesh could minimize leakages and wastage in the MGNREGA; Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh managed to check specific irregularities through sarpanchs and sachivs in the gram sabha. But the execution of social audits remains pliable. The government has not institutionalized SAUs which are at times intimidated when it comes to accessing data on various programmes. The apathy of implementing agencies, the paucity of autonomy of SAUs, lack of awareness among gram sabha members and incentives for participating in SAUs are some of the reasons for the failure of social audits. As per the United Nations’s Human Development Report 2019, Norway, Switzerland and Ireland ranked as the top three developed nations in the world. The methodology of audits in Norway is flawless, covering all aspects of irregularities like corruption, breach of trust, embezzlement, theft, false reporting of financial statements and results. By the dint of social audits, the country could make a mark in the domain of corporate social responsibility, which is benefitting both for the companies and to society. India is one of the top five fastest developing countries in the world. But governance does not seem to be improving. The corruption perceptions index estimated by Transparency International has persistently ranked India poorly in the years 2017, 2018, 2019 and the nation is not able to meet the sustainable development goals. Its target to become a $5 trillion economy is becoming a distant dream. At this juncture, the audit activity equipped with competent resource persons should be mobilized with adequate financial autonomy. Participatory social audits are to be encouraged to expose and deter corruption. Institutional support should be adequate so that beneficiary-led audits can be spontaneous and sustainable. To make use of required interventions and harness people’s energy, the follow-ups and enforcement of punishments need to be reworked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-121
06-11-2020||Opinion||Elections: Promises meant to be broken||Ideally, election manifestos should be visionary frameworks that declare policy options and aims of political parties in any forthcoming electoral contest. Manifestos reflect the ideological position of political parties on varied issues of governance that can influence prospective voters to vote in their favour. In India, election manifestos have largely been a political template that outlines the proposed plan of action for five years once a party is voted to power. The legitimacy of an election manifesto in the implementation of policies has been a matter of debate. The accountability of manifestos remains a key question of reform in an electoral democracy like ours. There are global practices in the form of regulatory mechanisms to control the content of election manifestos to avoid undue influence on voters. The developed and the developing countries have devised unique and indigenous practices to maintain fairness in electoral competition among political parties. In the United Kingdom, the electoral authority has the power to issue specific guidelines for manifestos as part of campaign material. In the United States of America, political parties have developed an internal mechanism to govern the charter of the party. In some Asian countries like Bhutan, the Election Commission has the power to approve the content of an election manifesto before it is in circulation for mass consumption. In Latin American countries like Mexico, certification, registration and validation of the Federal Electoral Institute is mandatory for the nomination of contestants. In India, the Representation of the People Act, 1951, which was enacted by the Indian provincial legislature before the first general elections of 1952, defines the rules for the mode of conduct of elections. Article 324 to Article 329 of Part XV of the Constitution deal with the electoral system. In its more than six decades of existence, the Election Commission of India has been embroiled in many tussles. In the context of the Bihar elections, the pledge in the Bharatiya Janata Party’s manifesto to distribute Covid-19 vaccines free of cost to the state population has created a combative situation. Opposition parties have accused the BJP of politicizing the pandemic and playing on the fears of the people. The question is whether such an electoral promise violated the model code of conduct. A complaint to the EC by the RTI activist, Saket Gokhale, alleged that such a promise was a breach of the powers vested in the Union. It is also being argued that this kind of a pledge would disrupt the level playing field of elections. The EC, however, dismissed the charge of violation of the model code of conduct. Promises of freebies have stirred the proverbial hornet’s nest in past elections too. There have been arguments about ‘freebies’ being in contravention of Section 123 of the Representation of the People Act. In S. Subramaniam Balaji vs Govt. of T. Nadu & Ors., the Supreme Court reposed its faith in the EC to regulate its powers after consulting Article 324 to facilitate free and fair elections. The court was apprehensive about the possibility of freebies vitiating the sanctity of the electoral process. But it also expressed its jurisdictional limitation to issue direction to the legislature on the matter. Instead it routed its concern by directing the EC to frame elaborate guidelines for the preparation of manifestos and include them in the model code of conduct to guide political parties and candidates. In India, public confidence in election manifestos is minimal. They are usually construed as baits for gaining power. Should not the promises made in election manifestos be binding on political parties? Electoral reforms can initiate stringent rules to make manifestos accountable. Electoral manifestos should be released well in advance to enable voters to take informed decisions about the deliverables being promised by political parties. The quality of any democracy is premised upon fair electoral practices that establish democratic credibility and evoke electoral confidence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-122
06-11-2020||Opinion||On an even keel||One of the most contentious and consequential US presidential elections has just taken place. While final election results are still awaited, the strategic trajectory of India-US relations should not be affected by the outcome. We are at an opportune moment to reflect on the past relationship, to better understand the current dynamic, and perhaps to see what the future may hold for us. There are recent signs of confidence that the relationship between both countries has matured to a level that transcends both partisan politics and individual personalities. The outcomes of the QUAD meeting of foreign ministers in Tokyo last month and, more significantly, the third 2 plus 2 India-US meeting of foreign and defence ministers in Delhi, barely one week before the US elections, reinforce this confidence. At the same time, there have been some raised eyebrows on the direction of our security partnership and the advisability of hitching our wagon to a flickering star. Given the unpredictability of policies of different US presidents on the issues of China and Eurasian security, there are concerns that a close embrace with the US could undermine our strategic autonomy and our room for manoeuvrability in a fluid situation. Nonalignment has been and remains the lodestar of our foreign policy, in all its different ideological avatars of “non-alignment 2”, multi-alignment”, strategic autonomy and so on. Pragmatic rebalancing by anticipating and adjusting to changing circumstances has been consistently practised by our successive governments since Independence. In 1962, just one year after the nonaligned movement’s founding summit in Belgrade, in response to Jawaharlal Nehru’s SOS after the Sino-India border war, US combat units were deployed in India and U2 reconnaissance operated covert flights over China. In 1971, just one month after Kissinger’s secret visit to China, Indira Gandhi finalized the Indo-Soviet treaty. This effectively checkmated the possibility of any US-China pincer moves to forestall the liberation of Bangladesh. At another turning point marking Sino-Soviet rapprochement, Rajiv Gandhi’s pathbreaking visit to China in 1988 came before the ill-timed visit of Mikhail Gorbachev to Beijing the following year during the Tiananmen Square protests. Such realignments among the US, China, Russia and other countries were not always at the initiative of the weaker party. The strong strategic partnership between Russia and China in recent years has coincided with US-China and US-Russia relations and now India-China relations sinking to their lowest levels. This has posed an unprecedented national security challenge for us. I am sure that we will effectively address the evolving situation, protecting our national security while averting an irreversible break in India-China relations and not allowing China to unduly influence the direction and pace of our relations with the US, Russia and our neighbours. We tend to use different yardsticks to judge US policies, be it foreign, national security, trade, or immigration, compared to how we view those of any other country or for that matter even our own policies. We expect certainty and constancy in our partners’ policies while retaining flexibility in our own. We take for granted the bi-partisan consensus in the US Congress on India-US relations. This consensus was manifested in the four-fifth vote in favour of the nuclear deal by both the Republican-controlled House and Senate in 2006 and the Democratic-controlled House and Senate in 2008. At the same time, allegations of surrendering our sovereignty to the US levied by the Left-BJP combine almost succeeded in unseating the UPA government of Manmohan Singh in a parliamentary vote of confidence in 2007. While the India-US deal and nuclear liability terms were analysed threadbare, those with Russia and France escaped public scrutiny. Good sense finally prevailed in 2017 when Narendra Modi termed the nuclear deal as the “centre-piece” of India-US ties after his first meeting with Donald Trump and imparted a new impetus to the partnership. Many of the selling points of the nuclear deal and the defence agreement of 2005 remain relevant today. China was not the main motivating or cementing factor, but the idea of strengthening liberal, pluralist, federal and democratic India as an alternative model to an inexorably rising communist China resonated very strongly with George W. Bush personally and also with both sides of the aisle on Capitol Hill and in State assemblies and beyond. We have rightly ignored unsolicited homilies on our internal developments made by leaders and lawmakers from countries with different cultures and histories. But we need to heed the civilizational values espoused by our own national icons, including Mahatma Gandhi, Swami Vivekananda, Rabindranath Tagore, Jamsetji Tata and others. There was a shared conviction that democracy promotes peace and stability, as historically democracies do not go to war against each other. It was not coincidental that institutions of democracy, like our Parliament and the US Capitol, and that of free-market economies, like the Twin Towers in New York and our financial capital, Mumbai, were targets of radical terrorists. With an average annual GDP growth rate of around 8.5% between 2004 to 2008, India was perceived to have also demonstrated that democracy was not an impediment for growth in a poor and incredibly diverse country of subcontinental size. Never before have India-US relations been as good as they are today. It is also true that our previous expectations of collaboration have not been fully realized. The nuclear deal has not yet resulted in any new power stations being set up with any country. We are known to take our time. It took 28 years after the signing of the Indo-Soviet agreement in 1988 till our prime minister’s inauguration of the Kudankulam nuclear power station in 2014. We did not utilize the significant opportunities that the nuclear deal had unlocked to access US dual-use technologies. It took us a decade and a half to finalize the three foundational agreements to enable defence cooperation. Now we have to take a call on how and how far to proceed in terms of operational inter-operability. Major sales of US platforms have taken place, but no joint co-production or co-development projects are in the pipeline yet. The strength and resilience of any strategic partnership needs the ballast of mutually beneficial economic ties. We had missed opportunities for resolution of some trade and economic issues in an earlier favourable political atmosphere. The world has now moved on. A free trade agreement (FTA) with the US will have to conform to the provisions of the US-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) for US Congressional approval. Unnecessary political capital need not be expended on such a bilateral trade deal or on the H1B visa issue where realistic outcomes would not be commensurate with the efforts. Morarji Desai had once flummoxed Jimmy Carter by retorting “they [the USSR] build walls to keep people in; you build walls to keep people out.” This has contemporary relevance in terms of race and religion-based immigration practices and protectionist trade policies. Moving forward in our relations with the US and other strategic partners, we should focus our efforts on leveraging complementarity of interests and our strengths in talent and market size, along with shaping the new standards and regulatory regimes. An area of interest in this regard is new and emerging technologies, which we have seen being fast-tracked to meet the needs of the post-Covid-19 digital era. The author is the former ambassador to the US||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-122
06-11-2020||Jharkhand||Bus operators told not to double fares for inter-state travel||The resumption of inter-state bus service made passengers throng bus depots to book their seats well in advance. But, much to their dismay, they had to shell out almost double the fare to get a booking done. The state transport department on Friday intervened to provide relief to the travellers. Just ahead of the commencement of the inter-state bus services, they issued a set of guidelines on Friday, which makes it mandatory for the operators to keep the bus fare the same as it was before the lockdown. State transport secretary K Ravi Kumar said, “The fares will remain unchanged as the buses have been allowed to run as per their full seating capacity. The vehicles are to ply on their assigned routes.” He added, “Operators will have to ensure that all the prescribed Covid-19 safety guidelines are followed during the trip. Use of face masks, sanitization of the vehicle or seats after every trip is a must. Overcrowding is a strict no.” Given the fact that most of the bus operators had doubled the bus fare for interstate travel, the guidelines issued made it clear that the fares shouldn’t be increased given the fact that they directed to run buses with full seating capacity. “Financially, it will be difficult for any inter-state buses to run with half their capacity. As a consequence, the fares will be hiked, which in turn would force the passengers to pay hiked charges for tickets during the inter-state travel,” said an official. Buses with valid permits will be allowed to ply on a fixed route. District administration officials will maintain a special vigil in their jurisdiction to block illegal commute attempts. Even the stoppages will be in accordance with the pre-approved permits. With Diwali and Chhath festivals scheduled later this month, Bihar-bound buses will experience a passenger rush. Now, the operators must keep a record of all the passengers to make tracing easier if anyone of them tests positive for Covid-19.  The driver’s cabin needs to be covered with a curtain or a transparent sheet. During the journey, there is a complete ban on the usage of tobacco and spitting. All passengers are to be screened using a thermal scanner while boarding. Sanitisers are to be provided on the vehicle. “Any kind of violation will amount to lead to the slapping of a case on the operator under the Disaster Management Act,” warned Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-243
06-11-2020||Jharkhand||No bail for Lalu as high court defers hearing||The bail plea of former Bihar chief minister Lalu Prasad Yadav has been to November 27, by the Jharkhand High Court, thereby, making it impossible for the RJD supremo to be out on bail before the Bihar Assembly Poll verdict. Lalu has been in custody since January 2018 and has procured bail in four out of five cases in the Rs 970 crore fodder scam involving four different treasuries. While postponing Lalu’s hearing to November 27, Justice Aparesh Kumar Singh asked CBI to file a counter affidavit in the matter. Reacting to today’s development, Lalu’s counsel, Prabhat Kumar accused CBI of deliberately delaying the affidavit submission. “In connection with the Dumka treasury case, we had appealed before the court for his bail 15 days but CBI didn’t submit the counter affidavit deliberately. Now, the court them to do so by November 23,” he said. However, the spokesperson of Jharkhand BJP, Pratul Shahdeo denied the allegation. He said, “During the last hearing, Jharkhand High Court had asked the jail IG to submit a detailed report on people who met Lalu had met in the last two-three months by November 6. But to our knowledge, jail IG is yet to submit the report. Leveling accusations against CBI is completely baseless.” The former chief minister’s conviction in the Dumka treasury scam involves illegal withdrawals of Rs 3.13 crore. He has been accused of facilitating other financial irregularities concerning Ranchi, Chaibasa, and Deoghar treasuries. Lalu had been granted bail in all the other cases pending against him, barring the Dumka treasury case. On October 9, earlier this year, he got bail in connection with the Chaibasa treasury scam, which involved misappropriation of Rs 33.67 crore towards the purchase of fodder and medicines for cattle. In the Dumka treasury, he was awarded imprisonment for 14 years by CBI court. In the Chaibasa case, he was convicted for five years, while in the Deoghar treasury case, he was sentenced to 3.5 years but had procured bail in 2013. Lalu, who has in custody since January 2018, is currently undergoing treatment for various age-related ailments in Ranchi’s Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) since then. In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, Lalu is presently stationed at the director’s bungalow of RIMS also known as Kelly’s Bungalow. He has undergone the Covid-19 test twice after his helpers and security guards tested positive. However, the 72-year-old politician has remained immune to the virus so far. Ahead of the Bihar elections, many believed that RJD chief was calling the shots for ticket distribution. Many from the party, including RJD’s working president Tejaswi Yadav, had announced while addressing poll rallies that Lalu would be out on November 9. He had even stated that the day would mark the farewell of present Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar. The HC verdict came as a setback for Lalu’s party. An RJD leader in the state said, “Bihar is all set for a massive change. We are more than hopeful of a landslide victory. CM Nitish Kumar announcing this as his last election while campaigning on Thursday testified his desperation and nervousness. We were upbeat and sure that our party supremo would join us on November 10 for the verdict.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-243
06-11-2020||Jharkhand||Ten popular trains resume services, booking begins on Nov 7||Bihar-bound passengers were making a beeline at Dhanbad’s Inter-State Bus Terminus at Bartand to book their tickets till yesterday. But thanks to Eastern and Central Railways, they now have an alternate. The railways have announced temporary resumption services of 10 popular trains, like the Ganga Damodar Express, which runs between Dhanbad and Patna. It has a stoppage at several stations in Bihar. These trains will be plying between November 10 to November 30 to ferry the native festive crowd to their hamlets for Diwali and Chhath revelry. Special trains will also ferry passengers with reserved seats on the same route. However, they will have different train numbers. For example, a special train plying on the same train route as that of Ganga Damodar Express will have train numbers 03329 and 03330 instead of its traditional number 13329 and 13330. Train reservation windows are all set to become functional from tomorrow. But that hasn’t stopped prospective travelers from making queries at the inquiry counter and reservation counter of Dhanbad railway station. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Ranjit Dutta, said, “Anticipating resumption of train services, we had already readied three rakes of Ganga Damodar Express. But we are cleaning them once again, just ahead of the trail run between Dhanbad and Koderma.” Senior divisional commercial manager, Akhilesh Kumar Pandey, stated, “Ticket booking for all the ten special trains including Ganga Damodar Express will begin tomorrow.  The rakes are ready and so are to run the train on the scheduled time.” Besides Ganga Damodar Express, Palamu Link Express running between Barakakana to Patna will also originate from Dhanbad Division. Notably, the Ganga Damodar Express will have a total of 24 coaches - one First AC, two 2- tier AC, four 3- tier AC and nine Sleeper coaches, six general coaches, and two brake vans. Similarly, the Palamu Link Express running between Barkakana to Patna through Gomoh will have 12 coaches - one 2-Tier AC, two 3-Tier AC, three sleepers, four general coaches, and two brake vans. Expressing happiness over the development, Nitin Bhatt, Dhanbad-based trader and member of Divisional Railway User Consultative Committee of Dhanbad, said, “A large number of people visit their native village in Bihar around this time of the year to celebrate Chhath with their family.  The decision to run special trains is a welcome move.” Janki Express (Jaynagar to Manihari and vice-versa), South Bihar Express (Rajendra Nagar Terminal to Durg and vice versa), and Patna Ranchi Janshatabdi Express (Patna to Ranchi and vice versa) will also be plying during the festive season.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-244
06-11-2020||Jharkhand||CBI powers clipped: BJP attacks Hemant govt||The Opposition BJP has launched a Twitter campaign called Daal mein kuch kaala hai (something fishy) in reaction to the Hemant Soren government’s decision to revoke the general consent accorded to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the country’s premier investigating agency, for taking up investigations in Jharkhand without its prior consent. On Thursday, the state home department notified an order revoking the consent given to the central agency by exercising powers conferred under Section 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act 1946 (25 of 1946). A general consent to investigate cases in the state was granted to the CBI way back in 1996 in undivided Bihar. The JMM-Congress-RJD ruling coalition has reasoned that the move is in view of the increasing trend of the CBI’s alleged misuse by the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre to harass non-BJP-ruled states out of political vendetta. Besides Jharkhand, a few other states, namely Maharashtra, Bengal, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan and Mizoram, had already withdrawn consent to the CBI in recent times, thereby clipping its powers to operate in their respective jurisdictions without approval. Babulal Marandi, the former Jharkhand chief minister and current leader of the BJP legislative party, on Friday said the sudden decision to clip the CBI’s powers in the state suggested that the Hemant government was nervous of its wrongdoings and might be trying to save those engaged in acts of corruption. He said: “I would have welcomed (the move) if the state government had strengthened the investigative agencies to show its commitment towards curbing corruption, Naxal menace, etc. but the sudden urgency to restrain the CBI makes one believe that the ruling dispensation is trying to shield and hide something big…something’s fishy (daal mein kuch toh kaala hai).” His reactions on Twitter earlier in the day too used the “daal mein kuch toh kaala hai” punch line. Marandi added that a few months ago, the CBI conducted nationwide raids against businessman Amit Agarwal in connection with illegal money transactions and had also reportedly seized a diary from his residence in Bengal. “In power corridors, Agarwal is said to be close to Hemant Sorenji and takes care of his financial interests. In fact, it is also said that Agarwal is the proxy chief minister. Probably, Hemant is nervous after the CBI seized the diary,” Marandi claimed, adding that more than the BJP, it is the MLAs of the ruling party who in recent months have been crying hoarse about corruption and lawlessness in the state. On the new restrictions on the CBI, state BJP president Deepak Prakash too posed a question to the Hemant government: “Hujur ne Jharkhand mein CBI ke pravesh pe bhi pabandi laga di hai. Kahin daal mein kuch kaala toh nahi? (Sir has curbed the entry of the CBI in Jharkhand. Is there something fishy?)” Several other BJP leaders too commented on similar lines using the same tagline to snub the ban.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-244
06-11-2020||Jharkhand||NCLAT fixes December 15 for next hearing on Incab||The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) hearing on Incab Industries Limited on Friday took a strange turn when a private firm M/s. Tropical Ventures through its advocate staked claim of Rs 277 crore which it owes from Incab's Pune-based plant. The private firm sought an intervener petition into the case. The hearing took place through a video conferencing facility. The next NCLAT hearing is scheduled on December 15. Tropical Ventures have also filed a petition earlier with the Bombay High Court over its outstanding dues. Today's development came as a blow to the ongoing liquidation process initiated by Shashi Agarwal, the liquidator of the ailing Incab Industries appointed by the Calcutta-bench of National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). The liquidator was about to carry out an e-auction of the company's Pune plant this month which has been deferred till next month. “We were expecting a final order from NCLAT today on the petition filed by us challenging the liquidation order of Incab passed by NCLT's Calcutta bench in February this year. Another petitioner - an official of Incab's head office in Calcutta - had challenged the liquidation order. But, NCLAT could not give an order because of the claim made by Tropical Ventures. The next hearing will take place on December 15,” said S K Mohanty, a Supreme Court lawyer fighting the case on behalf of the 277-workers of Incab in NCLAT. He participated in the hearing on a virtual platform. In another development two senior advocates - Akhilesh Srivastava and Rohit Singha today challenged before the Jharkhand High Court that the recent order of the Calcutta-bench of NCLT which had said that the land on which Incab Industries is located in a sub-lease land of Tata Steel was false. “The land now belongs to the state government. How can NCLT pass such orders which are beyond its jurisdiction,” pointed out Srivastava adding that the Jharkhand  High Court today issued an order for serving notices to the concerned parties in this regard. Notably, the Calcutta bench of NCLT on February 7 this year had ordered dissolution of ailing Incab Industries Limited under The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016. The liquidation order came as a major blow to the workers in Jamshedpur as well as the union operating here and in Calcutta, where Incab has its head office. Incab's Jamshedpur plant currently has a strength of around 900-odd employees. In the mid-1990s, a Malaysian promoter Leader Universal Berhad Cables took over the firm. But, the company started suffering losses and slid deeper in the red. As it was suffering losses Incab was referred to the BIFR in 1999, a year before Jharkhand was carved out of Bihar. Since then the employees are deprived of their monthly salary and other benefits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-244
06-11-2020||Jharkhand||One injured in elephant attack in Dhanbad||Ravilal Marandi (70), a resident of Bhagabandh Panchayat of Laghata area of Nirsa block of Dhanbad received a serious head injury this morning when he was attacked by an elephant, around 500 meters away from his house. Local residents, who rushed the site after hearing the cry, drove away the elephant and then took the injured person to a private nursing home of Nirsa with the help of local police. He was finally admitted to Patliputra Medical College and Hospital (PMCH), where he is undergoing treatment. Babulal Marandi, a local resident and also a distant relative of the victim Ravilal Marandi, while talking to media said, “The incident took place at around 6 am in the morning when Ravilal was on a morning walk in the area and was attacked by the elephant.” “The incident also exposed the pitiable state of affairs of the government-owned medical care facilities as when we rushed at the Nirsa PHC, we found no doctors there and other support staff present in the center refused to admit them due to lack of resources, compelling us to admit him in a private nursing home of Nirsa from where he was later referred to PMCH Dhanbad for treatment,” said Marandi. Wasim Ansari, an assistant sub-inspector of police of Nirsa, who rushed to the site and admitted the injured person to the hospital said, “We came to know about the incident at around 6.10 am and immediately rushed to the site and also informed the forest department after admitting the injured person to PMCH.” Divisional forest officer, Dhanbad, Bimal Lakra said, “The injured person is undergoing treatment at PMCH and we have initiated for providing compensation to him and trying to provide some advance even before the sanctioning of full compensation at the earliest.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-244
06-11-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city to get new people-friendly traffic system soon||The vehicle traffic system is all set to have a face-lift in the steel city as the district police's traffic wing is on a revamping mode. The steps being taken by the traffic wing are aimed at removing some pitfalls in the existing system which causes the commuters as well as the commercial vehicle operators in unwanted trouble. Revealing about the steps, Babban Singh, the deputy superintendent of police (Traffic) who joined the district police recently said that vehicular traffic system should be people-friendly and not just to extort penalty from the violators of the traffic rules. “To begin with the important roads, exit or entry points and strategic locations will have to be equipped with sign-boards of ‘No Entry’, ‘No Parking’ and rates of penalties, something which is nowhere to be seen in the steel city.  Once such sign-boards are installed at the strategic points, the vehicle riders will follow them and will tend to make no violation in the traffic rules,” said Singh while talking to The Telegraph Online. The new traffic DSP who joined the East Singhbhum district police just on Monday said that he came to know about how the vehicle riders have to face difficulties without the necessary sign-board when he dealt with a case involving a car-owner coming from Bengal recently. “A family boarded in a car having West Bengal's registration number had wrongfully been parked along the Bistupur Main Road on Wednesday.  After an altercation between the car driver and some traffic cops, the matter reached my notice. The traffic cops wanted to penalize the car driver for parking wrongfully. On reaching the spot, I inquired but found no sign-board displaying ‘No parking’ around where the car was parked.  I immediately let the car driver go from the spot as he was not at fault, and then only I decided the important roads where there are undeclared no-parking zones in place should be equipped with the sign-boards,” informed the traffic DSP. Singh pointed out there was not a single sign-board displaying ‘No-entry’ at the exit or entry points of the city. "If the ‘No-entry’ boards are put at the entry points with the ‘No-entry’ timing prominently, hardly any driver will violate the traffic rules. We have, therefore, decided to put up a huge sign-board for displaying the ‘No-entry’ timing at all the entry points like Dimna Chowk, Pardih Chowk in Mango, Sundarnagar and Kharkai bridge in Bistupur as well as the newly set up Domuhani bridge in Sonari soon, so that the drivers of the heavy commercial vehicles which come from other states may not have to face difficulty to enter into the city,” the senior police officer said. Singh also informed that they would install five huge sign-boards regarding the penalties that the traffic department charges for violating the traffic rules. “The traffic police continue to carry out drives like helmet checking, seat-belt checking, etc. But the vehicle owners are not aware of the extent of the penalty they are supposed to pay. And such vehicle owners do come to know about the extent of a penalty after they are caught during such traffic checking drive only. But if there are prominent sign-boards displaying the amount of penalty to be charged, then it will definitely put a positive effect on the vehicle owners,” the traffic DSP said. Significantly, an insider in the traffic police said, “The authority concerned in the traffic police evaded to put up any sign-board because they wanted to keep pitfalls in the system so as to have an advantage over vehicle operators, especially the ones coming from other states. If there were sign-boards displaying ‘No-entry’ or ‘No parking’, then such vehicle operators will not make mistakes, and the cops will be able to extort the ‘penalty’.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-244
06-11-2020||Jharkhand||Peter Hartley to captain JFC this season||English defender Peter Hartley looks set to lead Jamshedpur FC in the seventh edition of Indian Super League (ISL), which kicks- off in Goa on November 20. Sources revealed that the JFC team management was veering around the idea of handing over the responsibility to Hartley for some weeks but the final decision was made by head coach Owen Coyle. There were other names under consideration but Hartley emerged on the top. The 32-year-old Hartley, a former Motherwell FC (Scottish Premiership) captain, is the man the Tata Steel-owned club was looking for when it came to heading a side which is looking to make their maiden entry to the elusive play-off of the cash-rich tournament. Jamshedpur launch their ISL campaign against last edition’s runners-up Chennaiyin FC at Tilak Maidan on November 24. Sources revealed that JFC was looking for a player who can fill the void left by Jose Luis Espinosa Arroyo (Tiri) who led the team for the last three seasons but has switched over to ATK Mohun Bagan this time. “Hartley is the front runner when it comes to chosing a captain. He is experienced, has character and is also a good human being. He will captain the side this season,” a member of the team management said. According to him, Hartley is the first choice of head coach Owen Coyle and the defender has also been made aware about his responsibility. “Coyle has great faith in the leadership qualities of Hartley,” he remarked while requesting not to be quoted. JFC chief executive officer Mukul Choudhari said they want a man with good leadership skills and one who can take the side along. “Hartley has all these qualities and surely fits the bill. We wanted someone like Tiri to lead the side in the upcoming encounters. Hartley is  also a very good human being and has character,” he said. Choudhary added they also wanted a man who can gel well with the team members. Sources said players like Lithuanian striker Nerijus Valskis, Brazilian mid-fielder Alex Monteiro de Lima and Indian winger Jackichand Singh also have the ability to lead the side but the team management decided to hand over the armband to the English defender. Moreover, it was on Coyle's insistence that Hartley joined Jamshedpur. The fact that Hartley has a great understanding with the head coach and knows Coyle’s capability also helped the management make the decision The experienced Hartley began his career at Sunderland, during which he had a spell on loan to Chesterfield. He then went to play for Hartlepool United, Stevenage, Plymouth Argyle, Bristol Rovers and Blackpool. Hartley signed for Motherwell FC in 2017, initially on loan, making the move permanent the following year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-244
06-11-2020||Jharkhand||State pollution board rolls out clean air plans for eight cities||Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB) has sprung into action to both plan and implement the clean air action plan for eight cities including Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Hazaribagh, Ramgarh, Chaibasa, Dumka, Sahibganj, and Pakur. These cities do not fall under the non-attainment cities notified in the National Clean Air Program (NCAP). During a workshop – Towards Clean Air for Jharkhand, jointly organized by JSPCB and Center for Environment & Energy Development (CEED) on Friday, PK Verma, JSPCB chairman, announced the details of the project. “The proactive action being taken by JSPCB to develop a clean air action plan for these 8 cities will go a long way to prepare action measures to avoid these cities from reaching the non-attainment level. It will also combat rising air pollution in smaller cities and ensure better air quality amidst the concern of health crisis. The state government is committed to ensuring clean and healthy air for all. Stringent mitigation measures and constructive steps will be taken to address the issue of air pollution,” he stated. Verma added, “Over the years real-time ambient air quality monitoring stations have been set up at over two dozen places across the state through public-private-partnership.”  He maintained that more such units would soon be set up across Jharkhand. “Real-time monitoring stations help local authorities and the public at large to know the status of the air they breathe on any particular day. It also indicates the looming dangers and calls for timely action. To achieve healthy air, we will require the participation of all stakeholders,” he stated. Different state government agencies, departments, private players, civil society organisations, and citizen groups attended the workshop. Highlighting the health concerns caused by air pollution in the post-Covid-19 era, Dr Atri Gangopadhyay, Pulmonary Medicine and Tuberculosis, Medica Super Specialty Hospital, Ranchi, warned about Jharkhand being at a greater health risk, as the expansion of Covid-19 pandemic usually exacerbates respiratory disorders. “Children, women, and elderly people exposed to polluted air often develop asthma, several pulmonary diseases, and respiratory disorders due to harmful particulate matters present in it. With the onset of winter, there will be a spike in the level of air pollution. Hence, we need a holistic approach to address health problems. Increasing air quality monitoring and strict mitigation measures for attaining clean air will help,” Dr Gangopadhyay asserted. At present, the air quality of Jharkhand is worrisome. According to the National Ambient Air Quality Database, high-level air pollution exists in cities with operational air quality monitoring system. The pollutants are far above the safe limits, thereby making the air unfit to breathe. NCAP was launched in January 2019 by the Government of India to keep a tab on air pollution.  It aims to reduce PM 2.5 and PM10 levels by 20-30 per cent by 2024 from that recorded in 2017. Among the 122 cities falling under the non-attainment cities, only Dhanbad from Jharkhand made it to the list. “In Jharkhand, the city air action plan has been prepared for Dhanbad so far,” said Ramapati Kumar, CEO of CEED. However, Kumar appreciated the steps that are being taken by JSPCB towards making Jharkhand a breathable state. He said, “Jharkhand has become the first state to formulate a clean air action plan for the cities which are yet to make it to the list of non-attainment cities. This affirms the belief that air pollution is not necessarily linked to the big cities and brings much-needed spotlights on various two and three-tier cities, which are witnessing deteriorating air quality and needs urgent attention there.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-244
06-11-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant: Revoke admission ban on medical colleges of aspirational districts ||Keeping the interest of students from poor, backward, and tribal community of the state, the Jharkhand government has appealed to the National Medical Commission (NMC) to revoke its ban on medical academic session 2020-21 (MBBS seats) in three newly set up medical colleges which are located in Palamau, Hazaribaghh, and Dumka. Significantly, these three medical colleges had been set up during the BJP regime led by Raghubar Das. They had been inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, last year, just ahead of the Lok Sabha polls. However, NMC has asked these colleges to not take further admission from the current session, on grounds of poor infrastructure and faculty crunch. This decision has prompted the Opposition party – BJP, to accuse the Soren-led government of being unable to sustain the educational assets created by them. With the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) result being declared fresh admission for MBBS has begun across the nation for the new session (2020-21). This made chief minister Hemant Soren urge NCM chairperson Suresh Chandra Sharma to reconsider their decision. He has promised to fix all the issues with the three medical colleges by the end of November. In a letter issued by Hemant’s office, on Thursday, the chief minister termed NMC’s decision to stall admissions as a shocker. In the letter to Sharma, he wrote, “Under the phase 1 of centrally sponsored scheme, Union Health Ministry had sanctioned three new medical colleges in Dumka, Hazaribagh, and Palamau by upgrading the existing district hospitals and approving Rs 340 crores. The state government too had promptly released its share of Rs 392.88 crore. The building work of each of the college was over last year and inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, post which admissions on 100 seats in each college was undertaken in 2019-20. However, NMC has now banned further admissions on the basis of some faculty and infrastructure deficiencies. This has sent a shock wave among aspiring students of this poor, backward and tribal state.” Acknowledging the gaps flagged by NMC, Hemant maintained that his government is sincerely working towards fixing them but, their efforts suffered roadblocks because of the nationwide lockdown triggered due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “For the recruitment of associate professors and professors, we are facing problems in getting them as eligible and selected candidates aren’t willing to work in a backward state like ours. However, all the gaps highlighted in NMC’s report following an online assessment will be sorted out by November 30,” assured Hemant, while urging NMC to appreciate the state government’s effort despite the existing challenges. “I request and hope that NMC will revoke its decision to allow admissions to take place in these medical colleges, which fall in districts identified as aspirational by Niti Aayog,” he added. Notably, while talking to reporters on a different occasion, Hemant had reacted to NMC’s diktat. He had questioned Deoghar’s centrally-funded AIIMS, not having to face such consequences. “By the yardstick of infrastructural gaps as citied by NMC, admissions in AIIMS were not stalled, even when the premier institute is barely 5-10 per cent complete,” highlighted Hemant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-244
06-11-2020||Jharkhand||Recoveries outnumber fresh Covid cases in Jharkhand||At least 12 of 24 districts in Jharkhand reported a single digit spike in the Covid-19 caseload on Thursday despite the government testing over 30,000 swab samples on the day, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated, highlighting the significant fall in the growth rate of Covid-19 infection in the state. While Sahebganj, Garhwa and Latehar reported one case each, only three people were found infected in Chatra, revealed a bulletin released by the NHM on Thursday night. Dumka, Hazaribag and Lohardaga reported four cases each, while Jamtara and Palamu reported seven cases each. Eight people were found infected in Saraikela. Ranchi reported the highest spike in cases among all the districts in Jharkhand on Thursday. However, the number of active cases here dropped to 1,532 as the district reported 166 recoveries against 99 cases in 24 hours. Dhanbad reported 34 cases and was the second highest contributor to the Covid caseload on the day. East Singhbhum reported 26 cases and 49 recoveries, which brought the number of active cases down at 1,305 in the district. As per the NHM bulletin, at least 355 people were infected on Thursday. At least 484 recoveries brought the number of active cases further down at 4,685, the bulletin added. As per government records, at least 18 of 24 districts in Jharkhand have less than 100 active cases of Covid-19 infection. On Thursday, health workers tested swab samples of 30,319 people and around 1.17 per cent of them were found to be Covid positive, data with the health department highlighted. The government in Jharkhand has collected swab samples of 35.42 lakh people so far and tested 35.40 lakh of them. As per government data, 1,03,543 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in the state so far. No Covid casualties were reported from any part of the state in the past 24 hours, NHM stated in its bulletin. As per government data, as many as 894 people have died of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand so far. At least 337 of the victims were from East Singhbhum and 178 from Ranchi. The Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 0.86 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. As per government data, the growth rate of Covid-19 in Jharkhand was 0.32 per cent against the national average of 0.56 per cent. The doubling rate of the viral infection in the state was 220.25 days against the national doubling rate of 143.64 days. Jharkhand’s Covid recovery rate was 94.61 per cent against the national average of 92.20 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-244
06-11-2020||Jharkhand||Chakka jam protest in Jharkhand against farm laws||Farmer groups staged protests in different parts of Jharkhand on Thursday as part of the nationwide agitation called by All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee to protest against the three farm laws passed in September. “Protests were held along state highways and national highways in the morning till 10.30am in different parts of the state as part of the call given by the national body. At some places there was chakka jam (road block), while at other places it was human chain protest,” said Rajendra Singh Munda, general secretary of the Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sabha. Sources said road blockades were staged by the farmers near Daltonganj, Lohardagga, Bundu-Silli state highway near Ranchi, Baharagora (in East Singhbhum), Khunti, Gumla, Chaibasa and in Tamar (near Ranchi). There were reports of vehicular movement affected in some stretches for a few hours in the morning. “It was a symbolic chakka jam today. However, on November 26 we will organise a statewide agitation. We will also march to the Raj Bhavan and submit a memorandum to the governor (Draupadi Murmu) on November 27 demanding repeal of the three farm laws,” Munda said. Farmer groups backed by the Opposition parties have been protesting against the three laws — Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act — alleging that the laws will harm the farmers’  interest and benefit corporates, a claim denied by the Centre. Farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-244
