07-11-2020||Calcutta||150 ghats  for Chhath ||More than 150 ghats in the city will be ready for Chhath Puja rituals on November 20, officials of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) and Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) said. The list does not include Rabindra Sarobar, where the National Green Tribunal has banned all kinds of puja. The CMDA has approached the Supreme Court with a plea to allow Chhath at Sarobar after the tribunal refused to hear its plea. The CMDA has built three permanent ghats in Nonadanga that can be used for Chhath rituals. The agency will also build 44 temporary ghats in Kasba, Jadavpur, Patuli and Golf Green. More than 100 ghats maintained by the CMC can be used for Chhath . A CMDA official said the ghats would have bio-toilets, drinking water facilities and changing rooms. Urban development minister Firhad Hakim chaired a meeting to discuss the arrangements for Chhath Puja on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-247
07-11-2020||Calcutta||Xavier’s varsity in Shillong||Students from the Northeast will have a reason not to leave their states and reach Calcutta or other cities for higher studies. St Xavier’s University, Shillong, will come up in the next three years and the Jesuits of the Kohima region will run the institute. “Students from the Northeast and from Sikkim come to both the college and the university in Calcutta. Many students from these areas leave for Delhi, Pune, Hyderabad, and Bangalore, too, and hence there is a need to start a university to let them stay in their states,” Father J Felix Raj, the vice-chancellor of St Xavier’s University, Calcutta, said on Friday. The Jesuit fathers run a degree college in Williamnagar near Shillong and another in Aizawl in Mizoram. “Educational work has been the main thrust of the Jesuit fathers in the Northeast just like anywhere else. We should start universities and not colleges because universities have a wider scope and are more independent,” he said. The Meghalaya cabinet on November 4 approved the St Xavier’s University Bill, 2020. The bill was introduced in the Assembly on November 5 and is likely to be passed early next week. St Xavier’s University Calcutta stands as a model for Jesuit universities in the country. This will be the third Jesuit university in the country after St Xavier’s University, Calcutta, and Xavier University, Bhubaneswar. The campus will come up on 35 acres in Shillong, given by local Congress MP Vincent Pala. Classes should start within three years from the date of passing of the bill, Father Felix Raj said. The chief minister of Meghalaya, Conrad Sangma, wrote in a letter to Father Felix Raj: “It is wonderful to hear the positive response from the Jesuits on the proposal and idea of setting up a university in Meghalaya.” Deputy chief minister Prestone Tynsong said at a press conference: “St Xavier’s universities are the most successful universities in the country. The Calcutta Jesuits have established St Xavier’s University Calcutta at New Town in 2017 and it is being run very successfully.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-247
07-11-2020||Calcutta||Money from one, flat to another ||A Salt Lake resident has alleged that a developer whom she had paid Rs 74 lakh to buy two flats, in Behala and Haridevpur, cheated her by selling the flats to others. Rahul Das, 42, the developer who has multiple cheating cases against him, was arrested in Behala on Thursday night, police said. Das had apparently duped the Salt Lake resident into taking two home loans in 2018 for the flat but selling them to others once the money got transferred to his company’s account. “Once the loan was sanctioned in the complainant’s name for two projects by the promoter, the bank started disbursing the sum to the promoter’s account and the complainant started paying the EMI,” an officer of Behala police station said. “Once the projects were completed and the flats were to be handed over, they were sold to other people, the complainant had alleged.” Cops have started a case of cheating, fraud, and criminal breach of trust against Das. “He has multiple arrest warrants against him. We had raided his home several times but he was not there. Last night, we had specific information he was at a place in Regent Park and we got lucky,” the officer said. A city court on Friday sent Das to police custody till November 11. He will be questioned in connection with the other complaints against him, the police said. “It is important to cross-check the background of the developer… verify with the police if there is any existing case against the individual before booking a flat,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-247
07-11-2020||Calcutta||Refund & damages orders to hospitals||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Friday asked ILS Dum Dum to refund Rs 40,000 of the Rs 58,201 it had charged a Covid patient for PPE and other consumables for a 10-day stay at the hospital, the commission’s chairperson said on Friday. The commission also asked R Flemming Hospital to pay Rs 1 lakh to a Covid victim’s family in compensation and cough up another Rs 10,000 as penalty after it was found to be prima facie true that a nurse attending the patient in ICU was sleeping when the oxygen tube had come off her nose. Medica Superspecialty Hospital and Charnock Hospital have been asked to compensate two patients’ families Rs 50,000 each. “We have asked ILS Dum Dum to refund Rs 40,000 to Ajay Khaitan, who was admitted to the hospital in May. The hospital had charged Khaitan Rs 58,201 for PPE and other consumables for a 10-day stay. The bill showed that the hospital charged for 36 PPE sets. They also charged for masks, head cover and shoe cover separately,” said retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission. The Telegraph has reported a number of times that several hospitals had charged exorbitant rates for PPE sets in the initial days of the pandemic. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had on June 26 announced that hospitals could not charge more than Rs 1,000 for PPE per patient per day. The commission issued an advisory on August 1 stating that items like headgear and gloves should be considered part of the PPE and should not be charged separately. Banerjee said ILS argued that the rates were charged before the government introduced the ceiling. Debashis Dhar, the group vice-president of ILS Hospitals, said they would follow the commission’s order but added “it was not justified”. “We had charged these rates at a time when we had to buy PPE at much higher prices than now and there was no capping. We did not overcharge any of our patients for PPE. People must understand that PPE sets are used for the safety of patients and healthcare workers,” said Dhar. R Flemming Hospital in Topsia was asked to compensate the family of a woman who passed away in December. “The woman’s husband complained that a nurse attending the woman was sleeping when the oxygen tube came off her nose. When the family pointed this out, the nurse fixed it and asked them to leave,” said Banerjee. “They also complained that a hospital employee, who was not a doctor, had identified himself as one and demanded money from the patient’s family….The hospital’s conduct was negligent. We asked them to compensate the family Rs 1 lakh and pay the Rs 10,000 as penalty.” Sahid Khan, the manager of R Flemming Hospital, denied the allegations. “Our patient coordinator had spoken to the family about the bill. What can we say if after interacting with him for so many days the complainant says they thought he was a doctor. Will a doctor ever talk about bill amounts? We will go through the order and decide our course of action,” said Khan. During Friday’s hearing, Medica Superspecialty Hospital was asked to compensate the family of a 75-year-old man who alleged that the doctor who performed a heart surgery on him was not present during a subsequent check-up in February. They also alleged that a diabetologist should have checked the man, but did not, said Banerjee. The elderly man later passed away. “We felt it was the hospital’s responsibility to arrange a diabetologist to examine the patient. The hospital should have also appointed the doctor who performed the surgery for the follow-up check. We ordered the hospital to compensate the family Rs 50,000,” said Banerjee. An official of the hospital said they would not comment before going through the order in detail. Charnock Hospital in Teghoria was asked to pay Rs 50,000 for giving an incomplete death certificate to a 67-year-old woman’s family in November 2019. “The certificate did not have the woman’s age and time of death. The doctor had to go to the cremation ghat to correct the certificate,” said Banerjee. The hospital does not have a blood bank and it did not help the patient for blood transfusion, said Banerjee. The Telegraph could not reach any official of the hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-247
07-11-2020||Calcutta||Celsius dips below 20 degrees||The Celsius dropped below 20 degrees on Friday for the first time this year since March as winds from the north made their presence felt in the city. The cool phase will continue for the next few days because of favourable conditions in northern India, the weather department said. Friday’s minimum temperature was 19.8 degrees Celsius — two notches below normal. The last time the city had recorded a sub-20 degrees temperature was on March 22, when the mercury had dipped to 19.2 degrees, according to the Met records. Winter is still some distance away, the Met office said. Unlike the monsoon, the weather office in Alipore does not announce the onset of winter. There are, however, certain parameters that mark the arrival of the season. One such parameter is that the minimum temperature has to be 15 degrees or less for at least four days at a stretch. “The sky is clear. The dry and cold north-westerly winds are getting an unobstructed access into the city. The minimum temperature is likely to remain in the range of 19 degrees over the next couple of days,” said a Met official. Snowfall in the upper reaches of the country had triggered the flow of north-westerly winds into the city at the start of this week. The cold phase in Calcutta is expected to be temporarily halted from Tuesday, when a cyclonic circulation over the Bay is tipped to inject moisture into the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-247
07-11-2020||Calcutta||IIEST chief for fee waiver||The IIEST director has appealed to the education ministry for a waiver of tuition fee for some students who have written to the Shibpur institute that they are in no position to pay because of the Covid pandemic. Parthasarathi Chakrabarti, the director of the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology (IIEST), wrote to the ministry last month after the students’ senate had requested him to waive fees because earnings have taken a hit during the pandemic. “Since the ministry fixes the tuition fees, the appeal (for waiver) has been made to the ministry,” director Parthasarathi Chakrabarti said. The institute's board of governors, he said, asked him to write to the ministry. The education ministry fixes the tuition fees of the institutes under the NIT council. The IIEST is part of the council. The annual tuition fee at the IIEST is Rs 1,25,000, excluding the annual hostel and mess charge of Rs 50,000. A member of the students’ senate said parents of several students ran small businesses and they were among the worst-hit by the pandemic. Many salaried employees are no better. Another member of the students’ senate said that since classes were being held online, students should not have to pay as much. “We are paying a steep charge for the internet for attending online classes from home. I guess the course fee was decided keeping in mind on-campus engagements,” he said. An IIEST official said director Chakrabarti had mentioned in the letter that the institute had in August decided that students need not pay Rs 17,500 as mess advance, Rs 3,000 as mess entrance fee, Rs 1,000 as seat rent and Rs 800 as electricity and water charges for the autumn semester that started on August 24. The institute has also decided to waive the activities fee of Rs 500 and bring down the infrastructure fee to Rs 1,000 from Rs 2,500 for this semester. “But the tuition fee does not come under our preview,” said Chakrabarti. An IIEST teacher said the director’s letter spoke volume about the crisis students were facing. “During the pandemic, the institute has been receiving waiver requests from all categories of students. Even students whose annual family income is above Rs 5 lakh are seeking waiver,” he said. The institute grants full waiver of the tuition fee to students whose annual family income is less than Rs 1 lakh. If the income ranges between Rs 1 lakh and Rs 5 lakh, he/she is required to pay half the amount. Another teacher said students are worried over the grim job situation. “They must have got jittery after knowing that a multinational company had in May withdrawn its job offer to three engi-neering students citing business decisions because of the economic downslide,’’ he said. Director Chakrabarti said they were raising a consoli-dated fund with the help of contribution from the alumni so that some support could be extended to students in distress. “But a consolidated fund can never be enough to bear the burden of the waiver of tuition fees for a section of students,” said an official of the institute. “Students can get relief only if the ministry considers the appeal for the waiver.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-247
07-11-2020||Calcutta||Candles replace crackers post blanket ban||Canning Street, Brabourne Road, China Bazar, Behala — the traditional pockets known for the sale of firecrackers in the city were selling only candles on Friday. Shopkeepers said firecrackers were being sold at these places till Thursday evening. But the boxes vanished once news of the high court order imposing a blanket ban on firecrackers spread. “Sab shoriye diyeche (all firecrackers have been removed),” said a shopkeeper pointing towards a candle seller on Canning Street. Traders said they had seen an increased presence of police officers in the Posta-Burrabazar area from Friday morning. The police said they would seize firecrackers as soon as they spot them — from shops selling them or individuals found in possession of them. In south Calcutta, police stations are planning to hold meetings with residents and guards of highrise buildings to ensure the ban is complied with. In north and central Calcutta, the police said they had started collecting information whether any shop was selling firecrackers. The high court on Thursday prohibited the sale and use or display of any form of firecracker because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the adverse effect smoke generated by crackers could have on the air we breathe. Covid patients find it difficult to breathe anyway. Air heavy with noxious fumes will make life all the more difficult for them, public health specialists have warned. The order by the division bench of Justices Sanjib Banerjee and Arijit Banerjee says: “The police should maintain a strict vigil to ensure that there is no sale or purchase of firecrackers of any form in the State between now and the end of the month. The police should make every effort to confiscate firecrackers and any kind of like material which have the potential to pollute the air. Immediate appropriate measures must be taken by the police against those seeking to act in contravention of these directions.” Several police officers said that as many sellers had procured firecrackers before the court imposed the ban, they would possibly try to sell them on the sly. Traders in central Calcutta usually buy their stock from manufacturing units in Champahati and Nungi in South 24-Parganas. “We are trying to track the potential sellers,” said an officer in central Calcutta. Every year, police allegedly half-heartedly try to crack down on illegal firecrackers — those that produce more than 90 decibel of sound at 5m from the source — by searching shops and vehicles and also by keeping an eye on highrise buildings from where the maximum number violations are reported. This year, the implementation of the ban would be easier as the police will not have to differentiate between illegal and legal firecrackers. “We will meet residents of highrise buildings and assign the responsibility of abiding by the court order to residents’ association or the guards. We will ask them to report the matter directly to us if residents violate the order,” said an officer of Shakespeare Sarani police station. Cops may be deployed in some of the highrises to ensure the court order is followed. Residents of several highrise buildings have resolved to make this Diwali pollution free. Shankar Lal Agarwala, a resident of Satyam Towers in Alipore, said bursting firecrackers had been an integral part of their Diwali celebrations every year. “But that should not be at the cost of the health of thousands of Calcuttans. This year we will light only diyas,” Agarwala said. At South City, a notice has been issued banning firecrackers on Diwali. “If anyone violates the court order, it will be reported to the authorities,” said a member of the managing board of the Prince Anwar Shah Road housing complex.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-247
07-11-2020||Calcutta||App help for visitors to locate Botanic Garden trees||The Botanical Survey of India has developed an app to help visitors to the Indian Botanic Garden, Howrah, locate various trees and even buildings on the garden premises and reach them easily. The app helps members of the garden staff as well to negotiate the sprawling 273 acres that is home to 14,000 species of trees, plants and climbers. The BSI app, which can be downloaded from the Google Play Store, has been designed and developed with assistance from Geo Climate Risk Solutions Pvt Ltd. It lists the various botanic gardens in the country as well as the protected areas. An entire section is devoted to the Indian Botanic Garden, Howrah, giving the garden’s history and listing the iconic trees in the garden, the various sections, including the aromatic plant garden, the bambusetum, the cactus house, the large palm house, among others. The flowering calendar lists all the flowers as they bloom in various months. The buildings and monuments section helps one reach the Central National Herbarium, the Griffith Monument, and the Robert Kyd Monument, among others. The lakes, too, are identified and there’s a map as well. So, if a visitor wants to reach the Great Banyan Tree, all he/she has to do is to go to the Iconic trees section and tap on the Great Banyan Tree. There’s a picture, along with the option of spotting and reaching the plant. If one taps the plant in the app, a drop-down information box will provide the scientific name, the local name, and the English and Hindi names, along with its characteristics. There’s a short history of the tree, too, which can be heard orally. If one were to tap the option of “reach the plant”, he/she will be guided to it through Google Map. One has the option to visit nearby trees as well. Pressing the button on “Nearby trees” brings up a map showing nearby trees with their scientific names. “Work on the app had started four years ago. It was launched recently. The app assists not just visitors but also members of the garden staff. Not all of us know where the different trees and plants are exactly located in the garden,” Kanak Das, the garden director, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-247
07-11-2020||Calcutta||Tough get going amid odds||Sushila Birla Girls’ School, in association with The Telegraph Young Metro, organised a virtual panel discussion, Saluting the New Messiahs, to celebrate the institute’s memorial day. As the name suggests, the panel discussion was an attempt to pay homage to the corona warriors by letting the world know about their experiences during these trying times.The session comprised four speakers and a moderator. Cardiac surgeon Dr Kunal Sarkar was the moderator. Starting from giving his point of view on the pandemic to making sure that each speaker gets a fair chance of putting forth their perspectives in a timely manner, Dr Sarkar managed the session efficiently. Belle Vue Clinic CEO Pradip Tondon, Dr Sibabrata Banerjee, director of internal medicine, Fortis Hospital, Anandapur, Dr Debasish Roy, additional director-general and inspector general of police, Armed Police, Bengal and Dr Era Dutta, neuropsychiatrist, Fortis healthcare, were the four panelists. “We are thankful to all the panelists for taking out time from their busy schedule. It was indeed a stimulating morning,” said principal Koeli Dey. “We salute the indomitable spirit of the corona warriors. We are honoured that such eminent personalities who have continued to help us navigate through this crisis agreed to be a part of this occasion,” said school director Sharmila Bose. Krishnagar Public School released the second edition of their quarterly e-magazine, KPStellar on Navratri. Its inaugural edition was released during the lockdown as an initiative to keep the spirits of both students and teachers high amid the pandemic. The first edition showcased contributions of the students, teachers and parents in English, Bengali and Hindi languages, while in the second edition, contributions from the administration and support staff members also got featured. “The school e-magazine is a virtual stage, and I enjoy browsing through the pages. The most inspiring part is that it highlights our day-to-day activities and efforts which motivate us to continue our strive for engaging in all school activities,” said Class X student Aditi Sarkar. The e-magazine is also a result of the school’s initiative for focusing on the CBSE vision in imparting education in a stress-free environment, even in the pandemic. “The school came up with this idea to provide a sense of happiness and satisfaction among students, teachers, and parents at a time when their lives were significantly altered by the unusual experience of self-isolation during the pandemic. KPStellar is a result of our efforts in constantly trying to innovate, upgrade, and experiment to ensure holistic development for our students and a happy environment for all stakeholders,” said principal Sankar Prasad Dutta. The pandemic failed to dampen the spirit of Birla High School Junior Section in moving ahead, overcoming every challenge. The school recently conducted Quaestio, an inter-school quiz competition for junior students, on a virtual platform. This year, nine schools from all across the city took part in it. Apart from the host school, the other participating institutes were Birla High School Mukundapur, Sushila Birla Girls’ School, South Point School, The BSS School, Shri Shikshayatan School, DPS Megacity, DPS Newtown and The Heritage School. The quiz comprised five rounds that included questions from current affairs, history and geography. Birla High School Mukundapur emerged the champions, while Sushila Birla Girls’ School was the first runner-up and the host Birla High School Junior Section became the second runner-up. The lockdown has provided an opportunity to the teachers to experiment with various online tools, and make learning fun for the students. The entire faculty of Birla High School Mukundapur had undergone a training programme for one week to master the art of online teaching and making the lessons engaging and enjoyable for the students, using various applications and educational websites. The teachers took the second graders on a virtual field trip to the mountains to learn adjectives. The lesson on wild animals was brought alive through augmented reality. The same application was used to explain the mechanism of the heart. The solar system was brought down to earth to the students’ awe. In a similar vein, the Class V students celebrated World Ozone Day. The students of nursery and kindergarten prepared a lockdown diary and expressed their feelings through art. “Since early April, we have switched to this online mode of teaching. Our teachers did a course to adapt to this new way of education. It is good to see that the students are also enjoying this new form of education,” said principal Minnie Sengupta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-248
07-11-2020||Calcutta||Fewer trains will mean a surge in the spread of Covid-19||Fewer trains will mean more people, both on the platform and on the trains, risking a surge in the spread of Covid-19, doctors have warned. Close to 180 pairs of local trains are expected to run from November 11, across the Howrah, Sealdah and Kharagpur divisions, rail officials had said after a meeting with the state government representatives on Wednesday. Before the services were grounded on March 23, close to 1,500 local trains ran every day, carrying more than 3.5 million passengers. Most suburban train passengers are daily travellers who use the trains to go to work and return home. Barring schools and colleges, most offices and other business establishments are open. Local trains, though infamous for being overcrowded, are the fastest option to travel from the suburbs to the city. So, once services resume, it is likely that passenger volume will not be reduced significantly. The number of trains will be increased in a phased manner in keeping with the passenger count, multiple rail officials have said. Doctors have said even a few days of overcrowded stations and trains could be enough to trigger a surge in infections. “Very surprising, very scatterbrained kind of response to the situation,” cardiac surgeon Kunal Sarkar said while speaking about the “conversation going on about local trains”. In a message posted on YouTube a few days ago, following the meeting between rail and state government officials where it was decided services would resume with “10-15 per cent” of the usual fleet, Sarkar spoke of the recent “tremendous chaos” when people tried to board trains that were ferrying rail personnel. A series of confrontations between people desperate to board special trains meant for rail staff and the RPF prompted the state government to ask the railways to resume suburban train services. “They just want to reach the city for a living… daily wage earners, hawkers, daily labourers…. People have been in a sort of semi-starvation for seven months…. Our response to this problem cannot be ‘look, we are going to operate only 10 per cent of the trains in selected stations’,” Sarkar said. “The chaos, the rush, the pandemonium from one station will now be multiplied into crowds of people gathering at each and every station. So, forget about the escalation of infection… we will risk probably 100 times more escalation because there will be crowds of unmanageable people gathering at every station,” he said. “The logical response to this problem is not reducing the capacity but increasing it. We need to use the trains better, deploy more train drivers.” Pulmonologist Ajoy Krishna Sarkar said local train services “should either be totally suspended or the full fleet should be run”. “A limited number of trains will automatically result in more passengers on each train. How many cops will be deployed in each compartment? There will be no semblance of distancing in the compartments. It is unfair to blame passengers because they are struggling for their livelihoods,” he said. “The natural effect will be a rise in the number of Covid-19 infections.” Several rail officials had spoken of the Mumbai model. In Mumbai, suburban train services have resumed for essential service providers identified by the state government. In Bengal, local trains will run for all passengers. That will make crowd control practically impossible, rail officials said. “We can stop a person without a mask but we cannot stop a person with a ticket,” an official of Eastern Railway’s Sealdah division said. The chief secretary has hinted that the government was not in favour of introducing an e-pass system for local trains similar to the one implemented by Metro Railway in Calcutta. Access control at suburban stations is going to be the key problem once services resume. The railways is dependent on the state government for crowd control on platforms as it does not have enough people to deploy at every station. “The government does not want to be exclusionary.... If an e-pass system is introduced it may leave many people in the suburbs and rural areas in trouble,” the chief secretary had said on Monday. Metro Railway will increase the number of daily trains from 152 to 190 from November 11. The move is to tackle an expected rise in the number of passengers because of resumption of local trains, also slated from November 11. “There will be 190 trains from Monday to Saturday. On Sunday, there will be 64 trains as usual,” a Metro official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-248
07-11-2020||Business||Sebi creates new 'Flexi Cap Fund' under equity schemes||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) on Friday created a new category called “Flexi Cap Fund” under the equity schemes of mutual funds. This comes after the market regulator had issued a circular last month on multi-cap funds where it stipulated that they must have a minimum corpus of 75 per cent invested in equities, of which 25 per cent each should be in large cap, mid-cap and small cap companies. Fund managers were worried that the poor liquidity of small and mid-cap stocks would sharply increase the risk for investors investing in these schemes. In a circular on Friday, Sebi said to give more flexibility to mutual funds, a new category named “Flexi Cap Fund” under equity schemes will be available. At least 65 per cent of their assets will have to be invested across large-cap, mid-cap and small-cap stocks, but there will not be any minimum investment cap as in multi-cap schemes. Moreover, Sebi added that mutual funds will have the option to convert an existing scheme into a flexi cap fund, subject to compliance with the regulations. Debt funds Sebi also made it mandatory for debt mutual fund schemes to hold at least 10 per cent of their net assets in liquid assets. Besides, it mandated debt schemes to conduct stress testing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-241
07-11-2020||Business||Imported single malts and cognacs to become cheaper in Bengal||Imported single malt whisky and cognac could become more affordable for connoisseurs in Bengal. Following the rollout of the new excise structure in the state, some of the imported brands such as Glenfiddich, Glenlivet, Glenmorangie and Hennessy are seeing a downward revision in prices. According to an industry source, the price of a 750 ml bottle of Glenmorangie 10-year single malt scotch had gone up from around Rs 8,400 to Rs 10,800 after the government imposed an additional sales tax to shore up revenue during the early months of the Covid period. The new price, which has been disclosed by the excise department, shows that MRP has come down to Rs 6,580. More expensive brands such as a 700-ml bottle of Hennessy XO Cognac is set to see a much sharper correction from Rs 38,138 (without sales tax) to Rs 17,900. The industry suggests that a simplified duty structure for ‘Bottled in Origin’ (BIO) liquor is bringing down the price of imported liquor. The state excise has come out with a 16-slab pass fee structure for imported liquor based on ex-customs price and the pass fee ranges between Rs 372 and Rs 3,916 per bulk litre. “Premium BIO segment should see a growth in volume. Even as the BIO is becoming cheaper, IMFL rates are going up. Consumers may now be encouraged to try BIO brands,” the source said. But the IMFL industry, where prices have seen an upward revision, more prominent in the higher price bracket, feels this move will discourage domestic manufacturers, especially Indian single malt brands such as Amrut and Paul John. Moreover, the number of pass fee slabs at 16 for imported liquor is less compared with the 22-slab excise and additional excise duty in case of IMFL. “It defies logic to reduce prices of imported liquor in Bengal when prices of Indian made premium products are being increased. A policy that favours direct import at the expense of India made products is flawed. It discourages investment in the country, affects prospects of lakhs of Indian workers and farmers and causes the government to lose taxes in the value chain,” Vinod Giri, director-general of the Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies, told The Telegraph. The industry body has estimated that in the second quarter, Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Telangana have seen a rise in IMFL sales but Andhra, Chattisgarh, Bengal, and Rajasthan saw a decline. With the exception of Chhattisgarh, the remaining states had imposed steep Covid taxes. Government supports and promotes their own products worldwide. This policy seems to be doing exactly the opposite. We urge the government to review it and roll back||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-241
07-11-2020||Business||ITC records 18.23 per cent decline in net profit||ITC has recorded a 1.7 per cent growth in consolidated net income and an 18.23 per cent decline in net profit for the September quarter as the cigarette and hotel businesses continue to be a drag on its performance. The company posted revenues of Rs 13,730.06 crore during the July-September quarter compared with Rs 13,497.27 crore a year ago. Net profit fell to Rs 3,413.44 crore from Rs 4,174.69 crore last year. Non-cigarette FMCG business, which includes food and health and personal care among others, continued its impressive run with a 19.24 per cent jump in segment revenue at Rs 3,930.63 crore. The segment profit of non-tobacco FMCG grew threefold to Rs 282.85 crore, up from Rs 92.04 crore in the same period last year. While the hotel business posted a segment loss of Rs 193.97 crore because of Covid disruptions, it managed to reduce the loss sequentially from Rs 257.39 crore. The cigarette segment revenue and profit (pre-tax) was down year-on-year but showed significant growth sequentially, signifying an improved business environment. CESC profit CESC Ltd has reported a marginal rise in its consolidated net profit at Rs 371 crore in the second quarter compared with Rs 366 crore a year ago. Total income stood at Rs 3,010 crore compared with Rs 3,049 crore a year ago. Bosch loss Auto components major Bosch on Friday reported a consolidated net loss of Rs 64.57 crore in the second quarter ended September 30. The company had posted a consolidated net profit of Rs 98.40 crore a year ago. Revenue from operations stood at Rs 2,479.18 crore against Rs 2,312.68 crore in the year-ago period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-242
07-11-2020||Business||Govt extends airfare band till February 24||The government has extended the airfare band till February 24 and has promised to increase passenger travel cap to about 75 per cent of normal capacity in the coming days to meet the festive season demand. The bands with upper and lower limits was introduced on May 21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-242
07-11-2020||Business||SC stays Spicejet payout to Kalanithi Maran||In a huge relief to low-cost carrier SpiceJet, the Supreme Court on Friday ordered a stay on a Delhi high court order which had ordered the private airline to pay Rs 243 crore to its former promoter Kalanithi Maran. A bench headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde while staying the high court order of September 7 issued a notice to Maran for his response on the appeal filed by SpiceJet which challenged the high court order. “Issue notice returnable within four weeks. There shall be stay of operation of the impugned order until further order,” the bench also comprising Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian said. A single judge headed by Justice Rekha Phalli had passed the earlier order directing the airlines to pay the Marans Rs 243 crore within six weeks. If it doesn’t, the court had said the Marans will be allowed to press their claims for status quo on the shareholding of the budget airline. The Marans had earlier signed a share purchase agreement with Ajay Singh the present owner of the airline on January 29, 2015 and transferred their entire 58.46 per cent shareholding to the businessman. Interest not paid Though the Marans had received the sum in two tranches — the first Rs 250 crore on April 30, 2019 and another Rs 58 crore on October 4, 2019 — the interest was  not forthcoming, following which it had approached the high court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-242
07-11-2020||Business||Rajasthan accepts Centre’s proposal on shortfall in GST cess||Congress-ruled Rajasthan has broken ranks with some Opposition-ruled states, including Bengal, Punjab and Kerala, to accept the Centre’s proposal on the shortfall in GST compensation cess that envisages the Centre borrowing on behalf of the states to meet the shortfall. On Monday, the Ashok Gehlot-government will get the first instalment of the sum borrowed by the Centre on its behalf. The Centre has so far borrowed Rs 12,000 crore on behalf of the states in two instalments and has passed on the sum to 21 states and 3 Union territories. “Now the government of Rajasthan will receive funds raised through this window. The next instalment of borrowings is likely to be released on November 9, 2020,” the finance ministry said. The ministry said the state would get Rs 4,604 crore from the Centre through the special borrowing window and has also received permission to raise additional Rs 5,462 crore through borrowings on its own. Besides the Centre borrowing on their behalf through a special window, the states can borrow without any conditions 0.5 per cent of their domestic product as part of the 2 per cent additional borrowing allowed to them in May to meet the expenditures of the pandemic. The package, one of the two options offered by the Centre to meet their compensation cess shortfall and promising a sum of Rs 1.1 lakh crore, has been accepted by the 21 states and the three Union territories. The GST Council had failed to hammer out a consensus forcing the Modi government to agree to borrow Rs 1.1 lakh crore and pass on the dues to the states. Opposition-ruled states like Kerala, Punjab, Bengal, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand are yet to opt for the borrowing plan saying the Centre should borrow the entire Rs 1.83 lakh crore shortfall. In the first tranche of borrowing, Rs  6,000 crore was released to the states and the Union territories according to their entitlement at an interest rate of 5.19 per cent, while in the second tranche another Rs 6,000 crore at interest rate of 4.42 per cent. The amount of borrowing to meet the states’ GST revenue shortfall has to be “reasonable” considering the impact of the pandemic and the Centre will continue to request the Opposition-ruled states to opt for the proposed borrowing plan, finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey has said earlier this week. "So far the compensation is concerned, the entire compensation amount is payable. GST Council, the central and state governments, all supported extension of cess. So, the states'' compensation which they are entitled to is fully secure. Compensation cess has been extended beyond June 2022. So far as the borrowing is concerned as to how much one should borrow and what is the optimum level of borrowing, that gets decided within the parameters of Articles 292 and 293," he told PTI earlier this week. Article 292 of the Indian Constitution states that the Government of India can borrow amounts specified by Parliament from time to time, while Article 293 mandates that state governments can borrow only from internal sources. Pandey said there has to be a "reasonable level" of borrowing because if a balanced approach is not taken then interest burden will increase which would impact the economy.  "That is the reason while full compensation will be given, a part of that could be borrowed at this point of time. That has been kept at Rs 1.10 lakh crore," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-242
07-11-2020||Business||Amazon Web Services to set up second data centre in India||Amazon Web Services (AWS) on Friday announced the setting up of its second data centre in India in Telangana that will be operational by mid-2022, and will see the tech giant invest about Rs 20,761 crore. While AWS did not comment on the investment detail, Telangana IT and industries minister K.T. Rama Rao tweeted that AWS will invest Rs 20,761 crore ($2.77 billion) to set up multiple data centres in the state. “Happy to announce the largest FDI in the history of Telangana!” Rao said. Rao said AWS is investing to set up an AWS region with three availability zones (AZs) in the state. AZs consist of multiple data centres in separate distinct locations within a single region that are engineered to be operationally independent of one another.  The minister had met officials from AWS during his Davos visit earlier this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-242
07-11-2020||Business||Govt frames work from anywhere guidelines for tech and BPO firms||The shackles have finally come off the technology industry. The Modi government has framed new guidelines that will allow the Big Boys of the tech world and the scatter dust of business process outsourcing (BPO) firms in the country to introduce the concept of Work from Anywhere — opening up the scope for creating technology sector jobs in the remotest corners of the country. The industry had been badgering the government to remove a host of technology-related and procedural restrictions that corralled its ambitions to break out of the confining environment of Tier-1 cities, which had severely limited outreach possibilities and their ability to pare costs. When the Covid pandemic ripped through the Indian economy in March, technology companies had to scramble to get their employees to work from home. More than 3.5 million desktops moved out of offices and into homes almost overnight. But there were problems that the industry had to wrestle with. The first step was to declare the tech industry as an essential service. The government then relaxed rules relating to special economic zones and software technology parks so that people could work from home. But firms ran smack into one problem over the bank guarantees they needed to pay for each data centre that they operated, roughly Rs 1 crore per centre. If workers started working from home, there was just no way that the companies could pay a bank guarantee for every remote worker. Finally, there were data security issues that barred companies from allowing workers from accessing data centres over virtual private networks. The government relaxed all these restrictions — but for three months at a time — in the hope that the workers would drift back to work sites as the pandemic eased. The new guidelines sweep aside all those restrictions permanently, fulfilling a major demand from industry where leaps in technology solutions and innovations make it possible for both geeks and low-end call centre executives to work from the remotest corners in a glitch-free environment. “This is truly long term, progressive thinking by the government which will make our technology industry much more competitive. Working from anywhere has become the new reality,” tweeted Rishad Premji, chairman of Wipro Ltd and a former Nasscom chairman. “This breakthrough announcement will see jobs going to people more than people going to work. We envisage the rise of a work-from-office and work-from-home hybrid operating model and an intelligent workforce blend of full-time employees and gig workers,” said Keshav Murugesh, chief executive officer of the WNS Group, and also a former Nasscom chairman who actively pushed for these changes. “A much-needed reform for the IT industry,” tweeted C.P. Gurnani, CEO and managing director of Tech Mahindra. “This ‘new normal’ will not only allow greater flexibility & agility but will also boost productivity and tech innovation,” he said. Big changes The biggest relief for industry is that they will not have to stump up bank guarantees for “any facility or dispensation under these guidelines”. None of the OSP centres will require registration certificates and they will be able to carry big data traffic over the virtual private network (VPN). In the first months after the lockdown, the government had permitted the firms to use VPN with static internet protocol (IP) addresses. This was later relaxed to VPN with dynamic IP address. The Centre has now allowed companies to step up the game by allowing OSPs to collect, convert, carry and exchange data received on PSTN/PLMN/ISDN and share them over virtual private networks. Most data traffic flows over public switched telephone network (PSTN) which is a combination of telephone networks, including telephone lines, fibre optic cables, switching centres, cellular networks, satellites and cable systems. A public land mobile network (PLMN) is any wireless communications system intended for use by terrestrial subscribers in vehicles or on foot. Such a system can stand alone, but often it is interconnected with a fixed system such as the PSTN. An Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) is a set of communication standards for simultaneous digital transmission of voice, video, data, and other network services over the traditional circuits of the public switched telephone network. Says Murugesh of WNS: “The biggest advantage of this policy change is that it will open the doors for us to tap into a new talent pool such as the young workforce and retired people with domain knowledge who want to work for a few hours remotely.” “Also, the 110 million strong potential workforce of women with secondary degrees can find employment. They can devote 3-4 hours per day but currently don’t participate in the workforce. In the long run, this flexible model can lead to the inclusion of a vast untapped workforce across the country, including tier-2/3 cities,” he added. He reckons that serious Indian states will now change their IT policies to “enable more tech infrastructure upgrades, last-mile fiber deployment, cyber safety and policing, employment generation, diversity of workforce, creation of new Centers of Excellence (CoEs) and differentiation”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-242
07-11-2020||India||FIR against Niira Radia, 4 others for alleged fraud||The Economic Offence Wing of Delhi Police has registered an FIR against Nayati Healthcare’s Niira Radia and four others for alleged embezzlement of over Rs 300 crore of bank loan, following a complaint filed by orthopaedic surgeon Rajiv Sharma from whom they had acquired two hospitals. Rejecting the allegations as baseless, Nayati Healthcare said it had “duly reported” to the police certain issues of “misappropriation and maliceness” detected in a forensic audit of activities of the previous management under Sharma. Sharma’s OSL Healthcare, which had a hospital in south Delhi and an upcoming facility in Gurgaon, was acquired through Naarayani Investment Pvt Ltd and later renamed as Nayati Healthcare NCR. According to the FIR dated November 4, Sharma has accused Naarayani Investment Pvt Ltd, Niira Radia, Karuna Menon, Satish Narula and Yateesh Wahaal of “cheating, criminal breach of trust, falsification of accounts, fraud, forgery, and embezzlement of funds” and other charges. Police sources said all the charges are subject to investigation as of now. In his complaint, Sharma has alleged that Naarayani had borrowed more than Rs 600 crore from various sources, including DHFL, and invested Rs 311 crore for acquiring a majority stake in Nayati Healthcare NCR. After taking over management of the new entity, Naarayani and the four individuals got a loan of Rs 300 crore from Yes Bank for the development of a Gurgaon hospital, but instead, they siphoned off and embezzled the loan amount using fictitious transactions, Sharma alleged. He further alleged that the accused also borrowed Rs 60 crore from Yes Bank for another hospital project, but embezzled that fund as well. Sharma also alleged that the five accused wrongfully brought down his stake in Nayati Healthcare NCR from 49 per cent to 6.3 per cent in less than a year and increased their own stake to 93.7 per cent. When contacted, a Nayati Healthcare spokesperson said, “The FIR is baseless and the allegations of Dr Sharma are also baseless.” The spokesperson further said, “Dr Sharma being a member of the board was a party and signatory to all the actions of the company. Due to differences that arose pursuant to conducting of a forensic audit of the activities of the previous management under Dr Sharma, certain issues of misappropriation and malicenses came to light.” The spokesperson also said, “Nayati Healthcare NCR remains committed to cooperating with investigations and reposes its full faith in the investigating agency. All evidence of the forensic audit that demonstrates act of misappropriation by Dr Sharma has been provided to the police.” Nayati Healthcare, set up a few years ago by PR consultant-turned-entrepreneur Radia, had in 2018 announced acquisition of 51 per cent stake in OSL Healthcare, which was at that time headed by Sharma. It also has other hospitals including in Mathura and Agra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-573
07-11-2020||India||India launches earth observation EOS-01, nine other satellites||India successfully launched its latest earth observation satellite EOS-01 and nine international customer spacecraft on board a Polar rocket from the spaceport here on Saturday, in its first mission this year amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The Indian Space Research Organisations workhorse Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV-C49) injected EOS-01, intended for applications in agriculture, forestry and disaster management support and other satellites one by one in orbit around 20 minutes after lift-off from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre (SDSC), about 110 km from Chennai, at 3.12 pm. This is ISROs first mission this year after the COVID-19 pandemic induced lockdown disturbed 10 missions being planned by the agency and the nine customer satellites are from the USA, Lithuania and Luxembourg. ISRO Chairman K Sivan described the mission as a "success" and termed it as "unusual" for ISRO as a rocket launch cannot happen like work from home and all engineers and technicians had to travel from different centres and work together at Sriharikota for rocket launches. "Today, I am extremely happy to declare that PSLV-C49 successfully placed earth observation satellite EOS-01 as well as nine customer satellites precisely into 575 kms orbit" he said at the mission control centre. Subsequent to the successful launch, the primary satellite commenced operating its own functions including deployment of solar panels, Sivan said. In view of the pandemic, ISRO implemented precautions for COVID-19 and scientists, mission directors, project directors, were seen with face masks and maintaining social distancing at the mission control centre. There was no gathering of media persons and the public viewing gallery too was closed. ISRO made arrangements for live telecast of the launch through various platforms, including its website and social media sites. In a text book sequence, the four stage 44.5-metre tall PSLV-C49, in its 51st flight, blasted off from the first launch pad of SDSC at 3.12 pm at the end of the 26-hour countdown and soared into the sky. The launch, originally scheduled for 3.02 PM, was delayed as the scientists around 15 minutes before lift-off "decided to put on hold following debris on the path of the rocket and inclement weather conditions." After the 10 minute delay, the rocket blasted off amid heavy rain leaving a trail of orange fumes before vanishing into thick clouds over the spaceport. After a flawless flight with all four stages performing as programmed, the rocket first injected primary satellite EOS-01 into orbit around 15 minutes after lift off, followed by the customer spacecraft as the mood at the mission control centre turned jubilant with scientists breaking into cheers. PSLV Mission Director S R Biju announced that all the 10 satellites were separated and were placed into desired orbits. "PSLV-C49/EOS-01 mission is fully accomplished", he said amid loud cheers from fellow scientists at the centre. Noting that todays mission was "very special", "very unusual" for ISRO, Sivan congratulated the ISRO team, who had to reach here from different centres amid the pandemic and said the EOS-01 satellite team and those behind the nine satellites would now take care of the rest of the mission. Besides human resources, he also referred to availability of hardware for the launch as they had to be transported carefully from various parts of the country to Sriharikota. "Under this COVID-19 pandemic, team ISRO rose to the occasion and worked very carefully with limited staff, while at the same time meeting all protocols outlined by the government. they have worked without compromising on quality", the chairman, wearing a n-95 mask said. The Chairman also complemented the directors of ISROs various centres for taking care of the employees, their health and for defining real Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) to ensure work progressed. With just one week to go for Deepavali festival, the chairman in a lighter vein said that before the festival itself, ISRO has made a successful rocket launch. "Definitely, you can enjoy more on this one. Let me wish all the best for all the employees, as well as their families. Jai Hind", he said as he signed off. ISRO said it used the PSLV-DL variant, equipped with two strap-on motors, for the launch. This is the second time it was deployed after the PSLV-C44 mission which had successfully launched imaging satellite Microsat R on January 24, 2019. The customer satellites were launched under an arrangement with ISROs commercial arm NewSpace India Ltd.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday congratulated ISRO and the country's space industry for the successful launch of earth observation satellite EOS-01 and nine customer satellites on board its Polar rocket and said our scientists overcame many constraints to meet the deadline during this COVID-19 time. "I congratulate @ISRO and India's space industry for the successful launch of PSLV-C49/EOS-01 Mission today. In the time of COVID-19, our scientists overcame many constraints to meet the deadline," Modi tweeted. In another tweet, he noted that nine satellites, including four each from the US and Luxembourg and one from Lithuania, have also been launched in the mission.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-573
07-11-2020||India||Raigad Court to hear cops’ plea on Arnab’s judicial remand on Nov 9||A sessions court at Alibaug in Raigad district on Saturday posted for hearing on November 9 the police’s revision plea challenging a magistrate’s order remanding Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami to judicial custody in connection with a 2018 abetment of suicide case. The Alibaug district sessions court passed the order after it was informed that the Bombay High Court is presently hearing petitions filed by Goswami and two other accused in the case - Feroze Shaikh and Nitesh Sarda - seeking interim bail and challenging their “illegal arrest”. The police had in its application sought the sessions court to quash the lower court's order and grant them custody of the three accused. Goswami was arrested on Wednesday morning from his Lower Parel residence in Mumbai in connection with the case. He was taken to the Alibaug police station and later produced before the Chief Judicial Magistrate Sunaina Pingle. Passing the order late on Wednesday night, the magistrate refused to remand the trio to police custody and sent them to judicial custody till November 18. The Alibaug police had sought 14 days' custody of Goswami for interrogation. Goswami is presently kept at a local school, which has been designated as a COVID-19 centre for the Alibaug prison. In 2018, interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumodini Naik had ended their lives over alleged non-payment of dues by the accused persons' companies. In May this year, Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh had announced he had ordered a fresh probe in the case after a complaint by Adnya Naik, daughter of Anvay Naik.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-573
07-11-2020||India||Shiv Sena compares BJP cry over Arnab's arrest to Trump reaction||Taking a swipe at the BJP, the ruling Shiv Sena on Saturday likened the hue and cry over the arrest of television journalist Arnab Goswami with the reaction of Donald Trump to the outcome of the US Presidential elections. An editorial in the Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' said the reaction of Trump who is on the verge of defeat amounted to belittling the post he was holding. "Just like Trump's actions that included spreading fake news and demanding that counting of votes be stopped and moving the court are against the law and prestige of America, BJP leaders in Maharashtra are protesting against the arrest of a suspected accused in an abetment to suicide case," the Sena said without naming Goswami, editor-in-chief of Republic TV. The BJP had alleged that the arrest of Goswami by Raigad police on Wednesday in the 2018 case was politically motivated and amounted to muzzling the freedom of press. "When prime minister Narendra Modi was chief minister of Gujarat, BJP leaders, including (incumbent Union home minister) Amit Shah, were tried in several cases of (2002) Gujarat riots. They were acquitted as per law, but the BJP did not say then that the actions (cases) were politically motivated or part of vendetta," the editorial said. The Sena further alleged that the BJP was maligning the image of the family members of Anvay Naik, the interior designer who had committed suicide in 2018 allegedly over non-payment of dues by Republic TV. Referring to posters showing Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhhav Thackeray with Indira Gandhi, who had imposed Emergency in 1975, the Sena said the comparison with the late prime minister was a matter of pride. "The BJP has gone out of its mind by putting up posters of Uddhav Thackeray and Indira Gandhi reminding people of Emergency, in Delhi. This is not only childishness but also ignorance. Comparison with Indira Gandhi is a matter of pride. The iron lady had avenged partition of our country by breaking Pakistan in 1971," the editorial said. The Congress is one of the constituents of the Sena- led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra, apart from the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). The Sena also took a swipe at the BJP for announcing wearing of black badges by its leaders until Goswami is released. "Thankfully, they haven't resorted to jail bharo and fasting as part of protests," the editorial said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-573
07-11-2020||India||Swamy files plea seeking straw, sipper in jail||Eighty-two-year-old Father Stan Swamy, arrested in the Elgar Parishad-alleged Maoist links case, has filed an application before a special court here, seeking that he be allowed to use a straw and sipper in Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai, where he is currently lodged. Swamy, who was arrested from his home in Ranchi last month in connection with the violence in Bhima Koregaon near Pune in January 2018, suffers from Parkinson's Disease. Parkinson's is a debilitating disorder of the central nervous system that can cause involuntary tremors, or muscular spasms, which makes carrying out even everyday actions, such as drinking, difficult. In addition, some patients also develop problems swallowing or chewing. "I cannot hold a glass as my hands are unsteady due to Parkinson's," Mr Swamy, who has been at the Taloja Central Jail for nearly a month and is currently in the prison hospital, said in his application. The accused, through his lawyer Kritika Agarwal, moved the plea before the special NIA court on Friday seeking straw and sipper in jail. The special court judge D E Kothalikar has asked the national probe agency to file its reply on the matter on November 26. NIA officials have said that investigations established that Swamy was actively involved in the activities of the CPI (Maoist). The NIA has also alleged that he was in contact with "conspirators" -- Sudhir Dhawale, Rona Wilson, Surendra Gadling, Arun Ferreira, Vernon Gonsalves, Hany Babu, Shoma Sen, Mahesh Raut, Varavara Rao, Sudha Bharadwaj, Gautam Navlakha and Anand Teltumbde to further the group's activities. It also alleged that Swamy had received funds through an associate for furthering the agenda. Besides, he is convenor of the Persecuted Prisoners Solidarity Committee (PPSC), a frontal organisation of the CPI (Maoist), the NIA officials have claimed. They said that literature, propaganda material of the CPI (Maoist) and documents related to communications for furthering the group's programmes were seized from his possession. Last month, the NIA had filed a charge-sheet in the matter against eight people, includingSwamy. As many as 16 people have been arrested in connection with the case so far under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the anti-terror law UAPA. The probe into the Elgar Parishad case was taken over by the NIA on January 24 this year. The Pune police have claimed that speeches delivered at the Elgar Parishad conclave, held on December 31, 2017 at Shaniwarwada in Pune city, led to the violence at Koregaon Bhima the next day. The police have claimed the conclave was organised by people having Maoist links.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-573
07-11-2020||India||UP farmers fume at stubble burning whip||A crackdown on stubble burning by Uttar Pradesh police has infuriated farmers, underlining the challenge the government faces in implementing the anti-pollution measure at a time the agricultural community is livid with the Centre over new farm laws. Scenes of officers dragging some of the accused farmers by their collar has led to the crop growers’ frustration boiling over, with farmer leader Harnam Singh accusing the government of treating the community “like criminals”. Pradeep Pal, a farmer arrested from Kishani in Mainpuri district, accused the authorities of “harassing” the community to discourage farming so they would eventually hand over their land to corporate houses. Congress politician Dwijendra Tripathi highlighted that the state government was allowing the bursting of the air-polluting crackers on Diwali between 6pm and 10pm. “The government cannot check this (source of pollution) but is victimising farmers without giving them a solution,” he said. The state police have booked at least 500 farmers in the past fortnight on the charge of burning the stubble of wheat and other crops and arrested over 100 while imposing fines of Rs 10,000 on many others. Officers said the offending farmers were being identified through satellite imagery. For the past few years, the Supreme Court has been prodding the Centre and state governments to stamp out stubble burning, especially in Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan and western Uttar Pradesh, which aggravates air pollution in Delhi every October-November. The Uttar Pradesh crackdown comes after the Centre issued an ordinance last week prescribing five years’ jail and/or a Rs 1-crore fine for people violating anti-pollution norms like the stubble-burning ban in the National Capital Region. (On Friday, the apex court objected to the punishment being the same for all and said it would examine the ordinance after Diwali.) The Yogi Adityanath administration has, however, launched the crackdown across Uttar Pradesh under ordinary penal code and pollution law provisions that mandate a maximum punishment of three months’ jail and a Rs 10,000 fine. On Thursday, officers were seen grabbing farmers by the collar in Mainpuri and dragging them into a jeep. A similar scene was witnessed in the Sadar tehsil of Fatehpur district when eight farmers were arrested and 42 others fined Rs 10,000. In Topri village of Saharanpur district, 16 peasants were allegedly beaten up with batons before being arrested on Wednesday. Local police inspector Umesh Roria denied the charge of caning. “A police team led by sub-divisional magistrate Ram Sakal Maurya and deputy director of agriculture D.V. Singh arrived at our village and told me I was under arrest. An officer held me by the collar of my kurta and dragged me to a vehicle. They also slapped and threatened to shoot me,” Bhure Singh, a farmer from Kishani, told reporters at the local police station. Pal said: “Burning the stubble is the only option we have. Uprooting them costs us Rs 8,000 per bigha, with 10 labourers working two days at a wage of Rs 400 a day. Selling the stubble as fodder brings just Rs 400.” He referred to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s promise of doubling farmers’ income by 2022 and said that instead, the government had “destroyed us”. “It’s clear the government is harassing us to discourage farming. Eventually, it will force us to hand over our land to corporate houses to grow crops on,” Pal said. Farmers countrywide have alleged that the new farm laws passed recently would facilitate their exploitation by big companies. Ajit Singh, officer in charge of Kishani police station, said: “We have instructions to arrest farmers involved in burning stubble, using force if necessary.” Maurya, the sub-divisional magistrate, said: “The farmers were arrested and sent to jail for defying the government’s order and polluting the environment.” The state government had banned stubble burning through an executive order in 2018 and had made a few arrests in the past two years for violations. On Sunday, Pappu Yadav, a farmer from village Jogiyapur in Varanasi, the Prime Minister’s constituency, was arrested on the charge of stubble burning. “We traced him through satellite imagery from the control room in Lucknow,” Varanasi district agriculture officer Subhas Maurya said. “We booked him under Section 188 of the penal code and Section 39 of the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981.” Section 188 deals with disobeying a public servant’s order while Section 39 prescribes up to three months’ jail and/or a fine up to Rs 10,000 for pollution violators, with repeat offences bringing an additional fine of up to Rs 5,000 for every day of the violation. The state government had told the Supreme Court in January that stubble burning had decreased in Uttar Pradesh, from 6,623 incidents in 2018 to 4,230 in 2019. It had added that 104 officials and employees of the agriculture, administration and police departments had been suspended in 2019 for failing to check stubble burning. It said 167 farmers had been arrested in 2019, with total fines of Rs 270 lakh imposed and Rs 97 lakh collected. Police records show the registration of about 3,000 stubble-burning cases this year and the arrest of 224 farmers. The government had also told the apex court that it was making stubble-removing machines and other equipment available to the farmers at an 80 per cent subsidy. But farmer leader Harnam Singh said that “not a single real farmer has got subsidised equipment” and that middlemen were securing the subsidy and renting out the machines to farmers at high rates. He had a litany of complaints against the government. “We want more mandis where the government can buy our produce but this demand has been denied. We are selling rice and wheat at half the support price fixed by the government because the transport charges are higher than the production costs,” he said. “The government has failed to provide us with irrigation, 24-hour electricity or quality seeds but is watching us through its satellites and treating us like criminals.” State agriculture minister Surya Pratap Shahi said: “We are concerned about the farmers but people should cooperate with us as burning stubble is a crime under the law.” Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra appeared to suggest that the government should first crack down on polluting industries. “Is the farmer alone responsible for pollution? When will action be taken against those really guilty of spreading pollution?” she tweeted. “The farmer’s vote is legal. The farmer’s rice is legal. But the farmer’s stubble is illegal?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-573
07-11-2020||India||AAP government nod for Umar Khalid trial||The Centre and Delhi’s Aam Aadmi Party government have sanctioned the prosecution of social activist Umar Khalid, jailed students and some others on terrorism charges relating to the February communal riots in Delhi that killed 53 people. The sanctions have cleared the decks for the trial court to take cognisance of existing and future chargesheets against the accused under the anti-terror Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). Civil rights groups have alleged the accused have been framed in riot cases because they had protested against the new citizenship regime. News agency PTI quoted an unnamed Delhi government functionary as saying: “We have given sanction to prosecution in all the Delhi riots-related cases registered by the police. Now, it is up to the courts to see who are the accused.” The report also quoted an unnamed Delhi police officer as saying: “We have received prosecution sanction against Umar Khalid in connection with a case registered against him under the UAPA. We have received sanctions from both the Delhi government and the (Union) ministry of home affairs. “To prosecute one under Section 13 of the UAPA, we need sanction from the ministry of home affairs, which we have already received. For prosecution under Section(s) 16, 17 and 18 of the UAPA, we have received sanction from the Delhi government.” A source said the sanctions had been granted weeks ago. On September 16, the police had filed a chargesheet against 15 people booked in an FIR under the UAPA, under which bail is rarely granted. The accused include Jamia Millia Islamia students Safoora Zargar, Meeran Haider and Asif Iqbal Tanha; Jawaharlal Nehru University students Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal; former Aam Aadmi Party councillor Tahir Hussain; former Congress councillor Ishrat Jahan and rights activist Khalid Saifi. Umar, a former JNU student whose trial in a 2016 sedition case is yet to begin, was arrested three days before the UAPA chargesheet was filed. His arrest had prompted former DGP Julio Ribeiro to write to Delhi police commissioner S.N. Srivastava that he should not prolong a case by arresting people just before the filing of a chargesheet. Umar was not named as an accused in the September chargesheet, and the police will need to file a supplementary chargesheet to prosecute him. On the defensive after the riots, the Delhi government had granted sanction for prosecution also in the 2016 sedition case — in which then JNU students were accused of chanting “anti-national” slogans — after having ignored the police’s requests for such sanction for a year. Legal opinion that the AAP government had received had advocated denial of sanction since a magisterial probe had found several of the videos of the 2016 sloganeering doctored, and since none of the slogans could be directly attributed to the accused. The AAP had justified the decision to grant sanction on the ground that the “judiciary alone should decide on the merits of each case”. In July, a fact-finding report by the Delhi Minorities Commission had accused BJP leaders, including Union home minister Amit Shah and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath, of “fanning communal sentiments” in the lead-up to the February riots. Asked why the latest sanction had been granted despite the commission report, a state government spokesperson told this newspaper: “This is a purely procedural matter. The law department has given its legal opinion after due diligence to the home department of the Delhi government. The elected government has no role to play in this. The Delhi government has not stopped prosecution in any case in the last five years, including those pertaining to AAP MLAs and party leaders.” Umar’s lawyers are expected to respond in court if a chargesheet is filed. Umar has denied inciting violence. Before his arrest, he had said: “The Delhi police are not arresting the rioters who incited and caused the large-scale communal violence in the capital in February. But, instead, it is going after those who criticise the government and its policies, especially the Citizenship Amendment Act. The ones who participated in the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests are being wrongly framed without proof.” In July, a fact-finding report by the Delhi Minorities Commission had accused BJP leaders, including Union home minister Amit Shah and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath, of “fanning communal sentiments” in the lead-up to the February riots. All the 15 named in the September chargesheet also face other charges under the Indian Penal Code and riot laws. Hussain is accused of involvement in the murder of a neighbour — Intelligence Bureau staffer Ankit Sharma — during the riots. He was suspended from the AAP and the North Delhi Municipal Corporation in March. He has denied involvement. Hussain’s home had been set ablaze by mobs. He is named in several other FIRs on the riots and is also being probed by the Enforcement Directorate for allegedly funding the riots.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-573
07-11-2020||India||Odisha ATM robbers held in Vizag||Two members of an inter-state gang, who were involved in looting Rs 25 lakh from Punjab National Bank’s ATM kiosk here on October 10, have been arrested by police in Andhra Pradesh’s Visakhapatnam. Bhubaneswar police commissioner Sudhansu Sarangi said on Friday, “The duo identified as Samarjyot Singh from Punjab and Zafar Sadiq from Kerala reached here from Calcutta on October 5. They stayed in a hotel and did a recce of the bank. They looted the ATM by using the gas cutter. But we have managed to crack the case with the help of CCTV footage.” “The accused used to fly in from Bangalore to execute such crimes. After looting the ATM, they left for Delhi the next morning after returning the motorcycle. The duo then travelled to Chandigarh and Bangalore. We were constantly tracking their movements. A special team was formed to crack the case,” Sarangi said. “When the accused reached Visakhapatnam and planned to execute another crime, we informed our counterparts there. We will soon bring them on remand to Odisha and interrogate them to know about their modus operandi and other details,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-573
07-11-2020||India||China conflict on Rawat’s lips||Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat on Friday said the eastern Ladakh border “remains tense amidst transgressions and belligerent actions by the Chinese” and warned that a “larger conflict” with China could not be ruled out if the unprovoked military actions spiralled. General Rawat stressed that the increasing “collusion” between Pakistan and China posed an “omnipresent danger” to the region. Speaking at the Diamond Jubilee celebrations of the National Defence College in Delhi, he said India would not accept any shifting of the Line of Actual Control and that status quo needed to be restored. He added that China was facing “unanticipated consequences of its misadventure in Ladakh because of the Indian Army’s firm and strong response” but did not elaborate. Rawat’s statement, which contrasted sharply with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “no intrusion” claim on June 19, came on a day the two countries began their eighth round of military talks to resolve the six-month-old border standoff. “The situation along the LAC in eastern Ladakh remains tense amidst transgressions and belligerent actions by the Chinese,” he said. “The PLA (Chinese army) is facing unanticipated consequences of its misadventure in Ladakh because of the Indian Army’s firm and strong response. Our (stand) is unambiguous — status quo has to be restored and we will not accept any shifting of the LAC.” He added: “In the overall security calculus, a full-scale conflict with China is low on probability. However, border confrontations, transgressions and unprovoked tactical military actions spiralling into a larger conflict cannot be discounted.” Since May the Chinese have altered the unmarked LAC at several friction points, having taken over an estimated 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory. During the military talks, the Indian side has been pushing for disengagement from all the friction points — the Pangong Lake, Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains — and restoration of status quo ante. But the Chinese troops have so far refused to pull back, triggering fears among military veterans that Beijing is trying to establish a new status quo in the region. Rawat on Friday referred to the increasing “collusion” between China and Pakistan as a security challenge for India along its western and northern borders. He said it posed the threat of regional instability with a potential for escalation. “Constant friction with two of our nuclear-armed neighbours, with whom India has fought wars (and who are) increasingly acting in collusion, poses an omnipresent danger of regional strategic instability,” he said. He saw a “potential for escalation threatening our territorial integrity and strategic cohesion”. Rawat said Pakistan was continuing its proxy war through cross-border terrorism. “Unabated proxy war in Jammu and Kashmir unleashed by Pakistan, a vicious anti-India rhetoric on social media and efforts to create disharmony within India has taken India-Pakistan ties to a new low.” He said “the persisting boundary dispute, China’s support to Pakistan, its increasing influence in South Asia through the Belt and Road Initiative projects and an unbalanced economic relationship are likely to ensure that in near future the Sino-India relationship will remain a fundamentally competitive one”. Rawat also underlined China’s increasing footprint in the Indian Ocean Region and said it was a serious security challenge to India. He said the “future would witness increasing militarisation of the key Belt and Road outposts” in the Indian Ocean Region. With its ambition of emerging as a global power, China is already making inroads into South Asia and its aspirations “are evident in the ever expanding Chinese military maritime footprints in the Indo-Pacific”, Rawat said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-574
07-11-2020||India||Karnataka High Court raps govt on Tejasvi Surya flouting Covid norms||Karnataka High Court has pulled up the government for not penalising BJP Lok Sabha member Tejasvi Surya and others for not wearing masks and flouting norms by attending political events. A divisional bench of Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Vishwajith Shetty was hearing a petition filed by city-based NGO Letzkit Foundation that had brought to light widespread violations of Covid-19 safety guidelines by political leaders. Senior lawyer G.R. Mohan, who appeared for advocate Geeta Mishra who impleaded in the case, said the bench asked the BJP government lawyer whether the state had fined Surya and the others. “The court asked why they were not slapped with fines and what signal the government was sending by penalising only common citizens,” Mohan told The Telegraph on Friday. Karnataka is the second worst-affected state in India with over 8.38 lakh Covid cases and more than 11,000 deaths. In a memo filed to implead in the original petition, Mohan had submitted news clippings showing Surya riding an open vehicle, which was part of a convoy, from Bangalore airport to the BJP party office after he arrived in the city on September 30 following his appointment as BJP Yuva Morcha national president. The visuals showed how Surya and others had neither maintained physical distancing nor worn masks. The petitioner had cited violation of the Disaster Management Act and the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2000, that call for stringent punishment of up to five years in jail for such violations, said Mohan. “The court questioned the government about the rationale behind penalising common citizens with fines while not acting against politicians,” Mohan said. “Police were also taken to task for not filing FIRs against politicians who have violated the norms during public meetings and processions, especially when these are cognisable offences,” the lawyer added. The court also came down heavily on a compliance report filed by the city police that claimed that Surya had followed physical distancing protocol and worn a mask during the rally to the party office. “The court asked how could the police report say he (Surya) had complied with the norms when pictures carried by the media showed otherwise,” Mohan said, adding the procession was held without police permission. According to the police report, the force had refused permission to the BJP event to receive Surya in light of the pandemic. It further stated that party supporters had gathered at a highway tollgate on the way back from the airport and accompanied Surya in a convoy. The police informed the court that it had booked 25 BJP activists for not wearing masks at the Surya event. Surya could not be reached for comment as his secretary who handles his calls did not respond. The court sought details from the government about the number of such political rallies allowed during the recent months when safety guidelines related to the epidemic were in force. The hearing will continue on November 9. The original petition had drawn attention to safety guideline violations at social gatherings, religious places and shopping malls. The petition was filed when daily cases had touched a peak of over 10,000 in Karnataka, with the majority being reported in Bangalore. Although the number of cases has been steadily decreasing, Bangalore remains a concern.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-574
07-11-2020||India||Government message to women: Get married & fast||The Union ministry of culture sent out a WhatsApp message on Karwa Chauth on Wednesday, an image that came with the ministry’s name on the left hand corner and this wish in the middle: “May the moonlight illuminate your world with goodness.” At the bottom, right, were pictures of a sieve and a pot, required for the performance of the ritual, and the message, “Happy Karwa Chauth”. The ministry also put up this image on its Twitter account, with the following message: “On the occasion of #KarwaChauth, married women fast for the well-being, prosperity and long life of their beloved husband. Wishing all women a very happy Karwa Chauth.” The WhatsApp message was also sent to several organisations under the culture ministry. Question no. 1: What exactly were institutions like libraries and museums supposed to do on Karwa Chauth? Question no. 2: What exactly is the ministry saying and to whom? There we can dig into a bit of ministry history. The culture ministry has been talking about Karwa Chauth for some time. According to the ministry’s vision document 2024, India needs to compile a “National List of Intangible Cultural Heritage”. It would have been better perhaps if such heritage was recognised by the world, but Unesco accepts only one nomination per country every year for its World Heritage list, alas. Hence the need for a list made in India. What will be in that list? What does “Intangible Cultural Heritage” mean? They mean unique Indian traditions such as those that celebrate relationships between man and woman, such as between husband and wife (Karwa Chauth), and brother and sister (Bhaiya Dooj, Raksha Bandhan), says the document. On Karwa Chauth, a woman fasts for the well-being of her husband. When the moon rises, she looks at the moon through the sieve, then breaks her fast. Performed in north India (though not unknown in some Bengali homes now), it goes back to a time when men were warriors and went away for long and women would wait for them at home, praying for their safety. The website indianculture.gov.in further explains the significance of Karwa Chauth. In the language of romance and emotion, it describes marriage and the relationship between men and women and adds: “The festival is also observed by unmarried women who pray in the hope of securing a desired life partner.” It is also held that Karwa Chauth is celebrated to mark the end of the harvest season, the website says. “Whatever be the origins, the festival offers an occasion to strengthen familial ties.” It goes on to link Karwa Chauth with two Hindu mythological tales. One is that of Savitri and Satyavan in which Savitri brings her husband Satyavan back from death with her prayer and determination. “Another such story is that of Veervati, the only sister of seven loving brothers. When the brothers could not bear to see her fasting the whole day they misled her into believing that the moon had risen. Veervati broke her fast and had food but soon got the news of her husband’s death. She prayed for a whole year and the Gods, pleased with her devotion, gave back her husband’s life,” the website adds. We can attempt a few answers here. One is a no-brainer. The ministry is giving us a definition of, what else, Indian culture. It is saying that it is Indian culture for women to starve for their men, that it is the duty of women to wait for their men, that Indian women should not give up their husbands for dead and if they don’t keep their fast properly, they may immediately drop to their death. And Indian men can just come back home and eat. The ministry is also saying that all women should aspire to get married. It of course does not matter to the ministry that it is, in the process, reinforcing every gender stereotype that women have been battling for so long to break. Or that it is asking Indian women to regress into the most regressive practices. Maybe there can be an argument in favour of bringing sati back too, as it perhaps shows women at their most beautiful, making the most extreme sacrifice for men. Bollywood has done its bit for Karwa Chauth. Who can forget Raj and Simran’s stolen love on the terrace on Karwa Chauth in Dilwale Dulhaniya Le Jayenge? On Wednesday night several Bollywood leading ladies shone in their Instagram accounts in Karwa Chauth finery and they looked lovely. Which brings us to question no. 3: What did the poor women who love food, or even their drink, do? I howled at the moon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-574
07-11-2020||India||Covid link to stroke risk and severity ||A study of strokes among coronavirus disease patients in India has revealed an unusually large proportion of patients without the traditional risk factors such as high blood pressure and also pointed to greater residual disability levels than in other stroke survivors. The study by neurologists in Bangalore analysed the features and outcomes of strokes in 62 Covid-19 patients in 13 hospitals between June and August this year and compared them with those of 111 stroke patients they had treated last year during the same months. Sixteen (26 per cent) of the 62 Covid-19 stroke patients did not have any history of conventional risk factors for stroke such as high blood pressure, diabetes, or cardiovascular disease compared with only 5 (4.5 per cent) of 111 patients. “This points to a five-fold increased stroke risk for patients who otherwise had no conventional risk factor for stroke,” said John Mathew, professor and head of neurology at the St John’s National Academy of Health Sciences, Bangalore, who coordinated the study. “Our findings bolster evidence for the idea that Covid-19 itself is a risk factor for stroke,” he said. The stroke severity was also high among Covid-19 patients. None of the 62 patients had a minor stroke, while 60 (54 per cent) of the 111 stroke patients treated last year had minor stroke. And 11 (17 per cent) of the Covid-19 patients had a severe stroke, compared with only one of the 111 patients last year. The study, published in the International Journal of Stroke, also found that 37 (59 per cent) of the 62 Covid-19 stroke patients had moderate to severe residual neurological disability at the time of their discharge. Fewer proportions of the 111 patients had moderate to severe residual disabilities. Thirteen (21 per cent) of Covid-19 stroke patients died, while none of the 111 patients had died. The findings are in line with international studies that have noted that strokes associated with Covid-19 are likely to be more severe with worse outcomes and higher mortality than non-Covid-19 strokes. Neuroscientists at the University of Cambridge in the UK had last week estimated that about 14 in every 1,000 Covid-19 patients admitted to hospital experience a stroke, a rate that is higher than the incidence of stroke among older patients and other patients with severe infections. “Even though the incidence of stroke among Covid-19 patients is relatively low, the scale of the pandemic means many thousands of people could be potentially affected worldwide,” Hugh Markus, professor and neurologist at the University of Cambridge, said in a media release. Neurologists across India are concerned that as the country’s Covid-19 epidemic grows, the number of patients susceptible to stroke will also increase. The Bangalore study which found a five-fold increased risk of stroke in patients without any underlying health disorders such as hypertension or diabetes suggests that Covid-19 itself is a trigger for stroke.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-574
07-11-2020||India||Kashmiri Pandits ask: Land for industry, not us? ||The urgency shown by the Narendra Modi government to bring industry to the Valley has raised the hackles of a section of migrant Kashmiri Pandits, with a prominent community leader asking what was the priority — the return of the Pandits or industry. Satish Mahalder, a Kashmiri Pandit and chief of Reconciliations, Return & Rehabilitations of Migrants, on Friday said the Centre was walking the extra mile to woo investors but had no plan for Pandits living as migrants in different parts of the country. “Under the new land laws, the J&K government is transferring 3,000 acres of land to the industries and commerce department to invite outside investors. But it is not providing even 300 acres of land for the rehabilitation of Kashmiri Pandit refugees who are living in exile for the past 31 years,” Mahaldar, who has been spearheading the campaign for the return of Pandits to the Valley, said. The Pandit leader was referring to the recent decision of the government allowing outsiders to own land in Jammu and Kashmir, facilitated by the scrapping of provisions of Article 370. He said the Centre had made scapegoats out of Pandits by re-writing the land laws. Many Pandits have backed the abrogation of Article 370 and supported the plan to settle outsiders, which Kashmiri Muslims believe are steps aimed at changing the Muslim-majority character of the region. “Honourable Prime Minister/home minister, you brought the CAA law to rehabilitate refugees of the neighbouring countries, why do you discriminate and why don’t you rehabilitate your own in-country refugees?” Mahaldar said. Mahaldar has been working with leaders from across the separatist-pro-India divide in the Valley to facilitate the return of exiled Kashmiri Hindus. “This government has done absolutely nothing for the return of Kashmiri Pandits to the Valley but you have still people from our community cheering for them,” Mahaldar told The Telegraph. “The members of our community have been on hunger strike at some places to force the government to take measures for our return but still nothing is happening.” The Pandit leader’s remarks came as the government on Wednesday approved a Rs 201-crore plan for the construction of transit accommodation for Kashmiri migrant employees at six locations in the Valley under the Prime Minister’s development package for the community. An official spokesman said 1,680 units would be constructed to accommodate the migrant Pandit employees. Mahaldar said the Manmohan Singh government had sanctioned 3,000 jobs for Pandits to gradually bring them back to the Valley. “The NDA government sanctioned 3,000 more jobs but no new jobs were actually given. Whatever jobs were given were given by the Congress government. There are many more families who could not get any job. Is there a plan for their return also?” Mahaldar said. Around 2 lakh Pandits had migrated from the Valley at the peak of militancy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-574
07-11-2020||India||SC/ST priests for first time in Kerala ||The Travancore Devaswom Board, which manages over 1,200 temples in Kerala, has decided to appoint priests from the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. One ST and 18 SC priests will soon be appointed on a part-time basis. The board is an autonomous temple body that manages shrines across the state, including the Sabarimala Lord Ayyappa Temple. “This is the first time that the temple body is appointing a Scheduled Tribe person as a priest in shrines under the TDB,” state Devaswom minister Kadakampally Surendran said in a Facebook post. So far, 310 people have been selected for the post of part-time priests from the rank list published in 2017, he said. As there were not enough eligible candidates from the SC and ST communities for the examination at that time, a separate rank list was prepared for them, which was published on November 5. Though there were four vacancies notified for the ST community, only one application was received, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-574
07-11-2020||India||SC showcause notice to Maharashtra Assembly official on Arnab Goswami||The Supreme Court on Friday issued a showcause notice to the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly assistant secretary asking him to explain in two weeks why contempt proceedings should not be initiated against him for his letter to journalist Arnab Goswami purportedly cautioning him against disclosing a House notice to the top court. The apex court, which also granted protection from arrest to the Republic TV editor-in-chief in the Maharashtra Assembly breach of privilege motion case, took strong note of the October 13 letter of Assembly assistant secretary Vilas Athawale and said he had prima facie committed contempt. A bench of Chief Justice S.A. Bobde and Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian said: “This is a serious matter and amounts to contempt. The above statements are unprecedented and have a tendency to bring the administration of justice into disrepute and in any case may amount to direct interference in the administration of justice. “The intention of the author of the letter seems to be to intimidate the petitioner because he approached this court and to threaten him with a penalty for doing so.” The Maharashtra Legislative Assembly had initiated the breach of privilege motion against Goswami for reportage related to the case of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. Bail hearing The hearing of Goswami’s interim bail plea in connection with his arrest over a 2018 abetment of suicide case remained incomplete in Bombay High Court on Friday. The court will continue to hear his petition on Saturday. Goswami has been in judicial custody since Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-574
07-11-2020||India||Government stealing army officers’ pensions: Congress||The Congress on Friday strongly objected to the new proposal of the Narendra Modi government which says only those officers who have spent more than 35 years in the armed forces shall be entitled to a “full pension”, arguing that the BJP’s fake nationalism used the soldiers merely for seeking votes. Accusing the government of betraying the armed forces, Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “The reality is that 90 per cent of army officers retire before 35 years of service. The Modi government is clearly hatching a conspiracy to deny 90 per cent of army officers their full pension. This will not only demoralise the officers but also discourage the youth from joining the service.” Referring to a letter circulated by the department of military affairs (DMA) in the office of the Chief of Defence Staff seeking suggestions for the proposal, Surjewala launched a scathing attack on the BJP, saying: “Habituated to seeking votes on the sacrifice of our brave soldiers and on the nationalism plank, this government has become the first regime in history to steal their pension and alternative career choices after ‘active service’ of those officers who protect our motherland.” Surjewala explained: “At the time of recruitment in the army, that is military commission, every officer in the Indian Military Academy has to compulsorily sign a 20-year mandatory service bond. An officer after 20 years of rigorous service presently gets 50 per cent of his last-drawn salary as pension, but the new proposal is snatching away 50 per cent of that. For instance, if an officer gets Rs 1 lakh as his last-drawn salary, he will get Rs 50,000 as pension under the existing scheme. The new proposal shall only give the officer Rs 25,000.” He added: “On an average, 65 per cent army officers are confined to the rank of lieutenant colonel. Only 35 per cent officers can aspire to reach the position of colonel or above. In such a situation, after serving for 20 years, those military officers find a second career option in life with full pension and effectively contribute to nation-building. “Thereby, the Indian Army always remains young, which in military language is called ‘lean and mean fighting force’. If the government’s devious proposal comes into force, then 65 per cent of military officers will forever lose their second career option and their creative support in nation-building in civilian areas outside the military.” The Congress leader also insisted that the terms of service of military officers cannot be modified with a back date. “When 20 years of compulsory service and full pension after 20 years have been prescribed for retirement, then how can the government revise all those conditions of service? There is already a shortage of 9,427 officers in the three armed forces of India,” Surjewala said. “The figures available for June 2019 show that there are 7,399 less officers in the army, 1,545 are wanted in the navy and 483 less in the air force. The Modi government’s agenda-driven proposal, which breaks the morale of the Indian Army, shall make our armed forces less attractive for our youth to join and ultimately the country will suffer a loss,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-574
07-11-2020||India||Supreme Court queries Rs 1cr fine, 5yr jail for pollution ||The Supreme Court on Friday questioned a new central ordinance’s prescription of a uniform five-year jail term and Rs 1-crore fine for anyone polluting the capital’s air, saying the offences and the punishments should be graded. A bench headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde was also dismissive of the Centre’s move to form a new anti-pollution commission, saying it was concerned more about how the government was going to tackle the rising smog and air pollution in Delhi and its neighbourhood. The court said it would examine the ordinance immediately after Diwali, which falls on November 14, indicating it wasn’t happy with the legislation. “We are not concerned with any commission. There are already many commissions. There are many brains working,” the bench, which included Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta. “But ensure that there is no smog. Also grade the offences. For every offence it can’t be five years’ jail or a Rs 1-crore fine.... We will hold a detailed hearing after the Diwali break.” On October 29, the Centre had promulgated an ordinance creating a high-powered anti-pollution commission, spelling out pollution norms for the National Capital Region, and prescribing punishment for violators. “There is five years’ imprisonment prescribed for all. We feel there should be a grading of offences. Here everything is one-fold. How can it be?” Justice Bobde asked Mehta. Mehta said the government would look into the matter. The law generally grades all punishment depending on the gravity of the offence. The ordinance’s failure to do so could be the outcome of a hurried promulgation. The ordinance had been sprung as a surprise after the apex court had last month decided to set up a stubble-burning monitor for the capital under one of its retired judges, Justice Madan B. Lokur. Justice Lokur’s appointment would not have pleased the Centre — he has been a critic of the misuse of the sedition law and efforts to stifle free speech, a seeker of accountability for extrajudicial killings by the armed forces, and the head of a citizens’ probe into the Delhi riots. Days after the apex court decision to appoint the Lokur committee, the government had told the bench about the proposed ordinance and got the panel to be held in abeyance. It then issued the ordinance in double quick time. At the start of Friday’s hearing, Mehta told the court the new commission on air quality management in Delhi and its neighbourhood would start functioning from Friday. But the court was unimpressed. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for the public interest petitioner whose plea had secured the appointment of the Lokur committee, said the government must immediately take all the necessary measures to stem pollution in the region. “Please state that (if) any person suffer(s) from health issues, then solicitor-general Mr Tushar Mehta will be responsible…. I have already started coughing,” he told the bench in a lighter vein. Mehta responded: “I can advise you to leave a couple of things….” Both counsel laughed at the repartee. Singh told the court that the new commission lacked any health ministry representative. He requested the court to pass a few urgent directions to check pollution. But Justice Bobde said: “We don’t want to advise them (the government). They are all knowledgeable people. Whatever anyone says, ultimately we are a court of law. This problem will be dealt (with) by the executive as they have money and resources.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-574
07-11-2020||West Bengal||Rally for ‘Kamtapur’ state ||Around 1,000 Rajbanshi youths took a rally under the banner of All Kamtapur Students’ Union (AKSU) here on Friday and gave a memorandum to the divisional commissioner, demanding a separate state of Kamtapur. The rally that started from near the palace of Baikunthapur Estate in Rajbaripara  moved through Collectorate Avenue to reach the divisional commissioner’s office. Some more supporters were stopped by the police, leaders alleged. “Our demand for separate statehood is a 70 years old. When the princely state of Cooch Behar was annexed by India, it was supposed to be a ‘D’ category state, but eventually was reduced to a district in Bengal. We want the Centre and the state to take initiatives so that appropriate status is conferred on Cooch Behar,” said Samaresh Roy, the convener of AKSU in Cooch Behar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-318
07-11-2020||West Bengal||Kidnapped boy rescued||Police of North and South Dinajpur districts rescued a 15-year-old boy on Thursday evening, who was abducted for ransom on November 3. The police also arrested alleged abductors Nawab Sajidur Reza, Sajjad Ali and Mohammad Kalimuddin, residents of Bhatol under Raiganj police station. The boy’s father, a poultry farm owner, was asked for Rs 6 lakh as ransom, said Deep Kumar Das, the subdivisional police officer of Gangarampur. Abductors asked the father to come with cash near Nagar river bridge on the outskirts of Raiganj in North Dinajpur district on Thursday. Plainclothes cops rescued the boy and arrested the trio.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-318
07-11-2020||West Bengal||Crash kills men and cows inside SUV||Two men and two cows inside an SUV were killed in an accident early on Friday on NH6 at Haldia More near East Midnapore’s Kolaghat. As the cows were tied up to the car seats of an SUV, prompted police to launch an inquiry into the incident following allegations of cattle smuggling by BJP leaders. Sources said the deceased were identified as Aditya Adhikari and Mohammed Mumtaz, South 24-Parganas residents. A third man, found critically injured, can’t yet give a statement, additional police chief (Tamluk headquarters) Syed M.M. Hasan said. The police said the incident occurred around 4am when the speeding Innova, coming from Kharagpur, rammed into a trash dumper waiting at a highway divider. A police officer blamed poor visibility for the incident. Prima facie, it appears that the cows were being smuggled from Kharagpur, he said. The police buried their carcasses. Local BJP leaders blamed involvement Trinamul for “widespread” and “inhumane” cow smuggling along the Odisha border of this district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-318
07-11-2020||West Bengal||TMC clash in Cooch Behar||Violence sparked in Salmara area under Dinhata II block of Cooch Behar on Friday early morning as two groups of Trinamul supporters clashed with each other. They lobbed bombs, fired shots and attacked each other with bricks, stones, bows and arrows, prompting police officials to rush to the spot. Three persons have been arrested in connection with the incident while a police picket has been raised in the area to keep the situation under control. According to local sources, in Dinhata-II block, two lobbies, headed by Dinhata MLA Udayan Guha and local leader Tarani Kanta Burman, are at loggerheads to get control of Salmara. On Friday morning, those apparently from Udayan’s lobby started the clash. Supporters of Tarani’s lobby retaliated, and one ended up with a fractured leg. In Cooch Behar, infighting within Trinamul has been seen in the past few years in different corners of the district. Even before the Parliament elections of 2019 and the panchayat elections of 2018, violent incidents which had even led to deaths have occurred time and again. Even chief minister Mamata Banerjee had alerted the district leaders to stop this.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-319
07-11-2020||West Bengal||Durgapur Barrage gives water to plants||The state irrigation department has begun supplying water to the treatment plants of Durgapur Municipal Corporation and public health engineering department from Durgapur Barrage after the water table at the upper catchment area of Damodar river reached 210 feet on Friday evening. Gate no. 31 of the barrage got twisted on Saturday morning resulting in water to gush out to the lower catchment area leading to severe water supply crisis and disruption in power generation. With the water reaching the desired height on Friday, the civic bodies in Durgapur and Bankura and the PHE department expect to start supplying water to households and factories from Saturday morning after treating raw water at the plants. “We are now loading the water at our plants for purification and will resume supplies from Saturday morning,” said Pabitra Chatterjee, mayoral council member (water supply) at Durgapur Municipal Corporation. He said the civic authority would continue to supply more water to the people from its usual frequency for the next few days. The PHE officials that supply water to Bankura also said the same. However, irrigation officials said the service could have been resumed earlier in the day but they noticed water seeping through gaps at the bottom of the damaged iron gate repaired on Thursday. “We have placed a floating gate in front of the repaired gate to stop the seepage. The outflow is completely stopped now and we have started sending water to the power plants, civic bodies and PHE department for supplying to the households and industries,” said Sanjay Singh, executive engineer, Damodar circle of the irrigation department. The repair work of the damaged sluice gate no. 31 was over on Thursday evening six days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-319
07-11-2020||West Bengal||Dip in active cases, minister Gautam Deb tests positive||Bengal on Friday continued on its path of an unexpected turnaround in the Covid-19 scenario after Durga Puja, as the state recorded a drop in its total active cases for the 11th consecutive day after the festival, aided by yet another highest daily rise in recoveries. “For the 11th successive day, the state reported less than 4,000 new infections, with 3,942. For the 17th occasion in 18 days, the record for daily recoveries was reset, with 4,283. For the 17th consecutive day, the state logged a rise in its recovery rate, which reached yet another new high of 89.25 per cent. What more could we have asked for at this stage?” said a minister. In 11 days since after Puja, Bengal reported 44,646 recoveries, which outweighed the 43,644 new cases detected. The total of active cases dropped from 37,190 to 35,557. Calcutta High Court, which on Thursday issued a set of instructions to keep the outbreak from worsening over Kali Puja, had intervened similarly before Durga Puja. The number of infections from Puja days has shown that the intervention was effective. Bengal now has over 3.97 lakh Covid-19 cases, but it includes over 3.54 lakh recoveries and 7,177 deaths. On Friday, Bengal reported 55 more deaths, including 13 from the city. Tourism minister Gautam Deb, a key leader for the ruling party in north Bengal, tested positive for Covid-19. On Thursday, he attended an administrative meeting at Nabanna with chief minister Mamata Banerjee and most of the top brass of the government. “He also took a flight out of Calcutta today and attended a political event in Siliguri. He has been hospitalised,” said a source in Trinamul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-319
07-11-2020||West Bengal||‘Cattle smuggler’ held in Delhi||The CBI on Friday arrested Enamul Haque, the alleged kingpin of illegal cattle trade in Murshidabad along the Bengal-Bangladesh border, from New Delhi. The central agency in September had booked Enamul along with Satish Kumar, a BSF commandant, and a few others in connection with its probe into illegal cattle-trade in Murshidabad. Raids had been carried out across parts of Murshidabad, Malda, Calcutta, Chhattisgarh and its capital Raipur in this connection. “He will be brought to Calcutta on transit remand for questioning,” said a CBI source. Enamul’s name cropped up when CBI officials questioned Jibu T. Mathew and  Satish Kumar, both BSF commandants posted in north Bengal. It appeared that Enamul sought their help in illegal cattle smuggling in exchange for money. “We would like to question Enamul about the role of other officers who appear to be involved in cattle smuggling,” said the source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-319
07-11-2020||West Bengal||Varsity pay deduction disquiet||Visva-Bharati University’s decision to deduct half-day salary to repair the Upasana Griha has not gone down well with employees who had sent their written objections to the move. Disgruntled employees claim varsity authorities allegedly overruled their written objections to deduct the half-day’s salary. Sources said Visva-Bharati through a notice on October 3 informing its employees that half day’s salary would be deducted as voluntary contribution to the “Development fund of Upasana Griha”. The notice asked those willing to contribute to email their consent and those unwilling to do the same. “Around 200 employees, mostly teachers, had sent individual emails about their unwillingness, But varsity authorities in an unethical manner deducted half day’s salary from everyone,” said a senior professor. Varsity officials said it was due to a technical snag. They had received around 22 emails expressing unwillingness to contribute to the fund, authorities claimed. Officials said the money would be refunded to them with the next month’s salary. “There were technical reasons and being in the midst of the festive season we couldn’t prepare the list of those unwilling to contribute. Those who appealed will get the deducted amount refunded with their next month’s salary,” said a varsity official. Protesting teachers termed illegal the way of deducting salary by overruling objections and said they would move court. “The issue is not whether the varsity will reimburse or not. We will move court over the manner in which salary has been deducted without consent,” said a teacher.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-319
07-11-2020||West Bengal||Mission accomplished, says Binay Tamang||Binay Tamang, who met chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday, reached Darjeeling on Friday to say the “mission has been accomplished”, but stopped short of explaining what he meant. “The mission has been accomplished. This (statement) explains a lot,” said Tamang in Darjeeling, adding that details would be made public after talks at the party’s central committee meeting. The politics of consolidation between the Tamang and Bimal Gurung rival factions of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha are on full swing ever since Gurung, surfacing after three years last month, announced his decision to snap ties with the BJP-led NDA and support Trinamul. Now, both rival factions are Trinamul allies but have publicly refused to share any platform with each other. Instead, these two factions have started mobilising their own supporters. Hundreds of Binay Tamang supporters on Friday reached the Bagdogra airport near Siliguri, to receive Binay and his deputy Anit Thapa, who returned after spending three days in Calcutta. The Tamang camp also mobilised supporters who waited for the convoy along the route to Darjeeling, shouting slogans in support of Tamang and Thapa. A Gurung camp leader said they were not bothered by this show of strength. “Our units have been activated across the hills. Even after three years of lying low we don’t have to work hard to set up new units as they are being activated automatically,” the Gurung supporter said. The Bimal camp leaders maintained that political equations would immediately change once Gurung returns to the hills. Tamang had been a trusted leader of Gurung till 2017. But in the aftermath of the violent agitation of 2017 in the hills over the demand of a separate Gorkhaland, Gurung had to leave the hills with a slew of cases against him, and Tamang allied with Trinamul. Tilak Chand Roka, a lawyer and leader of Gurung camp said that they are expecting their leader in the hills any time after “a fortnight”. “There is a legal process to be completed and we have already started work on this. We guess it should be completed within a fortnight,” said Roka. The lawyer explained two processes to be completed. “We are looking at the administration to withdraw cases against us. However, there can be cases filed by individuals which cannot be withdrawn by the administration. For cases filed by individuals, we have to look at bail,” said Roka. The memorandum of agreement of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration, which was signed by the Centre, state and Morcha, in 2011 had also agreed to withdraw all cases, except murder, registered by the state government during the Gorkhaland agitation phase between 2007 and 2011. Clause 29 of the MoA signed on July 18, 2011, reads: “A review will be done by the State Government of all the cases registered under various laws against persons involved in GJM agitation. Steps will be taken in the light of the review, not to proceed with prosecution in all cases except those charged with murder. Release of persons in custody will follow the withdrawal of cases.” However, these cases have not been withdrawn till date. Additional reporting by Bireswar Banerjee in Siliguri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-319
07-11-2020||West Bengal||Two CRPF battalions to leave Jungle Mahal||The home ministry has withdrawn two battalions of CRPF from Jungle Mahal and shifted the units to Chhattisgarh, the move coming as a surprise for the state administration as there have been intelligence reports of Maoist regrouping in the area in the last few months. The companies of the two battalions were posted in strategic locations in Purulia, Bankura and Jhargram. The order reached the Bengal headquarters of the CRPF late on Thursday evening with a directive to release battalion Nos. 50 and 165 within November 20. The Bengal headquarters was directed to inform the chief secretary and the DGP. CRPF sources said the battalion No. 50 was posted in Lalgarh of Jhargram and No. 165 in Tangasol, West Midnapore. Senior CRPF officers said it was the first such move to withdraw two entire battalions from Jungle Mahal at a go. Senior CRPF and state government officers have commented that the order was rare. One senior state government official even termed it “wrong” ahead of Assembly polls. Local Trinamul and BJP leaders, both, have not agreed with the order to withdraw the CRPF from such strategic locations. Local Trinamul leaders said that the withdrawal of the forces was part of a larger plan of the BJP to create unrest in the area in the run-up to the state polls. “BJP always wants violence and the decision to withdraw the CRPF battalions is nothing but to create trouble in the Maoist-hit zones. The order came at a time when our home minister Amit Shah came to the state, that’s quite significant,” said Dulal Murmu, Trinamul’s district president in Jhargram. Local BJP leaders also said that the decision to withdraw the force could prove costly ahead of the Assembly polls. The Lalgarh unit of BJP’s Yuva Morcha said that they would write to their senior leaders requesting not to withdraw the battalions. “The presence of the CRPF is needed in Jungle Mahal areas like Lalgarh as we are getting information about the rise of Maoist activities. We will discuss it with the CRPF officers as well as our party leaders,” said Debasish Dey, block Yuva Morcha president in Lalgarh. The IG of CRPF’s West Bengal circle Pradeep Kumar Singh did not take calls from this newspaper. However, a CRPF officer in Calcutta said that apart from Bengal three more battalions from Bihar and Jharkhand were withdrawn and the decision was pending for the past two months. There were eight battalions posted in different Jungle Mahal districts since 2009 when the Maoist activities were at their peak in Bengal. Though the activities of the banned outfit declined after the change of guard in Bengal, there has been a rise in Maoist presence in the Jungle Mahal districts in recent months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-319
07-11-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul flays BJP for Birsa faux pas||Trinamul on Friday launched a campaign against the BJP for its Birsa Munda faux pas in Bankura on Thursday, claiming that the saffron party had no regard for tribal sentiments. On Thursday, Union home minister Amit Shah offered floral tributes to the statue of a tribal hunter in Bankura, which his party leaders had mistaken for that of freedom fighter Bhagwan Birsa Munda, who is considered to be one of the foremost tribal icons of the country. Multiple Trinamul leaders this correspondent spoke to said Thursday’s faux pas gave them a chance to reach out to the tribal community ahead of next year’s polls on the BJP’s “ignorance and disregard” about tribal culture and icons. “We are taking up the issue among tribal communities, especially in Jungle Mahal districts of Bankura, Purulia, Jhargram and West Midnapore. Our leaders have been asked to campaign on the issue immediately. Mixing up tribal hero Birsa Munda with a hunter proves right chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s allegation that the BJP is unfamiliar with the culture and history of the state,” said a Trinamul leader. Shah started his tour of Bengal from Bankura with floral tributes to the statue. Controversy erupted when hours before the programme a tribal body objected to identifying the statue of a hunter as that of Birsa Munda. To salvage the situation, BJP leaders hurriedly arranged a picture of Birsa Munda and placed it at the feet of the tribal hunter’s statue for Shah to pay floral tributes. Some BJP sources said that the incident had come as an embarrassment for the party as it involved someone of the stature of Shah. “The local unit of the party should have been more careful,” said a source, adding that Thursday’s mistake was discussed in detail in Delhi and Calcutta. Trinamul leaders in Bankura, Jhargram and Purulia said they had already informed their tribal leaders to start a campaign against the BJP over the “humiliation of our hero”. In Bankura on Friday, Trinamul staged a protest at the site of the statue accusing the BJP of distorting the identity of the tribal hero. Around 200 Trinamul activists, including party leaders from the tribal community, gathered near the statue at Powabagan, around 7km from Bankura town, and they demonstrated for 30 minutes to “expose the BJP’s unfamiliarity with tribal culture”. “It was shocking to see Union home minister offering tribute to the statue of an anonymous tribal hunter...the BJP did not cross-check before deciding on the statue,” said Mrityunjay Murmu, a tribal leader of Trinamul and sabhadhipati of Bankura Zilla Parishad. “Even after they came to know about the blunder, they placed Birsa Munda’s portrait at the feet of the statue. This is nothing but an insult to the tribal icon. The tribal community will raise their voice (against the incident),” Murmu added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-319
07-11-2020||West Bengal||‘Special focus’ on Bengal: Shah ||Amit Shah on Friday asserted that his party has “special focus” on Bengal, as he wrapped up his two-day visit to the state with a news meet. In response to a question on why he was not seen in Bihar where Assembly polls are underway but was in Bengal, the home minister said: “It is true, Bengal is a special focus for us. Hence we want to fight for Bengal and want to win (power in the state).” On Friday, Shah mounted yet another no-holds-barred attack on Mamata Banerjee, her party Trinamul and the state government, accusing her repeatedly of politics of appeasement, to bolster his party’s allegedly divisive campaign for Bengal. “She has politicised the administration, criminalised politics, and institutionalised corruption…. Any one of these is a recipe for disaster. Only in Bengal will you find that all three have been carried out,” said Shah in a news meet on Friday evening. Shah accused Mamata of having allowed the rule of law to disintegrate in Bengal. “There is a separate set of laws for nephew (Abhishek Banerjee), a separate set of laws for appeasement, for her vote-bank… you know very well what I am talking about. There is a separate set of laws for the common man…. Such is her appeasement that a large number of people have started considering themselves second-class citizens,” said Shah. He recounted the unprecedented success of his party in the Lok Sabha polls in Bengal last year. Shah also said no journalist was smiling now over his assertions of the BJP winning 200 seats in Bengal. “When I had said we will win 22 Lok Sabha seats here, last year, many of you smiled incredulously. After we won 18, my forecast (200 seats) for the Assembly polls has not brought on any smiles, I can see. Now, it is my turn to smile,” he said. Shah raised questions on the quality of governance delivered by Mamata, as he kept appealing to the people of Bengal to give the BJP a chance. However, he apparently ruled out President’s rule in Bengal, something many in his party and governor Jagdeep Dhankhar have been talking about repeatedly. “It (the President’s rule) is not something to be discussed in public…. It depends on the reports of the governor…. But it will not be necessary. Because there will be a change of guard here in April next year,” said Shah, before defending Dhankhar against allegations of abuse of the constitutional post to favour the BJP. Earlier in the day, he told the state unit of his party — an intensely divided house — that nobody would be projected as the chief ministerial candidate for Bengal polls next year. “You need not worry about it. The chief ministerial candidate will be decided by the central leadership. You do your job,” Shah was quoted as saying, before laying out a 23-point plan of action for the party in the state. “If you work hard for five months you will rule for 50 years,” a source quoted Shah as saying. Unlike his previous addresses to the people of Bengal, Shah spoke very little on the CAA during this visit, and on Friday evening told journalists that the execution of the law was being delayed for the coronavirus pandemic and would be implemented soon. But the CAA issue gained relevance when Shah on Friday afternoon had lunch at the home of Nabin Biswas, a member of Matua Mahasangha, at Gouranganagar in New Town. BJP sources said that the party put special emphasis on an outreach among the Matuas because of the community’s electoral relevance in North 24-Parganas, Nadia and parts of north Bengal. The party also wants to make CAA a poll issue in Bengal by projecting its potential benefits for the Matuas, lower-caste Hindus who came from Bangladesh. Biswas said he thanked the home minister and prime minister for introducing the CAA, because “citizenship for Hindu refugees from Bangladesh has been a long-standing demand of our community”. “I requested him to implement the law in Bengal to which Amitji said that as the law has been enacted, it would be implemented as well,” Biswas said Late on Friday, Trinamul issued a formal statement, accusing Shah of visiting Bengal with a “baggage of lies” to “defame and insult” the state. “… why does he always make wild personal accusations against Mamata Banerjee...? What credentials does Mr. Jay Shah (Shah’s son) have to suddenly hold one of India’s top administrative cricket posts?” asked the party. “… why does he always misuse agencies? … His dirty tricks in politics is legendary,” it added. Trinamul mocked Shah’s 200-seat prediction for the BJP in Bengal. “… people have seen before how his prediction are! In the previous elections of Bihar in 2015, Delhi in 2015 and 2020, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh his predictions, his numbers were all totally wrong...“People will see it again in Bengal in 2021…. Bengal has and always will stand up to protect India’s soul,” it added. Party leaders Saugata Roy and Sukhendu Sekhar Roy condemned Shah for “blatant communalism”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-319
07-11-2020||North East||Neiphiu Rio and T.R. Zeliang address joint press meet on Naga political issue||Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio and leader of the Opposition T.R. Zeliang on Thursday addressed a joint press meet on the Naga political issue with both expressing their desire to facilitate an early and inclusive solution. However, the ruling NDPP and BJP office-bearers said the news meet did “not” go as planned. The news meet was held on the “prodding” of Union home minister Amit Shah whom both Rio and Zeliang had met in Delhi on October 20 along with North East Democratic Alliance (Neda) convener and BJP leader Himanta Biswa Sarma. Neda is a forum of non-Congress parties brought together by the BJP after the Assam Assembly polls in 2016. Sources said Zeliang was expected to endorse the “one solution” resolution of the October 15 consultative meeting convened by the Rio-led state government and also to signal his return to the Joint Legislators’ Forum (JLF) on the Naga issue. The Opposition NPF had left the JLF in August as the forum had “not” made any progress because of the “half-hearted” approach of the state government. After withdrawing from the forum, the NPF had constituted the Political Affairs Mission to facilitate the talks and since held talks with almost all leading groups, including the Naga National Political Groups and NSCN (Isak-Muivah). The NPF had not attended the consultative meeting. The Centre is keen on arriving at “one” solution to the decades-old Naga political issue but there has not been much progress after NSCN (I-M) made it clear that it would not budge from its separate flag and constitution demand. The NNPGs, which comprise seven outfits, are ready to sign the final solution with the Centre which is stressing on only “one” solution. BJP national spokesperson Mmhonlumo Kikon told The Telegraph that the focus of the Nagaland government has been to rally all stakeholders around the “one solution” resolution and the October 15 consultative meeting attested to that. According to Zeliang’s interview with a news portal a week ago, he supported the resolutions adopted at the consultative meeting and mentioned his meeting with Shah in the presence of Rio and Sarma in Delhi where he was asked to join the JLF and work together, Kikon said. “In the joint press conference, he (Zeliang) failed to mention his support to the resolution and instead gave the reasons why the NPF had left the JLF. As stated in the resolution of the PDA meeting held on Thursday, it is clear that his (Zeliang’s) letter to the chief minister dated November 2 is not in consonance with his assurances to the Union home minister,” Kikon said. The ruling PDA (People’s Democratic Alliance) government’s resolution on Thursday congratulated the successful conduct of the October 15 consultative meeting and the seven-point resolutions adopted, including “one solution” to the Naga issue. The PDA meeting also deliberated on Zeliang’s proposal to Rio in a November 2 letter and said that the JLF since its formation in 2009 has been successfully playing the role of an active facilitator in the peace process and therefore there is “no requirement to discontinue with the JLF at this crucial and late juncture”. In his letter to Rio, Zeliang had wanted the JLF nomenclature changed to Parliamentary Forum of Nagaland with Rio as chairman and leaders of the NPF and the BJP as co-chairmen, wherein all 60 MLAs and two MPs from the state will be members. Zeliang had also proposed holding of a special two-day Assembly session on the Naga political issue at the earliest and adopt a necessary unanimous resolution. Zeliang had also mentioned of the meeting with Shah and about a subsequent NPF unanimous resolution to “give our cooperation to work together under one umbrella vis-à-vis the Naga political issue to facilitate an early settlement”. Thursday’s PDA resolution, however, reiterated the appeal of the Government of India, through home minister Shah, to the NPF to rejoin the JLF and also to “endorse” the resolutions of the October 15 consultative meeting, which was conveyed to Zeliang on October 20 in New Delhi in the presence of Rio and Sarma. Sources said that Rio and Zeliang coming together is a positive development but Delhi has some more work to do on this joint forum to achieve the desired result.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-37
07-11-2020||Opinion||Dark below the flame: A doctor and Aladdin's lamp||Every event is open to more than one reading, as is the adventure of the doctor and the lamp. At the most prosaic level, this is the story of an audacious con that missed success by a hair’s breadth. A doctor in Meerut, Uttar Pradesh, just back from the United Kingdom, bought a lamp off two men who told him it was Aladdin’s lamp complete with the djinn who would give him everything he wanted. The doctor may have remembered Aladdin’s golden palace, limitless riches and marriage to a princess that were the high points of the popular version of the story. The two men, whom the doctor met while treating a woman supposedly related to one of them, persuaded him to meet a ‘priest’ with unusual powers, and reportedly also made the genie appear. From various reports, it seems that the doctor paid about Rs 70 lakh — a ‘discounted price’ for an object the men claimed was worth Rs 2.5 crore — and was told that using the lamp before two years had passed would bring misfortune to his family. That was a neat touch. The genie failed to appear. The doctor reported the incident to the police and two men were caught, although, reportedly, a woman accomplice is on the run. The group has allegedly been carrying out similar lucrative tricks for some time. But they are far less interesting than their nemesis, the doctor who bought a lamp made of steel — or so the police said — and accepted as a genie a man dressed up as one — the doctor himself said this. The mundane story of cheating takes on a more colourful guise when read as a fable. It demonstrates that an anti-scientific spirit is overtaking the country: even a doctor can accept the wildly irrational if it promises to fulfil his heart’s desires. Therein lies the nub. The irrational is allied with desire, with the greed for a prosperity that can only be dreamt of. Ironically, that desire is activated by the conmen’s greed. But the greed, in other situations, need not be for money alone. Unlimited power over people (immeasurable wealth is a corollary), suppression of difference or dissent, perfect compliance of all — it can be for anything. It is enough to stimulate illusions of prosperity and domination in the prey with lies: everyone will buy steel lamps at the price of their souls and conjure up the genie from within their minds. This sinister reading is a bit unfair to the story of the doctor and the lamp though. Its potential for entertainment cannot be denied; it almost matches some of the escapades in One Thousand and One Arabian Nights. So maybe the event validates the charm and power of storytelling, too, reviving old tales in new forms in everyday life — however scientific the era — like the irrepressible genie in a bottle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-121
07-11-2020||Opinion||Deep shame: Faisal Khan's arrest||Sir — Reading about the arrest of Faisal Khan, the national convenor of the Delhi-based social outfit, Khudai Khidmatgar, for offering namaz inside a temple in Mathura made me hang my head in shame (“Even Tulsidas wouldn’t have been safe”, Nov 4). Such an act of religious inclusion and amity ought to be celebrated, not punished. However, the leaders of New India will not allow this to happen; unity among the people of India is anathema to them. Such hostility is also unsurprising when one considers the venue of the arrest; Mathura is in Uttar Pradesh, which is ruled by the Yogi Adityanath-led government. It is even more saddening when one considers the fact that the religious harmony evident in Khan’s actions — as well as those of the people who invited him to perform his prayers on the temple premises — is fundamental to our nation’s social and cultural fabric. The UP government is known for its oppression of religious minorities on the flimsiest of grounds, a propensity that finds support from the Centre — they are, after all, led by the same party. It is up to the citizens of India to come together and strongly resist the Bharatiya Janata Party’s attempts to destroy India’s religious unity. Under no circumstances must we allow the brotherhood among people from different religions to be ruined. Shiuli Bose,Calcutta Sir — The outrage over Faisal Khan’s ‘unpardonable’ act of offering namaz at a Mathura temple and his subsequent arrest are condemnable. What else can one expect in ‘New India’? The suggestion made by a Hindi scholar, as reported in The Telegraph, that the 16th-century poet, Tulsidas, too might have been arrested in the present day for expressing his desire to sleep in a mosque was pertinent. This incident brings to mind reports from a few years ago about Mohammad Zahir, who took care of a dargah as well as a Shiva temple in Khandwa near Indore in Madhya Pradesh. Not only did he clean the temple premises but also helped pilgrims perform the puja and place their offerings at the lingam. Would someone like Zahir, a shining example of religious harmony, be safe within this country, the atmosphere of which has been vitiated by Hindutva? Or would he, too, find himself in custody for allegedly ‘desecrating’ a temple? Kajal Chatterjee,Calcutta Sir — It pains me to say that the India of today is not the country I grew up in. We were taught that India’s beauty and uniqueness lay in its people’s love and acceptance of each other even if they belonged to different religions. In fact, we were taught to learn about other cultures and invite friends into our homes to share our own ways of living with them. These fundamental acts of humanity are now being treated as crimes. Faisal Khan, who visited and paid obeisance at a Mathura temple, asked for a suitable place to pray as it was time for his afternoon prayers. The people in the temple reportedly told him that he need not go anywhere else as he was already in the home of god. As a result, he performed his prayers there and later even had lunch at the temple. These are normal, ordinary actions in a nation that prides itself on its religious unity. Why are they being punished? Disha Batra,Delhi Well chosen Sir — New Zealand’s prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, continues to serve as an example for world leaders. Women and members of the Maori community have found strong representation in her 20-member cabinet; her new foreign minister, Nanaia Mahuta, has a moko kauae — a traditional Maori tattoo — on the chin. In an ideal world, this detail would not even need to be pointed out; however, it bears mentioning because even now, in countries like India, women’s capabilities are heavily judged on the basis of their physical appearances. It would be hard to imagine women who do not fit a particular ‘mould’ being chosen for positions of political leadership here.Ishadrita Roy,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-121
07-11-2020||Opinion||Raise voices: Voting in the US elections||No matter which side you voted for, approximately 70 per cent of Americans felt pre-election jitters and considered the presidential election a source of stress and anxiety. Many celebrities emerged with endorsements, educational material and motivation to help ease these feelings. The web series called Stars in the House hosted a 10-hour marathon of conversations, videos and live performances featuring dozens of Broadway and television luminaries on November 3. Many celebrities, including Selena Gomez, Nick Jonas and Beyonce posted ‘ I Voted’ selfies on their social media accounts to encourage followers to do the same. Tom Hanks, Dwayne Johnson, Oprah Winfrey and LeBron James have the most trusted opinions on political and social issues, according to a new survey of American voters. According to the research, 12 per cent of voters reported that an entertainer or athlete influenced their thinking regarding the election. Moreover, 75 per cent of voters said they wanted to see entertainers use their platforms to address social and political issues, specifically the Covid-19 pandemic, voting and racial justice in the United States of America. Celebrities also used suggestive pictures of themselves to get people to click on and view their videos and images. The “Get Your Booty to the Poll” initiative features a montage of Atlanta strippers pole-dancing, followed by one of them asking, “Did we get your attention? Good.” Then the women list all the reasons to vote. During the Democratic primaries, a handful of supporters of Bernie Sanders launched the #HotGirlsForBernie campaign on Twitter, an inclusive movement where women and nonbinary people posted photos of themselves explaining why they were voting for Sanders. True icon This year the voter turnout hit record numbers in comparison to the 2016 elections. Millions of people tried to vote safely and early. Many restaurants and companies handed out free ‘Election Day’ goodies to people who showed their ‘I Voted’ stickers; many landmark locations doubled as polling stations. In Long Beach, California, a local ice cream parlour launched a new flavour in honour of Ruth Bader Ginsburg, with 100 per cent of the proceeds benefiting the American Civil Liberties Union of Southern California. Long Beach Creamery’s new ‘Honor Ruth’ ice cream is inspired by the deceased Supreme Court justice’s favourite dessert — frozen lime soufflé — with scoops given away for free to those who show their ‘I Voted’ stickers. In addition, a new limited ‘In Ruth We Trust’ kit was launched to give people everything they would need for the tense election night. It was a Ginsburg-themed special Election Night package, with 100 per cent of proceeds benefiting Planned Parenthood. The kit includes a bottle of gin, baked goods, calming candles, an activity book and ‘Postcards for Progress’ to send to Congress, the city council and other leaders regarding changes their communities need to see. Fast food chains also geared up with election day deals. Boston Market offered a free slider after 9 pm knowing ‘Election Day could stretch well into the evening and beyond’. Other chains offered great discounts to help with the stress.Muted scares Americans celebrated Halloween to the extent possible with the pandemic on. Many joked that 2020 was terrifying enough. In Cleveland, a couple put up Covid-19-themed décor that included masked skeletons fleeing the coronavirus while armed with hand sanitizer, disinfectant and toilet paper. A giant skeleton was flinging the virus decor at other skeletons. In Tulsa, Oklahoma, a man did a visual depiction of the number of Covid-19 cases on his front yard by planting wooden crosses representing Oklahomans who have died from the virus, according to state health department data. Google just released its 2020 ‘most searched for Halloween costumes’. The top search was the witch costume, followed by dinosaur and Harley Quinn. In New York, a 400-person party in Brooklyn and later a 550-person party in the Bronx were broken up by the sheriffs. Those arrested included DJs, the organizers and security guards. Chicago also shut down multiple parties.Tell the truth Donald Trump finally got his wall, though not the way he was expecting. In Soho, a new art installation combined 20,000 of Trump’s false statements in a 100-feet-long mural. In October, Radio Free Brooklyn also installed a primary version of it that was 50 feet by 10 feet. It was eventually vandalized with messages such as ‘Vote Trump or Die’. The creators were not deterred. They launched a fundraiser to create the new mural, named ‘Wall of Lies’. The piece is a collaboration by the Bushwick artist, Phil Buehler, and the executive director of Radio Free Brooklyn, Tom Tenney. It was Tenney’s idea to just do a reading broadcast of all of Trump’s lies during the week before the election. But due to the pandemic, the event was paused and Buehler decided to turn the idea into a public display. The artwork touched on different subjects, the common ones being Russia, Ukraine, taxes, immigration and the coronavirus. In other cities, murals were painted all over public property encouraging people to vote. The American Civil Liberties Union of Michigan enlisted local artists for a public art campaign to paint murals in communities with disenfranchised voters. Footnote With restaurants trying to stay afloat, there is a new way to show support for chefs. The ‘Take Away’ book series is launching in Los Angeles; you can buy books written by chefs. Over $2,00,000 have been raised and 20 books — by chefs in fine dining restaurants, neighbourhood joints, a bakery, a farm and even a gelato cart — published. A book needs to sell a minimum of 100 preorders for it to go to print. If it doesn’t, all of the preorder funds are sent to the restaurant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-121
07-11-2020||Opinion||Father of journeys||I first met Enuga Sreenivasulu Reddy in New York in 1994. I was carrying an introduction from Gopalkrishna Gandhi, who had described him to me as a ‘great Gandhi-reservoir’. For the next twenty-five years I was witness to the truth of that appellation, some of the evidence contained in my desktop computer in Bengaluru, which has three large folders entitled: ‘E.S. Reddy Material, Instalment I, II and III’, respectively. These house hundreds of files, gifted to me over the years by Gopal Gandhi’s friend (now also mine), sometimes as attachments to emails, at other times through CDs sent by courier. The material my benefactor so generously shared includes newspaper and magazine articles in half-a-dozen languages, profiles of Gandhi’s associates in three countries, critical commentaries published after his death, and much more. Before he became the world’s greatest Gandhi scholar, E.S. Reddy had achieved distinction in another field. Born in 1924, raised in Southern India in a family of freedom fighters, he spent his professional life working in the United Nations headquarters in New York, much of it directing the UN’s Centre against Apartheid. In this capacity, Mr Reddy perhaps did more than anyone outside South Africa itself to undermine and eventually dismantle the racist regime in that country. It was only in his sixties, after his retirement, that he was able to devote himself to scholarship. He wrote or edited more than a dozen books on Gandhi, his influence and his legacy; two further books that he had completed are in the process of publication. But, unlike other scholars in this (or other fields), Mr Reddy had not a trace of possessiveness; the materials he had were made available to anyone who asked. Apart from aiding individual scholars, he donated thousands of rare documents to institutions such as the Nehru Memorial Museum and Library and Yale University. It was also Mr Reddy who paid for the first computer at the Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad, which enabled the digitization of the Ashram’s priceless collection of letters to Gandhi. After E.S. Reddy died on November 1, I wrote an obituary in the Financial Times, covering the major aspects of his life and work. In this column I offer a more personal tribute, of what he meant to me and to other scholars of Gandhi like myself. Apart from sending me a steady stream of primary materials, Mr Reddy offered book recommendations. He directed me, for example, to two rare eyewitness accounts of Gandhi’s South African satyagrahas, written by Bhawani Dayal and Raojibhai Patel respectively. When I embarked on a biography of Gandhi, Mr Reddy highlighted themes that needed careful attention. In one mail he wrote: ‘You will have to devote something like a chapter to Gandhi and Jews... Western scholars friendly to Gandhi do not want to touch this subject because of a quote in Louis Fischer’s book that Jews in Germany should commit mass suicide’. He continued: ‘I am attaching my compilation of documents on the subject. It has texts of letters to Gandhi by Martin Buber, as well as Judah L. Magnes, respected head of the Hebrew University, both of whom sought friendship with Arabs’. Gandhi’s own memoir of his struggle in the diaspora was called ‘Satyagraha in South Africa’. Mr Reddy urged me to go beyond what the leader had himself written. In a letter sent on October 2, 2009 — the one-hundred-and-fortieth birth anniversary of the Mahatma — he remarked: ‘I feel Gandhi does not give enough credit to Tamilians for the satyagraha and praises Gujaratis — Cachalia, Rustomjee, Adajania etc. — highly. That may be because his social life was with the Gujaratis. But it is the Tamils, led by Thambi Naidoo, who kept satyagraha alive when the [Gujarati] traders deserted it.’ Mr Reddy also reminded me that the enlargement of Gandhi’s social vision took place in the diaspora. As he put it: ‘Bringing in peasants, workers and women was because of his experience in South Africa. While many traders dropped out of [the] struggle despite their woes, the poor people rallied beyond anyone’s expectations, without much teaching by Gandhi. In 1913, Gandhi invited women to join and the response was great — not so much in numbers as in determination’. E.S. Reddy had an incredibly detailed knowledge of the minutiae of Gandhi’s life and campaigns, freely given to and eagerly drawn upon by scholars from across the world. But beyond this command over the facts, he also had a deep, indeed profound, understanding of Gandhi’s character and personality. This was illustrated in an exchange we had in June 2011, after a newspaper column where I had contrasted Gandhi with the publicity-crazy holy men of our own time. I had focused in particular on Baba Ramdev, who had recently gone on a hunger strike against corruption in New Delhi but fled when the police arrived at the venue. In my column, I said of Gandhi that he was a politician and social reformer to whom ‘the moral and spiritual life was equally important’. However, I added, unlike his political activism, his moral quest was undertaken not in public but in the privacy of his own ashram. For Gandhi, solitude and spirituality went hand in hand. Thus, in between his campaigns, he spent months at a stretch in Sabarmati or Sevagram, thinking, searching, spinning. On the other hand, I wrote, ‘our contemporary gurus cannot be by themselves for a single day. When the police forced him out of Delhi, Ramdev said he would resume his “satyagraha” (sic) at his ashram in Haridwar. But within twenty-hours he left Haridwar, in search of closer proximity to his brothers in the media. Externed from Delhi, Ramdev knew that many television channels were headquartered in NOIDA. So he would go to them, since he knew that, despite their national pretensions, these channels would not send their reporters, still less their anchors, to the benighted state of Uttarakhand’. Mr Reddy read the column after it appeared, and sent me a long note about it. He did not dispute my saying that people like Ramdev belonged to the history of publicity rather than the history of spirituality. But, he added, ‘I have difficulties with what you imply about Gandhi’. While, unlike Ramdev and his ilk, Gandhi did not pose for photographs or cultivate newshounds, Mr Reddy noted that Gandhi was nonetheless ‘anxious to communicate with the people. He communicated by person during his tours and through [his weekly] Harijan. He also gave interviews to the Indian and foreign press — on political matters related to the independence struggle. He did not seek publicity for himself — as he was not after honours, office, power or money — but for the “cause” which needed publicity. The result was publicity for both’. Mr Reddy’s mail continued: ‘Gandhi meditated in private (sadhana). But his religion was not private. His prayer sessions were public (demonstrating respect for all religions as different ways to God)... His spirituality required him to get involved in politics — to try to remove injustice. He did not confine himself to the Ashram like Aurobindo. But he did not ask people to follow him because of his spirituality. He did not wear saffron, but the clothes of a poor peasant. He rejected the title of Mahatma as he was aware of his failings. He tried to persuade people without using religion, as he did not seek blind followers.’ An important piece of advice Mr Reddy gave me was to examine Gandhi’s difficult relations with his children. As he remarked: ‘There is no doubt that Gandhi was unfeeling and insensitive in his dealings with Harilal. He always asks his sons to come and “serve” him — the patriarchal attitude’. He also urged me to pay ‘more attention to criticisms of Gandhi in South Africa’. One does not Google people one knows, and one does not rely on Wikipedia for information on one’s friends. Somehow, some two decades after I first met Enuga Reddy, I found myself on his Wikipedia page. There I discovered that he had been born on July 1, 1924. I wrote to Mr Reddy to ask whether this was indeed his date of birth, adding that if so, it was both lovely and curious, since my own father had been born on that very day, month, and year. He did not reply, either to confirm or to deny. No matter. He remains the ‘father’ of my own journey as a Gandhi scholar. And of the journeys of many other Gandhi scholars too. They include (among others) the American historians, Nico Slate, Dinyar Patel and Ian Desai, the South African historians, Uma Mesthrie, Goolam Vahed and Kalpana Hiralal, the Indian historians, Anil Nauriya, Venu Madhav Govindu, Gopalkrishna Gandhi and Tridip Suhrud. These individuals have all made significant contributions to Gandhi scholarship, aided, guided, advised and, occasionally, chastised by Mr Reddy. Activists are often self-righteous and judgmental; scholars so often selfish and secretive. This activist and scholar was neither. In his case, courage and wisdom went hand in hand with compassion and rectitude. E.S. Reddy was the most remarkable human being I knew. His legacy and example will live on through the work of the countless individuals he encouraged and inspired in South Africa, India and across the world. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-121
07-11-2020||Jharkhand||Labour officer helps tribal man get his pending wages||Forty-years-old Dasu Oraon, a tribal hailing from Baiga Toli of Kottam village, Garu block in Latehar district, Jharkhand, has got his Diwali gift well in advance. The man’s employer Vincent Augustine based at Idukki district, Kerala, transferred Oraon’s pending wage worth Rs 114000 digitally. The poor tribal man got relief after 10-months of uncertainty and harassment. “Our district labour superintendent Babban Singh took all the pains to make sure that this man got his pending wage worth Rs 1.14 lakh by his Kerala-based employer,” DC Latehar Abu Imran told TT Online today. Babban Singh on being contacted, informed, “Oraon came to me with a written complaint in September. He maintained that his former employer Vincent Augustine based in Kerala was not clearing his dues worth Rs 1.14 lakh.” In the complaint, Oraon further wrote that his employer had issued a South India Bank cheque worth the same amount. He had deposited it at the State Bank of India, Garu branch. However, the cheque bounced back, as there was no balance in his employer’s account. According to Singh, Oraon had worked for Augustine for two years and had quit his job in December 2019 to return home. Labour superintendent revealed, “He has no bank account of his own. He had given his neighbour Ram Pervesh Singh’s bank account to Augustine, where the cheque bounced.” Following which Oraon made frequent calls to Augustine, but his employer never took his calls. Singh maintained that the bounced cheque proved the tribal man’s contention before the Labour Officer of Idukki in Kerala, who then helped the Jharkhand official connect with the district magistrate Idukki, who intervened to help the poor man. “I knew it would be difficult for Augustine to deny or disown Oraon because of the bounced cheque, so I persuaded my counterpart in Idukki to bail out this tribal. I believe Augustine understood that any further delay in payment would land him into legal trouble as it had all the ingredients of an interstate non-payment of wages issue,” said Singh. He added, “This realization made Augustine digitally transfer the pending payment in Oraon’s neighbour’s account.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-243
07-11-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city bus owners want hike in fares ||Long-distance buses will start plying from the steel city from Sunday with the Jamshedpur Bus Owners’ Welfare Association (JBOWA) proposing a fare hike. Around 125 long-distance buses ply from Sitaramdera bus terminus to Bihar, Bengal, and Odisha. The state government has given permission to operate long-distance buses which were discontinued since March owing to the pandemic. JBOWA president Ram Uday Prasad Singh said that they will resume bus service from Sunday with the old fare but it would not be possible to continue it for long. “Prices of fuel and spare parts have gone up. It will not be possible to continue with the old fare for long. We request the state government to give serious thought to this issue otherwise we would be forced to increase it (fare) by 40% after Chhath,” he added. According to him, they have also sent a proposal to the Jharkhand Bus Owners’ Association for increasing the fare. “We cannot survive if the fare is not hiked. Prices of fuel, lubricants, tyres and spare parts have gone up. This will have a direct bearing on our operational costs. It has become imperative for us to hike the bus fare. But we’ll wait till Chhath,” Singh said. Upender Sharma, JBOWA patron-in-chief stated, “The government has not hiked the fare but has allowed ferrying passengers as per the seating capacity of buses.” According to him, they have requested the government for a fare hike. “We have proposed a fare hike. If the government does not accept this then we will have no option but to stop operations. We are not in a position to incur any further losses,” Sharma added. JBOWA president Singh added few passengers would prefer to travel by bus for the fear of coronavirus. “This is another problem which we will have to face. We request the passengers to book tickets as there are people who plan outstation trips to other states in view of Diwali and Chhath,” Singh said while thanking the state government for allowing passengers as per the vehicle’s seating capacity. He said that they would adhere to the state government’s guidelines while plying their buses. “We will ply our vehicles by strictly following the guidelines of the state government. The pandemic has not fully subsided and we need to be very careful in dealing with the situation,” Singh added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-243
07-11-2020||Jharkhand||Three drug peddlers including a woman arrested in Mango and Adityapur||Three drug dealers including a woman were arrested by the police from Mango and Adityapur Thana area in East Singhbhum district and adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district respectively on Saturday. While a 40-year-old woman, Sabnam Khatoon was arrested from her house on Road No 2 in Azadnagar under Mango Thana area with brown sugar, Afsar Ali and Akhtar Hussain were arrested from Adityapur Muslim Bustee in Adityapur. Vinay Kumar, OC, Mango Thana stated that they had information about Sabnam's husband, Mohammed Illiyash who was indulged in the sale of brown sugar at home. “As we raided his house, Illiyash escaped. We found 27 small-packets containing the brown sugar from the possession of Sabnam. We, therefore, arrested the woman,” said Kumar while talking to The Telegraph Online. The arrest of Sabnam was made on the tip given by two women who were arrested for being indulged in the sale of this narcotic drug in the Sitaramdera Thana area. “On November 4, two women identified as Errik Mary (35) and Chhotki Rao (30) were arrested from the Sitaramdera area. They were drug-peddlers and the police had also recovered over two dozens of small packets containing the brown-sugar from them during the arrest. During interrogation, the duo had divulged that they used to bring the drugs from Adityapur Muslim Bustee in Adityapur. They also revealed that a couple, Mohammed Illiyas and his wife sell the drugs at their house at Azadnagar in Mango. The raid on Illiyas' house was based on this information,” Kumar said. This information was shared with the Adityapur police who raided the house of Asraf Ali in Adityapur Muslim Bustee. Rajendra Kumar Mahto, OC, Adityapur Thana, confirmed the arrest of Asraf Ali and one of his associates, Akhtar Hussain with 55 packets of brown sugar. “We were aware that the sale of brown sugar was on at Adityapur Muslim Bustee even after arresting of the notorious lady drug peddler Dolly in July. But we raided the house of Asraf Ali after getting specific information about the sale of drugs from his house on Friday night,” said Mahto while talking to The Telegraph Online. Dolly, who is presently in Seraikela divisional jail, was the kingpin in the supply of brown sugar in Adityapur. Dolly was arrested on July 19 following which Asfar Ali had resumed the drug business.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-243
07-11-2020||Jharkhand||Koderma DC buys diyas worth Rs 1 lakh from local artisans||Koderma’s Deputy Commissioner Ramesh Gholap chose to bring a smile on the face of local artisans of the district, who have toiled hard to produce the traditional clay lamps or diyas for Diwali. Gholap, led a team of administrative officials, to the Shivpuri Mohalla in Jhumri Telaiya town and purchased diyas worth Rs 100000 to promote the local art. “Diwali is the festival of light. It eradicates darkness. I purchased diyas from the local artisans who have been toiling very hard to light up their lives by purchasing the locally made lamps,” said Gholap. The IAS officer, hails from Maharashtra’s Sholapur and hasn’t forgotten his humble upbringing. Gholap’s father, a cycle repairman man, passed away when he was young. His mother, a bangle-seller fought against all adversity to educate her son, who cracked the prestigious UPSC examination in 2012 to become an IAS officer. Not forgetting his origin, the officer is known as a kind officer in his circle. This Diwali, he along with his team comprising deputy development officer - R Ronita, additional collector - Anil Tirki, sub-divisional officer Manish Kumar, district Panchayati Raj officer - Paras Kumar, and a few more not just visited the artisans but also distributed study materials to the children and also purchased a healthy number of diyas to boost their business. He said, “The main objective of this initiative is to encourage people to buy clay diyas and toys from local artisans. This will help strengthen the business of these artisans who have been doing this work for generations. Also, we must not forget that clay diyas are an integral part of our traditional Diwali celebration.” Artisan Manoj Kumar couldn’t believe his luck. He said, “It’s still unbelievable for me that DC Gholap visited our mohalla to purchase diyas. This is the only way to promote local business.” Kumar added, “Purchasing locally produced diyas will be a fitting reply to sellers engaged in selling Chinese products.” Gholap had made it to the headlines by making a beautiful small idol of Lord Ganesha for the Ganesh Chaturthi celebration at his residence. He also happens to be a good painter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-243
07-11-2020||Jharkhand||State thinking of banning crackers this Diwali, says minister||The government is contemplating a blanket ban on crackers this Diwali in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and the adverse effects of air pollution on the respiratory system of residents, state finance minister Rameshwar Oraon said on Tuesday, adding that the Hemant Soren-led government will take a decision regarding the sale and bursting of crackers during the festival of lights in a day or two. “We are getting suggestions from different parts of the state on whether we should allow bursting of crackers this Diwali or not. A decision regarding the same will be taken in a day or two,” said Oraon. The minister added that the government was aware of the adverse effect of crackers on the respiratory system of the people of Jharkhand, especially the ones battling a Covid-19 infection. “Doctors have already warned against the bursting of crackers this Diwali. The festival will be celebrated on November 14, and we will take a decision well in advance to ensure strict adherence to it,” Oraon said. Even though the number of Covid-19 cases has reduced significantly in Ranchi, health experts have warned that the air pollution caused by crackers may worsen respiratory ailments and cause breathing problems in patients suffering from Covid-19. While the Covid-19 virus may show different manifestations in different people, it primarily affects the lungs and inhaling toxic air could trigger major discomfort among patients. Meanwhile, Ranchi MP Sanjay Seth demanded a ban on crackers till January 1 if the government bans crackers for Diwali. He said that fireworks were common on Christmas and New Year’s Eve, and the government must ensure that the ban on crackers continues till the new year if at all it proceeds with a ban during Diwali. “Why should we only ban crackers on Diwali? Why not on Christmas? Why not on New Year? If a ban is imposed on crackers during Diwali, then it should continue on Christmas and New Year as well,” said Seth, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader. Several states in India have banned crackers this Diwali citing the effect of air pollution on the health of Covid-19 patients. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot was the first to announce a ban on sale and bursting of crackers on November 2. Later, on November 5, the Delhi government also imposed a ban on sale and bursting of crackers after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal reviewed the Covid-19 situation in the national capital. A day later, the Karnataka government announced a complete ban on crackers this Diwali. Besides, the Calcutta High Court ordered a ban on sale and bursting of crackers across West Bengal owing to Covid-19 on November 5. Jharkhand has reported fewer cases of Covid-19 infection than the aforementioned states. However, the Covid-19 caseload in Jharkhand is above 1 lakh and the number of active cases is down at 4,639, highlights data with the health department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-243
07-11-2020||Jharkhand||JNAC initiative to curb plastic use in Jamshedpur||The Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC), the local urban body, has devised a unique concept to not only create awareness against harmful effects of plastic use but also instil fear amongst vendors and shopkeepers still using plastic carry bags in the industrial city. The committee, which covers both Tata Steel-managed residential areas and non-company residential areas, launched the “Jamshedpur Plastic League” on Thursday. “It is an innovative idea to create awareness against the use of plastic and also instil fear amongst shopkeepers and vendors who are still found using plastic bags clandestinely despite prohibition on its use. We would be forming four teams as participants in the league. Each team would comprise 11 members and would be placed under a city manager (a contractual official of the state urban development department) as skipper of the respective teams,” said JNAC special officer Krishna Kumar. The team would be covering different commercial and residential areas within the jurisdiction of JNAC (approximately 200 sqkm). “Members of the four teams would be conducting surprise visits and keep a check on single-use plastic, plastic carry bags and thermocol, etc. Each member would have to submit at the end of the day a list containing details of plastic seized along with details of the shop/vendor from where it was seized and the fine collected from each shop. We will be according one wicket to each shop or vendor which will be added to the tally of the respective team, while each kilo of seized plastic would be treated as one run which will also be added to the team tally,” said Kumar. The tally would be maintained daily by the Swachh Bharat Mission nodal officer, Sandeep Kumar, and the winner and runners-up would be announced on December 5 when the “plastic league” concludes. “Winners and runners-up teams would be given trophies and certificates on the last day. The four teams have been named Sonari Star, Sakchi Kings, Tata Transformers and Green Caps Jamshedpur,” said Ravi Bharti, one of the city managers of JNAC. The Jharkhand cabinet had decided in September 2017 to issue a blanket ban on plastic carry bags, irrespective of thickness and size. The cabinet declared that plastic carry bags could be used only to package food products and milk and for use in nurseries (parks and gardens). The notification by the state government in October 2017 said the blanket ban would be enforced from statehood day (November 15, 2017) onwards. According to JNAC officials, Jamshedpur generates nearly 15 metric tonnes of plastic waste daily out of a total of 300MT of solid waste.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-243
07-11-2020||Jharkhand||Coal blocks auction subject to Supreme Court order ||The Supreme Court on Friday directed the Union government to inform the bidders taking part in the coal block auction that benefits of any nature to them will be provisional and subject to the orders of the apex court. A bench of the Supreme Court comprising Chief Justice S.A. Bobde and Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian directed that the November 9 e-auction of 37 coal blocks across the country, including five in Jharkhand, shall be subject to its final order. Significantly, Friday was the last working day of the Supreme Court before it goes into a weeklong vacation for Diwali. Attorney General of India K.K. Venugopal, appearing for the Centre, said no trees will be cut in the area in reply to senior advocate F.S. Nariman that those who win bids should not be cutting off any trees. On November 4, the Supreme Court had said it intended to pass an order that any proposed mining block within the 50km radius of an eco-sensitive zone will not be e-auctioned for commercial purposes in Jharkhand while hearing a plea (an original suit) filed by the Jharkhand government under Article 131 of the Constitution challenging the coal ministry decision to auction coal blocks situated in Jharkhand for commercial mining. The Supreme Court had allowed the Union government a day’s time to place on record materials to satisfy that environment would not be adversely impacted and had adjourned the hearing till Friday. The apex court had on November 4 also considered appointing an expert panel to submit a report analysing the environmental impact because of mining in the coal blocks near eco-sensitive regions in Jharkhand within a month. The coal mines auction which was started virtually by the Union government in June this year will put 41 coal blocks to private bidders out of which nine are in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-243
