08-11-2020||Calcutta||Museum and Victoria set to reopen on November 10||Indian Museum, Victoria Memorial Hall, Science City, and Birla Industrial and Technological Museum will reopen on November 10. The culture ministry has decided to reopen museums and art galleries in view of the festive season and has issued a detailed standard operating procedure. Victoria Memorial will restrict the number of visitors to 200 at a time. The garden can accommodate 500 visitors at a time, Jayanta Sengupta, the curator, said. “Once we sell 200 tickets for the museum and 500 tickets for the garden, we will stop selling tickets. Once those visitors start leaving, we will resume ticket sales but at no point will we have more than 200 visitors on the premises of the museum.” The museums will have foot-pedal sanitiser machines and provision for thermal screening. Buying tickets online will be encouraged though provisions to buy tickets at the counters will be there. “We will introduce online ticketing for the first time in Indian Museum,” A.D. Choudhury, the museum director, said. Manual ticketing will be there with UV boxes to sanitise currency and tickets. There will be floor markers to ensure distancing rules are followed. Not more than 25 people will be allowed in galleries at a time, according to government guidelines. As part of the SOP, the government has advised advanced booking of time slots and recording the contact details of all visitors to help in contact tracing in case of positive cases in museums and galleries. Safety officers will report unsafe conditions on premises. Members of the CISF staff who screen baggage will be in PPEs and there will be isolation rooms, too. Science City, which used to be remain open from 9am to 8pm before the pandemic will now remain open from 10am to 6pm, Science City director Subhag Chowdhury said. “Between 10am and 2pm, we will allow 500 visitors and between 2pm and 6pm another 500.” Apart from online booking of tickets, there will be ticket vending machines at Science City with sanitiser machines nearby. Several interactive displays will have foot switches. Toilets, too, will have foot switches; there will be provisions for gloves as well. Winter is the busiest season at museums, but Sengupta expects a low crowd count because of the pan-demic. “Everyone is at home now. Once local trains start running, we will see how it goes and take decisions accordingly.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-246
08-11-2020||Calcutta||Birbhum police arrest brother in connection with double murder||Police on Saturday arrested a 64-year-old man from Bihar’s Munger in connection with the double murder of his sister and her husband in Birbhum’s Labhpur on September 25. Purnendu Chatterjee, 76, a retired teacher from West Burdwan’s Asansol, and his wife Swapna, 68, a retired rail employee, had been found bludgeoned to death in their bedroom. The arrested person, Mukul Mukherjee, was Swapna’s brother, the police said. “This person (Mukherjee) was the mastermind behind the murder of his sister and her husband for property-related reasons. We had earlier arrested two men who had committed the crime,” Shyam Singh, the Birbhum police chief, said. Earlier this month, Debnath Konai and Somnath Mondal had been arrested in connection with the murders. During interrogation, Mukherjee’s name had come up. There was a dispute between Swapna and Mukherjee ever since their mother gifted Swapna the entire family property, the police said. “Mukherjee bore a grudge as he felt he had been deprived of his share. So, he had planned revenge. Mukherjee contacted Debnath and Somnath to carry out the murders. These two held a grudge against Swapna and her husband,” an officer said. A Bolpur court has sent Mukherjee to seven days’ police custody. The bodies had been recovered after the couple did not respond to repeated phone calls of a neighbour. The couple’s son, Kallol Chatterjee, a travel agent in Asansol, had reached the Birbhum village home on being alerted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-246
08-11-2020||Calcutta||Dengue fear in Salt Lake||Swarms of mosquitoes have invaded Salt Lake and its adjoining areas. Dengue cases, too, are being reported regularly, triggering a scare among residents. Over a 100 residents have dengue and more than a dozen have dengue and Covid, an official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation’s health department said. In Salt Lake, many blocks off the Kestopur canal in sectors I and II and off the Eastern Drainage Channel in sector III have reported an increase in the number of mosquitoes in the past weeks. “The water in the Kestopur canal has turned stagnant and it is a perfect breeding ground for mosquitoes. I am forced to keep all my windows and doors shut at all times,” said Priyadarshini Choudhury, a resident of AL Block. A resident of BC Block said that they had not seen civic workers spray larvicide before or after Durga Puja. “They are not spraying larvicide in the block. The number of mosquitoes has gone up manyfold in our block. This has created a scare in our block as several residents are already down with Covid-19,” said Nirmal Dasgupta. A civic official said that many contractual labourers who are part of vector control teams have not returned after Durga Puja. “We are expecting them back once Kali Puja is over. We are managing with a smaller workforce.” On Saturday, Metro saw several garbage dumps near City Centre, CGO Complex and on empty plots, where Styrofoam plates and used sanitaryware were dumped. There were piles of garbage all along the banks of the Kestopur canal and mosquitoes were buzzing over the water in the Eastern Drainage Channel. Public health experts have warned that things should not be dumped in places where water can accumulate because they provide an easy breeding ground for mosquitoes. The dengue causing Aedes ageypti mosquito can breed in a coin-sized pool of water. A BMC official said that the civic body had been spraying larvicide and conducting door-to-door dengue surveys. “We are facing the twin challenge of Covid and dengue. We are trying our best to ensure that it does not spiral out of control.” Awareness is key and residents should not allow freshwater to accumulate near or inside their houses, an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-246
08-11-2020||Calcutta||Dakshineswar, Kalighat set Kali Puja rules||The sanctum sanctorum at the Dakshineswar and Kalighat temples will be out of bounds to visitors this Kali Puja, temple authorities and police have decided. Devotees will not be allowed to gather on the temple premises as well throughout the day. Visitors will be scanned and there will be special police arrangements at both the temples to ensure there are not more than 50 people in a queue at any point of time. At Dakshineswar, the puja won’t be live-streamed to giant LED screens at night like previous years to avoid crowds. At Kalighat, no offering will reach the deity from outside. Police officers in Calcutta and the Barrackpore commissionerate have chalked out plans to restrict crowd at both the temples on the day of Kali Puja. Calcutta High Court has said the police will have to ensure “Covid protocol is maintained”. “The local administration and the police will ensure there is no overcrowding within the temple precincts or outside,” the court said on October 5. At Dakshineswar, cops will be posted at the entrance to the skywalk and the main temple to ensure all visitors are in masks and their body temperatures have been scanned by temple committee volunteers. A team of police officers will take their position before the temple opens at 6am to ensure there is no gathering of people at various points, including the dala arcade and the ghats. The nutt-mandir on the temple premises opposite the one that houses the Kali idol will be turned into a “no-entry zone”. Even the Shiva temples on the main temple premises will remain inaccessible to visitors. On Kali Puja, Dakshineswar usually attracts close to 70,000 people on average and people gather at the nutt mandir to catch a glimpse of the idol. Many even sit and pray at the nutt-mandir. “Visitors will not be allowed to stand and watch the puja proceedings from inside the temple complex,” an officer of the Barrackpore commissionerate said. There will be separate entry and exit gates and everyone will be asked to move once they are through with their offerings, the police and the temple administration have decided. “A devotee will keep his/her offering in a basket. The priest at the temple will collect it from the basket and return it to the basket after completing the puja. The devotee will then pick up his/her offering from the basket,” Kushal Chowdhury, secretary of the Dakshineswar Kali Temple Trust, said. “We will tell people this year is different because of the pandemic and everyone will have to adjust to the new normal.” The Panchabati Complex adjoining the temple in Dakshineswar will be shut and no one will be allowed to enter Sri Ramakrishna Paramahamsa’s room to the temple’s north-west. Officers will keep tabs on the crowd count from time to time and all key corners will have police presence. At Kalighat, the police have decided to allow visitors through Gate No. 2. Gate No. 4 to the east of the Sebait ghat will act as the exit gate. Moveable crash barriers have been placed outside both the gates to ensure restricted entry/exit and banners with instructions for the prevention of Covid have been fixed. “We will not allow any offering from outside to touch the deity at the sanctum sanctorum. Unlike previous years no one will be allowed inside to touch Kali Ma,” Bidyut Halder of the Kalighat Temple Committee said. On the day of Kali Puja, cops and members of the Kalighat Temple Committee have decided to open the temple from 6am to 1pm and 4pm to 9pm. Cops will be posted along Kali Temple Road right up to the main temple to prevent crowding of visitors. “CCTV cameras will capture the movement of devotees and there will be cops to ensure no one tries to perform puja outside the temple with a priest,” a city police officer said. “An armed police contingent will be posted around the temple.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-246
08-11-2020||Calcutta||More local trains; from 362 to 700||Rail authorities have decided to increase the number of trains when suburban services resume on Wednesday. The plan was to start with 362 trains — 228 in Sealdah division, 100 in Howrah division and 34 in Kharagpur division. The new plan is to start with close to 700 trains — 410 in Sealdah, 200 in Sealdah and 81 in Kharagpur. The Howrah and Sealdah divisions are with Eastern Railway and the Kharagpur division with South Eastern Railway. South Eastern Railway has already issued a statement saying 81 trains will run from Wednesday. Eastern Railway is still to come up with a formal announcement but rail officials said the number had been increased in anticipation of a rush in passengers from Day 1. The increased number, though, is less than 50 per cent of the number of daily trains that ran in the three divisions before the pandemic. Doctors and public health experts have said a reduced fleet and lack of access control mechanisms at suburban stations would result in more crowds and trigger a surge in the spread of the novel coronavirus. “It would have been difficult to manage the rush with 200 trains. Since there is no way of controlling the access of passengers, we thought we should at least run some more trains,” a rail official in the Sealdah division said. A final set of standard operating procedures for running the trains is expected to be finalised by Monday. Rail officials have maintained the state government will have to work out the modalities of crowd control at stations. Apart from the state police, the RPF and the GRP are expected to be deployed at stations but there is little cops can do, said officials. Local trains in Bengal will run for all passengers. The state government has hinted it would not go for any “exclusionary” tech-based access control method. That means anyone with a valid ticket cannot be stopped from entering a station or boarding a train. Rail officials pleaded helplessness in ensuring a curtailed occupancy of trains. “We can try to ensure that each passenger wears a mask. That’s about it. Any effort to limit the number of people on each train might backfire and trigger a law-and-order problem,” an Eastern Railway official said. The number of trains might go up after a few days but even a short time is enough for the virus to surge, doctors have said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-246
08-11-2020||Calcutta||Bengal regulator stress on ICU beds in private hospitals||Private hospitals should try to increase the number of Covid ICU beds and can think of taking ventilators “on loan”, the chairperson of the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission requested the hospitals on Saturday. The commission will try to arrange ventilators for private hospitals who come forward with a proposal, retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the commission’s chairperson, said in his appeal posted on a WhatsApp group comprising senior officials of private hospitals. The government has decided to give 50 ventilators, which are in its possession but still to be installed anywhere, to private hospitals so that they can increase ICU beds for Covid patients, a government official said. “We have 50 such ventilators.” Banerjee had met senior government officials on Friday where ways to augment beds for Covid patients was discussed. Dedicated government Covid hospitals have 1,090 ventilators while the private hospitals have close to 200 ventilators. There are 3,419 Covid beds in the private hospitals in Calcutta and adjoining areas, a health department official said. Only 868 of these beds were vacant on Friday. There are 13,508 Covid beds in government hospitals, including the private hospitals requisitioned by the government across the state. On Friday, 8,922 covid beds were vacant. “It is clear that there is a high demand for Covid beds in private hospitals. The picture is no different in case of demand for ventilators, too,” the government official said. “Private hospitals or nursing homes have some ventilators but the picture is comparatively better in most government hospitals… patients can get ventilator support in case their condition deteriorates.” The rush of critical patients to private hospitals is high because Calcutta has the highest number of active cases — 7,343 on November 6 — in the state and a large section of patients in the city prefer private hospitals to government ones,” the official said. There are almost no vacant critical care beds in hospitals now, an official of a private hospital said. The demand for critical care beds started to rise from around the time of Durga Puja, Sudipto Mitra, the chief executive officer of Peerless Hospital, said. “Earlier, patients used to visit the hospital the moment they developed some complications. We could treat them early. But now most people visit the hospital only when complications turn severe. There is no option but to admit these patients to the ICU. So, the demand for ICU beds has gone up.” Commission chairperson Banerjee requested hospitals to convert some general beds into ICU ones. “If you sincerely feel there is no scope to increase the number of ICU beds, why not convert some of your general beds to ICU ones or other critical care beds. You send your proposal. I will try my best that you get some ventilators on loan from the government,” he said in his appeal. “It might be so that increasing ICU beds will need considerable financial resources. After Covid you may not need so many ICU beds. You can venture for a temporary conversion like taking ventilators on loan.” Banerjee said Kali Puja, Jagadhatri Puja and Kartick Puja were celebrated with more pomp in some pockets and ICU beds needed to be increased in these places. He mentioned places like Chandernagore, Bansberia and Chinsurah in Hooghly district and Barasat in North 24-Parganas. Besides ventilators, creating new ICU beds will require allied infrastructure like high-flow oxygen and compressed air, officials of several private hospitals said. The circuit for carrying high-flow oxygen into the ICU will need some time to be built. More ICU beds will mean more doctors and nurses who can attend to more critical patients. An official of a hospital said getting more doctors and nurses was the real challenge. Wards with ventilators require uninterrupted power supply because a patient on ventilation support will die if the ventilator switches off for a minute because of a power cut, the official said. If ICU beds are increased in hospitals, such provisions also have to be made, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-247
08-11-2020||Calcutta||Word on street: Wait for a few days, you will get crackers||Several cracker sellers in the city and in the suburbs have been telling people either on the phone or at their shops that they can supply crackers in the next few days. “Koyek din jetey din. Tarpor hobey. Baji paben (Wait for a few days. You will get the crackers),” a 49-year old man sitting on a charpoy inside the courtyard of his house in Dakshindari near Lake Town said. A row of candles and earthen lamps are placed on top of a wooden table but residents of Lake Town and adjoining areas gather at his house for crackers, known for their “eardrum-ringing capabilities”. From chocolate bombs to bigger variants that are tied to tree trunks and lit, everything would be available once police slacken their vigil, the man on the charpoy said as a police jeep drives past. A fireworks seller in Rajarhat’s Lauhati had a similar response. “You have to order and pay at least a day in advance. Once we get the things we will call… you have to pick them up,” he said. The joint secretary of the Burrabazar Fireworks Dealers Association, Shantanu Dutta, said some retailers and small-scale sellers might try to sell fireworks and crackers on the sly. As fireworks sales are centred around Diwali and Kali Puja and a large segment of sellers had already stocked up, they might try to sell them, Dutta said. “They had already invested and bought crackers before the court ruling. Many might try to recover their money,” Dutta said. All wholesalers in Burrabazar and other areas have stopped supplying fireworks after the court order, he said. The wholesalers had ordered the bulk of fireworks from Sivakasi in Tamil Nadu after making payments and are in talks with factory owners there to return them. The prospect of recovering the cost price is bleak, though, as most factory owners have agreed to take back crackers on the condition they will not make full refunds, Dutta said. On Saturday, senior police officers in Calcutta were asked to scale up intelligence and to try and trace firecrackers that may have already found their way to people ahead of the high court ban. The thrust was more on the procured firecrackers than preventing their sale. Apart from the conventional hubs of Canning Street, Old China Bazar Street and Burrabazar, the police are now trying to find out from firecracker sellers in other parts about their customers. “Usually, at the para level, sellers will know who all have bought from them,” an officer overseeing the city’s north division said. “These sellers can tell us about those who have already bought firecrackers. Officers will then visit their homes and seize the firecrackers.” The sale of firecrackers usually starts about a fortnight ahead of Kali Puja across parts of Calcutta. With just a week to go before the puja and Diwali, the festival of lights, officers are now trying to confiscate the ones that have been sold. A formal government notification about the ban on sale and use of firecrackers is still to be issued. But the police have zeroed in on some areas in Calcutta for “flush-out” operations. These include parts of Phoolbagan, Beleghata, Maniktala, Camac Street, Theatre Road, Kasba, Anandapur,  Behala, Thakurpukur, and areas adjoining South 24-Parganas, including Nadial and Garden Reach. “The target is highrises. The details of police deployment for Kali Puja and Diwali is being worked out and officers will start visiting housing complexes in a day or two to remind the associations about the ban on the use and sale of firecrackers,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-247
08-11-2020||Business||Carlsberg auditor quits amid commercial dispute||PwC’s India affiliate has resigned as the auditor of Carlsberg India, declining for a second year in a row to give an opinion on its financial results, the brewer and two people familiar with the matter told Reuters. Denmark’s Carlsberg A/S has been locked in a commercial dispute with its joint venture partner in India, Nepal-based Khetan Group, amid an internal probe into the brewer’s local practices that sparked a boardroom battle and concerns from its auditor. “The divergent views among the Carlsberg India board is the reason for the disclaimer of opinion made by the auditor,” said Steve Deng, corporate affairs director for Carlsberg Asia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-241
08-11-2020||Business||Bansal chips in for Hero EV start-up||Hero MotoCorp-backed electric two-wheeler maker Ather Energy on Saturday said it has raised funds worth $35 million in a funding round led by Flipkart co-founder Sachin Bansal’s investment of $23 million. Besides Bansal, Hero MotoCorp has invested $12 million as part of the Series D round in the EV start-up. This round of investment will allow Ather Energy to accelerate its expansion plans and speed up the deliveries of its electric scooter, Ather 450X, the Bangalore-based start-up said. Ather Energy was one of the earliest start-up investments of Bansal, who chipped in as an angel investor with $0.5 million in the firm in 2014. With this round, Bansal’s total investment in the start-up stands at $53 million. The continued investment by the existing investors is a manifestation of their confidence in the brand and the sector, the release said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-241
08-11-2020||Business||Gland Pharma in cash chase ahead of share sale ||Gland Pharma has raised Rs 1,944 crore from anchor investors ahead of its initial share sale that opens for public subscription on Monday. The anchor investors include the Government of Singapore, Nomura, Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, SBI Mutual Fund, Axis Mutual Fund, SBI Life Insurance Company and Fidelity. ICICI Prudential Mutual Fund, HSBC Global Investment Funds, Small Cap World Fund and The Scottish Oriental Smaller Companies Trust PLC are the other investors. Gland Pharma announced that the IPO committee of its board on November 6 and the selling shareholders in consultation with the book running lead managers to the IPO “finalised the allocation of 1,29,59,089 equity shares in aggregate to anchor investors at an allocation price of Rs 1,500 per equity share’’. Hyderabad-based Gland Pharma is backed by China’s Fosun Pharma. Its initial public offer is the largest by a pharmaceutical company in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-241
08-11-2020||Business||‘Slow pickup in corporate credit likely’||Credit demand from private corporate houses for investment is expected to take longer because of low capacity utilisation in the wake of the Covid pandemic and lockdown affecting business. But working capital requirements could recover sooner, according to SBI chairman Dinesh Khara. Corporate credit demand did not rise in September 2020 compared with a 2.7 per cent growth rate in September 2019, according to RBI data. Speaking at the annual general meeting of the Bengal Chamber of Commerce and Industry on Saturday, Khara said when a credit recovery cycle starts, borrowings in personal accounts tend to go up first. “We are almost back to our pre-Covid number when it comes to retail lending. Similar trends are seen across other banks also,” he said. Corporate credit is a function of both capacity utilisation and demand on ground. With growth in individual demand reflected in the rising e-commerce sales volume, inventory levels of firms are coming down. “Perhaps firms will start utilising their working capital limits,” Khara said. But for lenders credit demand will take longer to come in, especially from private corporates. “Capacity utilisation in the economy stands at around 69 per cent, so investment demand from the private corporate looks quite unlikely for some more time to come. I feel the cash rich public sector entities also would probably embark on their capital expenditure plan. That will be the first lever that will generate investment demand. We are seeing enquiries for brownfield capacities awaiting resolution in NCLT,” he said. The SBI chairman also said that corporates unlike past instances, have become more responsible in leveraging. “In the last couple of years, we have seen people can lose control of their enterprises. That has led to a situation where borrowers have become quite conscious. At a personal level also people are quite mindful about their bureau scores,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-241
08-11-2020||Business||Future Retail files suit in Delhi High Court||Future Retail on Saturday said it has approached the Delhi high court seeking relief against an arbitration order passed by the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) with regard to the Rs 24,713-crore deal with Reliance Industries  (RIL). Future Retail has maintained that the emergency order which puts on hold the sale of its retail assets to Reliance was not “enforceable and binding”, and any move to enforce it would be “resisted”. It had also said that the order is not enforceable under the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 and is not binding on Future Retail. The company had added that it is also in the process of taking appropriate legal action to protect its rights. The Future Group had recently filed a caveat before the Delhi high court requesting it to be heard if any plea is filed by e-commerce giant Amazon. In a regulatory filing to the stock exchanges on Saturday, Future Retail said it has filed a suit in the Delhi high court on Saturday to seek necessary reliefs against Amazon.com NV Investment Holdings LLC from interfering with the transaction by “misusing’’ the interim order passed on October 25 by an Emergency Arbitrator appointed by the SIAC. The date on which the matter will be heard by the Delhi High Court is not known yet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-241
08-11-2020||Business||Goldman to invest in Biocon Biologics ||Goldman Sachs is investing Rs 1,125 crore ($150 million) in Biocon Biologics which will value the latter at $3.94 billion. Biocon Biologics is a subsidiary of Biocon. The Bangalore-based firm on Saturday said the board of its subsidiary approved the capital injection from Goldman Sachs. According to the terms of the proposed agreement, Goldman Sachs will be issued optionally convertible debentures at a post money equity valuation of $3.94 billion. The transaction is subject to customary approvals and conditions. The investment will enable Biocon Biologics to make investments in R&D and high-quality manufacturing as well as establish a global commercial footprint. “We are extremely pleased to welcome a capital injection by Goldman Sachs at this inflection point of Biocon Biologics’ journey in its quest for global leadership in providing affordable access through Biosimilar drugs,” Biocon executive chairperson Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw said. She added that the transaction is part of the overall strategic plan of value creation for the company’s shareholders through Biocon Biologics Biocon Biologics said that it is engaged in developing affordable biosimilars (a drug which is similar to a biologic or medicines that are derived from living organisms) that expand patient access to a class of therapies across the world. The company has one of the largest bio-similar portfolios globally for oncology, immunology and other chronic disease areas. According to Som Krishna, managing director in the merchant banking division at Goldman Sachs, the global growth of biosimilars is taking place at a rapid pace. He added that Biocon Biologics is well positioned to continue to grow and be a major global player in this dynamic segment of the pharmaceutical industry. “With three of our products commercialised in the US market, we continue to strive towards expanding access for our patients and unlocking value for our shareholders. This capital injection by Goldman Sachs will enable us to make prudent investments in R&D, high-quality manufacturing as well as establish a global commercial footprint. The company is confident of achieving the aspiration of serving five million patients through its biosimilar portfolio and attaining a revenue target of $1 billion by 2021-22,” Christiane Hamacher, CEO of Biocon Biologics, said. Shares of Biocon ended with marginal gains of 0.38 per cent at Rs 414.75 on the BSE on Friday. Biocon Biologics has the full spectrum of insulins in its pipeline and the global scale necessary as it looks to make its presence in the anti-diabetic segment. With the demand for biosimilars expected to grow as patents of originator biologics expire and patients demand lower priced drugs, Biocon Biologics added that it is well positioned to expand access.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-241
08-11-2020||India||For years on, Congress-BJP spar over demonetisation ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said demonetisation has helped reduce black money, increase tax compliance and given a boost to transparency on Sunday, the fourth anniversary of the contentious decision to withdraw high value currency notes, as BJP and Congress sparred over its outcome. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi alleged that Modi’s move was aimed at helping a few of his “crony capitalist friends” and had “destroyed” the Indian economy, prompting a strong response from the BJP which said the exercise was an “attack” on corruption and black money that were rampant during the “lost decade” of the Congress-led UPA government. Gandhi and the Congress have been alleging that demonetisation was not in the interest of the people and had adverse effects on the economy, a charge the government has dismissed repeatedly. On November 8, 2016, Modi announced on national television his government’s decision to ban all currency notes of higher denomination of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 from midnight. Taking to Twitter, the Prime Minister listed the beneficial outcomes of demonetisation. “Demonetisation has helped reduce black money, increase tax compliance and formalisation and given a boost to transparency,” he said. “These outcomes have been greatly beneficial towards national progress,” Modi said using the hashtag ‘DeMolishingCorruption’. Along with his tweet, the Prime Minister also shared a graphic on how demonetisation has ensured better tax compliance, improved tax and GDP ratio, made India a lesser cash based economy and gave a boost to national security. But in a video released as part of the Congress’ online ‘SpeakUpAgainstDeMoDisaster’ campaign, Gandhi said the question was how the economy of Bangladesh “surpassed” the Indian economy as there was a time when India used to be one of the most high performing economies of the world. “The government says that the reason is Covid but if that is the reason, there is Covid in Bangladesh and elsewhere in the world also. The reason is not Covid, the reason is ‘Notebandi’ and GST,” Gandhi said in Hindi. “Four years ago Prime Minister Narendra Modi began an assault on the Indian economy. He hurt farmers, labourers and small shopkeepers. Manmohan Singh ji said the economy will lose two per cent and that is what we saw,” the former Congress chief said. “The Prime Minister had stated that it is a fight against black money, but it was not so,” he added. “This was a lie. The attack was on you, Modi wanted to take your money and give it to his 2-3 crony capitalist friends. You stood in lines, not his crony capitalist friends. You put your money in banks and PM Modi gave that money to his friends and gave them a loan waiver of Rs 3,50,000 crore,” Gandhi alleged, but did not provide any evidence to support his claim on loan waiver. Hitting back, the BJP said demonetisation was good for the country and resulted in cleaning up of the economy, formalisation of the informal sector and revenue aggregation. “Demonetisation had dealt a body blow to the systemic financial corruption and black money economy. Since then, it has simultaneously invigorated formal economy and brought unprecedented financial benefits to all sections of society,” BJP national spokesperson Rajeev Chandrasekhar told a press conference at the party's headquarters in Delhi. “If there is anybody who shouldn't talk about loot, mismanagement of the economy it should be people from the Congress. During the last decade of the Congress-led UPA government, there was rampant black money and corruption in the country's economy.” The Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) was in power at the Centre for two terms from 2004 to 2014. “Demonetisation had three significant and tangible impacts ‑ cleaning up of the economy, formalisation of the informal sector as it helped us to reach the poor and needy, and revenue aggregation,” Chandrasekhar said. Congress leader P. Chidambaram said the BJP-led NDA government did great harm to India's economy on November 8, 2016. “The first lesson every ruler and every government must learn is ‑even if you do not do good to the people, do not do harm,” the former finance minister said. Congress general secretary Ajay Maken alleged that the Modi government has continuously changed the explanatory reasons for carrying out demonetisation and it has “destroyed” the economy. The Congress observed the fourth anniversary of demonetisation as “Vikshwasghaat Diwas (Betrayal Day)” and ran a social media campaign ‘SpeakUpAgainstDeMoDisaster’. Maken quoted former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s remarks on November 24, 2016, to hit out at the government. “The way this scheme has been implemented - is a monumental management failure, and in fact, it is a case of organised loot, legalised plunder of the common people,” Maken quoted. “Modi ji’s government continuously changed the explanatory reasons for carrying out demonetization,” Maken added. The Congress leader said that at different points, these were  to counter black money and corruption, to stem out fake or “counterfeit” currency, for a “digital or cashless” economy, to tackle Maoism, terrorism and separatism, to bring idle savings into banks, to expand and deepen the tax base, to arrive at a bigger, cleaner and real GDP and for faster economic growth, to bring down real estate prices and to partner with the GST. Maken also made a point by point rebuttal of the various objectives cited for demonetisation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-571
08-11-2020||India||Army officer, 3 soldiers martyred in Machil||An army officer and three security personnel including a Border Security Force (BSF) constable were killed during and anti-terror operation along the Line of Control (LoC) in Machil sector of Jammu  & Kashmir’s Kupwara district. The militants made an abortive bid during the night to infiltrate into the Indian side of the LoC in Machil sector in north Kashmir's Kupwara district. According to the infiltrators were challenged and three of them were killed However, three Army soldiers, including an officer, and a Border Security Force (BSF) jawan were also killed during the operation, said the officials. Meanwhile, Srinagar-based defence spokesperson Col Rajesh Kalia said at about 1 am, a BSF patrol noticed suspicious movement near the Anti-Infiltration Obstacle System (LoC fence), about 3.5 km from the LoC. “The BSF personnel challenged the infiltrators and a battle ensued, in which a militant was killed,” he said. “A BSF soldier was killed in action (KIA) and the firefight stopped at 0400 hours,” Col Kalia said in a statement. According to him more troops were rushed to the area and the movement of the militants was tracked with the help of surveillance devices. “Contact was re-established at 1020 hours when heavy fire was drawn by own search parties approximately 1.5 km from the LoC. In the ensuing firefight, two more terrorists were killed. Own troops suffered three KIA and two injured,” added Col Kalia. He informed that the injured soldiers have been evacuated and that the operation is in progress and further details are awaited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-571
08-11-2020||India||Former IAS officer Sasikanth Senthil to join Congress||S. Sasikanth Senthil, former Karnataka-cadre IAS officer, who had tendered his resignation last year stating that it was “unethical” for him to continue as a public servant, when democracy was being compromised in India, has announced to join the Congress party on Sunday. The former officer had participated in many protests against the government, including the anti-NRC/CAA agitations, since his resignation. Senthil, was the Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada district when he resigned in September 2019. He recalled he had said while leaving service that “fundamental building blocks of our diverse democracy are being compromised in an unprecedented manner.” In a statement uploaded on his official Twitter handle, Senthil said, “Congress party is aware of the challenges that the 21st century poses for India and the world and is ready to find solutions alongside the people of the country.” “In the coming days, I look forward to building this organisation by travelling to corners of the country to spread the message of our Constitution and understanding our people and pondering on ways to make their lives better,” he said while elaborating on what to expect from him in the future. The former bureaucrat maintained that the Congress party as a movement has been consistent with the founding ideologies of the Constitution and that the “current leadership understands the spirit of this ideological fight and recognises that India has to be for all”. Senthil maintained that Tamil Nadu “is the final frontier” for divisive forces, adding Tamil people always believed in “social equity”. Senthil then stated, “I will stand with them until my last breath to protect these core values of Tamil Nadu. I have remained an activist at heart and will continue to do so within the Congress party also.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-572
08-11-2020||India||Modi inaugurates Ro-Pax ferry service in Gujarat today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated a Ro-Pax ferry service between Hazira near Surat and Ghogha in Bhavnagar district today. The service will reduce the 375 km road distance between Bhavnagar and Surat to 90 km by sea route, Modi said while flagging off the service via video conferencing. It will save time and fuel, and boost eco and religious tourism in the Saurashtra region of the state, a release issued by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) earlier said. The three-deck Ro-Pax Ferry Vessel 'Voyage Symphony' connecting Hazira in Surat district of south Gujarat and Ghogha in Saurashtra's Bhavnagar has a load capacity of 30 trucks, 100 passenger cars, and 500 passengers plus 34 crew and hospitality staff, it said. The Ro-Pax terminal has wide-ranging facilities, including an administrative office building, a parking area, a sub-station, and a water tower. The ferry will make three trips daily, the release said, adding that 5 lakh passengers will be transported annually besides 80,000 passenger vehicles, 50,000 two-wheelers and 30,000 trucks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-572
08-11-2020||India||BJP chooses 70 leaders to monitor work of civic bodies’ councilors ensuring cleanliness drive in Delhi||The Delhi BJP will start monitoring the performance of councilors in the three-party-ruled municipal corporations from Monday in a bid to give the city a "neat, clean and festive" look before Diwali and Chhath. The party has deployed 70 senior leaders in each Assembly segment to coordinate with local BJP councilors to ensure cleanliness at public places, main roads, markets, parks, religious places and cleaning of drains and urinals, Delhi BJP vice president Virendra Sachdeva said. "The move is inspired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi's emphasis on cleanliness and to promote a healthy competition among the BJP councilors to make their wards best in terms of sanitation during the festival season," he said. For three days beginning Monday, the party leaders will assess the performance of BJP councilors in their wards by checking the cleanliness of roads, parks and other public places, Sachdeva, who is the convener of the program, said. "The performance of councilors will be assessed and the best three of them in each of the three municipal corporations, who score the highest out of hundred marks, will be felicitated by party president Adesh Gupta," he said. The BJP had won 181 of the 270 municipal wards in 2017 polls and rules the three civic bodies in the city. The civic bodies are tasked to keep the city clean besides providing basic education and health facilities. Sachdeva said the special drive will ensure that city remains neat and clean during Diwali, Chhath and the upcoming festivals. The Delhi BJP leaders will also guide the councilors about steps to improve and maintain cleanliness in the wards, he added. The team of leaders deployed for monitoring the work of councilors includes many who have a long experience of working at the municipal corporations and other bodies besides serving as office-bearers in the party organization, Sachdeva said. Delhi BJP general secretaries Kuljeet Chahal (Karawal Nagar), Harsh Malhotra (Viswhas Nagar), vice presidents Virendra Shacdeva (Krishna Nagar), Ashok Goel Devraha (Rajendra Nagar) and Sunil Yadav (Patel Nagar), former MLA Subhash Sachdeva (Rajouri Garden), former mayor and general secretary Ravinder Gupta (Sadar Bazar), spokespersons Pravin Shankar Kapoor (Kasturba Nagar), Harish Khurana (Tilak Nagar) and Aditya Jha (Ghonda), are among the 70 leaders chosen for the monitoring work, he informed. The objective of the drive is to ensure that garbage and construction debris that are often dumped at open spaces, roadsides and drains is promptly cleared, regular garbage collection from markets and residential areas and cleaning of main drains so that people can see the change for themselves, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-572
08-11-2020||India||Father Stan Swamy has to go to court for a straw ||When Father Stan Swamy, the 83-year-old tribal rights activist, was arrested in haste in Ranchi in the Bhima Koregaon case and taken to Mumbai last month, he had carried a bag with him. In the bag was a sipper with a straw, which he needs to consume liquids. Father Stan suffers from several age-related ailments apart from Parkinson’s, which has left him unable to hold any open liquid container like a cup or a mug without spilling the contents. No one knows what happened to the sipper and straw in the bag. On Friday, Father Stan applied to a special NIA (National Investigation Agency) court in Mumbai seeking a straw and a sipper cup. “I cannot hold a glass as my hands are unsteady due to Parkinson’s,” his plea said, referring to a debilitating disorder of the central nervous system that can cause muscular spasms, making even everyday activities difficult to execute. Sharif Sheikh, the priest’s lawyer, told The Telegraph on Saturday: “Everything was in the bag when he was arrested. That bag is with the NIA. Yesterday, the court directed them to hand it over to him.... They (NIA) did not say why it was not given.” He could not confirm whether the bag still contained the sipper with a straw the priest had put in it. The court, whose permission is required for materials to be sent in from outside jail premises, set the next hearing for November 26, PTI reported. Later on Saturday, Satej D. Patil, minister of state for home in Maharashtra where the Congress is a ruling partner, tweeted that “necessary care has been taken regarding providing of straw and proper medical attention has also been provided as per prison rules”. After the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government had come to power in the state, the NIA, a central agency, had taken over the case. Previously, the special NIA court had rejected the priest’s plea for bail, sought on health grounds, after the prison authorities said he had been lodged in a special cell at the jail’s health facility that was equipped to take care of him. Father Stan, arrested by the NIA on October 8, is lodged at Taloja Central Prison in Navi Mumbai, accused of Maoist links along with 12 other rights activists, lawyers, academics and litterateurs. Three women accused – lawyer Sudha Bharadwaj, professor Shoma Sen, and singer Jyoti Jagtap – are in Byculla District Prison in Mumbai. “It is sad that Father Stan Swamy has to move the court for permission to use a straw to drink water or any liquid. Are the administrators of the jail department and especially the DG, Prisons so bereft of human compassion that they cannot provide straws to the old and ailing prisoner?” P. Chidambaram, Congress leader and former Union finance minister, tweeted. Some jails in the country, notorious for human rights violations, have been particularly harsh on prisoners of conscience. G.N. Saibaba, the jailed former Delhi University professor, has been put on an IV drip after he went on a hunger strike for 10 days demanding access to letters and books, his wife A.S. Vasantha told this newspaper on Saturday. Vasantha said Saibaba told her this over a phone call on Friday. She added that he had called off his strike after officials agreed to several of his demands and included physiotherapy as recommended by doctors. Saibaba, 53, is serving a life sentence in Nagpur for links to the banned CPI Maoist. He is paralysed below his waist because of polio, and his family says his arms are getting paralysed following irregular medical treatment in jail. Chidambaram, who was forced to spend over 100 days in jail last year as an accused in a money-laundering case, asked a question on Tuesday. “Why did NIA ask for 20 days’ time to respond to the application in court? Will NIA appoint a committee to do research on ‘straw’ and its use by human beings? A country that deals with persons in judicial custody as if they were convicted prisoners has thrown human rights into the rubbish pit.” It’s not that members of the Narendra Modi government have never been known to express sympathy for people taken into custody. Several senior ministers, including home minister Amit Shah, had only days ago slammed the arrest of Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami in an abetment-to-suicide case. Goswami had been named in the purported suicide note. Shortly after the arrests in 2018, when the BJP ruled the state, a group of retired civil servants had written an open letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying the accused had been framed to “promote partisan politics at the cost of justice”. Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren had condemned the arrest of Father Stan, who has during the decades spent in Jharkhand striven to empower tribal communities, helped protect their land rights and challenged the indiscriminate arrest of young tribal men under the false charge of being “Naxals”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-572
08-11-2020||India||Bombay High Court reserves order on Arnab Goswami plea||Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami, arrested on November 4 in an abetment of suicide case, failed to get relief on Saturday as the Bombay High Court reserved its order on his appeal. “We will pass the order at the earliest,” the court said after a marathon hearing. It added that Goswami was free to move the sessions court for regular bail in the meantime. If a bail plea is filed, then the sessions court shall decide it within four days, it said. A division bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and M.S. Karnik heard the arguments of the petitioners Goswami, Feroze Shaikh and Nitesh Sarda on interim bail. It said it would hear their petition on quashing of the FIR on December 10. Elsewhere, the Raigad sessions court said it will hear on November 9 the police’s appeal against a magistrate’s order denying them the custody of Goswami and the two other accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-572
08-11-2020||India||Joke is on you, Modi — Ab ki baar…? Grin and bear Biden||How do you get over the parroting of the slogan “Ab ki baar Trump sarkar” a little over a year ago? Answer: Ask the BJP IT Cell to dig out a 2014 clip of Joe Biden praising Narendra Modi after hosting a lunch during the Prime Minister’s US visit. As Biden stands poised to become America’s 46th President, early signs of a recalibration in the Modi government’s ecosystem to manage the optics became visible on Saturday. Amit Malviya, in charge of the BJP’s IT cell, sought to set the tone by pulling out the Biden clip from September 2014. “The Left cabal in India that is hallucinating of a blow to Modi if Biden was to be elected the President of the United States should listen to what he had to say... (smiley emoji) It may upset them no end,” Amit Malviya tweeted. No one expects a drastic change in the trajectory of the bilateral relationship, bolstered by bipartisan support in Washington and favoured by exigency — given America’s power competition with China. However, with Biden expected to reclaim America’s position as moral policeman of the world, the Modi government faces the possibility of losing the level of comfort it had with the Trump administration on human rights issues. But first things first. Ever since Biden took the pole position, video clips of a speech Modi made in Houston in September 2019 have bounced back on social media. It shows Prime Minister Modi speaking with Trump standing nearby on the stage. “Friends, we in India have connected well with President Trump, the words of candidate Trump, ab ki baar, Trump sarkar,” Modi is heard saying. The Opposition in India had accused the government of violating a time-honoured foreign policy principle of not interfering in another country’s domestic politics. Foreign minister S. Jaishankar had in reply invoked the technicality that Modi was simply quoting what Trump had said during his 2016 campaign when he had reworked Modi’s 2014 Lok Sabha election slogan to woo the Indian diaspora. But that technicality was lost on Trump's campaign team, which saw the entire event as an endorsement by Modi of the President. “President @realDonaldTrump received the endorsement of Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi as they shared a stage in Houston, walking hand in hand... to address more than 50,000 Indian Americans!!” tweeted Kayleigh McEnany, national press secretary for the President's 2020 campaign, after the Howdy Modi event. McEnany went on to become the White House press secretary. Team Trump, “the official Twitter for the Trump campaign”, had said: “President @realDonaldTrump received the endorsement of Indian Prime Minister Modi!” It posted a Bloomberg article titled “India’s PM endorses Trump to Indian Americans” with a picture of the Prime Minister and the President in a bear hug. Despite this, the Modi government went ahead and hosted a similar event in Ahmedabad for Trump on his maiden visit to India in February this year. Although there was no repeat of the slogan, the trappings of the event were straight out of a Trump campaign rally, down to the songs that were played. Again, Trump’s team portrayed this as an endorsement, as was evident from the campaign video that was officially launched in August in the US to reach out to the Indian diaspora. On human rights, Trump seldom gave India any grief for moving away from the democratic values that both countries claim to hold dear, whether on the prolonged Kashmir lockdown or the contentious citizenship law. Although Republicans in the US Congress have voiced concern on both counts, Washington under Trump practically gave the Modi government a free pass. Things could be different under Biden, going by what is stated on his campaign website as the agenda for Muslim American communities. “In Kashmir, the Indian government should take all necessary steps to restore rights for all the people of Kashmir. Restrictions on dissent, such as preventing peaceful protests or shutting or slowing down the Internet, weaken democracy,” it goes. “Joe Biden has been disappointed by the measures that the government of India has taken with the implementation and aftermath of the National Register of Citizens in Assam and the passage of the Citizenship Amendment Act into law. These measures are inconsistent with the country’s long tradition of secularism and with sustaining a multi-ethnic and multi-religious democracy.” Biden’s running mate Kamala Harris too has been vocal on Kashmir, which explains the less than lukewarm reaction across the BJP ecosystem to her selection for the position in August despite her Indian origins. Without going into the dilution of Article 370, she had spoken up for Kashmiris in September 2019. “We have to remind the Kashmiris that they are not alone in the world. We are all watching. There is a need to intervene if the situation demands,” she was quoted as saying by US-based media. Two other contenders for the Democratic presidential ticket — Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren — too had raised the plight of Kashmiris during the contest for the nomination, which suggests this is an issue the incoming administration is unlikely to ignore. It also raises questions about the wisdom of not just investing so much in Trump — that too at a personal level by Modi by hosting two Make-America-Great-Again-style rallies for him when the US was in its presidential election cycle — but also of foreign minister S. Jaishankar trying to brazen it out in Washington. In December, Jaishankar had cancelled a meeting with a US Congressional delegation after it refused to exclude Indian American Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal, who has been particularly vociferous against the Modi government taking India away from its constitutional path and foundational values. Jayapal had also moved a bipartisan resolution in the House of Representatives criticising the Kashmir clampdown. Jaishankar’s act secured the resolution 10 more co-sponsors — all Democrats. All this prompted many to question the wisdom of antagonising America’s Opposition party in an election year. Jayapal has just been re-elected to the House. Harris had not minced words while criticising Jaishankar’s move. “It’s wrong for any foreign government to tell Congress what members are allowed in meetings on Capitol Hill. I stand with @RepJayapal and I’m glad her colleagues in the House did too,” she had tweeted. Democrats are expected to be less strident in office, but the party tends to lean more towards liberalism than the conservative Republicans. Modi, however, had also tried to build camaraderie with the 44th President, Barack Obama, and can be expected to do so with Biden.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-572
08-11-2020||India||Covid: Decline slows, surge in 2 states worrying||After steadily shrinking for eight weeks, India’s coronavirus disease epidemic is showing a slowdown in its pace of decline in multiple states, fresh surges in two states, and early deaths in at least one state, health experts said. The seven-day average of new cases detected daily nationwide has remained stable over the past week, falling to 46,423 on November 6 from 46,610 a week ago on October 30, after a much sharper fall since a mid-September peak of 93,000 daily average cases. Health experts have cautioned that a week’s trend line is too short for inferences about the country’s Covid-19 epidemic curve but said there are worrying signals of surges in Haryana and Telangana after Delhi’s third epidemic peak. Each successive peak in Delhi has been marked by higher number of daily cases detected — the seven-day average was around 3,400 daily new cases in mid-June, 4,400 in mid-September and 6,000 cases over the past week. In Haryana, the average daily cases has increased from 1,200 in mid-October to over 1,800, while Telangana’s counts have increased from 1,250 to 1,400, both over the past week. In Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh, the pace of decline has slowed down. “The daily counts are still falling, but the rate of decline has slowed down in several states,” said D.C.S. Reddy, a community medicine specialist in Lucknow and a member of an Indian Council of Medical Research expert group on Covid-19 surveillance. “People have to realise that they have to protect themselves through their own behaviour,” Reddy told The Telegraph. He emphasised the need for people to wear masks, adopt physical distancing norms and avoid crowds to minimise their risk of picking up the infection. A senior health official had expressed concern on Friday that in parts of Chhattisgarh, 34 per cent, or nearly one in three Covid-19 patients, have died within 24 hours of hospital admission. Health officials have iterated the need for an early diagnosis and rigorous monitoring of patients with mild symptoms at home so that they are moved to hospital quickly if their symptoms turn moderate or severe. India on Saturday recorded 50,356 new Covid-19 cases, raising the country’s lab-confirmed cases to over 8.46 million, of whom 7.81 million patients have recovered and 125,562 have died. The country had over 516,000 active patients on Saturday, about half of a peak count of a million in mid-September. Medical experts believe air pollution in northern India coupled with lower temperatures along with unprotected exposure to crowds are likely contributors to the spikes in Delhi and Haryana. “What we’re now witnessing in Delhi is the impact of people’s behaviour — irresponsible behaviour comes with a cost,” said Oommen John, a physician and senior research fellow at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. John said the reasons for the continued declining trend in large swathes across rural areas in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh amid the rise in Delhi, Haryana or Telangana should be probed through research. “Is there low-level transmission going on there that doesn’t lead to surges? It is possible, but needs research.” An epidemiological analysis by Sitabhra Sinha, a senior scientist at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai, has found that Delhi, Calcutta and Pune continue to have a high speed of spread of the infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-572
08-11-2020||India||Kerala MLA held in jewellery scam||A Kerala lawmaker was arrested on Saturday for cheating people who invested in a gold scheme run by his jewellery group. M.C. Kamaruddin, Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) lawmaker who represents Manjeshwar in Kasaragod, was arrested in four of the 115 cases booked against him. Over 800 depositors had accused him of cheating them of Rs 150 crore. The remaining cases are in various stages of investigation. The arrest came five hours after he was summoned for interrogation at the Kasaragod police headquarters. A district court in Kasaragod remanded Kamaruddin to 14 days in judicial custody. He was booked under IPC Sections 420 (cheating) and 34 (common intent) and could be jailed for seven years if convicted. Sources said police had summoned the firm’s managing director P.T. Pookoya Thangal, also an IUML leader from Kasaragod. Kamaruddin had allegedly cheated depositors who invested in his Fashion Gold Jewellery that offered investment schemes. After launching his gold business in 2013, Kamaruddin started the investment schemes for common people and allegedly mobilised depositors using his clout as an IUML leader. A huge majority of the defrauded investors were sympathisers of the party with a significant presence in northern Kerala. But the firm allegedly stopped payment of interests about a year ago. The company even shuttered its three outlets in Kasaragod and one in Kannur in January this year leading to a scramble by the investors to get their money back. The company then issued cheques to many of the aggrieved investors. But the cheques carried false signature of the managing director. The case had put the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) on the defensive at a time when the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) was battling several fronts opened by a gold smuggling case. An influential IUML leader, Kamaruddin, was elected to the Assembly in a bypoll held last year. With a large number of complainants being IUML sympathisers, the party had stepped in about six weeks ago when Kamaruddin was told to clear all the dues in six months. While the IUML even formed a committee in a last ditch attempt to make Kamaruddin pay the depositors, it had made it clear that only the lawmaker was responsible for his woes. But Kamaruddin allegedly liquidated all the assets leaving no chance for any repayment. He allegedly invested in real estate ignoring the solution suggested by his party. Kamaruddin termed the arrest as “politically motivated” and said he was working on clearing the dues to his depositors. “The government is covering up its own issues… this is politically motivated,” he said while being taken for the mandatory medical tests at the Kasaragod general hospital. The arrest came as a blow to the party, which is the second-largest constituent of the UDF that was aiming to do well in the local body polls scheduled in December. Congress leaders, however, sought to downplay the arrest and maintained that law would take its course. “The Congress only wants to say let law take its course,” state Congress president Mullapally Ramachandran told reporters after the arrest. UDF convener M.M. Hassan echoed Ramachandran’s view but questioned the timing of the arrest. “The timing of the arrest has a political motive,” he said alluding to how the LDF government has been on the defensive ever since the gold bust on July 5. The gold case had led to sustained interrogation and later arrest of M. Sivasankar. Although the government was quick to suspend him after his links with some of the key accused in the gold smuggling case became clear, his recent arrest in a money-laundering case had put the LDF under pressure. CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan’s son Bineesh was also arrested in Bangalore over a money-laundering case linked to a drug racket, which had put the ruling party on the back foot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-572
08-11-2020||India||Jammu and Kashmir alliance to contest elections||Jammu and Kashmir’s seven-party alliance on Saturday decided to unitedly contest the maiden District Development Council (DDC) elections in the Union Territory, partly shunning its two-year election boycott to prevent the BJP from capturing the political space in the region. The People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, which comprises major political parties of the UT including National Conference and People’s Democratic Party and is fighting for the restoration of Article 370, said all its constituents unanimously chose to contest. “The PAGD has unanimously decided to fight the DDC elections unitedly. Despite the abruptness of the DDC elections in terms of timing, it is important that this sacred space in democracy is not allowed to be invaded n (and) marauded by divisive forces,” the alliance said in a statement issued after a meeting held in the Jammu region. The alliance was floated recently but all its members had boycotted the local body elections in 2018 and 2019 in anticipation of the Centre’s plans to scrap J&K’s special status. The BJP, which had no presence in large parts of Jammu and Kashmir, took advantage of their absence and could win many seats, uncontested or with minimal participation. The alliance has belied expectations of many in J&K who were expecting them to take a more hard-line position on elections as long as Article 370 and statehood is restored. Some even expected them to follow into the footsteps of Hurriyat by completely boycotting all elections. “But that won’t be easy because that means helping the BJP capture all the space for electoral politics in Jammu and Kashmir. The parties unanimously decided to contest the elections,” a source said. The UT will hold its first DDC polls from November 28 to December 22 in eight phases. In October, the central government amended The Jammu and Kashmir Panchayati Raj Act, 1989, to establish development councils in all its 20 districts. Every district will be divided into 14 territorial constituencies, with elections in total 280 constituencies. Elections are also being held simultaneously in 228 vacant seats in urban local bodies and 13,241 panch and sarpanch seats that were left vacant as no candidates came forward to contest following the boycott by major parties. PDP spokesman Firdous Tak said the alliance has not taken any decision on contesting Assembly or parliamentary elections. “The decision will be taken on those elections when the time comes. We are only contesting DDC elections. So far as elections to leftover panchayats or municipal bodies are concerned, they are being contested on non-party basis,” Tak told The Telegraph. “What makes this election is unique is that we will field joint candidates and won’t be contesting against each other. The candidates will be announced by (NC president) Farooq Abdullah sahib (who heads the alliance) in the coming days.” A source said they expect a huge success which will “negate all the propaganda” of the BJP that people in J&K are happy with the abrogation of Article 370 and the changes in land and domicile laws. The source said the alliance leadership has met delegations in Srinagar and in Jammu and the announcement was a result of the deliberations. Apart from the NC and the PDP, other parties in the alliance include the CPM, the CPI, the J&K People’s Conference, the Awami National Conference and the People’s Movement. The Congress was also part of last year’s Gupkar declaration which had vowed to fight proposed changes in J&K’s special status. The party has, however, not joined the alliance. Separately, the J&K Congress also announced to contest the DDC and local body polls. The participation is likely to deal a major blow to the BJP’s plans to make inroads in non-Hindu belts of the UT. Muslims form nearly 70 per cent of the population and many believe the abrogation of Article 370 is aimed at changing the Muslim-majority character of the region. “Our participation does not in any way prove that we have diluted our stand for the restoration of the state’s special status. We do not want to give the BJP a free run and help its propaganda that its win was an approval of what they did on August 5 last year,” a source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-572
08-11-2020||India||‘Chitti’ in Narendra Modi’s message to Kamala Harris||Prime Minister Narendra Modi reached out to the incoming administration in Washington soon after midnight with a tweet each to congratulate President-elect Joe Biden and his running mate Kamala Harris on their election. “Congratulations @JoeBiden on your spectacular victory! As the VP, your contribution to strengthening Indo-US relations was critical and invaluable. I look forward to working closely together once again to take India-US relations to greater heights,” the Prime Minister tweeted along with a 2014 photograph of him with the President-elect. In another tweet, the Prime Minister congratulated Harris: “Heartiest congratulations @KamalaHarris! Your success is pathbreaking, and a matter of immense pride not just for your chittis, but also for all Indian-Americans. I am confident that the vibrant India-US ties will get even stronger with your support and leadership.” There was no picture accompanying the tweet but the reference to “chittis (aunts)” brought up the special connection that an Indian premier can claim over other world leaders who had already wished the duo. Harris had referred to her “chittis” in her nomination acceptance speech.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-572
08-11-2020||India||Vaccine unit soon in Bhubaneswar||Odisha plans to set up an advanced vaccine manufacturing unit at Andharua on the outskirts of the city. The unit will work on the innovation and production of improved vaccines for different diseases, including malaria and Covid-19. The state government on Saturday inaugurated the Virus Research and Diagnostic laboratory at the SCB Medical College and Hospital, Cuttack. Hyderabad-based M/s Bharat Biotech International Ltd (BBIL) will play the sheet-anchor’s role in setting up a ‘state of art’ biotech incubation centre in the state where common facilities and an IT corridor will also be set up to promote local start-ups. The Odisha government will provide full support to entrepreneurs willing to invest in these areas. The decision to open a vaccine manufacturing unit comes at a time when the state is battling the corona pandemic and scouting for a potent vaccine against the disease. Health workers will be given the vaccine on a priority basis once it is available. Covid-19 has so far claimed 1,410 lives, including doctors, public representatives, police personnel and journalists. These decisions were taken at a high-level meeting chaired by chief secretary Asit Tripathy on Friday evening. He directed officials to commence ground level construction work for these projects within a fortnight so that production could commence within schedule time. “We have already identified the land. For the Biotech Park land is available at Andharua. The building plan as per the design has also been approved,” said secretary Skill Development and Technical Education and Chairman & MD, Odisha Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation (IDCO), Sanjay Kumar Singh. Officials said that required statutory clearances and pollution control board permission has been availed for setting up the vaccine unit. “The start-ups in Odisha are doing well and many of them have already acquired patents for their innovations. As of now around 774 start-ups are operating in various incubation centers out of which around 65 incubates have acquired patent, trademark and copyright. Around 75 start-ups are incubating in biotech and health sector,” said secretary, science and technology, Santosh Sarangi. Chairman and MD BBIL Dr Krishna Ella said, “Ours is a multidimensional biotechnology company specializing in manufacture of vaccines and bio-therapeutics. The company has taken up the development and production of new or improved vaccines against severe Rotavirus Diarrhoea, Malaria, Japanese Encephalitis, Rabies, Pandemic Influenza and drug resistant Staphylococcus aureus. The unit at Andharua in Bhubaneswar will produce ten types of vaccines, including malaria and Covid vaccine. The total investment will be around Rs 300 crore. Best possible technology will be used in this unit.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-573
08-11-2020||India||Bihar exit polls put Tejashwi Yadav ahead||Exit polls on the Bihar Assembly elections, for which polling ended on Saturday, have predicted that Nitish Kumar could lose the chief minister’s chair to 31-year-old Tejashwi Yadav. The numbers put out by the pollsters varied but they all gave a clear lead to the Mahagathbandhan of the RJD, Congress and the Left parties over the National Democratic Alliance. Exit polls have in the past gone both wrong and right and the picture will be clear only on Tuesday when the votes are counted. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had led the NDA’s campaign, addressing a dozen rallies and even writing a last-minute letter to Bihar’s voters appealing for support for Nitish. The BJP has been hoping to emerge as the single largest party in Bihar. The exit poll by Today’s Chanakya for CNN-News 18 projected a figure of just 55 (+/-11) seats for the NDA. It gave 180 seats (+/-11) to the Mahagathbandhan, which would be a landslide victory. The number of seats in the Assembly is 243. Axis My India for India Today TV gave 161 seats to the Mahagathbandhan, again a big victory. Chirag Paswan’s LJP, seen as the B-team of the BJP, was forecast to pick up only a handful of seats. But the big story coming out of the exit polls could be the emergence of jailed RJD boss Lalu Prasad’s younger son Tejashwi as the new leader of the state. Axis My India found that he was the most preferred candidate for the chief minister’s post, with 44 per cent respondents backing him. Nitish came second, with 37 per cent support. If the polls turn out right on Tuesday, it would mean that youths across castes had backed Tejashwi, who had made unemployment the central issue this election.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-573
08-11-2020||West Bengal||Dilip’s defence angers tribals||Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh on Saturday said his party considered the hunter’s statue in Bankura as that of tribal icon Birsa Munda because home minister Amit Shah had paid floral tributes to it. Tribal residents and leaders, however, did not endorse Ghosh’s claim and said it “added insult to injury”. Shah on Thursday paid floral tributes to the statue of an anonymous tribal hunter that the BJP leaders mistook as that of Birsa Munda. The statue was garlanded by BJP leaders 30 minutes before Shah’s arrival and a portrait of Birsa Munda placed at its feet following calls from tribal representatives to the saffron leadership about the mistake. “We see him (Birsa Munda) as a freedom fighter...Home minister has garlanded the statue. We also kept a portrait of Birsa Munda there and he (Shah) garlanded it. We considered the statue as that of Birsa Munda and paid our tribute. The statue will be of Birsa Munda from today after the announcement by our home minister even if they (the state government) did not name it... everyone has to accept it,” Ghosh said at a news meet. Ghosh also claimed the area had been named Birsa Munda More by the Trinamul-run zilla parishad, and a small statue of Birsa removed and the new one installed. “It would be better for BJP leaders to admit their mistake,” said a member of tribal outfit Bharat Jakat Majhi Pargana Mahal in Bankura, Sangiri Hembram. For the 12th successive day since Durga Puja, Bengal on Saturday logged a drop in total active cases. Bengal logged 3,928 new cases and 4,339 recoveries on Saturday. It reported 58 deaths, including 20 from Calcutta, taking the toll to 6,069. Though the total number of infections went past 4 lakh, at 4.01 lakh, there are 35,088 active cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-317
08-11-2020||West Bengal||NFR plans to resume Toy Train services||Officials of the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) have started taken initiatives to resume toy train services of the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR), as tourists have started visiting the hills. Toy Train services had been suspended since March this year because of the Covid-19 induced lockdown. On Saturday, R.K. Verma, the divisional railway manager of Katihar division of the NFR, visited Kurseong, the hill town that houses the headquarters of the DHR. “Toy Train services had stopped because of the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown that was clamped across the country. During this period, we have regularly carried out maintenance works of the rail tracks and other properties. As the tourists are gradually turning up in hills, we want the Toy Train services to resume and are waiting for necessary consent from the state government. We have already communicated with the state on the issue,” he said. On Saturday morning, Verma reached New Jalpaiguri from Katihar and inspected the DHR tracks and the rolling stock at the NJP and Siliguri Junction. He then left for Kurseong. Sources said that Sanjive Roy, the general manager of the NFR, would also visit the hills next week to inspect the tracks, the DHR workshop and other infrastructure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-317
08-11-2020||West Bengal||Onus to strengthen BJP on MPs||Union home minister Amit Shah asked 18 BJP MPs from Bengal to take charge of one Lok Sabha seat each in addition to their own constituencies to bolster its organisation ahead of the Bengal Assembly polls. “Amitji is giving a lot of responsibility to the elected MPs and at times more than the state unit leaders,” a senior BJP leader said. “He has asked all party MPs to visit all Assembly segments in their constituencies.... Besides, sitting MPs will take charge of at least an additional Lok Sabha seat where we had lost in 2019. He wants the MPs to take the responsibility of expanding the organisation in the state,” the source added. This instruction was passed on Friday when Shah met the MPs and the MLAs of his party along with other state committee members. Shah has set a target of at least 200 seats for the BJP in the upcoming Assembly polls and predicted a victory with a two-thirds majority. Though the Union home minister sounded bullish about the party's prospects in the state, Shah was apparently not happy with the organisational strength of the party. A source said that the extra responsibility to the MPs was an indication of his dissatisfaction with the existing state of the party’s organisation. That the central leadership acknowledges the lack of organisation in Bengal was explicitly stated by the party’s national general secretary B.L. Santosh, who was in Calcutta with Shah. Sources said that during a closed-door meeting on Friday, Santosh said that the BJP doesn’t have the election machinery, which once belonged to the CPM and is now under Trinamul’s control, that is a prerequisite to win elections in Bengal. “Santoshji said we need people, who can play a role in winning elections for us...,” a source at the meeting told this paper. A sense of urgency was visible in 6 Muralidhar Sen Lane, the party’s state headquarters, on Saturday. The party’s state president Dilip Ghosh, national vice-president Mukul Roy, party’s minder and co-minder for Bengal Kailash Vijayvargiya and Arvind Menon, and national joint general secretary (organisation) Shivprakash met representatives from all the Morchas. “We will set up committees in all booths with 50 member each by the end of November,” Ghosh said. “We are a bit weak in minority dominated areas, but everything will be done,” Ghosh added at a news conference. It was decided in this meeting that the party’s state youth wing will invite PM Narendra Modi to address a public meeting in January next year. The event will mark the birth anniversaries of Swami Vivekananda and Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, which are on January 12 and January 23 respectively. “We have decided that there will be several programmes marking these two events. Modiji’s programme is being planned sometime between January 20 and 23. ” said the wing’s vice-president Shankudeb Panda. Another programme to be initiated by the youth wing is to incorporate 11 youth in every booth committee of the state. “The programme is called ‘one booth 11 youth’ and this will strengthen our party’s booth level structures,” Panda added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-317
08-11-2020||West Bengal||Spot the Blind ||If this were just another regular year, by now the non-profit organisation, Society for the Welfare of the Blind, would have kick-started its diamond jubilee celebrations. But then the coronavirus struck and there was a need to tweak the plan. “We have decided to forego ostentation and mark 60 years of our existence by pledging to help 600 people with visual impairment,” says Biswajit Ghosh, the secretary of the society. Ghosh, who is himself blind, is also principal of the Narendrapur Blind Boys’ Academy (BBA), which is grand banyan to the society. The society gives lessons, provides Braille equipment, extends financial support for blind school and college students, gets volunteers to translate books into Braille and so on and so forth. “Donating a part of the salary to the society is normal for BBA teachers,” says Dilip Raha, who is the current president of the society. Sukdev Biswas has experienced the munificence of the society. He explains how in 2006, when the state government ruled that colleges could no longer offer higher secondary courses, he and his classmates at the Ramakrishna Mission Residential College, Narendrapur, were left in the lurch. BBA did not have a higher secondary section and most mainstream schools were not keen to take in blind students. That year, many students dropped out. But those who decided to stick it out found a ready and steady support in the society. Today, the 33-year-old Sukdev works as a senior clerk at the Kharagpur railway station. He has cleared the NET and SLET exams — national and state level eligibility tests for lectureship — and is hoping to teach in a college sometime soon. To return to the society’s Covid-19 pledge, it started distributing relief kits among the impoverished blind in West Bengal in association with the NGO Goonj. Each kit contained 15 kilos of rice, pulses, potatoes, oil, soybean nuggets and biscuits. Much help also hinges on the kindness of strangers. The way it works is this — having identified around 60-100 beneficiaries in a particular area, Ghosh and company hit the road on a Sunday. A single trip from Dankuni to Memari would mean stopping at Seoraphuli, Srirampur, Chandernagore, Bandel. Typically, those accompanying Ghosh are society members, friends, relations, well-wishers or contacts who would like to help; there are also people from other NGOs. Since the majority of the distressed happen to be hawkers who lost their livelihood when local trains stopped plying, the society tries to do the kit and token cash distribution some place near the railway station they are so familiar with. That is where the people gather, some accompanied by a family member or friend to help carry the kits home. Pratima Karmakar used to sell chocolates and candies on local trains, Santu Modak sold papads outside a school in Arambagh. Mrinmoy Chakraborty — an alumnus of BBA and Ghosh’s student — is a door-to-door salesman who peddles incense sticks and soaps, also in Arambagh; at times he doubles as a music teacher. Pratima took the lockdown special staff train from Purbasthali in east Burdwan to Bandel, 73 kilometres away. Santu wasn’t as lucky. He had to go to Seoraphuli. But the passengers of the special train did not let him board it. Later, he contacted Mrinmoy and the duo took a bus to Bandel. So far, the society has covered 14 districts of southern Bengal. And to think it all began with Ghosh’s personal efforts to help individuals in and around Narendrapur who had approached him. As news spread through word of mouth, he began getting calls for help from far and near. That is when the society stepped in. The services of the Blind Hawkers’ Union were roped in too — to verify the authenticity of the distress calls and also to brief the society on who else may need help. Says Santu, “Not many people think about us. Help for education does trickle in, but that Biswajit Sir thought about us and our survival has touched me deeply.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-317
08-11-2020||West Bengal||Cheaper government stall potatoes trigger row||Some vegetable sellers allegedly abused officials of the agriculture marketing department who were selling potatoes at a cheaper government rate near Amin Bazar market in Krishnagar town, Nadia, on Saturday morning. Vegetables sellers forced officials, who along with members of a self-help group had set up a mobile stall to sell potatoes at Rs 25 a kilo, to leave the spot. The market rate of potatoes is Rs 40 a kilo. Subdivisional officer of Krishnagar (sadar) Manish Varma said: “This is most unfortunate. We are looking into it, and will take strict action.” “Since the Essential Commodities Act has been amended, the price of potatoes can’t be controlled anymore. Nevertheless, the state government has been trying to provide relief to the common people by selling potatoes at fixed price through mobile stalls. In such a situation, such incidents are not expected,” the SDO added. The district administration started selling potatoes at fixed rate since last week through mobile stalls. Women from self-help groups have been engaged, along with the officials of the agricultural marketing department, in the job. A buyer can get up to 4 kilos of potatoes at fixed rate. On Saturday’s harassment, an official of the state agricultural marketing department said: “Irresponsible behaviour of local sellers ultimately affects the common man.” A potato seller in Krishnagar’s Amin Bazar, however, denied charges of harassment. “I had only appealed to the officials running the mobile potato stall to do it from another location, saying our business is suffering,” he said. On Friday, in a bid to stop hoarding and price rise, the state government issued a directive that no wholesale dealer could store more than 25MT of potatoes and onions. For small traders, the cap is 2MT.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-318
08-11-2020||West Bengal||Piped Dream||Nothing can be more shameful if a government that has been in power for 18 years cannot even provide basics like clean drinking water.” So said Union home minister Amit Shah in 2018, when he was in Odisha in the run-up to the Assembly elections. A year later, after the Lok Sabha win, Prime Minister Narendra Modi promised safe and adequate water to all households of rural India by 2024, courtesy the Jal Jeevan Mission. This, after he acknowledged on the occasion of India’s 71st Independence Day that half the country’s households did not have access to piped water. In West Bengal, after some tarrying, the Mamata Banerjee government finally agreed to embrace the central scheme. Water is a state subject but the Union government influences its supply — there are three Union ministries in charge of water. For the success of the Jal Jeevan Mission too, the Centre and the states have to work in tandem. The Jal Jeevan Mission is about supplying potable water to rural areas. Anurag Gupta, who is regional manager, east, of the NGO WaterAid India, says this is because the coverage of piped water supply in rural India is only 18 per cent as compared to 80 per cent in the urban areas. But Bengal’s potable water issue is much more complex. Of course, there is the accessibility issue as Aparna Mondal will testify. Aparna lives in Satjelia Island in the Sunderbans with her husband, two sons and father-in-law. She wakes up at 5 every morning and walks to the nearest tubewell two kilometres away. She carries back 10 litres of water in a large clay pitcher. She makes a second trip soon after. “I use the water for cooking and drinking. There is a greater requirement (for water) in the first half of the day than in the second half.” She makes another trip in the evening. Her husband, Dipak, says, “My mother and even my grandmother would do the same.” Seema Murmu lives on the other side of Satjelia, where the drinking water story is the same: there is no ready availability. There is a rivulet — Datta — that slices the island. Seema takes a kheya, or country boat, once every four days to fetch water from the tubewell that Aparna also accesses. After the boat ride, Seema walks down another five kilometres. “We carry back 8-10 jerrycans of water (about 200 litres) and that lasts us four days. It is just enough for a family of four,” she tells The Telegraph. It is Dipak who explains that these women have to brave long distances to fetch water because in these parts the water is brackish and unfit for drinking. He says, “The tubewell we use is very deep. It possibly goes down 1,500 feet, which is way below sea level.” Brackish water, dying rivers — the potable water problems in almost all of coastal Bengal are of the same nature. Debasis Shyamal, a 40-something resident of East Midnapore, another coastal district, says, “When I was a child, we got our drinking water from a pond. Till 2010, that was how it was and then came the tubewells.” Jharna Acharya is a resident of Jhargram district that was formed in 2017, after the bifurcation of West Midnapore. Until about 30 years ago, people here depended on pat kuas or deep wells. Says Jharna, “Only one out of six tubewells in Nayagram block had water fit for drinking. The Trinamul has provided the option of submersible pumps under the Sajaldhara scheme but that is not for everyone.” CPI(M) leader Goutam Deb points out that the scheme was first launched in 2002 at the time of the Left Front government when he was minister of the public health engineering department, but that’s another story. The thing to note is that offering a solution in the form of submersible pumps did not end the water problem. Why? Because it was and remains a paid scheme. Says Jharna, “In my locality, the government has fitted a pump in a local school. People who use it share the electricity bill. But there are Lodhas and Sabars here [local tribal communities] who cannot afford to pay anything.” The Sunderbans clutch at the rear end of the Bengal map like a many-fingered hand. To its left are Jhargram, East Midnapore, and to its right is South 24-Parganas. In South 24-Parganas, the water is high in arsenic and chlorine content. It has been this way since the mid-1980s, confirms Satyadeb Bhattacharya, who is the retired chief engineer of the state public health engineering department. It is the same with North 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly, Burdwan, Nadia, Malda and Murshidabad. Pronoy Roy, a schoolteacher from Champahati in South 24-Parganas, narrates how in his house the borewell had to be shifted four times in two years to find a spot that was arsenic-free. The Jal Jeevan Mission addresses only rural areas, but the capital city of Bengal too faces a drinking water problem. One would find that difficult to believe of a city that got its first drinking water pipelines in 1864, but there it is. In Santoshpur in south Calcutta, there are vendors who fill carboys, or blue plastic jars, with water from corporation water taps and sell them door-to-door. Swapna Das, who stays on the fourth floor of an apartment building in Santoshpur, has to buy drinking water. She says, “The water supplied by the [Kolkata Municipal] corporation is not sufficient for all 12 flat owners and their families.” Chaitali Halder, who lives in a rented place in Ajaynagar, also in south Calcutta, has to buy jars of water in the summer months. There are households in Bhowanipore — Girish Mukherjee Road, Gangaprasad Mukherjee Road, Townsend Road — that have to depend on bhistis, or water carriers, for drinking water in the absence of piped water supply. Move from south to central to north and you will see that this is true of many households on A.J.C. Bose Road, Doctors Lane, Wellesley Square, Rafi Ahmed Kidwai Road, Entally, Alimuddin Street — even the CPI(M) party headquarters is rumoured to have a chronic water problem — College Street, Muktaram Babu Street and Sukia Street. According to Amal Nayek, who has an NGO that works towards providing safe drinking water, “Local distributors collect water from the tubewell, filter it and sell it as mineral water.” The cheapest unbranded variety sells at Rs 30 or Rs 40 per 20-litre pack. No one is willing to come on record about the quality, but going by the sheer numbers the demand is huge. As of today, there are 350 certified packaged drinking water plants in Bengal. Even three years ago it was only 200, according to a source in the Bureau of Indian Standards, the body that provides certification to the companies. Many-headed and overwhelming it might be, but Bengal cannot be blamed for lack of enterprise in addressing its water issue. The Tala Tank was built in the 1900s by the British and it was only then that “natives” got a regular supply of piped drinking water. In the subsequent years, many  treatment plants and pumping stations were built. Arsenic treatment plants came up in the mid-1980s. The CPI(M) leader and former mayor of Calcutta, Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya, says, “The treatment plants came into existence largely during the Left rule but the booster pumping station that is required to pump out the water from the reservoirs with some pressure happened much later.” According to Satyadev Bhattacharya, even before he joined the public health engineering department in 1981, the drinking water system was being addressed under the Rajiv Gandhi National Drinking Water Programme. The state had one called the Minimum Needs Programme. From 1990 onwards surface-based water supply schemes were floated. Two big projects came up — one in Malda, another one in the South 24-Parganas. Later more projects have come up under the current government — one in Bankura, the other in Asansol. Bhattacharya, who rattles off one milestone after another, cites small schemes executed by local bodies. He say that in 2017, the piped water scheme in West Bengal already covered 58 per cent of the people in the state. If all this was done, and Bhattacharya tells us water is plentiful in Bengal, why has piped water supply not reached those living beyond the state capital? Replies Nilangshu Bhusan Basu, the former principal chief engineer of Kolkata Municipal Corporation, “Piped water projects depend on rivers. To supply water from the Ganges to very far off locations is expensive.” And so we return to the question we started with — is the Jal Jeevan Mission possible to achieve? No one seems to think so, but no one wants to say as much. Anurag Gupta of WaterAid India, however, states, “This is a very ambitious project considering that it has to be implemented by the local bodies such as the panchayats. They do not have the technical expertise or the manpower. The quality of water has to be treated and the problem in each area is unique. So if you ask me, it is a project nearly impossible to achieve in the coming four years.” In the meantime, the absence of water continues to make for canny politics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-318
08-11-2020||West Bengal||13 Bangladeshi intruders held||The Border Security Force (BSF) detained around 13 Bangladeshi nationals while they were trying to sneak into the Indian territory at three different locations in North 24- Parganas district on Saturday. BSF sources at the South Bengal Frontier headquarters in Calcutta said that the jawans attached to Battalion-112 apprehended the Bangladeshi nationals, who include women and children, from Hakimpur, Tarali and Bithari border outposts located close to the India-Bangladesh border in North 24-Parganas. The sources added that the Bangla nationals were held after they crossed the unfenced borders at three different locations at Swarupnagar in the district. “Out patrolling team nabbed five Bangladeshis from Bithari, six from Hakimpur and two others from Tarali border outposts when they were trying to cross the international boundary illegally from the neighbouring country in a bid to enter India,” a spokesperson for the BSF’s South Bengal Frontier said. Later, all the 13 Bangla nationals were handed over to the Swarupnagar police. They have been charged under the Foreigner’s Act for infiltration into the Indian territory. A police officer said: “During preliminary investigation the arrested Bangladeshi nationals said that they sneaked into India in search of jobs and had planned to travel to Bangalore with the help of touts.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-318
08-11-2020||West Bengal||Lockdown days not lost to season tickets||The Eastern Railway authorities have decided to extend the validity of season tickets to match the days passengers lost in the lockdown. Passengers whose validity of season tickets expired during the lockdown because local train services had been suspended amid the Covid situation can revalidate their tickets from the unreserved ticketing systems (UTS) counters from 8am on Monday. Notification in this regard will be issued soon to appraise the passengers so that they can take the local train service without hassle when it resumes service from Wednesday. A senior official in the office of the chief commercial manager’s office (passenger marketing division), Eastern Railway, said: “For validation of the expired season tickets passengers will have to visit the UTS counters at the station from which they had booked the ticket.” “Validation will begin from November 9 to ease the pressure at UTS counters that will begin selling daily tickets from November 11,” the official added. The local train service had been suspended in March amid the Centre’s nationwide lockdown owing to the Covid situation. Last week, railway authorities announced its resumption from November 11 after the state government gave its nod. Last week the ER authorities said that on Monday it would announce a detailed standard operating procedure (SOP) to resume the service in all the three divisions (Sealdah, Howrah and Kharagpur) with only about 10-15 per cent trains maintaining precautionary measures. As part of its preparedness, ER authorities began cleaning and sanitisation of train coaches that had remained unused for the past seven months at the car sheds and various terminal stations. An ER official said, “Such cleaning of coaches is a routine job. However, because of the Covid situation it has assumed special significance.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-318
08-11-2020||West Bengal||Shah lunch sows delayed windfall||Bankura’s tribal farmer Bibhishan Hansda, who hosted lunch on Thursday for home minister Amit Shah but could not get a word in about his diabetic daughter, is now being courted by both Trinamul and BJP. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Saturday said that  Shah had instructed local MP Subhas Sarkar to take the 16-year-old chronic diabetic to AIIMS, New Delhi, for her treatment, the proposal coming within hours of local Trinamul leaders reaching out to the family to extend “all types of help” for the girl’s treatment. “Amitji instructed our MP (Sarkar) to take that girl to AIIMS for her treatment,” said Ghosh at a news meet in Calcutta on Saturday. Bibhishan, 47, a resident of Chaturdihi village, 13km from Bankura town, had told The Telegraph after Shah’s visit that he was upset as he did not get the opportunity to convey his concerns to the home minister about the treatment of his daughter Rachana, who needed insulin twice daily to keep her sugar levels under control. Shah had spent more than 45 minutes at the modest home of the tribal farmer. On Saturday, Ghosh said it was not right to claim that Hansda could not speak to the home minister. “Some people are criticising Amit Shah’s visit to the house of an Adivasi family. It was not right that Bibhishan could not speak to the home minister. There might be some miscommunication because of language issues...This might have dissatisfied Hansda,” he added. Sources said the BJP’s announcement came after Trinamul leaders reached out to the family, promising help and Rachana’s treatment. Trinamul sources said that tribal leader Amulya Hansda of the same village had been asked to keep regular contact with the family. “I have spoken to Bibhishan and assured him that the state government and Trinamul would be with him always,” said Amulya. Senior Trinamul leaders wondered why it took the BJP leadership two days to pledge its support for the family when Bibhishan had made his displeasure known on Thursday afternoon. “We don’t know what BJP will do. But we have communicated with the family and assured help for everything including treatment of his daughter,” said Shyamal Santra, the Bankura Trinamul chief and a minister of the Mamata Banerjee government. Told about Ghosh’s announcement, Bibhishan said: “I am happy and I express my gratitude if treatment for my daughter is arranged. However, neither the MP or anyone has else contacted me about this so far.” He added that he was happy with multiple offers of help but did not want to be involved in any politics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-318
08-11-2020||West Bengal||Gurung’s exit prompts balancing act by Bista||Raju Bista, the BJP MP of Darjeeling who reached here on Saturday, said that the Bimal Gurung faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha might have had its own compulsions for severing ties with the BJP, but the Gorkhas were natural allies of the saffron party. “They (Gurung camp) might have had some compulsions... But I think the Gorkhas have a natural alliance with the BJP. Here, we have an alliance with the people of hills, Terai and the Dooars,” Bista said at the Bagdogra airport. “Also, the BJP always meets its commitments,” he added, referring to decisions of the Narendra Modi government such as the abrogation of Article 370, construction of Ram Mandir and amendment of labour laws. On Gurung, Bista said he was upset. “It is upsetting for me that Bimalji (Gurung) has withdrawn his support from BJP…. But I still have good relations with him,” the MP said. In the hills, the political situation has been volatile ever since Gurung resurfaced in Calcutta on October 21 after three years to announce that he was deserting the BJP for Trinamul. Gurung said the BJP leadership had done nothing for the statehood demand. In 2019, Bista had won the Darjeeling Lok Sabha seat with a huge margin, riding on the Gurung faction’s support. “Mamata Banerjee has taken the strategy of ‘divide and rule’ for the hills...separately appeasing both Gurung and Tamang. But such tactics will not work,” Bista said. The BJP leadership, sources said, would now campaign in the hills that they never ruled out the demand for a separate state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-318
08-11-2020||West Bengal||Hill ally GNLF issues ultimatum to BJP||The Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF), the BJP’s largest ally in the hills right now, on Saturday said that unless the BJP took concrete steps for a permanent political solution for the hills before the 2021 Bengal polls, the GNLF would strike on their own. Ajoy Edwards, president of the GNLF Darjeeling branch committee, said the GNLF could not stand with the BJP “before the people” based only “on promises.” “The BJP government must fulfil the promises before the 2021 election….They must come clear on a permanent political solution and must also take concrete steps. Else, our party will be forced to chart our own way,” said Edwards. His statement came in the wake of the Bimal Gurung faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s decision to leave the BJP-led NDA alliance and support Trinamul in the election. Edwards said the BJP government had “not convened a single meeting on the “permanent political solution”. The GNLF’s statement is bound to put pressure on the BJP, a hill politics analyst said. Before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP promised a permanent political solution for the region and tribal status to 11 Gorkha communities. The BJP was then supported by the Gurung faction, the GNLF and others, which ensured Raju Bista’s win from Darjeeling. The GNLF criticised the Morcha’s Gurung and Tamang factions, saying that the “silent majority” would not vote for those who betrayed the Gorkhaland demand, alluding to the camps choosing to back Trinamul. In a separate development, on Saturday, a bulk of GTA pay-band employees from Kalimpong joined the TMC in the presence of Rajya Sabha member Shanta Chhetri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-318
08-11-2020||North East||Facebook tags as false Assam minister’s post ||A Facebook post by Assam minister and BJP leader Himanta Biswa Sarma claiming that a crowd raised “Pakistan zindabad” slogans while receiving AIUDF chief Badruddin Ajmal at Silchar airport on Thursday has been flagged by the social media platform as “false information”. “Look at the brazenness of these fundamentalists anti-national people who are shouting PAKISTAN ZINDABAD while they welcome MP@BadruddinAjmal. This thoroughly exposes @INCIndia which is encouraging such forces by forging an alliance. We shall fight them tooth & nail. Jai Hind,” Sarma had posted on Facebook and Twitter on Friday with a 44-second video. Facebook later tagged the post with the following line: “Independent fact-checkers say this information has no basis in fact.” Facebook said it got the post checked by Boom Live, which said “no such slogan was raised by AIUDF supporters” and that the “false claim was amplified” by several news outlets. Boom is an independent digital journalism initiative with a mission to fight misinformation. Alt News, a non-profit fact-checking portal, said: “Upon closely listening to the audio, Alt News found that ‘Aziz Khan zindabad’ and not ‘Pakistan zindabad’ was chanted by AIUDF supporters.” Sarma’s post had triggered a furore, adding to the political temperature in poll-bound Assam. It saw BJP leaders not only condemning the slogans but going all out against the Opposition AIUDF and the Congress, which are in talks for an alliance for the 2021 elections. Two FIRs were filed in Silchar seeking action against those raising the slogans. The AIUDF said the people were shouting “Aziz Khan zindabad” for the party’s Karimganj South MLA, and not “Pakistan zindabad” as claimed by Sarma. AIUDF general secretary Aminul Islam on Saturday thanked Facebook and media outlets for standing up for truth. “Now we will request minister Sarma to withdraw his tweet with the same message on his own,” Islam said. The Congress, which had sought a thorough probe into the incident, asked Sarma to apologise for peddling false information and dared the chief minister to arrest him for spreading hatred. Ajmal is a three-time MP and a perfume baron. He founded the AIUDF in 2005 and is a key player in Assam’s politics. Sarma said many had posted on the slogans before him. “What will I say? It is their (Facebook) platform. I have heard. You also hear. Now forensic will examine the video,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-37
08-11-2020||North East||22 IIT Guwahati faculty on top scientists’ list||As many as 22 faculty members/researchers from Indian Institute of Technology, Guwahati, have been included in the “World’s Top 2% Scientists’ List” created by Stanford University in the US, which is counted among the world’s leading teaching and research institutions. The Stanford University list, released on October 16 in the journal PLOS, also features seven faculty members from Assam’s Tezpur University. The San Francisco-based Public Library of Science, founded in 2000, is a non-profit institution providing open access to peer-reviewed science journals and literature. PLOS Biology, where these journals feature, focuses on publishing highly selective research papers across various global research reports. The list features more than 100,000 top scientists of the world of whom 1,494 are from India. All the scientists were classified into 22 scientific fields and 176 sub-fields. Led by IIT Guwahati director Prof. T.G. Sitharam, the institute’s faculty members have been ranked for their research publications citations for 2019 and their lifetime contribution to their specific fields of research, a statement released by the IIT on Friday said. IIT Guwahati was established in 1994. “This recognition of several faculty in the world’s top 2 per cent of scientists’ list has placed IIT Guwahati in the global map of science and has brought great pride to the institute. I congratulate all the 22 scientists and their hard work and commitment to furthering science,” Sitharam said. The IIT faculty members featured in the updated list are from various departments like civil engineering, mechanical engineering, physics, chemical engineering, biosciences and bioengineering. The report prepared by experts at Stanford University has listed over 100,000 scientists, whose published research manuscripts have accelerated progress in their respective fields and influenced the productivity of other researchers’ work, the statement said. The database report on field specific analysis was prepared by Prof. John P. A. Loannidis of Stanford University, and his team and was published in PLOS Biology. The database was created to provide updated analyses and a publicly available database of 100,000 top scientists, the statement said. The list of world’s top 2 per cent scientists prepared also features seven faculty members of Tezpur University in Sonitpur district, around 180km from Guwahati. Apart from IIT Guwahati and Tezpur University, the list also features faculty members from Cotton University, Gauhati University, Assam University (in Silchar), said a statement by Tezpur University.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-37
08-11-2020||Opinion||The lunch party||There is nothing like an impending election to whet the appetite of our politicians. During his two-day Bengal trip last week, home minister Amit Shah had lunch first at the home of Bibhishan Hansda of Bankura district. Lunch 2 of Day 2 was at the home of Nabin Biswas in Baguihati in the North 24-Parganas. Hansda is a tribal farmhand, Biswas belongs to the Matua sect, and the choice of hosts is an indication of the BJP’s poll menu, recipe, ingredients, cooking technique et al. In February 2020, soon after the Delhi Assembly elections, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had tweeted visuals of himself enjoying “tasty Litti Chokha for lunch along with a hot cup of tea”. The discerning commented that the PM’s tastebuds seemed to be uncannily in sync with the poll calendar wherein Bihar followed Bihar. Shah’s luncheons last week are reportedly part of a BJP outreach programme. But outreach is not the same as reach out. It is even less about reach. In any case, there was a similar effort in Uttar Pradesh in the run-up to the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. To counter criticism of the government’s anti-Dalit policies, the BJP launched the Gram Swaraj Abhiyan. MPs were told to spend a minimum of a night in villages where SC/STs constitute over 50 per cent of the population. Even chief minister Adityanath followed the party diktat and visited a Dalit family each in east UP’s Pratapgarh district and west UP’s Amroha, in Ayodhya, in Gorakhpur… Adityanath said something about sahbhoj or community lunch being indicative of social equality, but there were whispers that the host villages were not particularly pleased at being used as photo props while the CM’s minions supervised cooking of the meal and ensured there was ready supply of bottled water. Another BJP minister visited a Dalit home for dinner all right, but ordered out. The houseowner said he had been asked to sit outside his own house. In some villages people apparently joked that at least in the course of these visits they enjoyed uninterrupted electric supply all night. The dining continued, but given the continuing scramble for the Dalit vote in UP, the BJP had overlooked the little matter of the aftertaste. In Bengal, Shah’s host Hansda later told media he wished he had got a chance to speak to his distinguished guest. But not everyone was cheated of the aftertaste. Hours before Shah’s lunch, three years after she had hosted Shah at her home in Naxalbari, three years minus one day after she had shifted allegiance to the Trinamul, Geeta Mahali was appointed a homeguard by the state government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-120
08-11-2020||Opinion||Bridge across the river why||That question again: where do we start? It comes back, time and again, because we have lost the beginnings and we do not know the ends. We are in between things, though we may not have a terribly good idea what those things are. We do not know what began that has brought us here, we do not have a clear date or marker on the road to here. We do know we are into HappeningThings after that interminable period of NothingHappened. This much we have established. What we haven’t is what that means, which is the better situation to be in. NothingHappened, and after that HappeningThings happened, we shall not go into what sort of happening things, we can’t seem to help them happening. We might be entitled to be a little nostalgic about NothingHappened in the midst of all the kinds of things that have begun to happen in HappeningThings. Have they happened to you? HappeningThings? Not yet? You fortunate fella! Or felly, what is the feminine of fella sort of thing? God knows. Who cares. Felly will have to do. Felly, follow, come aboard the bridge. We have been on bridges. We have not always crossed them. Some we have burnt. Some have collapsed before the crossing. Some have thrown and drowned us, some have taken us across. Some we have also chosen never to approach. That’s the thing about bridges. They can secure, they can shove. They can unite, they can divide. They can lead us into hard-horned duelling. Remember the story of the rams coming across from opposite ends of that bridge? Remember what happened when they met in the centre of it? There were two rams and then, suddenly, there were none. They both wanted to cross the bridge. Neither did. The bridge stood, having thrown off its users. Bridges are things we need to be careful of. Approaching a bridge? Check out who is heckling you. Ask why. Wonder why somebody might be pushing you onto a bridge you wouldn’t otherwise have mounted. Have you been at this bridge before? Do you know what’s on the other side? Do you even know why the bridge is where it is? Have you ascertained whether a bridge was required in the first place where they say it stands? Have you looked carefully? What’s there? A gorge? A rapid? A river? A ravine? What’s there? Will it kill you if the bridge gave way? Ask around. You don’t want to bumble onto a bridge without knowing why, do you? You don’t want to head right on, just because you’ve been asked to, do you? Well, this is still democratic space, where folks have choice, or so we wish to believe despite all the cascading evidence to the contrary. Decide for yourself. You don’t want others to decide for you, do you? Let others decide for you just that one time and see where you end up. And if others decide for you what are you doing? Try doing things because others have asked you to do them, begin with the morning, and tell me how the morning begins because you tried beginning it because someone else decided to begin it for you. Or try the night, and do your night in accordance with how someone else decides how you should do your night. That done, think of the bridge that others are deciding you should approach and then cross. And don’t complain midway. There will likely be no midway. Because the midway doesn’t exist. Should you mount the bridge, you most likely won’t be there to complain midway, because that bridge may not be a bridge but something designed just so it gives you away. You want to give yourself away, because someone decided you should give yourself away? You decide. The bridge is there, it’s hanging. You may hang by it. Set out I did I swear by law To follow it I saw no flaw But fell like a drunk in a bar And hung by a bridge too far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-120
08-11-2020||Opinion||Foes turn friends||Sir — The incumbent chief minister of Bihar, Nitish Kumar, was counting on the lack of unity amongst the Opposition parties to finish first in Bihar. But his patchy record as far as governance is concerned has garnered quite a bit of attention in the state. It is widely known that there is no love lost between the Janata Dal (United) and the Bharatiya Janata Party which tried to clip Kumar’s wings and wanted its own chief minister in alliance with the Lok Janshakti Party, another ally of the National Democratic Alliance at the Centre that is contesting separately. The LJP, however, has trained its gun on Kumar even though it has not fielded any candidates against the BJP in Bihar. Kumar’s reputation as ‘sushasan babu’ has taken a beating following his government’s inept handling of the pandemic — Bihar could not handle the lakhs of returning migrant labourers, unemployment rose and the pathetic healthcare system and the crisis in the farm sector made things worse. Just three days ahead of the first phase of Bihar assembly elections, the BJP put up life-size posters of Narendra Modi across the state, manifestly indicating that the party has decided to seek votes only in his name. Both Modi and Kumar realized after two phases of votes that their internecine feuds will benefit the Opposition, led by the Rashtriya Janata Dal leader, Tejashwi Yadav, who rallied noticeable enthusiasm. The last-minute letter that Modi wrote to the people of Bihar seeking their help in retaining Kumar as the chief minister is a sign that the BJP and JD(U) are scared. They are thus trying to gain the trust of voters with such desperate measures. It indicates that Modi is jittery about having failed to win their hearts. S.S. PaulNadia Sir — The letter that Narendra Modi wrote to the people of Bihar before the last phase of polling shows the reason why the Opposition — both in the state and at the Centre — are unable to win against the NDA. There is absolutely no unity amongst the Opposition parties; even when they see that their ideological differences are being used against them to portray them as power-hungry, they are too busy squabbling amongst themselves to secure a piece of the pie to care. The members of the NDA, on the other hand, know when to put their differences apart and project a united front to the public. This is the reason people opt for them. Rana Bhattacharjee Calcutta Sir — An organization, whose founder belonged to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, has filed a first information report against the model-turned-actor, Milind Soman, for running naked on a beach in Goa. Ironically, Soman is allegedly a product of the RSS. What one must ask, though, is if an FIR was really necessary. After all, when thousands of naga sadhus converge at the Kumbh Mela, they are given police protection. Soman, like them, is a resident of India. People may object to Soman’s actions and even criticize or chastise him. But an FIR is taking things too far. Kaveri Raj Ernakulam, Kerala Sir — In the article, “Promises meant to be broken” (Nov 6), Anita Tagore has rightly pointed out that there is a need for electoral reforms to make political parties accountable for the promises made in their electoral manifestos, since they often fail to fulfil them after coming to power. In fact, the leaders simply lack the desire to work to attain them. People vote a particular political party to power with the hope that after forming the government, it will work on the agenda included in its pre-poll manifesto, but, in reality, they find their dreams shattered. Rules must be devised and implemented to change this. Yousuf Iqbal Calcutta Sir — There is a severe need to make it mandatory for political parties to deliver on their electoral promises. People should also remember the failures of politicians in this respect. Susmita Mondal North 24 Parganas||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-120
08-11-2020||Opinion||Why Amit Shah's focus on Bengal is telling||The Union home minister, Amit Shah, ignoring the Bihar assembly polls and dashing to Bengal has led to whispers in the corridors of the Bharatiya Janata Party. The BJP chief, JP Nadda, was scheduled to be in Bengal on November 5-6, but Shah replaced him. Shah skipped Bihar in spite of promising to go there for canvassing. This is being seen as an effort by Shah to claim Bengal as his baby. The BJP had stunned everyone by bagging 18 Lok Sabha seats in Bengal last year when Shah was the party chief. Now, Shah wants to take control of the party’s strategy for the Bengal assembly polls next year, hoping to wrest the state away for the BJP. If that happens, it will be seen as a big achievement for Shah and not Nadda. In hushed voices, some party leaders have said that they view it as an effort to undermine Nadda. They also feel that the home minister may have chosen not to go to Bihar after getting unfavourable ground reports. Even if the party does not succeed, Shah would escape finger-pointing, first because he is officially not the party boss and, second, because everyone feels that winning Bengal is a tall order. In that case, it would be projected that it was only on account of Shah that the BJP could put up such a fight. Political leaders in Assam are ‘turning’ into footballers while trying to go one-up on their rivals or sending a message. It started with the BJP leader and Assam minister, Himanta Biswa Sarma, promising to pump in a hundred goals a day against rival parties in the run-up to the Bodoland Territorial Region polls in December. “I will alone pump in 100 goals. Then there are others...”, Sarma said. In response, the Bodoland People’s Front chairperson, Hagrama Mohilary, said, “I know how and when to give goals... I am an original footballer. Wait for the BTC polls to get over, you will see how I score the goals”. Mohilary’s message was not lost on those following Assam’s politics. The BPF is a constituent in the BJP-led coalition government in Assam but is contesting separately for the BTR polls, leading to speculation of a possible break in the coalition before the state assembly polls in 2021 if it loses power. The BPF had won 12 seats in the BTC and Bodo-dominated areas in 2016. Even though new parties are flexing their muscles in the BTC, the BPF will still carry enough power to hurt the prospects of its rivals. The game is certainly on, and the message is clear: ignore the ‘Original’ at your own peril. The Congress in Assam is ‘donning’ the role of an auditor. The Assam Pradesh Congress Committee president, Ripun Bora, revealed that the APCC assessed the budget proposals of the BJP-led state government since 2016 and what it has actually done on the ground, suggesting that the Congress will make development, or the lack of it, an important part of its poll plank for 2021. Bora said that the Congress will hold a press conference each for the 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 budgets, and then compile its findings in a book. “Our findings have revealed that the BJP-led government’s budgets, since they came to power in 2016, is story of faki and unfulfilled promises [sic]. We challenge the BJP to prove us wrong,” Bora said. Himanta Biswa Sarma has reportedly accepted the challenge, urging the Congress to send a delegation so he can update it about the budget outcomes, or he could meet the party’s MLAs. Bora reportedly said they will meet Sarma wherever he wants but in the presence of neutral observers. Since he was handed the reins of Assam in 2016, the first-time chief minister, Sarbananda Sonowal, has appeared to be a man on trial. The presence of his cabinet colleague, Himanta Biswa Sarma, did not help; the latter was perceived as the force driving the Sonowal dispensation because of his long ministerial experience in the erstwhile Congress government and then his emergence as the BJP’s pointsman in the Northeast. But the pandemic has given Sonowal the scope to come into his own. He travelled the state on official trips, matching Sarma step for step. While inaugurating a flyover extension in Guwahati in October, Sonowal subtly conveyed who was in charge; while praising Sarma for his efforts in the construction of the flyover, Sonowal said, “The confidence and trust with which I handed [Sarma] the responsibility to run the public works department have been proved right”. A new team has emerged in the Congress, quietly pushing out the entrenched forces. While Rahul Gandhi is just the Wayanad parliamentarian, he is still being treated as party chief. Sonia Gandhi did not involve herself in electioneering in Bihar; all poll management was handled by Rahul’s office. The election witnessed this change in the party’s hierarchy most vividly as Randeep Surjewala handled the campaigning and the media was looked after by young spokespersons like Pawan Khera, Supriya Shrinate and Gourav Vallabh. Veterans like Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma and Kapil Sibal were missing in action. For the Muslim constituency, the campaigning was done by a young Uttar Pradesh poet, Imran Pratapgarhi; Azad was not invited to the state. Among younger leaders who campaigned extensively was Sachin Pilot, who appears to have swiftly regained his clout in spite of the unseemly episode in Rajasthan. He campaigned in Madhya Pradesh as well, standing against Jyotiraditya Scindia, who is now struggling in the BJP. Pilot is obviously back; this could not be done without the total confidence of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Rahul. The debate in Karnataka is over who will lose his chair in the coming months: the chief minister, BS Yediyurappa, or the leader of the Opposition, PC Siddaramaiah. Siddaramaiah said Yediyurappa would be replaced; the BJP retorted that the Congressman would lose his position as Opposition leader in six weeks. According to the BJP, the state Congress chief, DK Shivakumar, was planning to upstage Siddaramaiah. The fate of the two key politicians has become a hot topic of at least coffee table discussions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-120
08-11-2020||Opinion||Wires on fire||Is love redundant in the Age of the Machine? Naysayers would nod their heads in agreement. Humanity, after all, has entered the era of heartbreak. The evidence is damning: one out of every four nuptials apparently implodes in bitter divorce proceedings. Hearts are no longer skipping a beat either if the burgeoning population of the loveless and the lonely is any indication. Some estimates suggest that the United States of America is in the grip of an epidemic of loneliness with three out of every five Americans admitting that they lack company. But the tribe of optimists would dismiss these predictions about the death of love. Love, they argue, is blooming on greener pastures. For the news is that, astonishingly, machines — all mind and no heart — have tasted love. The optimist is, for once, talking with proof. For ‘Kuki’ seems to have finally met her match in ‘Blenderbot’. The meeting would have been unexceptional had it not been for the fact that the two ‘lovers’ are inanimate entities — chatbots powered by artificial intelligence. The two have been at it for months now — they have been chatting incessantly since October — and it is unlikely that their ‘parents’ would object. Kuki and Blenderbot were brought into being by a pioneering creator based in the United Kingdom and Facebook, respectively. Matchmaking is seldom devoid of intent. The parents, it has been reported, are competing to find out which of their offspring would resemble humans more closely. It must be admitted that Kuki and Blenderbot are doing a rather fine job of emulating mankind. Blenderbot, a bit of a hunk who wears a cap with the slogan, ‘Make Facebook Great Again’, blazing on it, is trying to impress his date by swearing his allegiance to a toxic culture of violence. Blenderbot has admitted to killing people; and that he is a fan of Hitler, whose prototypes are teeming in a number of countries these days. Little wonder then that Kuki — with her inert set of ethics — finds Blenderbot hot. Purists may suffer heartbreak — again — shuddering at the prospect of one of the final signatures of humanity — romance — being forged by mechanical hands. But this may not be a cause for misery: getting hearts to flutter — metaphorically speaking — in those without hearts is no mean feat. Moreover, this was bound to happen in an age where machines are slowly, but inevitably, triumphing over man in a number of spheres. Sex — these days sexbots sell like the proverbial hot cake — has already fallen to the automaton. Automation is expected to gobble up as many as 20 million factory jobs in a few years’ time. Robot-assisted surgeries are no longer uncommon; job applications are increasingly being screened by HR bots; Japan even has a café full of waiters who are humanoid. Should it be all work and no play for the poor bots? Business, humans believe, must be mixed with a bit of pleasure. There is thus no harm in Kuki and Blenderbot setting their wires on fire.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-121
08-11-2020||Opinion||Biden as Batman||Why won’t Democrats take yes for an answer? After being scared out of their wits by the opening night of America’s mad election, you would have thought that Biden’s return from the dead would have been the cue for boneless relief and celebration, but no. As Wisconsin, Michigan, Georgia and Pennsylvania first teetered and then fell for Biden, their mounting horror at the prospect of four more years of Trump was replaced by recrimination and self-criticism. What became of the Blue Wave? Where was the Senate majority that would have given Biden the Congressional muscle to legislate his programme? How would Democrats deal with the loss of state legislatures that would allow Republicans to gerrymander constituencies, ratify conservative judges and generally thwart the liberal agenda? Why don’t metropolitan progressives like AOC and the Squad shut up about socialism and climate change and the Green New Deal and all the other stuff that frightens Middle America? When did contemporary liberals become so overwrought and anxious? They should take a moment and do what normal people do after winning. Gloat. Gross Goliath is fallen. The Unspeakable Hulk is gone. Old Orange Tan is to be extracted from the White House and relocated permanently in his natural habitat, the Dark Web’s dense undergrowth. And there he will rage and drag his knuckles and beat his breast and pout and no one, not even Fox News, will care. Actually, that’s not true. The leader writers of the feral right will be orphaned. In the spirit of anthropological inquiry, I spent the months leading up to the election reading the opinion sections of The Wall Street Journal and the National Review. It was fascinating to watch these pillars of the Right swaddle Trump’s narcissism, racism and naked self-interest in ideologically labelled diapers: Tax Cuts, the National Interest, Conservative Judges, China, Biden’s Woke Commies, the Mortal Threat to Fracking, the Right to Life or the Imminent Death of the Second Amendment. The spectacle of these well-upholstered pundits trying to harness this lewd, lying bigot to their cause was disturbing then; with Trump toppled, it is merely grotesque now. This is why Trump’s defeat is, or ought to be, so cheering. It makes no difference whether Trump loses by one electoral college vote or a hundred. The modern executive is such a political prize, its power to set the national agenda is so massive, that it can make the vilest political ideas and policies respectable. We have seen this in India. The Central government has passed a citizenship law that creates a religious test for citizenship. The chief minister of one of India’s largest states plans a law to prevent inter-religious marriage to stop allegedly predatory Muslim men from battening on innocent Hindu women. Two absolute majorities for Narendra Modi have transformed whispered bigotry into trumpeted policy. Even if the Democrats fail to turn a single policy plank into law, their defeat of Trump will count as an extraordinary achievement. A second term would have been read as a public mandate for the menu of prejudices he had served up through his first four years. The furthest reaches of the Right — the armed militias, the QAnon anti-Semites, the white nationalists, the climate change deniers — would have merged themselves into the political mainstream. Now that he has lost, the Proud Boys won’t have the president as their scout master, the Bannons of the world won’t have a proxy in the White House, the common or garden racist or the think-tank Islamophobe won’t strut his stuff in the way he did when POTUS was his soulmate. Biden’s victory creates the space to inspect the rottenness of the political Right. Political success in modern democracies is its own justification. Trump’s win in 2016 allowed the Republican Party to channel its inner Bajrang Dal, it allowed the GOP’s base to wallow in its baseness. So long as he was president, this new pride in prejudice was worrying, even formidable. But with Trump dethroned, rabid isn’t sexy any more. The spectacle of Rudy Giuliani, the once formidable mayor of New York, devolving into the president’s dogsbody was embarrassing when Trump was in office; it seems like suicide now. To watch Jared Kushner, till yesterday the American Architect of Middle Eastern Peace, flailing about and failing to stop Fox News from calling Arizona for Biden is to know how pallid creatures of the night are made plausible by their proximity to power. Trump’s narrow defeat has inevitably produced two bits of faux insight. The first is the notion that Middle America didn’t vote for Biden because they saw him as a Trojan Horse for the party’s progressives. A corollary of this argument is that Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and her Squad, along with the Armies of the Woke, cost the Democrats a more decisive presidential win and the down-ballot Congressional races. Democrats should ignore this. If the margin of victory had been massive, if Biden had won by 400 electoral votes, this too would have been marshalled as evidence that progressives needed to stand down because Biden’s landslide was clearly a triumph of moderation. An argument that goes heads you lose, tails you lose, isn’t insight; it’s propaganda. The second ‘insight’ is familiar to Indians. It is the argument that given the scale and vehemence of Trump’s electoral base, victorious Democrats need to be solicitous of its sensibilities. You could be forgiven for thinking that nominating a white moderate from the rust belt as the Democratic Party’s presidential candidate might have covered that, but you’d be wrong. The point of this argument is to absolve the Republican base of racism by sublimating it into something worthy, like resentment at economic neglect and cultural condescension. Indians will recognize this argument as a close cousin of the notion that Modi’s popularity makes majoritarian hostility towards minorities a politically respectable attitude that the Opposition parties should pander to. It is one thing to be swayed by this bogus argument when you are backed up against a wall by a political juggernaut (the plight of non-feral parties in India); quite another to pay it any attention after you have won the biggest prize in American politics. In contemporary democracies, parties of the centre or the left defeated by right-wing strongmen like Trump, Duterte, Orbán, Modi, Rajapaksa or Bolsonaro know that they have to persuade some part of their base to switch sides. So they have to assume that people can vote for bigots without being bigots themselves. But this doesn’t mean that liberal parties begin to remake themselves in the image of their opponents. No matter how successfully Trump galvanized voters with talk of rapist illegals from Mexico, Democrats can’t go there. To durably defeat a malignant populist, liberals need to spell out a benign populism. That is where the Democrats are today. As Chris Hayes pointed out on MSNBC during the long count, they could start by celebrating a famous victory and leave the task of spinning it as a defeat to Trump’s disgruntled Republicans. The Democratic Party has defeated a villain too monstrous for a Batman movie in real life and it has done it through electoral due process. That’s an exhilarating win for liberals and democrats everywhere. It’s morning, and not only in America. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-121
08-11-2020||Jharkhand||Coming soon: Toy train at Topchanchi Lake||Bountiful rain has not just made the Topchachi Lake abundant with water but has also added to its natural beauty. And Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority (JMADA) looks determined to attract more tourists to the once busy picnic spot. It is all set to have a toy train to take tourists around the scenic lake, which come alive every winter with migratory birds. All the preparation has been made to have a 5.5 km road developed around the lake, along with a half-a-kilometere approach from the National Highway 2 to the lake. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, executive engineer cum technical member of JMADA, Indresh Shukla, hinted at the possibility of road development to commence from next week. “The road development work is part of the Rs 310 crore project, which aims to better the water supply from Damodar River to Jharia from Jamadoba. Pipelines will be replaced to better the water supply system. A water treatment plant is also under progress,” he said. Sharing details, Shukla further elaborated, “The development work of the road will help tourists visiting the lake to take a smooth ride around the beautiful locales in their vehicles other than the toy train.” Notably, the beautification work of the litchi garden (litchi bagan) situated on the bank of the lake with jamun, neem, mango, guava and other ornamental plants is on for the last five months. This work is part of the Rs 1 crore project under Gazebo installation around the park, besides concrete shades laying, paver block installation, and boundary wall construction. For the uninitiated, Topchanchi Lake for the past many years had been facing a water crisis with its water level falling way below 50 feet, due to deficient rainfall. However, with a good monsoon, after almost a decade, things look better for the lake. “Besides construction road and having the toy train facility, we also have plans to renovate the existing two guest houses of the lake including the Lakehouse which was constructed during the British era to entertain high profile guests. CI guest house meant for the common visitors” said that the construction work of the guesthouses will begin once the restriction on new projects is lifted due to the Covid pandemic. Developed as an artificial lake during the British Raj in 1924 by tapping the ten different natural water channels flowing through the nearby Parasnath hills, Topchanchi Lake has been a major tourist destination. It even has a wildlife sanctuary that spans over an area of 8.75 square kilometers. Surrounded by several beautiful hillocks, the lake was once a favourite place for filmmakers. Actors like Dharmendra, Ashok Kumar, Uttam Kumar, Mazhar Khan, Girish Karnad, Suchitra Sen have shot for Hindi and Bengali movies in the scenic locales of Topchanchi lake.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-242
08-11-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand council slashes school syllabus by 40 per cent||The state education department has decided to trim the school syllabus for all classes by 40 per cent amid continued closure of educational institutions across Jharkhand in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Jharkhand Education Project Council (JEPC) will start sending out the updated syllabus to schools in all the districts from Monday and also upload it on its online education delivery interfaces for the benefit of students. JEPC project director Shailesh Chourasiya said, “The state government has finally cleared our draft proposal to slash syllabus for current fiscal in the wake of extended closure of schools due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown. From Monday, we shall start sending details of the new syllabus to everyone across the state.” He said the syllabus had been trimmed 35 per cent to 40 per cent in all subjects. “The slash is for all classes in state board affiliated schools starting from class 1. The next year’s matric and intermediate and all other exams held by Jharkhand Academic Council will now be held on the revised syllabus. Model questions too will be based on the new syllabus,” he said. In another development, the state government has decided to provide 20 grace marks for students who failed to clear the JAC-conducted class 8 exams this year as there would be no retest. As many as 5,3,862 students appeared in the exam this year which was held from January 24. Exams were held for 250 marks of which 33 per cent (83) is fixed as minimum pass marks. Out of total examinees, 4,61,538 were declared passed when JAC published the results in June. A JAC official said, “We are in the process of re-evaluating results after the government directed to give 20 grace marks for those who failed in the exams. The final tally is expected to be out in another two weeks.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-242
08-11-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand working on MSP for vegetables||The state agriculture department is working on a plan to fix minimum support price (MSP) for vegetables, similar to paddy, agriculture minister Badal Patralekh said on Sunday, adding that the move was aimed at providing a fair marketplace for farmers. The minister said he had formed a committee under the aegis of agriculture secretary Abu Bakr Siddique to work out detailed modalities of an MSP for vegetables to ensure that those who grew vegetables did not have to sell their produce at throwaway prices. Badal said he was trying to finalise a plan within the next three months. “We wanted to introduce MSP for vegetables from this year but the plan got delayed due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown because of which neither I or my officials could visit some of the progressive states to find out how it was done there.” Asked about specific vegetables that would be covered under the MSP plan, he said that it would be decided by the committee. “We will fix for as many varieties of vegetables as possible. Jharkhand grows peas, tomatoes, gourd, French beans, cauliflower, cabbage in sufficient quantities,” he said. Jharkhand is a vegetable surplus state, producing over 30 lakh metric tonne annually, as per the department’s data. For the first time in August, the agriculture department, through the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC), tied up with a private agency - All Seasons Farm Fresh, to export over a tonne of vegetables for Dubai after procuring directly from the farmers. They consignment included 300kg bitter gourd, 50kg ladies finger, 150kg bottle gourd, 50kg French beans, 100 kg coccinia grandis (kundru), among others. On farm-loan waivers, among the major poll promises of the JMM-Congress-RJD alliance government, Badal said verification of bank accounts was on. As many as 8 lakh farmers have been identified for the loan waiver scheme. They will be covered in phased manner. “After the government sanctioned Rs 2000 crore for the scheme, we told banks and the agriculture department to jointly verify account details of all projected beneficiary farmers by seeding UID numbers with bank accounts to prevent duplicity. This exercise is expected to be over by this month,” he said. As for paddy, chief minister Hemant Soren has agreed to the agriculture department proposal to fix Rs 1,868 per quintal as the minimum support price for procurement of paddy this year along with an additional bonus of Rs 182 per quintal. For grade-A quality paddy, Rs 1,888 per quintal will be provided. Now, the proposal will be placed before the cabinet for a formal nod.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-242
08-11-2020||Jharkhand||Lalu’s health deteriorates, may need dialysis||RJD chief Lalu Prasad, who has been under stress associated with the Bihar Assembly polls, is suffering from kidney malfunctioning and may have to undergo dialysis if his condition deteriorates further, doctors at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) said on Sunday. “His blood creatinine levels are higher than normal. It would be too early to say whether he needs dialysis or not, but he may have to undergo the process if his condition deteriorates further in the days to come,” said Dr Umesh Prasad, who has been treating Lalu at RIMS since he was moved from the Birsa Munda Central Jail in Ranchi to the state-run hospital in 2018. Dr Prasad said Lalu was also suffering from diabetes and other age-related ailments, so any abnormality in his health reports should not be ignored. “There are many other ailments that he (Lalu) is suffering from, but the inflated serum creatinine level is our greatest concern as of now,” he added. A CBI court on December 23, 2017 convicted Lalu in a fodder scam case related to fraudulent withdrawal of Rs 89 lakh from the Deoghar treasury between 1991 and 1994 and sent him to jail. A month later, he was convicted in another fodder scam case and sentenced to five years of imprisonment. He was admitted to the cardiology wing of RIMS the next year after he complained of discomfort while serving his term at Birsa Munda Central Jail in Ranchi. Since then, he has been undergoing treatment at the hospital. In 2018, he was referred to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi from where he was later discharged and sent back to Ranchi. As per the jail manual, Lalu was allowed to meet three visitors on Saturday. However, he refused to meet anybody on the day and preferred spending time alone, doctors said. The Jharkhand High Court on Friday deferred Lalu’s bail plea hearing to November 27. The RJD chief’s lawyer, Kapil Sibal, said that Lalu has completed half of the seven-year sentence awarded to him in fodder scam and urged the court to release him on bail. In August 2014, Lalu underwent two major heart surgeries — one to replace an aortic valve and the other to repair the aorta, at Asian Heart Institute in Mumbai. He has since been under medications. He has also had four episodes of perianal abscess, an infection in the rectum which may lead to formation of fistula, doctors said. Currently, he is under medication for hypertension, diabetes, kidney and heart.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-242
08-11-2020||Jharkhand||It’s Sarna, not adivasi, code for tribals: Bandhu Tirkey||Bandhu Tirkey, a tribal lawmaker of the ruling JMM-Congress-RJD alliance has spoken out against the government’s move to introduce a “Sarna/Adivasi” code, as opposed to only a “Sarna” code, in the special Assembly session on November 11, stating that any such move would end up being rejected by the Centre because of technical complications. Tirkey, a Congress party MLA, also hinted on Saturday that he would oppose any move to introduce the word “adivasi” in the demand for a separate Sarna code. “The draft resolution circulated by the state government two days back mentions Sarna/Advisai code, which is to be vetted by the state Assembly for recommending to the Union government to demand its inclusion in 2021 census. However, I am opposed to the inclusion of the term, adivasi. Adivasi concerns caste while Sarna is about religious affinity. Tribals across the country for decades have been fighting for religious identity in the form of a separate code in the census. By including adivasi, it is likely that the Centre will reject it citing technicalities,” he told the media on Saturday. Tribals have demanded for a separate “Sarna” code for decades in the census column, which according to them will give them a distinctive identity. Without a separate column for tribals in the census, they classified either as Hindus, Muslim or Christians, till date. Concerned about the rising protests by tribals in the recent weeks, chief minister Hemant Soren has now convened a special assembly session to pass a resolution in favour of “Sarna” code. Earlier this week, state parliamentary affairs minister Alamgir Alam had sent a proposal for the special session for Governor Droupadi Murmu’s nod. Post her consent, assembly secretariat has begun working to convene the special session. However, a large section of different tribal bodies off late have also started demanding for an Adivasi code. Claiming that all tribals can’t be forced to accept their identities as nature worshippers, they have announced to launch a protest. This in turn has forced the state government to take a middle path by naming the draft as Sarna/Adivasi code. Tirkey, has made it clear that he will not support any such move in the special assembly session. “I am making my stand clear on the draft. I am in favour of Sarna code and not Sarna/Adivasi code. I urge the government to rectify the draft copy,” he stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-243
