09-11-2020||Calcutta||Mini idol crafted with baking tools||On Ashtami, as the pushpanjali mantra uttered by the priest blared on the loudspeaker in the streets, like many of her neighbours this year, Debadrita Das sat at home, away from the pandal and the pandemic, and repeated it word for word. Only, unlike her neighbours, she had an idol in front of her — that too made with her own hands. The 24-year-old from CJ Block had created a 10cm idol out of materials found at home. “I love craft. Even during the lockdown, I was baking and making greeting cards. During the Puja too, I wanted to do something creative. Since stepping outside was unsafe, I decided to create a Durga at home to provide the right ambience.” Initially, she had thought of painting the goddess and framing it. But soon she realised that it would only be an idol that could create the Puja feeling. The inspiration came from YouTube videos she had spotted before Ganesh Chaturthi of people creating mini Ganesha idols with air dried clay. “This is a product on sale in the market that does not need to be burnt like the conventional clay. It hardens on its own in 90 minutes if left in the open.” She got to work with six days to go for Sashthi. “I used my tools for fondant cakes to give shape to the lump,” smiled the home baker. Odds and ends, like butter paper and cartons, were at hand to decorate the idol. “There were enough boxes lying about from the home deliveries we had ordered during lockdown. With those, I made brown paper fans to place in the background. The butter papers and A4 sheets were cut to shape and pasted together to give a faux shola look to the ornaments of the mini goddess. The hands were stuck to the torso with toothpick. Alpona was painted using white acrylic paint. To add a touch of green to the look, she repotted stems of plants from the terrace garden in discarded clay tea cups. “I finished on Chaturthi and placed it next to my computer at my work station at home,” she said. “It made me feel nice and festive as I worked from home on Sashthi. Then Ma and I offered anjali here on Ashtami.” Now that Puja is over, Debadrita is planning to dismantle the decor. “I have made each piece such that they can be easily removed. I make greeting cards, so each item can be separately used to do up blank cards,” she smiled. The idol itself might be put in a glass box and showcased on the rack.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-245
09-11-2020||Calcutta||New park and playground for Labony Estate||Labony Estate got twin gifts in the run-up to the Pujas — a beautified public space with benches and a children’s playground. Both were inaugurated by MLA and minister Sujit Bose, mayor Krishna Chakraborty and councilor Tulsi Sinha Roy. A portion of land was cleaned out at long last in Labony Estate’s G Block. The new rectangular stretch is tiled, has benches and railings along the border and is illuminated by powerful high mast lighting. At one end is also a raised platform that served as the stage for the occasion. Secretary of Labony’s G Block association, Lopamudra Roy, said senior citizens would tell her how they would play badminton on that patch decades before it got overrun by wild growth. “I consulted Tulsidi and began clearing the space. There was resistance from neighbors whose gardens had spread into this land but I had to think of the majority, who claimed they felt unsafe crossing this dark patch at night,” Roy said. Groups of women and children had started making use of the benches right after inauguration. “This stretch used to be a jungle but it’s looking so pretty now. I would love to come here for breaks between my studies,” said Tanisha Chakraborty, a resident pursuing her B.Tech. A children’s playground was inaugurated in Labony Estates’ F Block on the same day. “This park used to be fallow land earlier and residents would use it to dry clothes. But we requested the councilor to build a mini park for kids here and we are happy with the result. It’s looking neat and colorful,” said Aloke Raha, better known as Kalida in the housing complex. Bose said the park would be a respite for children after being locked down for months and Chakraborty felt beautifying parks keeps them busy with visitors and hence keeps unlawful elements away. The new park sports a slide, a see-saw, a merry-go-round and two swings, and kids needed no invitation to start playing. “Before this, I would have to drive down my six-year-old Nancy and two-year-old Kanishk to CD Park to play. That was the nearest park with playthings as well as open space to run about,” said Sapna Verma Bhattacharya. “But this new playground is right opposite my flat and the kids will come here everyday.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-245
09-11-2020||Calcutta||New Town block makes mask must for priests||Even on the most humid of the puja days Ajoy Chakraborty was in his mask at the pandal. The priest and his assistant performing the rituals at BE Block in New Town were not to take their protective gear off even when they were performing hom in front of an open fire. The same was true for the dhak and kansor players. This was the condition set by the organisers, BE Block Welfare Association. Chakraborty says he did not mind. “Even for the household pujas I perform round the year, my clients do not allow me to take off the mask once I enter their houses. So I am used to it.” This year, there are no charanamrita, no chopped fruits and no shanti jol either, added secretary Pulak Kumar Dey. “Our anjali took place in a socially distanced manner in batches of 20. And people left the spot as soon as their turn got over,” he added. The block has been sanitising its streets on a weekly basis. “Other than a healthcare worker, we have not had a single case of infection in our block,” the block committee members said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-245
09-11-2020||Calcutta||Pandal made at home||While the rest of the city was busy debating whether community pujas should be held or not, a pair of 10-year-old twin sisters in CJ Block went ahead and built their own miniature Durga puja pandal at home. Aayushi and Amritaa Dutta have always liked craft and have built miniature bags, beds and tables before. “But this was our largest and most ambitious project yet,” says Aayushi, the elder of the fraternal twins. Amritaa recalls how a few days before the Pujas the girls fished out their school shoe boxes. “We cut out a portion that would be the entrance to the pandal and glued and taped the boxes securely,” she says. They wrapped the box with coloured paper and upon their mother Manushree’s suggestion, added paper lanterns for effect. “We had a Durga showpiece at home that we placed in the pandal and it looked beautiful,” says Aayushi. Amritaa adds that since their block pandal was very simple this year, their miniature pandal looked more decorative. “Given a chance, we would love to help decorate the block pandal next time,” she smiles. Their father Abhishek added the finishing touch by fixing tooni bulbs to the pandal. The twins’ mother took pictures while the girls were at work and made a collage at the end. The video was screened on CJ Block’s Facebook page along with other cultural programmes put up by residents during the Pujas. The miniature pandal is now displayed in their living room.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-245
09-11-2020||Calcutta||Remembrance Sunday at the Maidan Cenotaph||Diplomats, army officers and policemen gathered at the Maidan Cenotaph on Sunday morning to honour soldiers who laid down their lives in the two World Wars and other conflicts. Remembrance Sunday is held every year on the Sunday closest to November 11, which is commemorated worldwide as Armistice Day, marking the end of World War I. On November 11, 1918, the Allied nations and Germany signed an armistice ending the war, which had killed more than 15 million people. The British deputy high commission organised the Remembrance Sunday commemoration in Calcutta. Apart from the officials of the high commission, representatives of the army, police and other foreign consulates in Calcutta attended the event, which started around 10.30am at the Maidan Cenotaph, almost a replica of the Cenotaph in Whitehall in London. Following floral tributes and a bugle salute, a two-minute silence was observed in memory of those who lost their lives in conflicts. “Today, we remember those brave men and women who volunteered, fought and died in wars so that we have freedom and a better future. In Britain and India, we come together to salute and honour them. They shall never be forgotten,” said Yemi Odanye, the British deputy head of mission to Calcutta. After the programme on the Maidan, Odanye laid a wreath at the Commonwealth War Graves Cemetery in Bhowanipore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-245
09-11-2020||Calcutta||Preschools diversify to stay afloat amid pandemic||Several preschools are diversifying and starting “new verticals” to stay relevant and sustain themselves during the Covid pandemic. At least two of them have started a course for parents and one among them has also reached out to parents in other cities for online classes. The franchisee owner of another preschool is now concentrating on activities for school children rather than remaining only a preschool. The preschools are having to deal with dropouts since the beginning of the pandemic and many parents have not been keen on enrolling children for online classes, several preschool heads said. “There have been dropouts and we have waived off the admission fee, too. This disturbed the cash flow. To sustain ourselves and the staff, there has to be other channels of cash flow,” said Pooja Dugar, the director of Leap Years Preschool. In many preschools, owners have to pay the rent and also the cost of equipment. Leap Years Preschool has started a parents’ training programme on phonics and numbers for parents. “We are training the parents who can home school their children,” said Dugar. She said parents feel they can teach their children identification of colours or fruits, flowers and animals at home and do not need to put them in an online class for it. The preschool, therefore, has to offer them something else that would make them believe it is adding value. Bubble Blue Montessori is set to prepare the parents to home school their children better. The school will do sessions with parents for children from three months and hone the skills of parents, principal and owner Nabonita Bose Mukherjee said. “We will make the parents aware of the capabilities of their children and not focus on academics alone but also on social activities,” said Bose Mukherjee. “It is also true that with the age group we are dealing with, parents have a tremendous contribution whether it is to teach the children or help the children attend online class.” Many parents are not keen on online classes for their children because it’s a struggle to keep the young ones to sit in front of the screen during the class. "Parents need to be patient for at least seven to 10 days for their children to acclimatise with the online classes,” said Dugar. In a franchise of Junior DPS Ballygunge, the owner is concentrating on activities for older children with the preschool admission remaining dismal. The school started in November last year and though a few admissions happened in January, the lockdown hit the school hard. “I diversified and concentrated on calligraphy, drawing abacus classes and also online events. I have to pay rent for the place and pay the staff, and for that I need to think of alternatives. It is still not enough but I can manage and hopefully will be able to overcome the crisis,” said Puja Saraf, the owner. For older children parents do not have to sit through the entire length of the class like the preschoolers. Recently she hosted a halloween party for children online. About 20 children registered for it and it included doing a craft, scavenger hunt game and a magic trick for the children.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-245
09-11-2020||Calcutta||IIEST club for strays on campus||The pandemic has tested life, thrown up challenges and gifted some enduring takeaways. One such happy outcome is an animal welfare club that has been formed to take care of Bullet, Tiny, Blacky, Shiro and others amid the pandemic-induced closure of the IIEST campus. The Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology (IIEST) formed the Animal Welfare Club on November 5 following an appeal from the students’ senate that sought better upkeep of the stray dogs and cats amid the closure. A group of students under the banner “People for Animal Welfare, IIEST” has been raising funds since April to feed the strays on the campus that has been closed since the third week of March with the onset of the lockdown. But contributions from the students are dwindling with the continuance of the slump all around and therefore a need was felt to constitute the club that would enable the institute to chip in with resources whenever required, said an official. “In the initial months the students contributed generously. But the volume of contributions has witnessed a fall now, considering that the unprecedented slump is eating into the resources of everyone. A club, which is a statutory body, will enable the institute to help,’’ said the official. Twishampati Ghosh, the general secretary of the club, said as long as the campus was open, the 200-odd dogs and 30-odd cats did not face any problem because hostels were open and the surplus food from the mess was enough to feed them. But the closure changed the situation requiring students to extend a helping hand. A student of metallurgy and materials engineering, Twishampati said they had so far raised several lakhs of rupees to feed the strays through an NGO Priya Sathi. “But the contribution in recent months has declined. Everyone has his or her hands tied amid the crisis. We hope that the formation of the club would help us seek financial assistance from the authorities,’’ said Twishampati. Abhijit Chakrabarti, an IIEST professor of electrical engineering who is known to be a dog lover and has been associated with the fund-raising exercise, is professor-in-charge of the club. The former vice-chancellor of Jadavpur University said 40kg rice, 10kg chicken leftovers and 3kg fish are required to feed the strays. As prices have skyrocketed of late, sustained contribution is a must, he said. “Since there was a shortfall of resources from the students, I have been trying to compensate as much as possible. But now that the club has been formed, we will approach the authorities seeking assistance to meet any crunch,’’ Chakrabarti told Metro. If the strays are not fed properly, their behaviour pattern tends to change and they end up behaving in a violent way. That may lead to a conflict with the human population on the campus, said Aman Kumar, the general secretary of the students’ senate. Taking care of the strays does not mean just feeding them, said Shruti Animesh, the treasurer of the club. ’’The sterilisation drive has to be undertaken on a regular basis,” said Shruti, a fourth-year student of aerospace engineering and applied mechanics. Debabrata Mazumder, the dean of students’ welfare at the IIEST, said the institute would decide on help based on the response from the club.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-245
09-11-2020||Calcutta||Chain snatcher arrested||A 30-year-old man from Madhyamgram was arrested for allegedly snatching a woman’s gold necklace while she was out on her morning walk on the fringes of Rajarhat. Shabir Khan was arrested following a complaint lodged by 57-year-old Bani Mondal, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. The necklace was snatched on October 1, the officer said. “Mondal had stepped out of her house around 6am. Khan, who was following her on a motorcycle, snatched her necklace from behind and sped away before she could raise an alarm,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-245
09-11-2020||Calcutta||Undaunted, hubs promise fireworks||Two-sound shells: Rs 250-Rs 260 apiece Three-sound shells: Rs 250-Rs 290 apiece Chocolate bombs: Rs 100-Rs 150 a packet Tubri, rang mashal, phuljhuri, shells and chocolate bombs — firecrackers are on sale across parts of Nungi, Mahestla and Batanagar, on the southern fringes of Calcutta. Three days after the high court banned the sale and use of firecrackers, several dealers from these traditional baazi hubs in South 24-Parganas, around 22km from Calcutta, said all items were available. One just needs to come down. “Chole asun (Come down). Asubidha hobey na. (There won’t be any problem) Market toh cholchey (Market is running),” said a dealer from Chingripota in Mahestala. The man runs a shop on Daulatpur Road, which remains one of the favourite haunts for fireworks buyers from Calcutta and other areas. Every year, thousands would troop down to the area to pick up baskets of fireworks at a cheaper rate compared with the Calcutta markets. “Is it fine to visit this time? What about police raids?” “Na, thik achhey (No, it’s fine). Market cholchhey (Market is on),” the man said. On November 5, a division bench of the high court had banned use or display or bursting of firecrackers during Kali Puja and Diwali. The term firecrackers includes all types of sparklers and the like that do not produce any sound on being lit. At Nungi, around 21km south of Calcutta, a few dealers said the bulk of the scant buyers who were turning up were picking up rong moshal and phuljhuri, colourful and soundless variants of fireworks. “People are coming from Calcutta and also from surrounding areas. A few have been walking down from Nungi railway station. But the footfall so far is 10 per cent compared with previous years,” said a firecracker dealer in Nungi, who said he is keeping the shutters of his shop half down. Across parts of Budge Budge and Mahestala, thousands of villagers, including women, are involved in making firecrackers, mostly in illegal factories. Farmers switch to making firecrackers between two harvesting seasons and try to rake in a handsome amount around this time of the year. “We are open till 10pm. Market e lok khub kom kintu customer aachey (There are customers, but only a few),” said another dealer from Mahestala. “A new variety of three-piece shell is available for Rs 290 apiece. The best variety of chocolate bomb is being sold at Rs 150 a packet. They produce good sound.” The firework traders The Telegraph spoke to said they were aware of the high court order and directives from Nabanna against the sale of firecrackers. However, what buyers could see was not visible to police. “The main market is between Daulatpur Road and Khanpara. The high court order has left this entire market high and dry,” said a senior officer of Mahestala police station, which is part of the Diamond Harbour police district. But what about some traders promising to sell firecrackers even on Sunday? “There may be a few shops here and there, inside houses. But no one is selling any item,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-246
09-11-2020||Calcutta||Celsius fall set to hit Tuesday wall||Friday, 19.8 degrees. Saturday, 19.1 degrees. Sunday, 18.3 degrees. The Celsius is sliding in the city, thanks to the free flowing cold and dry winds from the upper reaches of the country. The minimum temperature plunged to 18.3 degrees on Sunday, after staying in the 19-degree range for the two previous days. The early morning nip, being felt over the past few days, was stronger on Sunday. “It was cold and windy. The weather was more like early December than early November,” said Sudip Raychowdhury, a 62-year-old Chetla resident and a regular morning walker at Rabindra Sarobar. He wore a light jacket and some of his acquaintances wore monkey caps, a cliché Calcutta proudly reinforces at the slightest hint of a shiver. Stoles also made their seasonal debut in some parts of the city early on Sunday. The hint of a chill is tipped to be disturbed from Tuesday, said a Met official. “A cyclonic circulation over the north Andaman sea will move towards the Bay of Bengal. The system is expected to inject moisture-laden easterly winds into south Bengal,” the official said. The rise in moisture content in the air will stall the free flow of northwesterly into the city, leading to a rise in temperature. “The minimum temperature is likely to start rising from Tuesday. It is tipped to reach 22 degrees in the coming days. But the cyclonic circulation, a local system, will dissipate before the next weekend,” said the Met official. Once the system dissipates, the moisture content in the atmosphere will go down and pave the way for the re-entry of cold and dry winds from north India. By Diwali, the hint of chill is expected to be back in the city, said the Met official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-246
09-11-2020||Calcutta||Work on Chhath pool in park halted||The Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) has stopped for the time being the construction of a Chhath Puja venue inside Vivekananda Park in south Calcutta. The construction had started on Saturday or Friday, said green activists who have been fighting attempts to allow Chhath rituals at Rabindra Sarobar, which is across the road from the park. An official of the CMDA said some groups had approached the organisation for permission to build a temporary pool for Chhath Puja, to be held on November 20, at the park. They allegedly did not wait for the CMDA’s decision and started building the pool. “We have asked them to stop the construction immediately. They cannot construct anything till we give our consent,” the official said. Another CMDA official, who had visited the construction site, guessed that the pool would measure around 800sq ft. Asked if the CMDA would allow the construction, the official said: “We have to study the proposal, the kind of materials to be used and other details. A final decision will be taken only after considering all these aspects. “Prima facie, it seems their intention is not to encroach on any portion of the park. They will dismantle the construction after Chhath Puja. Whether a temporary pool can be built there will need considerable deliberations.” Vivekananda Park is spread across 1,450 cottahs (about 24 acres). The park is home to several sports academies. There are four grounds divided by paved roads. Sources in the CMDA, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said the temporary pool was being made as an alternative to Rabindra Sarobar, in case the rituals are not allowed on the banks of the sprawling water body. The National Green Tribunal has banned all pujas on the Sarobar premises. The CMDA had approached the tribunal with a plea to allow Chhath Puja at the Sarobar, but the tribunal did not even hear the plea. The CMDA then moved a similar plea in the Supreme Court, where the matter will be heard on November 16. Activists and environmentalists have argued that people performing Chhath Puja rituals light lamps and release them on the water of Sarobar, an act that affects oxygen diffusion of the lake and aquatic beings. Also, the beating of drums and bursting of firecrackers during the rituals scare away birds. Somendra Mohan Ghosh, a green activist, went to inspect the construction site at Vivekananda Park on Sunday. “A lot of space at the park has been encroached on. A park is meant for sporting activities. A temporary pool should be allowed only if there is a firm commitment that the damaged part of the park will be restored,” he said. Former Indian cricket team selector Sambaran Banerjee, who runs a cricket academy at Vivekananda Park, said the construction would damage the grass but that would regrow with time. “It depends on what materials they are using for the pool. If brick is being used to lay the base, the regrowth of grass would take more time. In case of some other materials, the restoration can be done in a week or two,” said Banerjee, who led Bengal to Ranji trophy triumph in 1990.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-246
09-11-2020||Calcutta||Forget fireworks. You can still shop||Fireworks are off the table in most major shopping hubs in Calcutta, including Burrabazar, Hatibagan, Kumartuli and Ultadanga, this year and colourful lamps in various shapes and sizes, ready-to-make rangoli patterns and candles are out to woo shoppers. The Telegraph went around the city's shopping hotspots to catch the pulse on the last Sunday before Diwali. The pavements of the biggest shopping district in this part of the city were a riot of colours. Nearly every stall had stocked up on colourful clay lamps, different shades of rangoli colors and decorative items for homes. On Sunday, Burrabzar was abuzz as shoppers thronged the market to get their hands on the latest designs of earthen lamps, home decor items as well as the quintessential rangoli colours. Even those shopkeepers who used to stock fireworks have switched to these this year. Prakash Srivastava, a 35-year-old trader, said he switched to selling colours as well as different items needed to draw rangolis following the high court against the sale of fireworks. “I had picked up some fireworks but I am not selling them. Rangoli and lamps are hot cakes this year," he said. From saucer-sized easy-to-use pattern makers to colour-filled rollers, men and women alike were seen picking these up. “We need something to do now that the fireworks are banned. I have asked all the children in my family to make rangoli patterns on the floors of our house this year,” said Vipin Agarwal, who was out shopping with his daughter Shweta. The go-to destination for earthen lamps and candles, Kumartuli this year has churned up newer designs of lamps along with traditional ones. From large lamps shaped like a house to a set of elephants that have wax candles on their back, the sheer variety of lamps had shoppers in a fix. Twelve-year-old Aakriti Singh picked up a set of three clay lamps shaped like elephants for Rs 550, while her mother Vidisha picked up three dozen smaller colorful lamps. “Generally I come here to shop for lamps and other decorative pieces with my friends. However, this year I brought my daughter as she will not be able to go to Bazi Bazaar with her father,” said Aakriti. Apart from the elephant-shaped ones, lamps that can be hung from doors and windows have turned out to be best sellers, said Bulty Majhi, one of the sellers. “We made newer designs this year and the response has been quite good,” said Majhi. Nearly all the sellers who used to sell fireworks were selling candles, lamps and stickers in Hatibagan on Sunday. Shoppers were seen making their purchases but most sellers said this year the footfall had gone down. "Had we been selling fireworks, I would not have had the time to talk to you. Our customers are disappointed as well,” said Nimai Sardar, who had stocked up on fireworks but said he stopped selling them after the court ruling. Most shopkeepers, however, said they expected people to buy more once Diwali draws closer. “There are a few days left and people will come,” said Bikas Shaw, who has set up a stall that sells everything from lamps to home decor items.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-246
09-11-2020||Calcutta||EMI paid for five years but flat goes to someone else   ||A woman who took a home loan to buy a flat five years ago recently realised that she had been cheated by the developer, who had allegedly got the amount transferred to an associate’s account and made her pay the EMIs. The woman, who had taken a loan of Rs 25 lakh from the Jodhpur Park branch of a nationalised bank in 2015 to buy an apartment on Naktala Road, realised the fraud when she found that the flat had been handed over to another person and the EMIs she paid could not be refunded, police said. Based on a complainant lodged by the woman, a resident of Tiljala Road, on Saturday, Netaji Nagar police station has registered an FIR against seven persons, including the developer, his associates and the then branch manager of the nationalised bank. A case has been started under the IPC sections related to cheating, criminal breach of trust and criminal conspiracy.“The complainant had taken a home loan, but prima facie the entire sanctioned amount was transferred in the name of one of the associates of the developer. The woman had kept paying EMIs thinking she was paying for her flat,” said one of the investigators. The woman got suspicious when the developer kept delaying the handover of the keys to the apartment. However, it was only recently that she learned that the flat allotted to her had been handed over to a third party. Apparently, when she checked with the bank, she learned that the entire loan amount had been transferred to the account of an individual, instead of the account of the project where she had booked the flat. A senior police officer said they had started investigating the matter after receiving the complaint. No one was arrested till Sunday evening. Earlier this week, another woman, a resident of Salt Lake, had lodged a similar complaint of cheating with Behala police station. The woman had taken a loan of Rs 74 lakh to buy two flats — one in Behala and the other in Haridevpur — but the developer had allegedly re-sold the flats to other persons without her knowledge. “Such frauds are becoming common. It is important to do a background check of any developer before booking a flat. One should check with the local police station if the person or the group has any criminal case,” said a senior police officer at Lalbazar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-246
09-11-2020||Business||Rupee closes at 74.15 against USD after going down by 7 paise||The Indian National Rupee declined to settle 7 paise lower at 74.95 on Monday against the US dollar, tracking weaker counterparts of Asia against the latter. Higher crude oil prices were also responsible for the dip in the domestic currency. The rupee had opened at 73.95 against one dollar in the interbank foreign exchange, gaining a further strength of 73.83 through the day but could not hold on to its gains. According to Forex traders, the Indian currency declined despite record  buying in equities as the US dollar strengthened against major Asian as well as other rivals. This emerged unfavourable at the domestic forex market. Meanwhile, the dollar index, that determines the greenback’s strength against a group of six countries, rose to 92.35 at 0.14 per cent. Global oil benchmark Brent crude futures ascended to USD 40.35 a barrel at 2.15 per cent. According to Senior Research Analyst at Reliance Securities Sriram Iyer, the rupee may “appreciate marginally over the next few days amid portfolio flows into the domestic markets and a weaker US dollar. The only factor limiting the gains of the currency will be RBI coming in and mopping up the flows”. Foreign investors bought equities on a net basis stood at Rs 4,548.39 crore, exchange data showed on Monday. Registering a record closing high on the equity market front, the BSE Sensex settled at 704.37 points or 1.68 per cent higher at 42,597.43 on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-240
09-11-2020||Business||Gold has touched an all-time high||Gold this year has touched an all-time high on both Comex as well as the domestic market. The yellow metal consolidated after touching an all-time high although the overall uncertainties are providing a strong floor for the metal at the lower levels. The yellow metal gave a massive 40 per cent return this year in just six months supported by strong fundamentals. Prices gained at the start of the year as investors were worried about the impact of the trade war between the US and China. The accommodative stance of the central banks, stimulus measures, excess liquidity, the Covid-19 relief bill and lower bond yields were the other concerns among investors. However, the far reaching impact of the pandemic and the elections in the US forced market participants to take a cautious approach. All these factors, including the volatility in the rupee, have impacted gold prices on the domestic front. US election impact Over the past few months, there has been a lot of speculation in the market about the US elections and its impact on gold. After Joe Biden won the race to become the next US President, investors will now watch out for the approach of his party in supporting the economy. There are a lot more variables supporting gold than there were previously. Hence, the above mentioned factors will continue to support the market, irrespective of the party in power. Though historical trends suggest that some caution on a short-term basis should be considered. Central bank policies Central banks have been using all their tools to support the economies that have been going through a very rough patch. Global economy started getting affected by the trade tensions between the US and China and then the uncertainties kept piling on, thereby supporting the bullion. Central banks had cut interest rates and provided liquidity to the market to support the ailing economies. Global interest rates are currently near zero and are expected to remain low for some time. US Federal Reserve chairman Jerome Powell in his past policy statements has mentioned that rates will be kept low till 2023. Demand watch According to the World Gold Council, India’s gold demand in the fourth quarter is expected to recover after falling 30 per cent in the third quarter as festivals are expected to strengthen retail jewellery purchases. Demand for precious metals usually spikes towards the end of the year in India as buying gold for weddings and major festivals such as Diwali and Dussehra is considered auspicious. Jewellers have reportedly stocked up inventory to satisfy the festive and wedding demand needs. Indians celebrated Dussehra earlier this month and jewellers reported improvement in footfalls and sales. There are two scenarios here that are a little concerning. The impact of the pandemic and the lockdown situation is affecting physical demand. Further, higher prices have forced investors to take some time before they start to accumulate. Hence, demand during the fourth quarter could be lower than 194.3 tonnes recorded last year as consumers are struggling to adjust to near record high prices. India’s gold demand in the first three quarters fell 49 per cent from a year earlier to 252.4 tonnes as coronavirus-triggered lockdowns hit jewellery demand. While overall gold consumption fell, demand for coins and bars, known as investment demand, jumped 51 per cent in the third quarter as rising prices attracted investors, keeping the sentiment high. According to WGC, global net flows of 1,003 tonnes in 2020 have taken gold ETF AUM to an all-time high of 3,880 tonnes, suggesting that even though gold’s popularity seems to have been temporarily affected, its long-term strategic positioning is intact. Diwali show Normally, investors buy gold as a hedge against inflation and uncertainty, although Indians have another purpose of investing in gold, which protects their purchasing power against the depreciation of the rupee over longer periods. Over the last decade, gold in India has given a return of 159 per cent. The Dow Jones has given around 154 per cent and domestic equity index Nifty 50 has given 93 per cent return in the same period, which makes gold a decent performer and justifies the objective of Indian investors to use the metal as a shield against inflation and a depreciating rupee. Except for the small dips in between, gold prices have not disappointed investors. The outlook Now that the US elections are over, the next few months will be very important to define gold’s short to medium-term trajectory. One can expect the yellow metal to cover a lot of ground if the macro-economic situation as explained above plays out. Sentiments do look positive for this Diwali, keeping the hopes high for the bullions. In the short term, Comex gold could be forming a base of around $1,880-1,840 per ounce, while rallies are likely to be capped in the range of $1,940-1,975 per ounce. On the domestic front, dips towards Rs 49,500-48,500 per 10 gm is a good range to buy with short-term upsides being capped around Rs 52,000-53,000 per 10 gm. The writer is vice-president-commodities research, Motilal Oswal Financial Services||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-240
09-11-2020||Business||Poll din masks US game-changers||In this US election, the din has buried the consequence. The narrative is of a festering society amid a ravaging pandemic, with warts of racism and inequality stoked by boorish political theatre. The emotional fallout is searing the republic. Dazed by such antics, we ought not to ignore the overarching theme that is relevant to India: that the contemporary American saga has been one of economic growth and revival that creates unprecedented opportunities for India. Technology and energy — the two fuels of the economy have been dramatically upended. Brought up in a world of energy shortage, policy makers are adjusting to the shale boom. Enabled by drilling innovation, pipeline infrastructure and prudent eminent domain laws US has surpassed both Saudi Arabia as the largest oil producer and Russia as the largest gas producer. Energy consumption is evolving as rapidly. Tesla electric cars, launched at the same time as Tata’s Nano, is the world’s most valuable automaker. Powerwall home batteries are reducing electricity bills by three-fourth by deploying solar panels on roofs and backyards. All this portends an energy revolution that will favour consumers. Emissions from solar and gas are a fraction of coal. India is a major net buyer — and the notion of cheap, clean fuel whose supply doesn’t depend on West Asian politics is welcome. Contrast this with the dominant narrative of energy during this election: the perils of fracking and of nepotism in Ukraine. These problems may be real, but not as cataclysmic as the spectre of a world running out of energy. The news from the technology sector is also dour, chronicling giant tech companies that have spawned cyber gestapos bent on prying secrets and eradicating small businesses. The five companies — ominously called FAANG — have a market capitalisation of nearly $6 trillion and data security and business concentration need legal safeguards, but should be seen alongside the fact that global economies are operating above 90 per cent levels through the pandemic because of such technology. As a businessperson, I have promoted new products on social media and sold goods through e-commerce at a fraction of the fixed cost and reached global customers — something only multinationals had the resources to do earlier. India has been a partner in the success of the US-led IT industry. Whether as a customer of TCS and Infosys, an investor in Indian start-ups, or as Indian-origin CEOs at Google and Microsoft, our countries have shared interests and opportunities. While data and oil strengthen the US economy, people drive productivity. To quote the play Hamilton, immigrants get the job done. Despite political broadsides, immigrants have been an unmitigated blessing to America — adding to GDP growth, receiving majority of patents and seasoning the melting pot culture. Indian immigrants have assimilated seamlessly into the US and are now the most successful, educated and highest-income group in the nation. Deep people-to-people exchange is the most resilient foundation of the India-US partnership. People also drive consumption and the US has been a consumer of last resort to the world economy. Many nations — Japan, Korea and China — have grown rich on the back of US buyers, and reinforcing India’s export competitiveness is key. The revocation of the General System of Preferences (GSP) last year hurt Indian exports. India’s policy to propel champion industries and to work with US to have preferential access to their markets needs to be our priority post elections. Having rationalised corporate taxes and unlocked labour market bottlenecks, Indian industry has a historic opportunity to take on competition and massively scale up exports to the US. Democracy creates heat and dust, unlike the ostensibly serene but ultimately brittle autocratic systems. In the clamour, candidates occasionally bait and jostle. Admittedly, it isn’t pretty and sometimes the missives cut close to the bone. However, it is in this spectacle around the festival of democracy that US and India are tied together. Irrespective of the party in power, there is much to cherish between our two countries. An alumnus of Columbia University, Rudra Chatterjee is a businessperson with interests in both India and the US||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-240
09-11-2020||Business||Bigbasket faces data leak fear||Grocery e-commerce platform Bigbasket has faced a potential data breach which could have leaked details of its around 2 crore users, according to cyber intelligence firm Cyble. The company has filed a police complaint in this regard with the Cyber Crime Cell in Bangalore and is verifying claims made by cyber experts. Cyble said that a hacker has put data allegedly belonging to Bigbasket on sale for around Rs 30 lakh. “In the course of our routine dark web monitoring, the research team at Cyble found the database of Big Basket for sale in a cyber crime market, being sold for over $40,000. The leak contains a database portion; with the table name ‘member_member’. The file contains close to 20 million user data,” Cyble said in its blog. It added the data put on sale includes names, email IDs, password hashes, contact numbers (mobile and phone), addresses, date of birth, location, and IP addresses of login.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-240
09-11-2020||Business||ONGC seeks allies for mature fields||State-owned ONGC has invited bids from global oil and gas companies to undertake work to boost production from its ageing fields as it looks to reverse its declining output. The 15-year production enhancement contract (PEC) will require firms to commit to investing in capital and operating expenditure to increase production, higher than the existing baseline output, according to the tender document. A tariff will be paid in dollar per barrel of oil and dollar per million British thermal units for gas for any incremental hydrocarbon produced and saved over the baseline. ONGC on October 27 issued the expression of interest (EoI) notice offering the 15-year PECs to outside contractors for an unidentified number of “mature” fields. The company did not name the oil or gas fields in the notice, but sources said the fields are largely in Assam and Gujarat, the country’s oldest producing basins. This is the second attempt by ONGC to induct partners in its mature or ageing fields.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-240
09-11-2020||Business||Opec treads with caution after Biden win||Key members of Opec are wary that strains in the Opec+ alliance could reemerge with Joe Biden as US President, sources close to the organisation said, and would miss President Donald Trump who went from criticising the group to helping bring about a record oil output cut. Biden could modify US diplomatic relations with three members of Opec — de facto leader Saudi Arabia, and sanctioned countries Iran and Venezuela, as well as with key non-Opec producer Russia. Russia is the leader of oil producers allied with Opec, a group known as Opec+. Strict enforcement of US sanctions on Iran and Venezuela has kept millions of barrels of oil per day off the market, and if Biden should relax measures on either in years to come an increase in production could make it harder for Opec to balance supply with demand. Biden has said he would prefer multilateral diplomacy to the unilateral sanctions Trump has imposed, although that may not mean a relaxation in sanctions any time soon. In his campaign, Biden said he’d return to Iran’s 2015 nuclear deal if Tehran resumes compliance with the pact. Trump quit the pact in 2018, reimposing sanctions that cut Iran’s oil exports. Some in Opec fear that a return of Iranian volumes will add to oversupply without cutbacks elsewhere and worry about Moscow’s continued participation in Opec+. “Iran sanctions can be re-evaluated and then Iran will be back to the market, so again there would be oversupply and the current cut deal will be at risk,” an Opec source said before the election result was known. Global threat Biden has named Russia as Washington’s most serious global threat. During his campaign, he also pledged to reassess ties with Saudi Arabia. Trump in April was involved in talks that led to a deal in which the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and Saudi Arabia worked with allied producers led by Russia to agree a record oil supply cut as the coronavirus outbreak hammered demand. Trump stepped in to put political pressure on Saudi Arabia and Russia to end a dispute that had sparked a price war and resulted in both countries planning to raise output just as the pandemic led to restrictions on travel. The result was an unprecedented global deal to cut oil supply by about 20 million barrels per day, or around 20 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-240
09-11-2020||Business||Stable visa regime hope after Biden win ||Nasscom on Sunday welcomed Joe Biden’s win in the US Presidential election, and said the Indian IT industry looks forward to working with the new administration in pivoting technology, skills and digital transformation for the US. The US is the biggest market for the Indian IT sector, accounting for a lion’s share of the industry’s revenue. “Nasscom congratulates US #PresidentElect JoeBiden on his win. We look forward to working with him and his administration in pivoting technology, skills and digital transformation for the United States,” it said in a tweet. Nasscom has projected a revenue growth of 7.7 per cent at $191 billion for the IT sector in the ongoing fiscal. The industry has added a net 2 lakh jobs, taking the overall workforce to 4.36 million. Indian IT players will keep a close watch on Biden’s approach and policies related to H-1B work visas that are used by a large number of Indian technology professionals. In June, during the Covid-19 pandemic, US President Donald Trump banned the entry into the US of workers in several key non-immigrant visa categories, including H-1B, until the end of the year, arguing that they eat into American jobs. Those affected include the family members of the H-1B, L-1 and certain categories of J1 visas. Later, the Trump administration announced certain exemptions in H-1B and L-1 travel bans for those continuing employment with the same employer, a move that could help Indian IT professionals and those working in the healthcare sector. The H-1B visa is a non-immigrant visa that allows US companies to employ foreign workers in speciality occupations that require theoretical or technical expertise. Companies depend on it to hire tens of thousands of employees each year from countries such as India and China. In a statement, Nasscom said its member companies have an important history in the US. “They work with over three-quarters of the Fortune 500 companies in the US, providing them vital technology services and helping them innovate, compete, and grow,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-240
09-11-2020||Business||Premium hatches a favourite during festive season||The premium hatch segment seems to have caught the attention of most manufacturers with each pitching new variants to attract buyers during the festive season. With personal mobility becoming a necessity forced by the pandemic, the hatch is back in business. “Its not just the entry-level cars but the premium hatches are also in demand as customers and the market in India mature. Many of the buyers of premium hatch are first-time car buyers,” said an industry source. If Hyundai made a pitch with its fourth-generation i20, Tata Motors launched a new variant of its Altroz, both this week. In August, Honda launched its “niched brand” Jazz. Maruti continues with its Baleno which recorded its highest sales in October. Toyota Glanza and Volkswagen Polo complete the segment that has a market size of 30,000 to 33,000 units per month. The price segment ranges from Rs 5.44 lakh to Rs 11.18 lakh. The segment has recorded over 50 per cent growth year-on-year compared to 2019. The premium hatches constitute 26 per cent of the overall hatchback segment and contribute 13 per cent to the total sales.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-240
09-11-2020||Business||Sahaj to double service centres||Sahaj Retail Limited, a Kanoria Foundation initiative, plans to more than double its network and expand its services across verticals over the next two years. The company, which offers last-mile facilities such as government-to-citizen services, financial inclusion, utility bill collection and e-learning, has a network of 93,000 service centres across 23 states. “Our plan is to double the network capacity to 2 lakh service centres across 30 states over the next two years,” said Amit Kumar Singh, CEO, Sahaj Retail Limited. “We can expand in markets such as the south where we have thin presence and also deepen our presence in the existing markets. The idea is to make our network reach available to the rural parts of the country and take the services to the doorstep of these customers. One centre can employ 2-3 youths. So, this will also open up employment opportunities,” said Singh. Telangana, Daman, Sikkim are among the new markets where the company is looking to expand. The company is always exploring opportunities in different services and markets to compensate for the losses in other segments. “One business goes down but another comes up and we are looking at extending geography and increasing business,” he said. Sahaj had turned EBITDA positive in 2019-20 having reworked the business model. “Earlier, we were focusing more on government to citizen services. We have now added several B2C services. We are today a business correspondent for banks, we distribute insurance products, offer utility services, facilitate e-commerce and e-learning services,” Singh said. The company is also expanding its service offerings. “The vertical that we see coming up is e-learning where we will tie up with various educational service provider companies. Micro insurance is another segment where there is potential as insurance penetration is lower in the rural area. We will also scale up our current portfolio. We will tie up with more banks to offer business correspondent services and we are also looking to ramp up a few of the government projects,” said Singh. The company has also recently tied up with Amazon to increase the e-commerce firm’s reach in the rural parts and facilitate customer acquisition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-241
09-11-2020||Business||Ircon impetus to Centre's selloffs||The government plans to sell about a 15 per cent stake in Ircon International through an offer for sale of shares in the current fiscal even as the budget divestment target of Rs 2.1 lakh crore appears to be a daunting task. Finance ministry officials admitted the target may not be achieved this fiscal. A revised target is being worked out, and some PSUs are being lined up for stake sales and strategic sales.  “Ircon would be one of the railway firms which could hit the market under the OFS mode and measures are being taken to this effect,” the officials said. At the present price, Ircon can fetch the Modi government Rs 545 crore. The government currently holds an 89.18 per cent stake in the rail construction company, which has projects in India and abroad. It had raised Rs 466 crore by selling a 10 per cent stake in the PSU through an initial public offering in 2018-19. The other railway companies that could see stake sales in the current fiscal include IRCTC and Rail Vikas Nigam (RVNL). The disinvestment department has so far raised only Rs 6,138 crore in the current fiscal which includes close to Rs 5,000 crore by selling a 14.82 per cent stake in Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd through an offer for sale and Rs 771 crore through another offer for sale of Bharat Dynamics. The ambitious divestment plans of the Modi government have been hit hard this year. The pandemic has delayed several big-ticket proposals, including the strategic stake sale in Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd and an initial public offering of Life Insurance Corp of India. The government has now eased the norms for BPCL privatisation by allowing the interested parties to submit their preliminary bids for the acquisition of the country’s second-biggest oil refiner via e-mail. A notice issued by the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (Dipam) said, “The IPs (interested parties) if they so desire, may submit the complete EoI (expression of interest) in electronic form via e-mail with all the requisite documents in pdf format by the EoI due date.” In September, the Centre had extended the deadline to bid for Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd (BPCL) by one-and-a-half month to November 16. In LIC, Deloitte and SBI Caps have been appointed the pre-IPO advisors to list out the items of compliance.  The legislative amendment, to facilitate the IPO, by making changes in the LIC Act is being worked out by the department of financial services. The plan is to amend Sections 24, 28 and 37 of the LIC Act. Section 24 deals with the way the corporation handles its corpus, Section 28 is about dividend distribution and Section 37 provides government guarantee on all its policies. At present, LIC pays 5 percent of its  surplus to the government, while the remaining 95 per cent goes to its policyholders. In comparison, private insurance companies pay 10 per cent of their surplus to shareholders and the rest to policyholders. The amendment to the LIC Act could possibly bring the state-owned insurance firm on a par with other insurance companies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-241
09-11-2020||India||Indian Railways’ stand of linking goods train services with passenger ones ‘irrational’: Punjab CM||Punjab Chief Minister Capt. Amrinder Singh on Monday said that the decision of the railways to link goods train movement to that of the passenger ones is illogical and irrational. Singh said that there was absolutely no logic in the Railways’ decision, which they have taken as a common excuse to go on with the suspension of freight services. However, the organisation has said that it will operate both goods and passenger trains at once or none, while declining to resume freight services in Punjab. Train services in Punjab have been suspended since September 24, at a time when the state’s farmers started their rail roko movement against the newly enacted farm laws. According to a statement by the chief minister, passengers who want to enter Punjab can easily do so by boarding a train to Haryana’s Ambala, or Chandigarh, and reach their destinations by road in a few hours. He said that the situation was not applicable for freight services, adding if Punjab residents, including its farmers, continue to be denied their need for essential items, the situation can aggravate. Singh said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), through its move to back the railways’ decision, have been furthering the farmers’ anger towards the party. BJP state unit president Ashwani Sharma alleged that the Punjab government was arm-twisting the Centre. The CM rejected it to say that it is the BJP leadership who was provoking the farmers with its anti-Punjab stance on the matter. Instead of questioning the Railways and being by the side of the state government in convincing the Centre to allow freight services to restart, the BJP leadership carried on indulging in dirty politics without being concerned about the people of Punjab and its neighbouring states, Singh alleged. What's worse is that the BJP is not even bothered about our soldiers in Ladakh and Kashmir who are waiting eagerly for critical supplies before snowfall, which would block them off from the rest of India during winter, he added. Sharma had further accused the state government of failing to dissuade protestors from blocking train services. To this, the CM replied that in fact it is his government that persuaded the farmers to ease their blockade to let essential items come in. Even now, several members of his Cabinet are talking to farmers’ bodies to push for the complete withdrawal of their blockade, he said, adding that it is of his government’s interest to do so for the sake of its people. Singh said that the rigid stand of the Railways, endorsed by the BJP, suggested lack of interest in resolving the imbroglio on the freight services issue. Why else will the Railways be taking refuge in multiple excuses to continue to suspend the services in Punjab, especially after the farmers cleared all tracks for freight movement and he personally guaranteed full safety for the goods trains even though the Railway security rested with the GRP? he asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-570
09-11-2020||India||BJP leads in 17 of 28 seats in Madhya Pradesh ||The BJP is leading in 17 seats and the Congress in nine in Madhya Pradesh as votes are being counted for the Assembly by-elections in 58 seats across 11 states, according to the Election Commission website on Tuesday. India's ruling party was also ahead in seven seats and the Congress in one in Gujarat, where by-elections were held in eight seats, and five in Uttar Pradesh, where polls were held in seven constituencies. The Samajwadi Party was ahead in one and an Independent candidate in another in the country's most populous state. Counting for the polling held on November 3 began at 8 am and progressed strictly in accordance with the Election Commission's guidelines, officials said. The number of people who can be present in the counting halls was restricted and extensive measures taken to ensure social distancing, they said. It's a high-stakes electoral battle, particularly in Madhya Pradesh where the BJP-led Shivraj Singh Chouhan government is locked in a fierce contest for survival with the Congress. Elections were held for 28 seats. The BJP which has 107 MLAs in the assembly, with an effective strength of 229, needs at least eight more MLAs for a simple majority. Votes were also being counted for by-elections in Manipur (five seats), Haryana (one), Chhattisgarh (one), Jharkhand (two), Karnataka (two), Nagaland (two), Odisha (two) and Telangana (one). According to trends on the Election Commission site, the BJP had won one seat in Manipur and was leading in two while the Congress was leading in one and an Independent in one. In Jharkhand, the BJP was ahead in one and the Congress in the other. The party was ahead in both the seats in Karnataka. In Odisha, the state's ruling Biju Janata Dal was ahead in both the seats for which elections were held. In Nagaland, Independents were leading in both seats. In the lone seat in Chhattisgarh, the Congress was leading. The party was also ahead in Haryana while the BJP was ahead in Telangana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-570
09-11-2020||India||NCB summons Arjun Rampal after raid at home||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Monday carried out a search at the residence of actor Arjun Rampal, as part of its probe into alleged drug use in Bollywood and also asked him to appear before the agency on November 11. Electronic gadgets were seized during the search at the house of the 47-year-old actor in suburban Mumbai, a police official said. According to NCB sources, summons was also issued to Rampal, asking him to appear before the drug law enforcement agency on November 11. The search at the residence of the model-turned-actor came a day after the NCB arrested Bollywood producer Firoz Nadiadwala's wife after ganja was allegedly found at their residence in suburban Juhu. NCB Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede told PTI on Sunday that Firoz Nadiadwala was summoned by the anti-drugs agency earlier in the day, but he failed to appear. "We have arrested Firoz Nadiadwala's wife under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Further investigation is on," said Wankhede. On Sunday, a team of NCB sleuths searched the residence of the Nadiadwalas and seized 10 grams of ganja, officials said, adding the contraband was procured from one Wahid Abdul Kadir Sheikh alias Sultan who was arrested earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-570
09-11-2020||India||Bombay HC refuses interim bail to Arnab ||The Bombay High Court on Monday refused to grant interim bail to Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami and two others in a 2018 case of abetment of suicide of an interior designer. A division bench of Justices S S Shinde and M S Karnik said "no case was made out in the present matter for the high court to exercise its extraordinary jurisdiction." The HC noted that the petitioner (Goswami) has the remedy under law to approach the sessions court concerned and seek regular bail. On Saturday, the high court, while reserving its order on the petitions seeking interim bail, said pendency of the matter in the HC does not preclude the accused persons from seeking regular bail before the sessions court. The HC was hearing petitions filed by Goswami and two other accused Feroze Shaikh and Nitish Sarda challenging their "illegal arrest" in the case and seeking interim bail. Goswami and the two others were arrested by Alibaug police on November 4 in connection with the suicide of architect-interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother in 2018 over alleged non-payment of dues by companies of the accused. The three were later taken to Alibaug and produced before a magistrate who refused their custody to police and remanded them in judicial custody till November 18. Goswami was initially kept at a local school which is designated as Covid-19 centre for the Alibaug prison. On Sunday, he was shifted to the Taloja jail in Raigad district after allegedly being found using a mobile phone while in judicial custody, police said. In his petition, Goswami alleged that he is being targeted and harassed by the Maharashtra government for his reportage on his news channel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-570
09-11-2020||India||Bihar readies for D-day amid predictions of change||Bihar might be on the cusp of a major generational shift in politics as it braced for Tuesday's counting of votes for the assembly election, with most pollsters predicting a landslide for the five-party Grand Alliance led by the young RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav. Counting will be taken up at 55 centres across 38 districts where the outcome will decide the fate of the Nitish Kumar government that has helmed the state for a decade and half. Most exit polls have predicted a rout for the ruling JD(U)-BJP combine and a resounding victory for the Grand Alliance (Mahagathbandhan) led by RJD's 31-year-old chief ministerial candidate Tejashwi Yadav, who has thrown down the gauntlet at redoubtable Nitish Kumar, the battle-scarred veteran more than twice his age. The Election Commission is making sure that the winds of potential change cause no disruption in the counting process. According to Chief Electoral Officer H R Srinavasa, central armed police forces have been deployed at the strong rooms, where the EVMs have been stored since the completion of voting, and the halls where these will be unsealed Tuesday morning after counting of postal ballots gets over. The state has 243 assembly constituencies and the most keenly watched will obviously be Raghopur in Vaishali district from where Tejashwi Yadav is seeking re-election. Kumar is a member of the legislative council and has not contested the assembly election. Raghopur has been in the past represented by his parents Lalu Prasad and Rabri Devi both former chief ministers. Tejashwi's elder brother Tej Pratap Yadav is contesting from Hasanpur in Samastipur district. In addition, Tuesday's counting will also decide the political fate of nearly a score of ministers. Prominent among them are Nand Kishore Yadav (Patna Sahib), Pramod Kumar (Motihari), Rana Randhir (Madhuban), Suresh Sharma (Muzaffarpur), Shrawan Kumar (Nalanda), Jai Kumar Singh (Dinara) and Krishnanandan Prasad Verma (Jehanabad). With much of the NDA's election narrative focusing on RJD's association with "jungle raj", an allusion to the alleged collapsed law and order during the 15 years when Lalu-Rabri ruled the state in succession, the fate of "bahubalis", leaders known for strong arm tactics, will also be keenly watched. Two of the most notorious criminal-turned-politicians- Anant Singh (Mokama) and Reetlal Yadav (Danapur)- are contesting on RJD tickets. A win for the RJD-led coalition will bring a redemption of sorts for Tejashwi Yadav whose leadership abilities were called into question after his party failed to win a single seat in the Lok Sabha elections last year. The NDA had won 39 of the 40 seats and one had gone to the Congress, an RJD ally. It may also revive the fortunes of the three Left parties--The CPI, CPI-M and CPI-ML--which were consigned to near oblivion over the past two decades. The five-party 'Mahagathbandhan' also comprises these three Left parties, which were a force to reckon with in the past. Election officials and district administrations face the daunting task of restraining supporters of political parties from crowding the counting centres amid the Covid-19 outbreak. Prohibitory orders will be be place outside the counting centres to prevent people from gathering in large numbers, officials said. According to Srinivasa, while 19 companies of the central armed police forces will be deployed at strong rooms and the halls where counting will take place, another 59 have been entrusted with maintaining law and order. Each company comprises roughly 100 personnel. Additional Director General of Police (Headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said Bihar Military Police and local police will also chip in while senior officials will keep a watch through display screens connected to CCTV cameras installed at the counting centres.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-570
09-11-2020||India||India records 45,903 new Covid cases, 490 more deaths||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 85,53,657 with 45,903 new infections being reported, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease crossed 79 lakh, pushing the national recovery rate to 92.56 per cent, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll from the disease climbed to 1,26,611 with 490 new fatalities being registered, the data updated at 8 am showed. The total number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 79,17,373, pushing the national recovery rate to 92.56 per cent while the case fatality rate stands at 1.48 per cent. The number of active cases of Covid-19 remained below 6 lakh for the 11th consecutive day. There are 5,09,673 active cases of the coronavirus infection in the country as on date which comprises 5.96 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 11,85,72,192 samples have been tested up to November 8 with 8,35,401 test being conducted on Sunday. The 490 new fatalities include 125 from Maharashtra, 77 from Delhi, 59 from West Bengal, 26 from Uttar Pradesh, 24 from Kerala, 22 from Karnataka and 20 from Tamil Nadu. A total of 1,26,611 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 45,240 from Maharashtra, followed by 11,391 from Karnataka, 11,344 from Tamil Nadu, 7,294 from West Bengal, 7,206 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,989 from Delhi, 6,791 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,318 from Punjab and 3,760 from Gujarat. The Union health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-570
09-11-2020||India||Delhi's air quality 'severe' for fifth consecutive day||The national capital's air quality remained severe for the fifth consecutive day on Monday, with calm wind speed exacerbating the effect of stubble burning. The city's air quality index (AQI) stood at 469 at 9 am. Its 24-hour average AQI was 416 on Sunday, 427 on Saturday, 406 on Friday and 450 on Thursday, the highest since November 15 last year, when it was 458. The neighbouring cities of Faridabad (462), Ghaziabad (483), Noida (476), Greater Noida (482), and Gurugram (475) also recorded severe air quality. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". PM10 levels in Delhi-NCR stood at 575 microgram per cubic meter ( g/m3) at 9 am, the highest since November 15 last year, when it was 637 g/m3, according to CPCB data. PM10 levels below 100 g/m3 are considered safe in India. PM10 is particulate matter with a diameter of 10 micrometers and is inhalable into the lungs. These particles include dust, pollen and mold spores. The levels of PM2.5 finer particles which can even enter the bloodstream were 366 g/m3 at 9 am. PM2.5 levels up to 60 g/m3 are considered safe. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the wind speed was 3 to 4 kilometres per hour in the morning and the minimum temperature 10 degrees Celsius. Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion. The central government's Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said a significant improvement in air quality is not likely owing to slow wind speed, particularly during night time, and contribution from farm fires. The farm fire count over Punjab remains very high which is likely to impact the air quality of Delhi-NCR and other parts of northwest India, it said. The Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR, said surface winds have become calm and are predicted to remain so for the next two days. This is a major factor due to which no quick recovery is expected unless a drastic reduction in fire counts takes place, it said. SAFAR said the share of stubble burning in Delhi's PM2.5 pollution was 29 percent on Sunday. It was 42 percent on Thursday, the maximum this season so far. Last year, the stubble contribution to Delhi's pollution had peaked to 44 percent on November 1, according to SAFAR data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-571
09-11-2020||India||Central Information Commission veil on home secretary exit||The Central Information Commission has allowed the cabinet secretariat to withhold records of deliberations and file notes linked to the resignation of former Union home secretary Anil Goswami. Goswami put in his papers in February 2015 following allegations that he had attempted to stall the arrest of a former minister by the CBI. The panel has based its judgement on a Delhi High Court order in a separate case in which it had held that file notings and deliberations of a group of officers or the disciplinary authority could not be disclosed. The court had, however, allowed information on action taken in relation to complaints against an officer to be provided to an applicant. Chief information commissioner Y.K. Sinha buttressed his argument to withhold the information citing a Supreme Court verdict, which had held that “professional records, including qualification, performance, evaluation reports, ACRs, disciplinary proceedings, etc. are all personal information.… Such personal information is entitled to protection from unwarranted invasion of privacy and conditional access is available when stipulation of larger public interest is satisfied.” RTI applicant and IPS officer Amitabh Thakur had sought to know from the cabinet secretariat the details of action taken on a complaint against Goswami, including communication exchanged between various authorities and file notings. Not getting a satisfactory response, Thakur had appealed before the CIC. During the hearing, he argued that he wanted the information, including file notings, in public interest “to know the sequence of events which led to the forced resignation of Anil Goswami”. “The subject matter which forms the basis of the instant case is disclosure of note sheets and other correspondence exchanged by various offices in the process of considering the complaint filed against Sri Goswami,” Sinha had noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-571
09-11-2020||India||Arnab Goswami shifted to jail for cellphone in custody||Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami, arrested in an abetment to suicide case, was on Sunday shifted to Taloja jail in Maharashtra’s Raigad district after he was allegedly found using a cellphone. Since his arrest on November 4 he was lodged in a school serving as a Covid quarantine centre for Alibaug jail. The Raigad crime branch found Goswami was active on social media using somebody's cellphone, despite his personal phone having been seized by police when he was taken into custody on November 4. While being escorted to Taloja jail, Goswami shouted from the police van, alleging that he was assaulted by Alibaug jailer on Saturday evening, his life was in danger and he was not allowed to speak to his lawyer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-571
09-11-2020||India||Four soldiers killed in gunfight on LoC||Three armymen, including an officer, and a BSF constable, were killed in an overnight gunfight with a freshly infiltrated group of militants in the Machil sector of Kupwara near the Line of Control on Sunday. The clashes that broke out at midnight and continued till 1pm also left three militants dead. Searches are underway to find out if more militants are hiding in the area. Two soldiers suffered injuries. Official sources said these were the biggest casualties for the forces on the LoC after an April gun battle in the adjoining Keran sector in which the army lost five elite para-commandos. A BSF spokesperson said its soldiers had spotted a group of militants infiltrating the Machil sector around midnight and 3.5km inside the LoC on Sunday. “On being challenged, the intruders opened fire. The soldiers retaliated. In the fierce exchange of fire, one terrorist was shot dead immediately and the others managed to hide behind the cover of undulating terrain,” the spokesperson said. The first gunfight also left BSF constable Sudip Kumar Sarkar, 38, from the 169 Battalion dead. He was a resident of Tripura. The gunfight with the BSF continued for three hours. The defence spokesperson in Srinagar, Colonel Rajesh Kalia, said army reinforcements soon rushed to the area and a fierce gunfight ensued, killing an officer, two soldiers and two militants. “Terrorist movement had been tracked by surveillance devices,” Col Kalia said. “Contact was re-established at 10.20am when heavy fire was drawn by search parties approximately 1.5km from the LoC. In the ensuing firefight, two more terrorists were killed. The troops suffered three KIA (killed in action) and two injured,” he added. The spokesperson said the two injured soldiers had been evacuated. The operation is in progress and further details are awaited,” Col Kalia added. In April, the army had lost five members of an elite special force in a four-day operation in the Keran area of Kupwara while following militant footprints on snow. The members of the Parachute unit had slipped into a ravine after snow gave way, landing on the militant hideout. A close-quarter fight resulted in the death of five soldiers. The army, however, had also gunned down five militants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-571
09-11-2020||India||Modi takes two hours to congratulate Biden after poll win||Canada, France, the United Kingdom, Germany, Italy…. Most of the free world could not wait to congratulate Joe Biden when the American networks called the election on Saturday. But not the aspiring “Vishwa Guru”, which was a picture of equanimity and detached amusement in keeping with the best practices in high diplomacy and in contrast to the hordes going nuts about an election in a foreign country. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, one of whose avowed goals is to make India a Vishwa Guru in a few years, did congratulate Biden on Saturday night for the “spectacular victory” but not before the heads of government or state of several other countries had showered praises on the President-elect. The US networks declared Biden the winner around 10pm in India. Modi took around two hours to post the congratulatory message and a picture of himself with Biden. The order of messaging need not be of much consequence in the serious business of diplomacy, especially with Chinese President Xi Jinping having been among the first to congratulate Modi when he won the 2019 election with a brute majority. Now Modi does not utter Xi’s name and India-China ties are at an all-time low. Yet Modi’s caution drew attention because he had thrown it to the winds last year when he parroted in Houston Trump’s “Ab ki baar Trump sarkar” slogan. Unwittingly or otherwise, Modi’s circumspection on Saturday night reflected the despondency that had shrouded the Right-wing ecosystem in India as soon as it became evident that Biden had beaten Trump. Some were poor losers too. One Right-wing commentator tweeted that Biden’s “win does not pass the smell test”. Among the early birds to congratulate Biden were Canada’s Justin Trudeau (no surprise) and Boris Johnson (surprise, considering Trump calls the UK Prime Minister “Britain Trump”). Johnson was not as effusive as the others but he did single out Vice-President-elect Kamala Harris for her “historic achievement”. “The US is our most important ally,” Johnson said, “and I look forward to working closely together on our shared priorities from climate change to trade and security. Modi’s message cannot be faulted for over-familiarity. “Congratulations @JoeBiden on your spectacular victory! As the VP, your contribution to strengthening Indo-US relations was critical and invaluable. I look forward to working closely together once again to take India-US relations to greater heights.” Modi also resisted the temptation to follow Sadiq Khan, the mayor of London, who added in his tweet congratulating Biden and Harris: “London looks forward to working with you — it’s time to get back to building bridges, not walls.” And, of course, in keeping with the stature of the leader of the aspiring Vishwa Guru, Modi was not as audacious as Nicola Sturgeon, the first minister of Scotland. Sturgeon did not wait for the race to be called, tweeting on Friday evening: “The world can be a dark place at times just now — but today we are seeing a wee break in the clouds.” For all their bonhomie, Modi had no message for Trump – at least publicly -- unlike Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. After congratulating the Biden-Harris duo in a tweet, Netanyahu posted a message of thanks to the outgoing President for his friendship and support in recognising Jerusalem as Israel’s capital, standing up to Iran and signing the recent peace accords. In the other corner, one country stood out. Saudi Arabia, which may have more to lose from Biden’s victory than other Arab states, took its time to comment. As other Arab states raced to congratulate the Democrat challenger, the kingdom’s de facto ruler, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, remained silent on the US vote for hours even as he sent warm words to the President of Tanzania on his re-election. The prince, known as MBS, has a close rapport with Modi whose West Asian policy has been a bright spot in an otherwise bleak foreign affairs landscape. MBS’s close personal ties with Trump had provided a vital buffer against a tide of international criticism over Riyadh’s rights record, sparked by the murder of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi, its role in Yemen’s war and its detention of women activists. Those areas may now become points of friction between Biden and Saudi Arabia, a major oil exporter and buyer of US arms. In India, BJP leaders on Sunday said Modi knew Biden “well” and the two would take the bilateral partnership to the next level. In an interview to PTI, BJP national general secretary Ram Madhav – who used to handle the Prime Minister’s foreign visits in the early years of the Modi government – appeared to voice the sense of resignation within the party over the turn of events when he said that the people of America had made their choice and now it was for the rest of the world to welcome their decision and congratulate their leadership. “The US and India stand on a strong bipartisan bilateral relationship based on the principles of democracy, mutual benefits and global peace. I am sure (that) under the new leadership of Biden-Harris, US-India ties will continue to progress as strong as they have been,’’ Madhav said. Additional reporting by Reuters and NYTNS||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-571
09-11-2020||India||Congress condemns demonetisation on anniversary||The Congress on Sunday condemned the demonetisation on its fourth anniversary, saying it was a conspiracy by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to destroy India’s informal sector and small businesses to help a few corporate houses. The party held demonstrations at several places and ran a social media campaign, posting thousands of videos and messages to revive the painful memories of the note withdrawal that wrecked the economy and left millions jobless. Rahul Gandhi asked people not to presume this was a mistake, arguing it was a planned attack on the economy that continued with a flawed GST implementation and the new farm laws, all intended to destroy the informal sector to help three or four big industrialists. Former finance minister P. Chidambaram recalled how the decision had triggered a downward spiral in growth and destroyed businesses and jobs. He said every ruler should draw one lesson from this — even if you don’t do good to the people, don’t do any harm. He hoped it would be investigated one day who had benefited from the introduction of Rs 2,000 notes after Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes were scrapped. The Congress has consistently described the demonetisation as the biggest scandal in Indian history. While the Prime Minister, who defended his decision on Sunday, never mentions this “masterstroke” in his election rallies or other political interactions, Rahul uses every opportunity to tell people how the destruction of India’s economy began with the “note-bandi”. He never fails to highlight the miseries the decision had inflicted on the poor. On Saturday, the Congress paid tribute to the 125-odd people who had died as a consequence of the demonetisation. Most senior Congress leaders posted videos requesting the Prime Minister to accept that the demonetisation was a wrong decision and apologise to the nation. Party spokesperson Pawan Khera said that no one with even a basic understanding of the economy and Indian society would have taken the decision. The party posted videos to show how common people, such as small traders and day labourers, were affected by the note withdrawal. Party general secretary Ajay Maken began his news conference quoting former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, who had described the demonetisation as “organised loot and legalised plunder”. “The government kept shifting goalposts, giving newer reasons for the decision, like: to counter black money and corruption, to eliminate fake currency, to make the economy digital/ cashless, to tackle Maoism/ terrorism/ separatism, to bring idle savings into the banks, to expand the tax base, to make bigger, cleaner and real GDP, to bring down real estate prices, etc,” Maken said. He argued that none of the objectives had been met. “Over 99.3 per cent of the demonetised currency came back to the system. How much black money was detected? As far as corruption is concerned, we have seen a surge in the use of money power in poaching MLAs and destabilising non-BJP state governments,” Maken said. “Fake currency is on the rise after 2016. National Crime Record Bureau data show the value of fake Indian currency notes seized in 2016 was Rs 15.9 crore. From 2017 to 2019, it was Rs 116.85 crore.” Maken said that cash transactions had increased in the country since the demonetisation. “There is no justification in aiming for a cashless economy. In India, we have per-day transactions worth Rs 1 lakh crore. With 2 per cent transaction fees to a third party, it will lead to a yearly windfall profit of Rs 7.3 lakh crore. In whose benefit was this exercise conducted? ….As per the latest RBI reports, the gross saving rates have dropped from 31.35 per cent in 2016-17 to 30.11 per cent in 2018-19. It was 32.12 per cent during 2013-14.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-571
09-11-2020||India||Kolam, laddu and crackers for Kamala Harris||The hours of suspense ended at 10.30pm on Saturday, causing J. Sudhakar to jump out of his seat. “We were all praying for it and expecting it, but the official word had to come,” the headman of Thulasendirapuram-Painganadu village in Tamil Nadu’s Tiruvarur district grinned. The ancestral village of Kamala Harris, the first woman to be elected America’s Vice-President, had been conducting special prayers for her victory at the local Dharma Sastha temple since a day before the November 3 polls. But the uncertainty 8,000km away in Washington DC had begun telling on nerves. “It was around 10.30 last night that we first heard on television that Joe Biden had been elected US President, which meant that a woman with roots in our village would be Vice-President. I can’t say how pleased we are,” Sudhakar told The Telegraph on Sunday from Thulasendirapuram, about 340km south of Chennai near Mannargudi in the heart of the Cauvery delta. Tension over, the village celebrated as though Diwali had come early. Women woke up early on Sunday morning, Sudhakar said, to draw colourful kolams (rangoli or alpana) outside their homes. “Congratulations Kamala Harris: Pride of our village, Vanakkam America,” they wrote with rice paste. Laddus were distributed and crackers burst. Banners and placards were put up. “People pooled their funds for the celebrations,” Sudhakar said. A special “Abishekam” was performed at the village temple, where the deity was bathed in milk. Kamala’s relatives from Chennai keep visiting the temple during festivals, and its records show a donation made on behalf of a Kamala Harris. Thulasendirapuram had been the home of Kamala’s maternal grandfather P.V. Gopalan, a distinguished civil servant during British rule. Kamala, 56, who visited the village when she was 5, has often recalled walks with her maternal grandfather on Chennai’s beaches during annual trips from the US. Those conversations with her grandfather, a freedom-fighter, had left a profound impact, she had said in a 2018 speech. Kamala has been in close touch with her relatives in India. “Three generations have gone by since Kamala’s grandparents left the village, but their ancestral home is still there,” said panchayat president Purushottaman. “Kamala’s mother (Dr Shyamala Gopalan) went to the US (in 1958) to pursue higher studies. Kamala was born (to Shyamala and a Jamaican father) and brought up there,” Kamala’s octogenarian uncle G. Balachandran, a leading defence scholar and Delhi resident, told a TV channel. “I’m very, very happy. Kamala spoke to me on November 4 and I told her she would win.” Four years down the line, Americans could well see her running for the Presidency, he said. Balachandran told ANI at his home in New Delhi that he planned to attend the inauguration in January. Kamala had, while accepting the vice-presidential nomination in August, praised the way her mother had slogged “around the clock” to make life easier for her and stressed the importance of family. “My mother instilled in my sister Maya and me the values that would chart the course of our lives. She raised us to be proud, strong Black women, and she raised us to know and be proud of our Indian heritage,” she said. “She taught us to put family first — the family you’re born into, and the family you choose. Family is my husband, Doug, who I met on a blind date set up by my best friend. Family is our beautiful children, Cole and Ella, who call me “Momala”. Family is my sister. Family is my best friend, my nieces, and my godchildren. Family is my uncles, my aunts, and my chittis (aunts). One of those chittis, the Chennai-based Dr Sarala Gopalan, said she couldn’t speak to her niece on Saturday. “I was waiting for the announcement till late in the night.... I felt tired and had to retire for the night,” the senior consultant at the Voluntary Health Services here said. “Hopefully,” was her response when asked if she would attend the swearing-in ceremony in the US. A few years ago, after Kamala had called her with a request, Dr Gopalan had broken 108 coconuts at the Varasiddhi Vinayagar temple here to bring good luck. A rural development officer in Tiruvarur, who did not want to be named, saw a deeper significance to Kamala’s feat. “For the villagers here, the US is far away. But Kamala Harris’s success opens up fresh expectations about what education can do for women,” the official told this newspaper. Sudhakar agreed: “She has become a role model for girls from our village in the cause of women’s education. We want her to visit our village at least once.” Purushottaman reckoned that with Kamala’s achievement bringing the village global recognition of sorts, Thulasendirapuram stood a good chance of bagging the “special panchayat” status, which ensures more infrastructure development funds. “We shall certainly consider passing a resolution at our panchayat urging the state government and the Centre to grant us the special status,” he said. The entire political spectrum in Tamil Nadu barring the BJP congratulated Biden and Kamala. “I am extremely glad.... she has made Tamil Nadu proud with this astounding victory,” tweeted AIADMK chief minister E.K. Palaniswami. His deputy O. Panneerselvam said Kamala’s success reflected the “strength of Tamil women”. “A woman hailing from this small village now holds one of the highest positions in the US. It’s a proud moment,” said R. Kamaraj, state food minister, who had joined in the celebrations at the village. “Especially pleased that American people have chosen a woman with Tamil heritage as their next Vice-President,” DMK president M.K. Stalin tweeted. In Mumbai, people shot off fireworks and a group of artists painted a portrait of Biden and Harris. Dozens of prominent Indians and Americans of Indian origin took to social media to congratulate Harris, including actors Priyanka Chopra Jonas and Mindy Kaling. Kaling tweeted images of Harris and wrote: “Crying and holding my daughter, ‘look baby, she looks like us’.” Additional reporting by Reuters and PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-571
09-11-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi writes to Biden and Harris ||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Sunday wrote letters to US President-elect Joe Biden and Vice-President-elect Kamala Harris, congratulating them warmlyon their victory. To Biden, she wrote: “Like millions around the world, the Indian people have followed with great interest the course of the election during the last 12 months. We were greatly reassured by your measured speeches, stress on healing divisions among the people, and promotion of gender and racial equality, global cooperation and sustainable development of all countries.” Sonia added: “Under your wise and mature leadership we look forward to a close partnership that will be beneficial to peace and development in our region and around the world.” To Harris, whose mother was Indian and father Jamaican and who is the first woman to be elected US Vice-President, Sonia wrote: “Warmest felicitations! Your victory is a victory for the noble values enshrined in the American Constitution — democracy, social justice and racial and gender equality. It is a triumph for Black Americans and Indian Americans and for the humanity, compassion and inclusiveness that you have stood for throughout your public and political life. “I admire the unwavering courage with which you have fought for your convictions — the beliefs and values you imbibed from your remarkable mother!” Sonia added: “We hope we will have the opportunity soon to welcome you to India, where you will be warmly hailed not just as a much admired leader of a great democracy but also as a beloved daughter. The Congress party looks forward to working with you to further the bonds between the world’s two largest democracies.” In 2016, too, Sonia had greeted Donald Trump on his election, wishing him a great tenure and hoping his presidency would strengthen India-US ties. But Biden and Harris have evoked an emotional response from her. Rahul Gandhi congratulated Biden and Harris on Twitter on Saturday night, soon after the election was called and more than an hour before Prime Minister Narendra Modi did. “Congratulations to President-elect Joe Biden. I’m confident that he will unite America and provide it with a strong sense of direction,” Rahul wrote. He followed this up with a message for Harris. “Congratulations, Vice-President-elect @KamalaHarris! It makes us proud that the first woman to serve as Vice President of the USA traces her roots to India,” Rahul wrote. In 2016, he had tweeted: “Congratulations Donald Trump on being elected US President. I hope our countries continue to work together closely & remain strong partners.” The Congress on Sunday expressed fear that Prime Minister Modi’s indiscreet expression of support for Trump might affect New Delhi’s ties with Washington. “Never pick sides in the internal democratic processes of another nation. Hope this does not come back to haunt India,” former Union minister Manish Tewari, who is part of the Congress’s foreign affairs department, tweeted. He attached a report on last year’s “Howdy Modi” event in Houston at which a visiting Modi had appeared to endorse re-election for Trump by chanting: “Ab ki baar, Trump sarkar.” Asked at a news conference about Modi’s gesture, Congress general secretary Ajay Maken said: “The Congress believes that we should not interfere in the internal politics of any country. Our governments never did this; they never even indicated their preference, forget campaigning, directly or indirectly. Our leaders should have taken care.” A senior Congress politician, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said: “Modi went too far by hosting the Namaste Trump event in Ahmedabad (in February). He had no obligation to organise that programme. That the event was hosted amid the coronavirus outbreak showed the Prime Minister’s eagerness to bolster Trump’s prospects.” Senior party leader P. Chidambaram said: “Mr Modi believes that he can win every election on Hindutva, Ram Temple, Pulwama, repeal of Art 370, CAA, and branding every Opposition party and Opposition leader as anti-national…. The Indian nation is as divided as the United States. President-elect Biden’s thanksgiving speech is the kind of speech that we want to hear from every Indian Prime Minister.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-571
09-11-2020||West Bengal||WB CM urges Modi to intervene on price control of essential items||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to urgently intervene to control hoarding, increase supplies and bring down the skyrocketing prices of essential commodities. She also urged the Prime Minister to restore the states’ power to control the prices of essential food items like potato and onion. “In the view of the seriousness of the matter, I would urge the Central government to urgently step in to control hoarding, to increase supply and to bring down the rising prices of essential commodities, as the public is facing an acute crisis. Otherwise, the power of the state government be restored for exercising control over the production, supply, distribution and sale of agricultural commodities,” she wrote in a four-page letter to the PM. Banerjee also urged Modi to permit the states to bring about appropriate legislation in regard to their exercising control over the production, supply, distribution and sale of the agricultural commodities. “...The state governments being now devoid of its powers cannot be expected to remain a silent spectator to the ongoing sufferings of the common people due to extraordinary price rise of potato and onion-like essential commodities,” the letter said. The Parliament had on September 23 passed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill to remove cereals, pulses, oilseeds, edible oils, onion and potatoes from the list of essential commodities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-316
09-11-2020||West Bengal||Bengal police, administration must be politically neutral, says Dhankhar||Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Monday said the state police and administration must be "politically neutral" and warned that "outrageous departures spell serious consequences". Dhankhar, who is currently in Darjeeling, said in a series of tweets that his alerts to "politically motivated public servants" have been partially impactful as some are still in defiance, unmindful that such "misconduct" has serious career and criminal consequences. Cautioning public servants that political alignment is "illegal and criminal wrong", the governor said it is time to "flush out" extra constitutional authorities and illegal intruders from corridors of power to protect democracy. "My alerts to politically motivated public servants @MamataOfficial have been partially impactful as some are still in defiance, unmindful that such misconduct has serious career & criminal consequences. They must heed 'Be you ever so high, the law is always above you!' and amend," he tweeted. "Police and Administration @MamataOfficial must be 'political neutral'. Must adhere @IASassociation @IPS_Association AIS (Conduct) Rules, 1968. Every member of the Service shall at all times maintain 'political neutrality'. Outrageous departures spell serious consequences," he said in another Twitter post. The governor said the only "escape route" for violators is to dump the political hat and serve as per law. "Public servants @MamataOfficial political alignment is illegal and criminal wrong. Time to flush out Extra constitutional authorities & illegal intruders #MAP of power corridors to protect democracy. Only escape route for violators is to dump political hat & serve as per law," the governor tweeted. Dhankhar, in a letter to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in October, had called for "sanitising power corridors of non-state actors and (to) ensure that the state security advisor and principal advisor, internal security, do not boss over the statutorily structured police apparatus, thereby reducing the DGP and other police officials to abject subordination and to insignificance." The state government has engaged retired IPS officers Surajit Kar Purakayastha as the state security advisor and Rina Mitra as principal advisor of internal security.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-316
09-11-2020||West Bengal||Costly potato poser on midday plate at West Midnapore schools||The rising price of potatoes has created a funds poser for midday meals — rationed to students as schools are closed amid the pandemic — in West Midnapore. The district chapter of the State Forum of Headmasters and Headmistresses has submitted a deputation with the district magistrate demanding enough funds to procure potatoes for midday meals for roughly 6.27 lakh students. The deputation was given on Thursday last week following weeks of uncertainty over how schools would meet the price gap between Rs 45 per kg of potatoes sold in markets and Rs 32 for a kg that the state education department had allotted. On Friday, a day after the deputation, the district magistrate allotted Rs 35 per kg, but headmasters and teachers called it “insufficient”. “Ever since the lockdown we are providing monthly supplies to students as opposed to daily meals. This entails additional costs, including public announcement systems (informing people about the distribution of ration) and PPE (for those delivering the ration), which the government is not paying for,” said district president of the association Amitesh Chowdhury. He added that monthly midday meal parcels include a ration of 1kg potato, 1kg chhola (chickpea), 2kg rice and a bar of soap. “While chickpea and rice are provided by the state, schools have to buy the other two items,” he said. Teachers’ associations said this week that for the past month, they had been meeting an “over Rs 10,000 price gap” on an average per school in the case of potato through donations and from their pockets. “We supply midday meals to around 1,000 of 1,800 students in our school. While buying potatoes in the market we have been often undersold or given bad stock for our inability to pay bulk rates,” said Bhupal Prasad Chakraborty, headmaster of Ishwarchandra Majhi Memorial School in West Midnapore’s Khukurdaha. District magistrate Rashmi Kamal on Saturday acknowledged the rise in potato prices but said officials were unable to increase the allowance beyond Rs 35 per kg “owing to state-enforced limitations on spending”. “We have raised the allotment to Rs 35 per kg from Rs 32 per kg in the light of this (Thursday’s) deputation but can’t go beyond that,” she said. Potato traders in Bengal have blamed the recent central amendment to the Essential Commodities Act for the rise in potato prices in retail markets as it allows barrier-free trade of the tuber. With the amendment, commodities like cereals, pulses, oilseeds, onion and potato have been removed from the list of essential commodities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-316
09-11-2020||West Bengal||Fresh from crisis, Durgapur mulls backup water plan||The municipal corporation has decided on a blueprint for robust water supply backup plan in the town, which faced severe water scarcity for a week after a snag developed at Durgapur Barrage on Damodar that feeds water to the civic body’s treatment plants. Pabitra Chatterjee, mayoral council member (water supply) of the civic body, said the feeder canal from where they fetch water to the treatment plants needed desilting. “This is the second time since 2017 that we have faced such a water crisis for days following a snag at the barrage. We supplied water in tankers from 11 deep tube wells that we set up after the 2017 incident but that is not enough for a crisis of such magnitude,” he said. “We fetch water from the feeder canal and supply it to our water treatment plants in Durgapur. The water is then supplied across town. But the canal’s water carrying capacity has reduced because of silt deposit,” said Chatterjee Civic body engineers said the canal is 8.5km long and 3m deep but silt deposit has shrunk its capacity to almost half. “If we can increase the depth of the canal, it can hold more water and we could maintain normal water supply to our plants for at least five to six days if a crisis occurs,” said Chatterjee. He added that water treatment plants also needed an upgrade. The civic authorities have sent a draft proposal to the municipal affairs department for approval and sanction of funds. “De-siltation is a costly job that we can’t do with our own resources. We need funds from the government and for that we need the department’s nod,” said Chatterjee. Engineers at the water supply department of the civic body said they pay an yearly fee of Rs 12 crore to the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) as maintenance and water charges. “The DVC a few months ago carried out partial desiltation but that is not sufficient,” said the engineer. DVC officials in Durgapur said silt accumulation is natural in rivers and canals. “Encroachment along the banks of the canal and dumping of trash by encroachers create more trouble,” said a DVC official. The civic body supplies around 20 million gallons per day of water to the town for domestic and commercial use. Civic authorities have started exploring other options for water, instead of depending on Damodar alone, like the Ajay river on West Burdwan-Birbhum border. Water supply has resumed in Durgapur after a week but residents of some areas complained of inadequate supply. In Durgapur’s Bidhannagar housing, residents blocked the local road for an hour after not getting water on Sunday. “We have not yet received water despite assurance from local civic authorities. We will not withdraw our protest until we get water,” said Haradhan Haldar, a resident. Local Trinamul councilors Dipen Maji and Dipankar Laha got involved in altercation when local BJP workers joined the protest. Later, councillor Maji said a communication gap between housing functionaries and the civic authorities caused the chaos, which was then sorted out. Water supply was severely affected in Durgapur and parts of Bankura for a week after sluice gate no. 31 of Durgapur Barrage got bent resulting in water gushing out to the lower catchment area, leaving the upper catchment almost dry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-317
09-11-2020||West Bengal||Cancer patient and 4 of family found dead in South Dinajpur village||Five members of a family, including two children, were found dead at their home at a village in South Dinajpur district on Sunday. Police suspect Anu Burman, 33, a farmer and sole breadwinner of the family in Jamalpur village under Tapan police station, murdered his mother, wife and two daughters before taking his own life. South Dinajpur SP Debarshi Dutta said primary probe revealed Anu was suffering from cancer and was depressed. “It appears that he murdered the other four and then committed suicide. A probe is on. We are waiting for autopsy reports,” Dutta said. On Sunday morning, some workers hired by Anu to harvest paddy on his field came to his house and called out for him before heading for work. When no one responded, they became curious. One of the farmhands scaled the boundary wall and entered the house to see the body of Anu hanging from the ceiling. The bodies of his mother Ulubala, 60, wife Mallika, 28, and daughters Beauty and Snigdha aged 10 and 6, lay nearby with multiple injury marks. A police officer said Anu had been undergoing cancer treatment and had sold a major part of his ancestral land to fund it. “Recently, he was finding it tough to arrange money for treatment. Also, he was the only breadwinner in the family. We have initiated a probe and are exploring all possible angles,” the police officer said. Many of Anu’s relatives and neighbours refused to buy the murder-suicide theory and said that Anu couldn’t have taken such a step. “We suspect all five were murdered. Anu was a calm and quiet man. We can’t believe he took such a step,” said neighbour Gautam Burman.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-317
09-11-2020||West Bengal||BJP sidelines old guard to focus on Bengal poll win||The Union home minister Amit Shah’s two-day visit to Bengal, with comments on accommodating those who want to join the BJP, may have ended up cementing the positions of turncoats in the party, many in the state party unit believe. Since the BJP started expanding in Bengal “inorganically” by inducting defectors from other parties, especially Trinamul, the party has seen a power struggle between the old guard and newcomers. Over the last few months, the tussle intensified, but members of the old guard believed they had an edge. “That myth seems to have broken...during his visit, Amitji made it clear that the party values those who can contribute towards winning the polls in Bengal and also sent out a message that those coming from other parties would have to be accommodated. If that is the consideration, turncoats clearly have an edge,” an old BJP worker said. Shah’s message that the party would get 200 seats has set the momentum for the polls, which means winning elections is now the sole focus. “So more people will join the party from Trinamul and the relevance of BJP’s old guard will decline. New inductees from the ruling party will be seen as assets in the BJP in view of their ability to manage elections,” said a source. The old BJP worker said that during important events such as Shah’s visit in the past, the party’s old guard played an important role. This time, it appeared that the whole event has been “captured” by the turncoats from Trinamul. “If you remember television footage, leaders like Mukul Roy and Anupam Hazra were seen in (more) close proximity to Amitji than our state president Dilip Ghosh,” another source said.  Defectors from Trinamul, Roy is now a national vice-president of the BJP, while Hazra is a national secretary. Citing an instance of the change, this source referred to the visit of Shah to the home of Nabin Biswas, a representative of the Matua community. Mohit Roy, a saffron old guard and a prominent leader associated with the refugee movement, was not invited. The Matuas are a large populace of refugees from the erstwhile East Pakistan and an important vote bank for the party. “The Matuas are refugees and a leader like Mohitda wasn’t invited. Instead, Sabyasachi Dutta (MLA and defector from Trinamul) took charge of organising the event,” the source said. This source added that since Dutta has influence over the Rajarhat-New Town Assembly segment, and a few adjacent seats, he was given priority at the Matua home under the Rajarhat-New Town area. During his trip, Shah met three sulking party old-timers, former state presidents Tathagata Roy and Rahul Sinha and former general-secretary (organisation) Subrato Chatterjee. “They were looking for rehabilitation, but it seems they will have to wait,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-317
09-11-2020||West Bengal||13 days of dip in active cases in Bengal||Bengal for the 13th consecutive day since Durga Puja on Sunday, logged a drop in its total active cases. There were 3,920 new cases and 4,383 recoveries within the 24-hour window till 9am Sunday. Bengal’s recovery rate climbed a new high of 89.67, close to the national rate of 92.48 per cent. Bengal’s total active cases dropped from 37,190 to 34,566 in 13 days since the end of Durga Puja, and has gone back to where it stood on October 19. The state reported 53,368 recoveries in the 13 days, outweighing the 51,492 new cases detected during the same span. However, Bengal reported 59 more deaths on Sunday, including 16 from Calcutta. With these, Bengal’s total Covid-19 cases are 4.05 lakh, including over 3.63 lakh recoveries and 7,294 deaths. Of the total toll, 6,114, or 83.8 per cent, were attributed to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate stands at an improved 1.79, but behind the national rate of 1.48 per cent. “It can now be said with certainty that the outbreak did not worsen over Puja. The credit has to be given to the high court for its order (against overcrowding) and administration for implementation,” said a minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-317
09-11-2020||West Bengal||Adhir praise for rival Suvendu Adhikari, dig at Mamata||State Congress president and Behrampore MP Adhir Chowdhury on Sunday lavished praise on Trinamul leader Suvendu Adhikari and his family, attributing to them a large chunk of the credit for Mamata Banerjee’s rise. Chowdhury went on to justify their “revolt” — it is being speculated for months that transport minister Suvendu might join the BJP — allegedly over Mamata’s bid to elevate nephew Abhishek. “Let me state in no uncertain terms that without the Adhikaris, Mamata Banerjee would not have become the chief minister. Suvendu risked his life to conduct the Nandigram movement, which was the key to her rise. When he started that movement, neither was she there nor was her nephew (Abhishek),” said Chowdhury, also the leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha. The anti-land acquisition movements in Singur and Nandigram proved pivotal to Mamata’s political career and propelled her to power in 2011. Suvendu, 51, is the state transport minister, one of Trinamul’s tallest leaders and a part of its seven-member apex steering committee. His father Sisir Adhikari is the Contai MP, one of his brothers Dibyendu is the Tamluk MP, and another brother Soumyendu is Contai’s civic chairman. Chowdhury’s comments added a new dimension to murmurs that Suvendu is likely to join the BJP. During Amit Shah’s recent Bengal visit, the first question hurled at the Union home minister at a news meet was about Suvendu’s switch to the saffron camp. Shah dodged it. Chowdhury has in the past attacked Suvendu. But on Sunday, Chowdhury said he felt the urge to speak the truth despite political differences. “When the Nandigram movement was on, I had gone there with relief. I have seen very closely how he led the movement, how much the masses, the poor, the farmers trusted him. I can’t lie about that,” he said. He added he did not know which party Suvendu would join, but “he clearly did not get his due in Trinamul”. “If something like this keeps happening to someone with ability, sooner or later there would be revolt. That revolt would be just,” Chowdhury added. Rumours over Suvendu’s possible defection to the BJP or forming a separate political party that joins the NDA have been afloat since 2013. Sources close to him attributed it to Mamata singling out Abhishek as her political heir, not Suvendu. A political observer said Chowdhury was “a known Mamata baiter”. “He may have broached Nandigram and Suvendu’s contribution to embarrass her.” The transport minister has been silent about this shift of political allegiance, but over the past month or so, many of his remarks, absence from many state government events, and comments on him by the BJP leadership have caused speculation. Suvendu attended a gathering of party workers in Murshidabad for the first time since his removal as the district observer in July. He was in Khargram for a memorial service for the party’s block president Mafizuddin Mondal, who succumbed to Covid-19. BJP state unit chief Dilip Ghosh said Trinamul was now like a cabbage: “Leaves keep coming off...eventually, Trinamul will have nobody other than those two (Mamata and Abhishek).” Additional reporting by Alamgir Hossain||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-317
09-11-2020||West Bengal||Political do-gooders compete for goodwill||Tribal farmer Bibhishan Hansda, who hosted lunch for Amit Shah on Thursday but couldn’t ask the Union home minister for help regarding his diabetic teen daughter, had a busy Sunday, with back-to-back visits from the BJP and the state government. Sources said chief minister Mamata Banerjee ordered district officials to tend to Bibhishan’s daughter, after his being “upset” at not getting a chance to speak to Shah came to light. BJP’s Bankura MP Subhas Sarkar, also a physician, visited Hansda’s house on Sunday, shortly after which a team of district health officials arrived with medicines for Rachana, a 16-year-old chronic diabetic and a Class XII student. “One after another, teams met us and expressed their concern about my daughter’s health. A team led by the MP assured us of treatment in Delhi. Later, a team of (government) doctors came and gave us insulin and other medicines for my daughter,” said Manika, Rachana’s mother. “We just want help for my daughter’s treatment and her medicines. We are not with any political organisation.” Hansda, 47, of Chaturdihi village, 13km from Bankura town, had told this newspaper after Shah’s visit that he was “upset” he did not get the scope to convey his concerns to the home minister. Rachana needs insulin twice daily to keep her sugar levels under control, something the farmer can ill afford. On Saturday, BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh said his party would arrange Rachana’s treatment at AIIMS, New Delhi. Ghosh’s party colleague Sarkar on Sunday went to the Hansda home and told Bibhishan about arrangements for the girl’s treatment at AIIMS if needed. Sarkar also arranged her tests later in the afternoon. “We’ve received the reports and her sugar levels are high. We will take her to AIIMS in Delhi, if necessary, after a few medical tests...,” said Sarkar. A little after Sarkar’s visit, a team of health officials headed by the BDO gave the girl medicines. “We will take care of her treatment,” said S. Arun Prasad, district magistrate. Shyamal Santra, Trinamul district president and a minister of state in the Mamata Banerjee government, accused the BJP of damage-control. “It was very unfortunate that the host of the Union home minister’s lunch could not speak to him...there is no need for the BJP here as our chief minister will take care of the girl’s treatment,” said Santra. Sarkar made light of the state government’s help: “They sent a team today (Sunday) but hadn’t taken care of the health of the little girl before this.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-317
09-11-2020||North East||Guwahati candlelight vigil for Stan Swamy aborted||A candlelight vigil in the city on Sunday seeking the release of Father Stan Swamy and the 15 other rights activists arrested in the 2018 Bhima Koregaon case had to be called off after the police denied permission. Northeast Solidarity (NES) had on Thursday sought permission to hold the vigil at Dighali Pukhuri from 4.30pm to 5.30pm on Sunday, demanding the release of the 16 accused “falsely implicated under the UAPA” in the Bhima Koregaon case. Apart from Swamy, arrested by the National Investigation Agency from Ranchi on October 8, several others among the accused such as Sudha Bhardwaj, Varavara Rao, Gautam Navlakha and Anand Teltumbde were elderly people, the NES said. NES members are mostly scholars from across the Northeast. The group meets regularly to discuss the changing situation in the country, Father Walter Fernandes, a Guwahati-based member, said. “The last to be arrested a month ago is the 83-year-old Jesuit Stan Swamy, who had been supporting the tribal communities of Jharkhand and demanding protection of their livelihood. They have been arrested on the false charge of being sympathisers of Naxalites,” a statement issued by Father Tom Mangattuthazhe of the NES said. Father Swamy has filed a plea before the special NIA court in Mumbai seeking a straw and a sipper cup as “I cannot hold a glass as my hands are unsteady due to Parkinson’s”. Reacting to the denial of permission for the march, Father Fernandes told The Telegraph the NES had not yet decided its next step. “We received the order at 4.30 on Saturday denying permission to hold the vigil without assigning any reason and we had no time to find out the reason. We feel it’s a part of the government’s strategy not to allow any questioning, any appeal or any discussion on any issue,” Fr Fernandes, a long-time colleague of Fr Swamy, said. “We wanted to question the arrest of Stan and so many others through the vigil. We are concerned about the situation where there is no freedom of thought or freedom of expression.” However, many asked why a rally seeking the release of arrested TV anchor Arnab Goswami was allowed in Guwahati on Sunday afternoon. Images of the rally were tweeted by cabinet minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who wrote: “Hundreds of people led by film stars, singers, cultural activists, academics… under Xocheton Nagarik Mancha joined a march to Rajiv Bhawan in Ghy as symbolic protest against @INCIndia in #Maharashtra. They demand immediate release of #ArnabGoswami.” City DCP (security and intelligence) Bedanta Rajkhowa confirmed the denial of permission to the NES to organise the vigil. Rajkhowa told this newspaper that permission had been denied because protests in the city can be held only at Chachal. “Dighali Pukhuri is not a protest site. There is a high court order against holding protests there. If anyone tries to hold a protest or rally without permission, it will be stopped,” he said. “Even the rally seeking the release of Arnab Goswami was stopped because there was no permission. They wanted to march to Rajiv Bhawan but were turned away.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-37
09-11-2020||North East||Memorial plan for Assam ‘debt’ victims ||Residents of Tulshibil in Assam’s Kokrajhar district have decided to build a memorial for the five members of a family who allegedly committed suicide on Monday apparently because they were “heavily” in debt. Around 1,000 people attended the adya shraddha (final ritual) of the victims conducted by five priests on Thursday. Those who attended the ceremony include state minister Pramila Rani Brahma, local MLA Rabiram Narzary, several contestants in the ensuing Bodoland Territorial Council polls and Kokrajhar deputy commissioner Bhaskar Phukan. Residents of Tulshibil feel the presence of a bank branch in the area may have prevented the alleged suicides of Nirmal Paul, 52, his wife Malika, 45, and three daughters — Puja, 25, Neha, 17, and Sneha, 15. The nearest bank branch is around 7km away. Phukan has promised to push the residents’ demand for a bank branch before appropriate authorities. Paul, who used to deliver LPG cylinders in the locality, ran up “debts” between Rs 25 lakh and 30 lakh after borrowing from individual lenders at “high” interest rates. Paul and his family are said to have cracked under the pressure to repay and took the extreme step of hanging themselves in one of the two rooms of their rented house in Tulshibari market, around 40km from the district headquarters. Police investigation into the case is on. Utpal Roy, who headed a 11-member committee formed to hold the shraddha, told The Telegraph that Paul’s youngest brother Adhir performed the final ritual, which was followed by a naam kirtan late in the evening. “Everybody joined hands and everything passed off smoothly. Over 1,000 people attended the shraddha. We will now decide where to build the memorial suggested by Pramila baidew (sister). It will keep the memories of the family alive. The family was liked by all and there is a lesson for all of us in this tragedy,” Roy, a student leader, said. Tulshibil has a significant population of Bodos, Koch Rajbongshis, Muslims, Bengalis, Adivasis and a few Hindi-speaking people. In a note purportedly written by one Paul’s daughters on the night they allegedly committed suicide, she said her father was under extreme pressure to repay and frequent calls and visits by lenders drove the family to take the extreme step. Paul had taken the loans a year ago from about 30 people. Roy said the deputy commissioner has asked them to submit a public representation so that he could push their request for a bank branch with appropriate authorities. “He was very keen to help. We will meet him in the next 3-4 days. We have also asked him to set up fire tenders, a hospital and public toilets for the Tulsibil market area,” Roy said. The nearest bank is at Bhowraguri, around 7km from Tulshibil market having about 1,000 small and big shops, catering to the need of about 45 villages. The population of Tulshibil area is about 3,000. Tulshibil Bebashaya Sanstha president Radhapadma Mahanta, 57, had told this newspaper that the demand for a bank branch is decades old. “Had there been a bank, we feel Nirmal would have availed of the loans at a reasonable interest rate and not fallen into a debt trap forcing him to take the extreme step. We hope the authorities will take a fresh look at our demand to avert another tragedy,” Mahanta said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-37
09-11-2020||North East||Fresh tension on Mizoram border||A government school was  damaged in a  blast in Assam’s Cachar district on Friday night, the attack further fanning tension triggered by the ongoing inter-state border standoff with Mizoram. The development saw Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal calling Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday, requesting the Central government to take necessary steps to maintain peace and harmony in the border areas while assuring that Dispur would follow the directives of the Centre in managing the situation. Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla on Sunday afternoon held a joint video conference with the chief secretaries and DGPs of Assam and Mizoram to restore normalcy along the disputed border. Sources said all “recent” developments were discussed and that a “positive outcome” is expected in a couple of days. The day also saw SSB personnel deployed on the Assam side turn away a delegation led by leader of Opposition Debabrata Saikia to the border, about 3km from the Vairengte check gate, the officially recognised border between the two states. Earlier, MHA joint secretary, northeast, Satyendra Garg had visited both the states. The Upper Painom Lower Primary School is the second school government school at Khulicherra to have been targetted in the area since October 24. Mizoram claims the area to be theirs. “The Painom school is 3km inside the inter-state border and about 2km from Khulicherra in Cachar district. There has been no casualty since it was closed because of Covid. We are investigating the matter,” said Cachar SP Bhanwar Lal Meena. On the school bombing, locals and officials of the adjoining districts of Kolasib (Mizoram) and Cachar (Assam) are pointing fingers at miscreants from across the border. The government of Mizoram in a statement on Saturday vehemently “condemned such a dastardly act on an institution of learning and that too within its boundaries. A case has been registered at Vairengte police station.” The statement also said a police team and a forensic team left for the blast site before 2am. The attack came hours before the 12-hour bandh called by the All Assam Cachar Karimganj Students’ Association in protest against the death of a Intiaz Ali Laskar, 48, hailing from Cachar’s Lailapur in custody of Mizoram excise and narcotics department on November 2. Mizoram claimed that Laskar was a drug peddler, Assam asserts he had gone to fetch firewood in forest. Around 50 picketeers were detained across the three districts of Barak Valley but the bandh passed off peacefully. There has been tension in the inter-state border area since October 17 following accusation by Cachar residents that Mizoram has entered 3km inside Assam territory. Mizoram claims they are in their territory. However, small issues led to a flare-up on October 20 when locals of Lailapur in Cachar district clashed with Vairengte locals and they responded by burning down temporary stalls and huts at Lailapur, 3km inside Cachar. The Centre had to intervene to calm tempers on October 22 but it resurfaced again on October 28 with Lailapur locals demanding withdrawal of Mizoram security personnel from the area. Movement of trucks carrying essentials have been disrupted since despite efforts by both government to restore normalcy. The death of Laskar and the bomb attack on the two schools is likely to delay restoration of peace, residents said, even though the Central government has sanctioned two companies of Sashastra Seema Bal to Assam and three companies of Border Security Force to Mizoram for deployment along the border. Senior home department officials of both states told The Telegraph that they are in the process of deploying the forces. Mahila Congress president Sushmita Dev, hailing from Cachar district, tweeted on Saturday, “The situation on the Assam Mizoram border is volatile. Land has been forcefully occupied & a school has been blown up in my constituency Cachar, Assam by the Mizo miscreants. Assam govt is failing & North East Democratic alliance is a joke,” tagging @AmitShah@himantabiswa@sarbanandsonwal.” Chief minister Sonowal reviewed the prevailing situation of Assam-Mizoram border at a meeting with chief secretary Jishnu Baruah and DGP Bhaskarjyoti Mahanta. Sonowal directed the top officials to maintain the peaceful environment and keep brotherhood and harmony intact at the Assam-Mizoram border areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-37
09-11-2020||Opinion||Speed up: Criminal cases against legislators||Nothing undermines society like lawlessness at the top. In the latest count, there are 4,400 criminal cases against sitting and former members of parliament and members of the legislative assembly pending before the courts. These have been hanging fire for years, some reportedly for decades. In December 2017, the Supreme Court had asked for designated courts in each state to expedite these cases; in September this year, it had asked that the chief justices of the respective high courts preside over special benches to the same end. It is a blatant display of political — governmental — unwillingness that the Supreme Court should repeatedly have to insist that legislators with criminal cases be tried in time. That is the basic duty of any State that wishes to appear lawful. Anything else is to set an example of lawlessness that suggests it is possible for anyone to get away with crime if they have the right connections — something that seems to have become part of common belief. Yet a rapid disposal of cases against politicians would identify those guilty while also weeding out politically motivated charges. Although 23 high courts agreed to set up designated courts, progress has not been satisfactory. The Supreme Court reportedly had occasion to admonish the governments of Kerala and West Bengal after the Kerala High Court complained that the nexus between politicians and police led to the state police’s reluctance to carry out arrest warrants on accused politicians. The situation was evidently similar in West Bengal. This complaint goes to the heart of the matter: the misuse of power. The delay in process at every level leads to cases taking years to come to trial, thus weakening evidence and thinning out witnesses. The need for speedy trial for accused lawmakers, who are elected to formulate policies for the welfare and progress of the country, is the argument offered against the Madras High Court’s recent scruples in creating a designated court. Legislators are meant to uphold constitutional morality; they cannot be allowed to enjoy protracted trials when they are under the shadow of criminal offences, some allegedly heinous ones. While it is encouraging that 23 high courts have endorsed the Supreme Court’s view on urgency, governments must cooperate too, in order to show their willingness to bring tainted legislators to justice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-120
09-11-2020||Opinion||The rising: Biden’s triumph over Trump||Joseph R. Biden’s triumph over Donald Trump need not be viewed as a political triumph only. It renews the faith that the people — be it in the United States of America or, hopefully, in India — have the ability to rise above division and antagonism to lend a healing touch to a fractured nation. Little wonder then that Mr Biden — the 46th president of the US — prioritized the importance of unity after winning the crown. Of course, the man he ousted from office can claim credit for deepening many of the existing fault lines. America was never free of social, economic and cultural chasms; Mr Trump exploited them to reach the White House. What was eerie about Mr Trump’s presidency was his cheerful endorsement of a culture that stoked toxicity and fears — more imagined than real — to consolidate his conservative political base. His views on race and ethnicity are a case in point. But this polarization was also a political necessity — as is always the case — to deflect public attention from monumental policy failures. The US has been ravaged by a virus under Mr Trump’s watch; the economy — apparently Mr Trump’s forte — lies in tatters; in foreign policy, the nation has been forced to return to isolationism, adversely affecting the momentum of global multilateralism. Mr Trump’s assault on institutional integrity was also unprecedented, as was evident from his demonization of a critical media. But it is to the US’s credit that unlike in India, institutions that are bulwarks of democracy stood firm. The people have spoken; it is now Mr Biden’s responsibility to wage battles on multiple fronts. A creaking healthcare system needs attention, as do such issues as race, immigration and a rudderless, quixotic foreign policy. He would have to work harder to return America on the multilateral road, not as a dominant force but as an equal partner. Simultaneously, he must pay attention to the principle of equality because it is embedded discriminations, and their resultant animosities, that lead to the emergence of leaders like Mr Trump. He must remember that Trumpism is yet to be repudiated completely. New Delhi, in spite of its prime minister’s endorsement of Mr Trump, would be fairly certain that the change of guard in the White House would not weaken the foundations of a robust Indo-US relationship. But it would be interesting to see how Mr Biden and his deputy, Kamala Harris — the first woman and the first woman of colour to become vice-president — respond to the situation in Kashmir as well as allegations of religious fundamentalism in India. Ms Harris’s opinion on these matters in the past has not been music to Narendra Modi’s ears.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-120
09-11-2020||Opinion||Burn out: Physicians in a pandemic||“Save this mail for my children in case I die.” Joshua Cohen, an American author, received this request from his usually unflappable physician brother separated from his family for Covid duty. It was still early days in the pandemic, but hospitals were already full of corpses, some of which were of their own men and women. If carefully noticed, hidden in the image of Cohen’s brother crouching with his notebook in between exhausting shifts to type out 7,000 words for two toddlers he might not see again is a warning about how the present war is increasingly becoming tougher for the warriors themselves. “My heart is heavy with fear/ Knowing that the enemy we’re fighting/ Can follow me home from here,” wrote a young nurse from Winnipeg. This possibility of unknowingly bringing a killer home, is what makes treatment during a pandemic different from other risky medical missions. What if, after some time, the nurse needs to choose family over profession or the physicians are forced to begin to think, as a well known physician once said, “We owe all our skills, all our time to the patients, but not our lives”? Countering such thoughts is the tradition of physicians sacrificing their lives, often willingly. Dr Stella Ameyo Adadevoh almost physically restrained an influential patient to save the lives of thousands of Nigerians from Ebola, but lost her own. Carlo Urbani stayed put in a Vietnamese hospital embracing death to thwart SARS. Dr Yasoywantrao died tending to plague victims in Pune, knowing that his mother, Savitribai Phule, died in the same way. The ongoing saga of Covid-19 itself started with Dr Li Wenliang of Wuhan and many thousands more since. The question is, how much personal sacrifice is obligatory for the medical profession? For a healthcare provider is an aggregation of multiple responsibilities, to patients, to community, to family, and above all to preserve self for future service.  It is a misconception that the Hippocratic oath binds all physicians to sacrifice their lives, if need be. Legally binding codes of ethics are all 19th-century creations. Till then it was not considered unethical for established physicians to run away from pestilence. Thomas Sydenham, the English Hippocrates, witnessed most of the Great Plague of London from the safe distance of a country home. The yellow fever outbreak in Philadelphia in 1793 and the 1994 plague outbreak in Surat, two centuries apart, both saw physicians bolting. The city-states of the 14th century realized early that to stop an epidemic, masters and servants need to be treated with equal deference. They started investing in public health by contracting doctors with incentives and offers of citizenship, a more pragmatic approach than to depend exclusively on physicians’ vow to sacrifice during pandemics. The fragility of this approach became evident during the AIDS pandemic when fear instigated many physicians to refuse treatment. Repeated pandemics since — Ebola, SARS, viral influenzas, MERS and now Covid-19 — have claimed the lives of physicians first and in disproportionately larger numbers. The experiences have forced the medical world to rethink its relationship with society during epidemics. The consensus is that it should be based on fair reciprocity: service in exchange for proper equipment, working conditions and due incentives. What we are witnessing in this country is quite the opposite. The continuing harassment of healthcare workers, non-payment of salaries, marking mandatory quarantine periods as unpaid leave, conscriptions without compensation have  prompted the Supreme Court to warn the government twice, “You do not want dissatisfied soldiers in the war”. The government says it is not counting, but tensed medics are continually getting messages of their colleagues dying. A burnout is inevitable: a very unwanted development if this pandemic proves to be a long haul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-120
09-11-2020||Opinion||Punjab’s fields are on fire||Although governmental procurement via minimum support price covers an average of 6 per cent farmers in India, paddy and wheat growers in Punjab take a disproportionate share of the same. The recent state farm law passed in the Punjab assembly to counter the Central farm legislation put a seal on the long-standing demand of guaranteeing MSP while ignoring producers of other crops. Crops like maize and cotton that are not procured by the Food Corporation of India are sold at a price much below the MSP in the state. The government-regulated Agricultural Produce Market Committee mandis are so well-structured in Punjab that they even obtain crops from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. In the previous kharif marketing season, which started from October 2019, the state could supply 16.38 million tonnes of rice to MSP-supported government procurement, more than its estimated production of 15.2 million tonnes. The demography of the farmers of Punjab is different from that of India. Semi-medium (2-4 hectares), medium(4-10 hectares) and large (above 10 hectares) farmers of the state together hold 90.31 per cent of the land area as per the agricultural census of 2015-16. The subsidized MSP to which small and marginal farmers should have greater and logical entitlement is thus swallowed up by the rich Sikh-Jat community comprising 21 per cent of the population. The ecological repercussions of high water consumption by the two traditional crops hardly matter to them. With the introduction of the 60-day paddy crop variety, ‘sathi’, from 1993-94, resulting in two crop cycles in a single kharif season, there was further deterioration of the water table. Punjab had to enact a law in 2009 to stipulate sowing time for the crop. A number of studies have recommended switching over to pulses, oilseeds, fruits and vegetables. The state ranks third both in paddy and wheat production in the country as per the last obtainable data in 2017 from the ministry of agriculture with the productions being 11.59 and 16.44 million tonnes, respectively. Because of high-yielding crops and high surplus production, Punjab has displayed its capability of being the highest supplier to the Central FCI pool and to that of other state agencies consistently. But while discharging its responsibility of recommending MSPs, the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices has been urging the state government to withdraw high state levies charged together in different components. Punjab is the only state which charges its fees even in private markets, having amended the state APMC Act in 2017, apart from charging 3 per cent each as mandi fees and rural development fees in its regulated markets. According to CACP, the levies on wheat and rice procurement during 2019 were as high as 8.50 and 14.50 per cent in the state. In October, the Centre communicated to the state government its decision of withholding the rural development fees on current paddy procurement. If the state doesn’t get the fees, it would cost the state exchequer about Rs 1,100 crore in the current season. Over time, the FCI may be forced to buy from outside the regulated mandis to escape the high levies. Punjab has become the epicentre of the anti-Central farm law protests. The politicians — they control the APMCs — are wooing the arhatiyas. The community comprising commission agents has a strong presence in the state. The arhatiyas, earning a commission of around 3 per cent on sales value in Punjab, are afraid of losing their share on account of the Central law. A pre-existing political tension has now been transformed into a conflict between the Centre and the farmers by clever politicians.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-120
09-11-2020||Opinion||Courageous thinking||Can a declining civilization be resuscitated? While some can, others — like the ancient Greek and Roman civilizations — cannot. Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak believed that the ‘restive’ Indians enslaved by the British could be ‘turned’ and inspired to resurrect the flagging Indian spirit and introduced the rousing call, “Swaraj is my birthright, and I shall have it.” I would like to use this as a frame to understand the recent developments in America and the other democracies in Europe. Take, for instance, the problems faced by the United States of America under Donald Trump, which I consider to be symptomatic of a deep-rooted, fundamental issue. The average American today thinks that the country can be ‘revived’ either by re-electing Trump or by replacing him with Joe Biden. However, I do not see the outcome of the November 2020 elections in the US having any significant long-term impact on the broader issues, such as racism, plaguing the country. I would, in fact, like to move the idea of resuscitation outside the realm of the political and into the arena of civilizations. To begin with, let us revisit the initial conditions that led to the development of modern democratic societies. Modern democracies are based on a close relationship between freedom and development — the basis of ‘laissez-faire economics’ propounded by Adam Smith. Limitless liberty in all spheres of social activity is necessary for ensuring progress. There was an intense push for freedom to produce, inquire, explore and experiment in different areas, simultaneously promoting freedom of thought as well as the freedom to access all commodities. Restrictions were seen as evil, or, at best, a necessary evil. This striving for unfettered freedom unlocked expansive horizons, encouraging radical, often risky, initiatives venturing into unexplored areas. The sky was the limit, both for individuals and for society as a whole. This attitude has been symbolically and poignantly portrayed in works such as Ernest Hemingway’s The Old Man and the Sea, Richard Bach’s Jonathan Livingston Seagull or David Lean’s film, Lawrence of Arabia, amongst others. This idea of freedom was predicated on freeing the individual from the bonds of family, allowing for the unrestrained pursuit of knowledge and wealth, which, in turn, paved the way for growth and development in different directions. Modern institutions were designed to encourage, nurture, and substantially reward the successful outcome of these explorations. While new ideas and creativity do exist even in societies that don’t have freedom, the necessary relationship between freedom and development is generally accepted as a successful formula. There are roughly three phases associated with this freedom: the first is providing conditions promoting freedom; second, using this freedom in different ways; and, finally, the outcome. In my reading, the problem lies in the third phase but is rooted in the second. There seems to be a sharp difference between present-day users and early users of this freedom and of the institutions and other facilities made available in democracies. The early users had high aspirations and relentlessly pursued new avenues for growth and discovery. An innovation could have a strong impact not only in North America but all over the world. This bold attitude, however, has seen a decline in the present times. The consumers of democratic facilities are overtaking the contributors. The courage to explore the unknown and to strive for excellence — the hallmarks of early modernity — has been replaced by the desire for comfort and aspirations of an easy life in the average modern individual. The recent rise of religiosity and the right-wing does not pose a real threat to modernity in my view. Historically, we know that during the Renaissance, modernity successfully took on the mighty Church and thrived thereafter. However, the rise of the right-wing in developed democratic societies was preceded by the decline of modernity. The latter, in fact, paved the way for the former. It is the lack of boldness and the will to adventure into unexplored areas that should be the real cause for concern. There is also a need to reflect on the disturbing disproportion between consumers of and contributors to freedom. The institutionalization of critical thinking and professional imparting of knowledge on their own is no longer enough. Any form of methodical critical analysis requires a steady supply of path-breaking revolutionary ideas to examine. Without this, there would not be much difference between intellectual practices in the top modern universities and theological scholarship during medieval times. The critical tradition in the current times seems to have become more complacent and less courageous. Looking for political or economic solutions is futile when the problem is at the civilizational level. Here, I am alluding not to significant, even radical, advancements in knowledge that can be routinely and regularly produced, but to the current absence of the mood of bravery that permeated the early days of modernity and modern science. While the originalist or textualist position in jurisprudence in recent debates is preferable to the contextualists, there is an urgent need to write a different grammar reverberating the ecosystem that inspired the Renaissance stalwarts. Sadly this is missing. The first indications surfaced with the rise of communism in countries like Soviet Russia when democracy was no longer viewed as a necessary condition for development. Following a brief lull after the collapse of Soviet Russia, developed democracies in the West started outsourcing their work, especially to Communist China. They initially envisaged this as a relation between unequals, without realizing how dependent they would subsequently become on China. This reminds me of the famous line from Rousseau, “One thinks himself the master of others, and remains a greater slave than they.” The vulnerabilities of this dependence became glaringly obvious during the pandemic. Given the current state of affairs, this is the time to deliberate whether this decline is merely a passing phase or a serious threat to modern democracy as we know it. If it is the latter, can the decline still be reversed and modern civilization revived by ‘turning’ the present generation? The author teaches philosophy at the Indian Institute of Technology, Tirupati||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-120
09-11-2020||Jharkhand||50 per cent spot payment for farmers selling paddy||The state government has set a target of procuring 45 lakh tonne paddy during this year’s kharif season and will ensure that all famers selling their produce at government procurement centres receive 50 per cent payment immediately. Usually, procurement of paddy begins from December 1. But the state food and civil supplies department, which is entrusted with the job, is gearing up to begin the process after Chhath in the wake of early harvesting of crops this year, thanks to a good monsoon. On Monday, the state cabinet headed by chief minister Hemant Soren agreed to all the proposals of the agriculture department to encourage farmers and boost procurement of paddy which was grown on 90 per cent of the 18 lakh hectares used for cultivation this year. “For the first time, we have decided to provide hand-to-hand payment to farmers who sell their paddy at government procurement centres. Fifty per cent of the money will be instantly credited to their bank accounts and the rest will be paid gradually,” the state cabinet coordination secretary Ajoy Kumar Singh said, adding that a three-tier committee at state, district and block levels would monitor the process. The state government’s proposal to provide minimum support price (MSP) of Rs 1,868 per quintal along with an additional bonus of Rs 182/quintal on paddy procurement has also been vetted by the cabinet. “For Grade-A quality paddy, Rs 1,888 will be provided,” Singh said. The cabinet also gave its consent to a draft of the Sarna/Adivasi Code which will be tabled during the special Assembly session convened by the ruling JMM-Congress-RJD alliance government on November 11 to pass a resolution ahead of the next year’s nationwide census for inclusion of a separate column for nature, or Sarna, worshippers. The demand of tribals for a separate Sarna code to underscore and acknowledge their separate religious identity has been pending for long. Even churches in Jharkhand backed their demand, urging the state government to honour tribals’ wishes. But of late, several tribal groups have started to demand an adivasi code in place of a Sarna code, claiming that all adviasis may not necessarily be followers of Sarna (nature worshippers). Chief minister’s principal secretary Rajiv Arun Ekka, who was present at Monday’s cabinet briefing, however, clarified that the cabinet had vetted a proposal covering both adivasi and Sarna demands. “The cabinet gave its nod to the draft called Adivasi/Sarna Code. It will be placed before the Assembly on November 11. After the Assembly resolution, it will be sent to the Union government to demand its inclusion in the 2021 census,” he said. Other significant decisions at Monday’s cabinet meeting included a nod to increase MBBS seats at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) from 150 to 250, not conduct a BEd entrance test in the wake of the pandemic and  merge skill mission works with the state labour and employment department. Singh said the state government would soon sign an MoU with the Union government to increase MBBS seats at RIMS. “We plan to increase seats by 100 to take the total number to 250. As per the plan, the state and Centre will share expenses on a 40:60 basis. “Also, the government has decided not to hold an entrance test for Bed admissions this year. The Jharkhand Combined Entrance Competitive Examination Board will prepare a merit list on the basis graduation marks obtained by an applicant and arrange for counselling to colleges,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-241
09-11-2020||Jharkhand||Sale soars higher for made in China lights in Jamshedpur||With Diwali round the corner, electrical shops in Steel City are flooded with the Chinese decorative lights, and buyers are flocking the kiosks to buy them. Reason: low-cost price.  In the aftermath of the clashes between the Indian and Chinese military at the Galwan Valley, there were calls to boycott Chinese good. The Indian government had also banned many Chinese applications in a bid to punish China economically. But with the festival of light approaching, most seem to have forgotten their call and are asking for the cheap Chinese lights, claiming them to be not just cheaper but also far better than the Indian variety of lights. Many buyers were asking for the latest designer mini-light for Diwali. Around 500 electrical shops across the city are stocked with these mini-lights is available. The Telegraph Online contacted Anurag Kumar, owner of one such shop in the Bistupur market.  “The demand for Chinese mini-lights is much higher than what it was last year. I have run out of my bulk stock of these lights on Monday. People asking for these lights,” said Kumar. On being questioned about selling Chinese products, he laughed it off by saying that shopkeepers are not going to China to sneak in these lights for sale in India. “There are several wholesale traders who supply the Chinese lights to us. We know the nerve buyers.  We have no option but to stock the Chinese products. We also have to do business at the end of the say. It’s sad to see that people have forgotten the deceitful attack by the Chinese army,” Anurag deplored. Significantly, a local businessman who used to deal with Chinese firms informed that the Indian government had given a call for a ban on Chinese products after the death of 20 Indian Army personnel at the Galwan Vallet, but the ban no longer exists. “Now, several items are being imported from China, just like it was in the past. However, the government has increased the import duty on Chinese products from eight per cent to 14 per cent. Chinese mini-sets are on because there is no ban on imports from China,” said the businessman requesting anonymity. According to the businessman, the main idea behind increasing the import duty on the Chinese product was to frustrate the buyers, but it seems like the move hasn’t yielded the desired result. Suresh Sonthalia, national secretary of Confederation of All India Traders, called for the general public to Chinese products. He said, “We should not forget the sacrifices made by our jawans at the Galwan valley earlier this year. Those wishing to buy Chinese lights should recall the entire episode,” said Sonthalia while talking to this website.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-241
09-11-2020||Jharkhand||Steel City readies for Chhath||Chhath, the biggest festival of Jharkhand and Bihar will be celebrated on November 21 and 22, this year. And the preparation is in full swing in Steel City to make things smooth for the pilgrims thronging the riverbanks and manmade water bodies in scores to offer their prayers to the setting and rising sun. Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC), the local civic body and Jusco, a Tata Teel subsidiary have begun preparing the river ghats for the Chhath festival. All major ghats in the city including Subernarekga ghat at Sakchi, Kapali in Mango, Domuhani in Sonari, Pandey in Bhuiyandih, Bhuiyandih ghat, Sati in Sonari, Substation ghat at Kadma, Bodhanwala in Bistupur and Baroda ghat at Bagbera draw thousands of devotees during Chhath. Hence, it becomes important to clean and level the ghats for the devotees. “Besides cleaning, the ghats will also be leveled. We have begun the work to prepare the ghats for Chhath,” said Ravi Bharti, city manager of JNAC. He added, “All river ghats will be cleansed before Diwali, November 14.” He maintained that streetlights and halogen lights would be set up at the banks to make things convenient for the devotees. The Subernarekha ghat at Sakchi and Bodhanwala ghat at Bistupur on both days of Chhat celebration attract the largest number of devotees to the embankments of Subernarekha and Domuhani rivers.  In Jamshedpur, Chhath would also be celebrated at the sprawling premises of the Surya Mandir at Sidhgora, which has two artificial ponds. “We are getting ready for the festival. Prior to Chhath we will be celebrating Deepotsav during Diwali. It will be a three day celebration,” said a member of the Surya Mandir committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-241
09-11-2020||Jharkhand||Mandatory Covid SOPs issued for Olympics archery trials||Recurve archers who will be trying their luck at the selection trials for the Tokyo Olympic Games in Jamshedpur later this month will have to adhere to strict Covid-related SOP (Standard Operating Procedure) made mandatory by the Archery Association of India (AAI). The selection trials are scheduled at the JRD Tata Sports Complex from November 23 to 27. Fifty-seven (40 men and 17 women) will be attending the trials. According to the SOP, it is mandatory for all the participants, including archers, team officials, technical officials to undergo a Covid test and carry the negative RTPCR test report issued not more than 48 hours before arriving in Jamshedpur, all participants will be subjected to body temperature check with an electronic thermometer as they enter the JRD Tata Sports Complex premises on a daily basis. Participants will also be required to wear a face mask at all times while at the venue, except while shooting the arrows, during transit and out of the hotel room for safety reasons. They should have the Aarogya Setu app on their mobile phones. The archers and officials will be accommodated at Hotel Ginger in Bistupur. AAI joint secretary Sumanta Chandra Mohanty informed that the Sports Authority of India has given its approval for conducting the trials in Jamshedpur. “Four men recurve archers and as many women will be selected after the trials. The core group of 8 men and as many women archers that were selected on the basis of selection trials before the postponement of the Tokyo Olympics have been exempted from appearing for the trials in Jamshedpur,” he added. The selected archers from this trial will have to join the national camp which is in progress at the Army Sports Institute in Pune for Olympics preparation. “Archers who have scored 650 and above (men), and 630 and above (women) are eligible to take part in the ensuing trials,” Mohanty informed. The national archery outfit has asked the participants to ensure that their entries reach on or before November 15 at archeryselectionindia@gmai.com. Entries received after the deadline will not be entertained. Boarding and lodging facilities would be provided to participating archers and technical officials only. Accompanying team coaches/members will have to make their own stay arrangements. The arrangements for thermometer, hand sanitizer, face shield and face mask, field equipment, local transportation, tent, chairs, tables and sound system will be provided by Tata Steel, the custodians of the JRD Tata Sports Complex. The Indian men’s team has already qualified for the Olympics while ace archer Deepika Kumari is the lone woman to have made it to the big-ticket event. The steel city had played host to the selection trials in the run-up to the 2016 Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro. Deepika Kumari, L Bombayala Devi, Laxmi Rani Majhi, Rimil Biruily, veteran Dola Banerjee, Reenan Kumari, Jayanta Talukdar, Rahul Banerjee and Mangal Singh Champia were among the top archers who had tried their luck at the trials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-241
09-11-2020||Jharkhand||Congress holds tractor rally against new farm laws, demand rollback||Jharkhand Pradesh Congress Committee (JPCC), part of the ruling alliance in the state on Monday took out tractor-rally in Ranchi and other districts demanding rollback of the new farm laws introduced by Narendra Modi government recently calling them as anti-farmer and pro-capitalist. State party president cum finance minister Rameshwar Oraon led the rally which commenced from Rampur in Namkum and passed through Sada Bahar chowk, Doranda and culminated at a new assembly building covering a distance of about 20 km. Over 200 people comprising MLAs, workers and members of the party’s farm wing took part in the rally, with many driving tractors while others walking on foot and moving in their vehicles. On the way, the leaders also interacted with local farmers and the public assembled to witness the procession and apprised them of why the newly enacted laws are anti-farmer. “These laws will force farmers to work as contract laborers for the capitalist,” said Oraon, adding that the party is fighting nationally against these contentious laws in the interest of farmers. Criticizing the BJP led government in the Centre, Oraon said that since 2014, the incumbent regime in the Centre has been strategically weakening the economy, and its driving forces to outsource everything to corporate. “It began four years back with demonetization which forced migrants, daily wagers and the public at large to the brink. They (Centre) claimed black money will get wiped out but nothing happened. All black money returned back. Then it brought goods and services taxes (GST) in form of simplification of the tax system but it turned into a monster for the traders while poor states like us are being denied our dues. Now, our farmlands are put up for sale by bringing new laws in the name of farm linkage with the market,” alleged Oraon. Congress’s Pakur MLA and state rural development minister Alamgir Alam said that that they won’t allow the union government’s laws to get enacted in the state and the party will continue to fight for the farmers. “On one hand, we are talking about strengthening of minimum support price for farmer’s produces but the union government is hell-bent on indirectly end it by bringing these laws claiming that it will enable farmers to sell their produce directly to big companies. Will any profit-oriented company pay a better price to farmers?” he questioned, adding that the ruling alliance of JMM-Congress-RJD in Jharkhand will never allow such black laws in the state. Notably, two Congress-ruled states — Punjab and Rajasthan last month introduced bills in the respective state assemblies against the new farm laws. Punjab chief minister Captain Amrinder Singh also led a rally in Delhi recently demanding a rollback while lakhs of farmers in his state are continuing with the protest. In Jharkhand, chief minister Hemant Soren too had criticized the laws calling them an attack of ‘annadatta’ while talking to the reporters last month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-241
09-11-2020||Jharkhand||No lung donor yet for Jagarnath Mahto||State education minister Jagarnath Mahto is nearing three weeks of being put on life support, the ideal duration to minimise risks for a patient of his nature, but a suitable lung donor for him is yet to be found. Doctors of Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) hospital in Chennai, who have put Mahto on Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO), said three weeks of such life support was ideal to ensure the patient did not develop any health complications. “There could be complications such as blood clotting and infections if a patient is kept on this life support system for a longer duration,” said Dr Suresh Rao, Co-director of the Institute of Heart and Lung Transplantation & Mechanical Circulatory Assist Device at MGM. Hospital authorities have not found a suitable lung donor for the 54-year-old JMM leader, whose lungs were compromised after a coronavirus infection. But Rao admitted that some patients suffering from similar respiratory malfunctioning were kept on ECMO for more than two months in the past and they survived. “Some patients develop health complications after completing the safety bracket of 21 days, and some don’t. The Jharkhand minister has been stable so far, but we are yet to get any lead regarding a donor,” he added. ECMO is a life support system in which the gas exchange happens outside the body through a machine instead of the lungs in order to allow healing time to the organ. Mahto has been on ECMO for 20 days now, and keeping him on the life support system may cause infection in the lungs, bleeding or blood clots, doctors in Chennai said. The minister tested positive for Covid-19 on September 28 and was admitted to state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi. He was shifted to the ICU of Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty hospital in the Jharkhand capital on October 1 and put on non-invasive ventilator after his condition deteriorated. The minister was flown to Chennai on October 19 and put on a life support system called ECMO at MGM Healthcare.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-241
09-11-2020||Jharkhand||Palamau Tiger Reserve needs powered boat for patrolling riverine areas||Palamau Tiger Reserve is in immediate need of a powered patrol boat to monitor the forests where illegal tree felling and smuggling of logs are rampant. Deputy director South division, Mukesh Kumar said, “To check felling of trees and its smuggling, a patrol boat is required for the riverine areas in the South division of the Palamau Tiger Reserve.” Kumar said, “Our South division is crisscrossed by the river called Burha Nadi. On the yonder side of this river is the protected forest, Bandua, rich in high commercial value timber. This year we had heavy rainfall and Burha Nadi has still waist-deep water, patrolling for the riverine side of the protected forest is just not possible.” Kumar stated that they need a powered boat for patrolling with a capacity of 6 people to sit in the boat. Kumar also informed that his team very recently seized a pair of spotted deer horns at Bandua under the Bareysarn range of the Palamau Tiger Reserve. He further added that their team seized more than 200 sawn timbers too. “We have identified the offenders and a case is registered under wildlife protection act as well as in the forest act since felling of trees is a major offense as it destroys the habitat and biodiversity,” he informed, adding that now the tree fellers and the smugglers have gone into hiding. According to sources, Mahuadarn is becoming a major illicit timber steal market as timbers from here are being smuggled for the neighborhood Chhattisgarh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-242
09-11-2020||Jharkhand||Diyas and candles made by special kids to light up homes this Diwali||The confinement of four walls of a home couldn’t restrict the creativity of a group of special children of Dhanbad, who have made a variety of diyas and candles for this Diwali. A group of around eight students of Jeevan Jyoti, a school for special children of Inner Wheel of Dhanbad, have made a wide variety of attractive designer diyas, including single clay diya with charan paduka, big clay diyas of metallic paint, multicolor clay diyas, wax diyas, empty designer diyas, regular candles, designer candles, floating candles, flower floating candles, etc. during the lockdown. Products worth Rs 30,000 has already been sold to different people and institutions, including Park Clinic of Dr. SK Karan and Dr. Sageeta Karan; Sonogenes, a clinic of Renu Upadhyay; Hazra Hospital of Dr. CC Hazra and several Rotary Club members, coal officers, etc. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, Aparna Das, principal of Jeevan Jyoti, said, “Though people from different places outside the district, including Muzaffarpur, Chapra and Patna in Bihar and also Bokaro and other places purchase our diyas and candles ahead of Diwali every year, this year we could not supply the products to them. The town customers are not many and only around 105 students could make the diyas, due to complete suspension of classes for around 40 days during the initial phase of lockdown. We began online classes from the first week of May only.” “Those who actively participated in diya and candle making drive at their respective homes under the guidance of vocational teachers included, hearing-impaired students – Abhya Abhishek (19), Rahul Kumar (15), Shahid Anwar Ansari (18), Gautam Kumar (15), Niranjan Kumar Sao (14), Zeishan Hussain (16) besides the mentally-retarded students facing learning disability, Shashwat Sharma (16) and Tanisha Kumari (20),” informed Das and added that the online training to the students was provided through Google meet app by vocational teachers of the school, including, Kanchan Prasad, Tumpa Roy, Pawan Kumar and Nabita Das. “Majority of students who took part in candle making drive this year belonged to the economically weaker section of the society,” said Das and added that Rahul Kumar (15) is the son of a housemaid Rekha Devi while Tanisha Kumari (20) is the daughter of a private sweeper Rohit Ram, who also carries out sweeping at Jeevan Jyoti. Ranjit Singh, speech therapist cum special educator of the school, said, “The earnings made through the sale of diyas and candles are distributed every year in the form of gifts among the students during Children’s day but as Children’s day this year falls during Diwali, we will be distributing the gifts this year among the students after Diwali.” He also added that Shakshi Sharma, a former student of Delhi Public School Dhanbad who is presently pursuing B.Com from Maitreyi College of Delhi University, was in her hometown and had purchased the designer diyas and candles from school this morning. Praising the special children, Sharma said, “Being a member of Rotary Interact Club of Delhi Public School, I always used to visit the school during my school days and feel associated with the exceptional talent of the special students and feel that these children are really special as they concentrate on their work in a better manner than other students.” Established in September 1989, Jeevan Jyoti at present has 105 students on its roll including 55 mentally-retarded and 50 hearing-impaired students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-242
09-11-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand reunites UP woman with family after nine months||The Jharkhand administration has reunited a woman hailing from Uttar Pradesh with her family nine months after she got separated from them, officials said on Monday. The 33-year-old woman, whom the administration has identified as "partially mentally unstable", was found wandering in Daltonganj railway station in Palamu district in February, they said. She was taken to a facility, where officials ascertained by her accent that she hailed from western Uttar Pradesh and by her occasional mumblings that she was either from Etah or Aligarh, Palamu Deputy Commissioner Shashi Ranjan said. IAS trainee officer Dilip Pratap Singh Shekhawat contacted the Etah and Aligarh district administrations and showed them the woman on video calls, following which her family members were traced, he said. It was found that the woman hails from Etah and is married to a man in Aligarh, the official said. Her husband and two children, aged 10 and 12, came to receive her in Daltonganj on Sunday. She immediately recognised them and was reunited with her family, he said. The administration, through several aspects of her behaviour, concluded she is "partially mentally unstable", the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-242
09-11-2020||Jharkhand||Lowest single-day spike in Jharkhand's Covid cases since July||Jharkhand on Sunday reported the lowest single-day-spike in Covid-19 cases since July as only 203 people were found infected across the state in the past 24 hours, figures compiled by the state health department revealed. At least 14 districts reported a single-digit-spike in cases on the day, the NHM bulletin highlighted. Ranchi was the only district to report more than 50 cases, while East Singhbhum reported 13 cases and Hazaribag reported 24 cases, the bulletin further stated. Besides, three of the 24 districts in the state – Palamu, Pakur and Godda – did not report even a single fresh case of Covid-19 infection on the day, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated, highlighting the fall in the growth rate of the lethal virus in Jharkhand. None of the districts reported a triple-digit-spike in cases on Sunday. Ranchi accounted for 60 fresh cases, the highest among all the districts in Jharkhand. Recoveries also outnumbered the fresh cases on Sunday, taking the recovery rate to 94.86 per cent in the state against the national average of 92.50 per cent. At least 298 Covid patients recovered from the infection in 24 hours. The government on Sunday collected swab samples of 20,216 people and around 1 per cent of them were found to be infected. Health workers in Jharkhand have collected swab samples of 36.50 lakh people so far for Covid-19 tests and tested 36.32 lakh of them. Of the over 36 lakh people tested, as many as 1,04,442 were found to be Covid positive. However, nearly 1 lakh Covid patients have defeated the viral infection in Jharkhand so far. The number of active cases of Covid-19 infection in the state was down at 4,471 on Sunday and the total number of recoveries stood at 99,074, government data highlighted. No Covid-19 casualties were reported on Sunday, bringing the mortality rate down at 0.85 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. As many as 897 people have died of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand so far, figures with the health department state. While 337 people have died of the infection in East Singhbhum, Ranchi has reported 179 Covid fatalities. As per government data, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.27 per cent against the national average of 0.48 per cent on Sunday. The doubling rate of the virus in the state was 257.17 days against the national doubling rate of 145.81 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-242
09-11-2020||Jharkhand||Official onset of winter in Jharkhand: Met Department||Jharkhand Met department declared the complete onset of winter in the state, with the night temperature plunging below 13°C, on Sunday. The nip in the air due to favourable wind pattern has brought down the temperature of many districts, thereby forcing many to bring out their warm clothes. In Met parlance, the onset of winter means the recording of minimum temperature below 13°C for three consecutive days. Such a trend has already been clocked for several districts of Jharkhand. “Dry north-westerly winds are blowing across Jharkhand. This has resulted in plummeting temperatures. Winter, has officially set in,” informed S.D Kotal, director, Ranchi Meteorological Centre. Kanke, in the outskirts of Ranchi, recorded a minimum temperature of 11.5°C on November 8, which is four notches below the normal, while Ranchi recorded a night reading of 12.2°C, three points below the usual temperature. Bokaro and Ramgarh recorded 12.1°C, five notches below normal, while Daltonganj of Palamau district recorded 12.9°C, three notches less than normal. Chaibasa in neighbouring West Singhbhum recorded 12.6°C, four points below the normal temperature. Meanwhile, Dumka and several other places in Santhal Pargana recorded around 13 degrees Celsius on Sunday. Jamshedpur recorded 14.2°C, three notches below normal temperature, on November 8. “The chill has intensified. I have started wearing warm clothes. Pullovers are a must for an evening out,” said Arvind Kumar Singh, a former Tata Steel employee and a resident of Sonari, who visits Sonari- Kadma Link Road regularly for walks. Weathermen both at IMD’s Ranchi and Patna Met Centre held the crisp dry winds for the nip in the air. However, they have indicated that in the next 48-hours Kotal is expected to witness a slight rise in temperature.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-242
09-11-2020||Jharkhand||Steel City witnesses first wedding ceremony post lockdown||The evidence of social life in Steel City limping back to normalcy lies in the healthy number of clubs, hotels, and lawns being booked for weddings now. With the marriage season on, several shamianas and pandals are back with a bang. A marriage-cum-reception ceremony was hosted at G-Town Officers Club in Bistupur, on Sunday, amid some restrictions imposed, in accordance with the Covid-19 guidelines. “This is the first marriage-cum-reception party for the city.  I am pleased to have resumed my business as a decorator after a gap of eight-month. However, the resumption has cost me a lot,” said Arvind Kumar Singh, owner of Shubham Tent, the firm that took care of the decoration at the G-Town Officers Club while talking to The Telegraph Online. Singh pointed out that many decoration items, furniture, and clothes had to be replaced with new stock. “We had to buy a new stock of clothes and had to get the furniture refurbished, as the stored materials had lost its look. It was like starting the business afresh,” said the decorator. The host of the reception party, on condition of anonymity said, “We had a list for 500 plus guests. But the restrictions have compelled us to invite only close friends and relatives.” As per administrative guidelines issued on November 1, a maximum of 200 guests is now allowed to attend a marriage ceremony or a reception party. The sitting arrangement for the guests has to be done as per the social distancing norms. “The menacing Covid is no longer a hurdle. With the marriage season taking off, we are expecting a boom in our business this December,” said Abdul Rahman, a Bistupur-based florist.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-242
