10-11-2020||Calcutta||Biker saves turtle headed to plate||A man was locked in a 30-minute tussle with two men off Moukhali village, close to Canning station, in South 24-Parganas over a turtle on Friday night. Uttam Sardar, 38, was riding a bike when he saw the men on a road off the village, about 6km from the station. One of them was holding the turtle in his hands. They had found it by the roadside and wanted to butcher it for meat. Sardar wanted to save the turtle. Trading in and killing turtles is banned but turtle meat, considered a delicacy by many, continues to be sold in markets across the state, especially in North and South 24-Parganas, and Howrah. Sardar’s hometown is no exception. Turtle meat is sold on the sly in markets. Turtles are commonly found in wet farmlands and once spotted, usually end up as meat on a plate. Sardar, a driver in Calcutta by profession, was returning home on Friday night when he met the men with the turtle. Sardar kept requesting them to let go of the turtle — later identified by forest officials as an Indian flap-shell — but they were unwilling to budge. It took Sardar almost half an hour to persuade the two. At one point, a heated argument broke out and Sardar threatened to call police and forest officials. His unrelenting pursuit worked and the two men handed the turtle to Sardar. He came home and kept the turtle in a rice pot with water. He had the contact details of some volunteers of an NGO that had conducted an awareness camp on animals found commonly in human habitats. He alerted a member. On Sunday, members of the NGO visited his place and took the turtle. On Monday, the turtle was handed over to the forest department for releasing it into a suitable habitat. “There are so many things to eat. Why kill something that is endangered and protected by the law,” Sardar told Metro. “The men who caught the turtle first thought I was joking with them. It took them a while to realise I was serious,” Sardar, who goes to an apartment in Ajaynagar, off the Bypass, for work every day, said. “Turtle meat is commonly eaten in the area. Sardar’s act shows regular conservation outreach campaigns in the area are producing results,” a volunteer of the Human and Environment Alliance League said. Sardar had contacted this volunteer. He has been riding a bike to the city and back as the suburban train services are suspended. In August 2019, a group of friends driving back to the city from a West Midnapore village saw a turtle on the road. Some residents, too, had spotted it and wanted to kill it for meat. The friends managed to prevail upon the residents, who agreed to hand over the turtle to a team of forest officials. In May 2018, an 11-year-old boy who found a turtle on sale at a market near Howrah’s Sankrail had persuaded his father to buy it before handing it over to forest officials. “Conservation has to be a people’s cause. It is encouraging to see common people coming forward to save animals,” a forest official in Calcutta said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-244
10-11-2020||Calcutta||Two held with leopard skin in Kudghat||A leopard skin was found on two men, arrested by forest officials in Kudghat on Monday. The skin “seemed around 10 years old” and was that of an “adult” leopard, a forest official said. “It had two bullet wounds, suggesting the cat had been killed.” The arrested men were being tracked by the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau for a week following a tip-off. The sleuths posed as customers and set up a meeting near the Industrial Training Institute in Tollygunge. The two were arrested after one of them showed the skin to the sleuths posing as customers. They have been identified as Shankar Mahato, 29, and Pintu Mahato, 32. The forest official said they were brothers who lived in Haridevpur area. The brothers had come on two two-wheelers, both of which have been seized. “Prima facie, it seems the leopard had been killed years ago. The skin was not well preserved,” an official of the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau said. The agency assisted the the state forest department’s wildlife wing in the operation. From nose to tail, the skin is around 2.19m long. The brothers brought it wrapped in a white sheet of cloth, kept in a plastic bag inside a jute sack, a forest official said. “The two are being interrogated. They seem to be couriers or middlemen part of a bigger racket,” a forest official at the departmental headquarters in Calcutta said. The two men arrested on Monday will be produced in Alipore court on Tuesday. They have been charged under the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. The body parts are usually taken out of the country through the Northeast corridor and then via Nepal and Bhutan, an official said. A full skin, also in solid demand in fashion in the West, sells for a “few lakhs”, another official said. In late January this year, a Bengal tiger skin was seized from three men in a hotel along the Bypass. “They are out on bail now. We are investigating if the two seizures are linked,” a forest official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-244
10-11-2020||Calcutta||Rs 35cr fake FD case, bank manager held||Three men, including a bank manager, are suspected to have duped The Institution of Engineers on Gokhale Road into investing close to Rs 35 crore in fake fixed deposits, police said. They apparently sent fake invitation letters to the institute, offering “a very high rate of interest”. Even fake fixed deposit certificates had been issued to the institute, the police said. All three have been arrested. The alleged mastermind, a resident of Sinthi, has been arrested while he was holidaying in Mandarmani. He has been found to possess a BMW. Apart from that Rs1.94 crore and two gold coins, each weighing 100g, have been seized from him and his associates.The city police had received a complaint from the institute in the first week of November saying it had been cheated of Rs 35crore. In the complaint, the institute had alleged it had been issued fake fixed deposit certificates against payments it had made. The Institution of Engineers (India) is a statutory body to promote and advance engineering and technology. It was established in 1920. It is a multi-disciplinary professional body of engineers covering 15 engineering disciplines with a corporate membership of over 200,000 with its headquarters on Gokhale Road in the Bhowanipore area and branches across the country, according to the institute’s website. “Three people, including the then bank branch manager, have been arrested in connection with the case. All three have been remanded in police custody,” Murlidhar Sharma, joint commissioner (crime), said. Preliminary investigations have shown the institute thought it had been transferring money to the Bowbazar branch of a nationalised bank for the fixed deposits. In reality, the money had been transferred to two other accounts from where it was siphoned off. “During investigation it became apparent that Samrat Paul who was then the branch manager was involved in the matter in connivance with the mastermind — Aroun Pandey,” an officer of Muchipara police station said. “One of Pandey’s associates, Krishnendu Mallick, had approached the institute on behalf of the bank and misguided the institute officials to invest in the fixed deposit scheme,” the officer said. The institute was apparently misled into transferring the money to two dubious bank accounts from where it was withdrawn in parts by the men. “The accused branch manager had made the institute officials believe they had transferred the money to the right account by handing over fake fixed deposit certificates from the bank,” the officer said. Once the crime was reported, tracking the trail of the bank accounts, the police could zero in on two of the accused apart from the then branch manager. Pandey, the alleged mastermind, is a resident of Kalicharan Ghosh Road in Sinthi, and his associate Krishnendu Mallick is a resident of Muchipara. Paul, the former branch manager, is a resident of Habra in North 24-Parganas. All three were arrested on Saturday and produced in court on Sunday. They have been sent to police custody till November 20. Pandey, who was picked up from Mandarmani, was in the possession of a BMW. It has been seized. The two gold coins and the money were seized from him and his associate Mallick. “We need their custody to find out what they did with the remaining money,” an officer said. The three have been booked for cheating, forgery, fraud, criminal conspiracy and criminal breach of trust by a public servant (for the bank manager).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-244
10-11-2020||Calcutta||Residential complexes plan noiseless Diwali||Sale and bursting of firecrackers banned this Diwali, several residential complexes have come up with various ideas to celebrate the festival of lights in a noiseless way. As an alternative to bursting firecrackers, Urbana, a highrise residential complex off EM Bypass, is organising a light-and-sound laser show in the garden area. Residents of Upohar Condoville, another highrise complex off the Bypass, are planning to donate the money they spend on firecrackers to orphanages and old age homes this year. The residents’ association of South City, on Prince Anwar Shah Road, will celebrate Dhanteras this year by distributing sweet boxes to residents. In previous years, the complex organised a firecracker show as part of their annual cultural programme on Dhanteras. “We had started campaigning against firecrackers even before Calcutta High Court ordered a blanket ban on their sale and use. On behalf of the association, we have circulated a voice note where we are appealing to all residents to make this Diwali safe for all our neighbours, especially those who have breathing problems and have suffered from Covid,” said Debjani Mukherjee, a senior official of Urbana Residential Projects. The Urbana residents, who used to organise a firecracker show every year on Diwali, have this year shifted to a light-and-sound laser show in the garden area. “All flats facing the garden will be able to see the laser show from their balconies. Others will have to come to the garden area. Everything will be done following the Covid hygiene protocol,” Mukherjee said. The high court had last week issued a ban on bursting of any form of firecrackers this Diwali to keep a check on air pollution, keeping in mind the health of Covid-19 patients and those who have recovered from the disease but are still vulnerable to breathing problems. The court has allowed only wax or oil-based diyas for celebrating Diwali this year. Following the same order, residents of Upohar Condoville have decided to donate their Diwali spendings to underprivileged people. “A large section of society, especially the underprivileged elderly and the children, has faced unprecedented problems because of Covid. We have decided to donate the money to these people from the fund which we usually spend on buying firecrackers,” said Debasish Sarkar, a member of the executive committee of the housing project. To ensure the court order is not violated, all the terraces are being locked every evening till Diwali, Sarkar said. The committee has issued notices making repeated appeals to residents not to buy their children any firecrackers this year. South City towers is gearing up for a “sweet and silent” Diwali this year. In the absence of any cultural programme and firecracker show on Dhanteras, which has become an annual programme for the housing complex with an approximate occupancy in 1,200 flats, the residents have decided to distribute sweets instead. “We are distributing sweets among 500-odd flats whose residents have contributed to the festival. We are also organising... rangoli competitions to discourage residents from bursting firecrackers,” said Rajesh Kataruka, one of the board managers at South City.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-244
10-11-2020||Calcutta||Nehru Children’s Museum set to reopen||Nehru Children’s Museum will reopen this weekend and visitors will have to wear masks and carry sanitisers, the museum authorities said on Monday. Visitors to the 48-year-old museum will be allowed from 11am to 6pm every day except on Mondays and Tuesdays from November 15. The museum has been closed since the third week of March. The museum will be cleaned and sanitised before it is reopened. “Visitors will be allowed after a thermal screening. There will be foot pedal sanitisers at the entry,” Sudip Srimal, the museum director, said. “Visitors should wear masks and carry sanitisers for their own use.” Srimal said the authorities did not expect more than 40 to 50 people a day. “The crowd will be spread across three floors… in case there are more people we have provision to accommodate them on the ground floor. We will follow distancing rules according to government guidelines,” Srimal said. The museum has clay models that tell the stories of Ramayana and Mahabharata and costume dolls from more than 96 countries. Recently, members of the staff paid tribute to Jugal Srimal, the founder- director of the museum, on the occasion of his birth centenary. The culture ministry has decided to reopen museums and art galleries in view of the festive season and has issued a detailed standard operating procedure. “Usually, the museum has maximum visitors between November and January and again in May. But this year we do not know how things will turn out,” Srimal said. Indrani Sengupta, the secretary of the museum, said it would not be difficult to monitor the crowd because there wouldn’t be school trips. “It is when schools organise field trips that we get 300 to 400 children at one point of time. Since schools are closed, there is no possibility of that,” Sengupta said. She said tickets would be issued at the counter but visitors could avoid touching them. “To avoid contact, visitors need not take the tickets themselves. It will be directly given at the entry from the counter.” The closure of the museum for more than seven months has impacted its funds. “We have appealed to the culture ministry for funds,” Srimal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-244
10-11-2020||Calcutta||New Town fight to prevent stubble and grassland fires||The New Town authorities will coordinate with residents, birdwatchers, NGOs and police in an attempt to stop people burning stubble and empty grasslands in the township. Several New Town residents have got in touch with the New Town Kolkata Development Authority and expressed their concerns regarding such fires that not only pollute the environment but also pose a risk of spreading when fanned by the wind. A WhatsApp group, which will include cops, titled “Air Pollution Resistance Group Party”, will be created where people will be able to share photographs and locations of grasslands that are on fire. Cops, along with NKDA teams, will coordinate and reach the spot to catch those setting the fires. Apart from this, NKDA officials and volunteers from various housing societies and blocks in New Town will move on motorcycles to cover all the action areas and look out for those burning grasslands and dumping garbage on empty plots in New Town. Debashis Sen, the NKDA chairman, said burning stubble and grasslands was a worrying factor in the township. “It is not clear why people setting these on fire. We are going to start a WhatsApp group and will work in close coordination with the police to find out those who are behind this. This not only increases the pollution level but also increases the risk of the fire spreading,” Sen said. Although the NKDA has received photographs from residents and sent teams immediately on being alerted, officials could not catch anyone in the act, an NKDA official said. There are several explanations NKDA officials have come across. “Some of the things we heard are probable while others are hard to believe. They range from people trying to drive away snakes from the grasslands to people trying to steal underground cables by burning the grasslands,” an official said. The NKDA has received several photographs of stubble being burnt and the photographs have been forwarded to police stations, the official said. An officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said New Town police station, Eco Park police station and Rajarhat police station have been instructed to remain vigilant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-244
10-11-2020||Calcutta||Joint inspection of Majerhat bridge||A team of railway officials headed by the chief bridge engineer inspected the Majerhat bridge along with their counterparts from the PWD on Monday to ascertain whether the structure has been built according to the design approved by the Centre and the Bengal government. The team wanted to know from the PWD officials about their findings on the stress-bearing capacity of various components of the bridge and whether they were within the acceptable range. “The central team was told about the dry load of the bridge (without any vehicle over it), the stress-bearing capacity of the cables and how much wind force the bridge can endure,” said a PWD official. For every parameter, the railway team wanted to check whether there were any deviations from the set of fixed indices in the design. The commissioner of railway safety has held several rounds of meetings to satisfy himself on all aspects of the cable-stayed structure over railway tracks, which replaces the structure that collapsed on September 4, 2018. Monday’s inspection was in response to an invitation from the Bengal government before seeking an official clearance for the load test. “The team will send a report to the state government,” the PWD official said. “The report will specify whether the railway will give clearance to carry out a load test of the structure.” During a load test, empty and fully loaded vehicles are mounted on a bridge and the stability of the structure is monitored. Engineers calculate the load-bearing capacity of the structure and make note of how various elements are functioning. PWD officials said the load test would take at least three days. This will be followed by certain formalities before the bridge is finally left open.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-244
10-11-2020||Calcutta||New Town tunnel plan: solution to dig and repair curse ||The New Town authorities are going to build a “man-height” underground corridor that will carry various utility networks such as water pipes, sewage pipes, electricity wires and telephone and internet cables. An official of the Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco), which builds infrastructure in the township, said they wanted to have an integrated underground corridor where maintenance crew would be able to enter and work at ease as more often than not roads have to be dug up to carry out repairs. A stretch of a 4.5km-long-road in the central business district of New Town, near the Biswa Bangla Convention Centre, has been earmarked for the corridor. Across Calcutta, roads are dug up by multiple agencies at multiple times after a fault emerges in underground utility lines. The blacktop has to be dug to get access to the channels. The result is a vicious cycle of road digging and repairs. The Hidco official said they were planning to build an underground network that would be at least 6ft high — enough to let a person of average height stand straight — and wide enough to accommodate at least three men standing side by side. Different lines will be alloted to different utility networks and they will be colour coded like in the US and European countries, so that the repair crew can identify them quickly. The entire corridor will have air ventilation shafts so that it does not feel stuffy inside. Hidco is also mulling to install an air-conditioning system as maintenance teams often have to spend hours at a stretch to identify and rectify a problem in an underground channel. The tunnel will have an integrated lighting system with a provision for an emergency back-up. Fire hydrants and other fire-fighting measures will also be installed along with emergency exit hatches, the Hidco official said. The corridor will be built in such a way that there would be access hatches at regular intervals which can be opened by keys that only authorised personnel will carry. Hidco chairman Debashis Sen said the idea was to minimise the need to dig up a road. “Repair work of various underground utilities is characterised by their unpredictable nature. Faults appear at random locations and times. Roads have to be dug up again and again as the utility lines lie beneath them, causing inconvenience to commuters as well as residents. We want to eliminate that,” Sen said. According to him, Hidco has started the tender process to select a consultant, which will conduct a feasibility study and then help the agency build the corridor. Japan, the US, Germany and the Netherlands are among the countries that have an extensive network of underground utility tunnels.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-244
10-11-2020||Calcutta||Work on Chhath pool at Vivekananda Park continues||The construction of a temporary pool at Vivekananda Park for Chhath Puja continued on Monday in alleged violation of the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority’s (CMDA) order to stop work for the time being. A local club had written to the CMDA — the custodian of the south Calcutta park — seeking permission to build the pool, but started work without waiting for the consent. A senior CMDA official told The Telegraph on Monday evening that no permission had been given to the club to go ahead with the construction. “We have not given any permission to anyone to build the pool. Our engineers may visit the site tomorrow and see what is being done,” said the official. On Sunday, a CMDA official had told this newspaper: “We have to study the proposal, the kind of materials to be used and other details. The final decision will be taken only after considering all these aspects.” This newspaper visited the park on Monday afternoon and saw that walls about 4ft high had been erected on two sides of the rectangular pool under construction. Four masons were working. A trench about 1.5ft deep had been dug to raise walls on four sides. Grass got buried under the soil dug up from the trenches. “We have been working since morning. No one stopped us,” said a mason at the site. “The CMDA should immediately take strong action. Restoration is easier said than done. The organisation building the pool should be charged for restoration if it were allowed to go ahead with the construction,” the environmentalist said. Sourav Basu, the president of Cockler Lane Tarun Sangha, the club that sought permission for the construction, said the pool was being built as an alternative to Rabindra Sarobar. “If the Supreme Court on November 16 does not allow Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar, where will devotees go? That is why we are making the temporary pool,” said Basu, who is also the president of Ward 86 Trinamul Congress. Chhath Puja is on November 20. Asked why the construction was started without the CMDA’s permission, Basu said: “We cannot wait for so long to start the construction. I have informed the CMDA, police and the CMC about the proposal to build the pool. We will restore the park once Chhath Puja is over…. The permission was communicated verbally to us on Monday evening.” The National Green Tribunal has banned all pujas at the Sarobar. The CMDA had approached the tribunal with a plea to allow Chhath Puja at the Sarobar, but the tribunal did not even hear the plea. The CMDA then moved a similar plea in the Supreme Court, where the matter will be heard on November 16. Vivekananda Park is spread across 3 acres, said a CMDA official. Metro had erroneously reported on Monday that the park measured 24 acres. The park is home to several sports academies. A CMC engineer experienced in maintaining Calcutta’s parks said soil without any concrete should be used to fill the trench. “Water should be sprayed to make it slushy. New grass should be sown. The grass has to grow and cut twice before it can be said that the portion has been restored,” the engineer said. Blocks of Mexican grass, which are costlier, can be used for faster restoration, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-244
10-11-2020||Calcutta||English honours must for master’s at JU||The English department at Jadavpur University this year will allow students from other universities in its master’s programme only if they have honours in English. The department till last year had allowed students from any discipline to study MA in English if the applicants cracked an admission test. Since the admission test cannot be held this year because of the Covid pandemic, the department will screen aspirants for the postgraduate course based on their marks at the undergraduate level. Hence, only students with English honours will be allowed to apply. A member of the admissions committee, which met on Sunday to finalise the modes of screening across disciplines, said the English department was of the view that screening students with English honours on the basis of their marks at the undergraduate level was the only practicable option in the current circumstances. “It is the only tenable option, very far from the best option. But it is the only practicable option…” said Rimi B. Chatterjee, the head of the English department. A teacher of the department said that since they did not consider screening aspirants based on marks as the best option because different universities have different marking patterns, they wanted to conduct a viva voce. “But we were told by the university authorities that the higher education department insisted on admitting students at state-run universities based on marks this year,” said the teacher. Another teacher said the graduation scores would hardly reflect the merit of an applicant, given the way the end-semester exams for the undergraduate students were held last month. Since gatherings on campuses have been banned because of the pandemic, the examinees wrote their papers at home. The same concern has prompted Ramakrishna Mission Residential College (Autonomous), Narendrapur, to test applicants for the postgraduate course in English through home assignments and viva voce this year. Asked why JU could not follow the RKM model, an official of the university said the education department did not impose its writ on RKM institutions since they enjoy academic autonomy. Two other JU departments — comparative literature and film studies — will admit students by giving equal weightage to the graduation score and group discussions to be held on digital platforms. Asked why group discussions would be allowed in the two subjects, another JU official said: “The education department insisted that the screening would be based on graduation marks so long as the subjects were taught at the undergraduate level across institutions. Comparative literature is taught at the undergraduate level only in JU. Film studies is taught as a generic elective subject at the un-dergraduate level only at St Xavier’s College and JU.” JU vice-chancellor Suranjan Das said the admission notification would contain details of screening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-244
10-11-2020||Calcutta||Covid patients at home to be monitored||Health workers from civic bodies in Bidhannagar, South Dum Dum, Baranagar and other areas and health department officials will monitor the condition of Covid-19 patients in home isolation in these areas the health department has decided. The monitoring will be separate from the one being done by tele-callers from Sasthya Bhavan. Health workers of the civic bodies will ascertain whether a patient is responding to supportive treatment while in home isolation and whether his or her condition is deteriorating or not. They will be in touch with the heads of the local civic bodies and doctors in the Covid control room of North 24-Parganas. Based on their feedback, doctors will decide whether a patient needs to be shifted to hospital. “The idea is to take a quick call on the level of medical support a Covid-19 patient needs and in the process, try and arrest deaths,” said an official of the health department in North 24-Parganas. “Besides callers from Sasthya Bhavan, a separate team of tele-callers from the district control room will call patients’ relatives and find out about their conditions.” North 24-Parganas has been recording the highest number of positive cases after Calcutta for some time now. On Monday, Calcutta recorded 861 positive cases and North 24-Parganas 852 cases. During the day, senior health department officials met representatives of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation to discuss the blue-print of monitoring Covid patients. There is a possibility of a surge in Covid cases post-Kali Puja/Diwali, an official said. “Many full-time medical officer posts are vacant in North 24-Parganas. These will be filled up soon so that patients in home isolation are better taken care of,” another official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-245
10-11-2020||Calcutta||Eighteen fire stations for Kali Puja, Diwali||The state fire and emergency services department will set up 18 temporary fire stations across the city and its fringes in order to minimise the threat of fires during Kali Puja and Diwali. While nine temporary fire stations will come up in the city in places like Park Circus and Tollygunge, seven such fire stations will be spread across North 24-Parganas and South 24-Parganas, fire and emergency services minister Sujit Bose said. Firecrackers are banned this year but lamps and candles at homes, especially highrises, are still a worry. One of the fire stations in North 24-Parganas will come up near Chapadali More in Barasat, where Kali Puja pandals draw thousands of people every year. A few temporary stations will be set up near big-ticket pujas in Howrah. A fire department official said these temporary fire stations would have tenders best suited to the area on standby along with crew. All fire divisions will also mobilise at least four motorcycle-mounted fire-fighting systems in north and south Calcutta and in all district headquarters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-245
10-11-2020||Business||Gland Pharma IPO subscribed over 4 per cent||The initial public offer of Gland Pharma was subscribed over 4 per cent on the first day of subscription on Monday. The initial share sale received bids for 12,69,110 shares against 3,02,37,879 shares on offer, according to data available with the NSE. The initial public offer comprises a fresh issue of Rs 1,250 crore and an offer for sale of 34,86,3635 shares. The price range for the offer, which would close for subscription on Wednesday, has been fixed at Rs 1,490-1,500 per share. While market circles expect the response to improve over the next two days, Gland Pharma has raised Rs 1,944 crore from anchor investors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-239
10-11-2020||Business||L&T Finance Holdings approves raising up to Rs 3,000 crore||L&T Finance Holdings (LTFH) on Monday said its board has approved raising up to Rs 3,000 crore through a rights issue. “The board approved the offer and issuance of fully paid-up equity shares of the company for an amount not exceeding Rs 3,000 crore by way of a rights issue to the eligible equity shareholders of the company,” the company said in a communication to the stock exchanges. L&T Finance added that the details of the rights issue, including price and entitlement ratio, will be determined in due course. Shares of the company ended with marginal losses at Rs 67.45 on the BSE on Monday. Banks and lending institutions have been in a fund mobilisation drive over the past couple of months to fund growth and provide for a possible rise in bad loans because of the pandemic. LTFH is a non-banking finance company (NBFC) engaged in rural, housing and infrastructure finance. It reported robust numbers for the second quarter ended September 30 when consolidated net profits rose 52 per cent to Rs 265 crore following a strong revival in the rural economy. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 174 crore in the corresponding quarter of 2019-20. Total income for the quarter fell to Rs 3,508.91 crore against Rs 3,711.85 crore in year-ago period. LTFH had said it witnessed excellent revival in the rural and renewable sector and gained market share to become the No. 1 farm equipment financier during the quarter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-239
10-11-2020||Business||SEBI to reclassify Motilal Oswal Multicap 35 Fund to flexi cap fund||Just days after the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) announced a new category of equity funds — the Flexi Cap Fund — Motilal Oswal Asset Management Company on Monday said it would be reclassifying its “Motilal Oswal Multicap 35 Fund” from the multi cap fund category to a flexi cap fund. It thus becomes the first fund house to switch after the market regulator allowed the sector to convert their existing multi cap schemes into flexi cap where they will not be mandated to invest a specific portion of funds into large cap, small cap and medium cap companies. “The proposed name of the fund could be ‘Motilal Oswal Flexi Cap 35 Fund’. There would be no change in the way the fund is being managed currently and Akash Singhania will continue to be the fund manager as well,’’ a statement from the fund house said. While multi-cap schemes had total assets under management of Rs 1.45 lakh crore, it is expected that more fund houses will convert these schemes into the new category. The main investment objective of the Motilal Oswal Multicap 35 scheme was to achieve long term capital appreciation by primarily investing in a maximum of 35 equity and equity-related instruments across sectors and market capitalisation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-239
10-11-2020||Business||Four SoftBank directors to leave board||SoftBank on Monday said four of its directors, including Vision Fund head Rajeev Misra, will leave its board to ensure better corporate governance. Besides Misra, chief operating officer of SoftBank Marcelo Claure, chief strategy officer Katsunori Sago and Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan, the representative of Saudi Arabia’s Public Investment Fund, will leave the board, according to reports. “More external directors mean better governance,” SoftBank founder Masayoshi Son said. He said the exercise was meant to separate management from its operations. The board will be reduced to nine members with the changes. According to Son, the company thought about making the board changes in June, but they weren’t ready. The company also did not want to wait until the next annual shareholders meeting next June. “The changes to our board build upon the enhancements we made in June, including ensuring we have a greater proportion of external board directors, and further highlight SoftBank’s commitment to corporate governance,” Son said in a statement. Meanwhile, SoftBank Group on Monday reported $6.1 billion in quarterly profit as a broad upswing in tech valuations brought its mammoth Vision Fund back into positive territory. The Vision Fund recovery is likely to be welcome news for investors unnerved by some of SoftBank’s recent stumbles, even as overall earnings were tainted by a $1.3 billion-hit from bets on technology stocks and derivatives. “I’m not that hung up on the numbers,” Son said of the group’s earnings at a briefing on Monday, reiterating the company’s view that net asset value, not earnings, are the primary measure by which SoftBank should be judged considering its shift away from running businesses to tech investing. SoftBank reported a net income attributable to shareholders of 627 billion yen ($6.1 billion) for the three months through September, versus a loss of 700 billion yen in the same period a year earlier. It booked a gain of 1.04 trillion yen in the quarter from investments via its two Vision Funds, though much of that typically reflected unrealised profit from portfolio companies. The figure compared with a loss of 944 billion yen a year earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-239
10-11-2020||Business||First commercial coal mining auctions end||The first auction of coal mines to be used for commercial purposes ended on Monday with Sarda Energy and Minerals winning the Gare Palma 4/7 mine in Chhattisgarh. Coal minister Prahlad Joshi said the states where the 19 blocks that went under the hammer were located would get an annual revenue of around Rs 6,656 crore and generate nearly 70,000 jobs, with peak capacity to touch 51 million tonnes per annum. In the bidding for Gare Palma 4/7, Sarda Energy outbid Adani, JSPL and Hindalco with a revenue sharing of 66.75 per cent. The mine is estimated to have 234 million tonnes (mt) of geological reserves and could garner Rs 210 crore in annual revenue to the Chhattisgarh government. The coal minister downplayed the apprehensions of the Jharkhand government over the auctions  being held during the pandemic. He said the state would grt revenues of Rs 2,690 crore from mining, the most among its peers. The Jharkhand government has filed a case in the Supreme Court on the auctions. “Out of 38 mines put on auction, 19 mines were successfully auctioned. The success of the auction is 50 per cent. I appeal to the state governments to co-operate with the bidders,” the minister said. “The sooner these coal blocks are operationalised, the sooner the state governments will get revenue from these blocks,” Joshi said. City gas relief Oil sector regulator PNGRB has given up to eight-and-a-half months of extra time to companies such as Indian Oil Corporation, GAIL and Adani Gas to fulfil their city gas project rollout commitments that had been impacted by the lockdowns.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-239
10-11-2020||Business||CCI orders detailed probe against Google Pay unfair business practices||]The Competition Commission of India (CCI) on Monday ordered a detailed probe against internet giant Google for alleged unfair business practices with respect to Google Pay as well as Google Play’s payment system. Google Pay is a popular digital payments platform, while Google Play is the app store on its Android ecosystem. The watchdog has ordered a detailed probe by its director-general, which is the investigation arm, for alleged anti-competitive practices with respect to Google Pay. According to the regulator, it is of “the prima facie view that said conduct of Google amounts to imposition of unfair and discriminatory condition, denial of market access for competing apps of Google Pay and leveraging on the part of Google, in terms of different provisions of Section 4(2) of the Act”. Indian app developers have been voicing concerns over Google’s move to charge 30 per cent commission on paid apps and In-App Purchases. Many such developers have said that Google cannot force domestic app developers/owners to sell digital services by compulsory use of its billing system. A Google spokesperson said in a statement the company was confident that the CCI will find that GPay operates in an extremely competitive environment, and owes its success to its ability to offer consumers a simple and secure payments experience. “Numerous distribution channels exist for apps on the Android platform; Play is not the only app distribution option for Android. Users choose Google Play because we ensure a safe, secure, and seamless experience.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-239
10-11-2020||Business||15th Finance Commission submits report to the President||The 15th Finance Commission, tasked to recommend the devolution of the central taxes among the Union government and the states, has submitted its report to the President. The commission, headed by N.K. Singh, is learnt to have recommended the transfer of 41 per cent of the central taxes to the states, same as the suggestion it made in its interim report for the current fiscal. It has also reportedly suggested a non-lapsable defence fund for capital expenditure meant for the defence forces, the paramilitary and state police. Sources said the Modernisation of Defence and Internal Security Fund (MDISF),  would get resources from the Consolidated Fund of India, the sale of defence land and the sale of government stakes in defence public sector enterprises. With Covid-19 putting the focus on health spending, the commission is said to have recommended the expenditure of the Centre and states combined on health should  be over 2 per cent of the country’s GDP compared with 0.9 per cent now. The report for 2021-22 to 2025-26 is unlikely to be made public anytime soon and will possibly be tabled in Parliament, along with an action-taken report by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman when she presents the Union budget next year in February In its interim report for the current fiscal, the commission had proposed 41 per cent revenue share to the states, which is identical to the share recommended by the previous Fourteenth Finance Commission but for the fact that the share was reduced by one percentage point because of allocations made for the newly formed Union territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh. The Fourteenth Finance Commission had raised the share of the states to 42 per cent from 32 per cent. However, with the Centre increasingly resorting to cess, the states’ share in overall tax collections by the Centre has gone much below the recommendations of the finance commissions in the recent years. The commission was also asked to recommend performance incentives for the states in many areas such as power,  adoption of direct benefit transfer and solid waste management. As per the terms of reference (ToR), the Commission was mandated to give its recommendations for five years from 2021-22 to 2025-26. The Commission was asked to give its recommendations on wide-ranging issues. Apart from the vertical and horizontal tax devolution, local government grants, disaster management grant, it was also asked to examine and recommend performance incentives for states in many areas like power sector, adoption of direct benefit transfer, solid waste management etc. The Commission was also asked to examine whether a separate mechanism for funding of defence and internal security ought to be set up and if so how such a mechanism could be operationalised. The Commission has sought to address all its ToRs in this report to the Union government, the statement added. This report has been organised in four volumes. Volume I and II, as in the past, contain the main report and the accompanying annexes. Volume III is devoted to the Union Government and examines key departments in greater depth, with the medium-term challenges and the road map ahead. Volume IV is entirely devoted to states. The Commission has analysed the finances of each state in great depth and has come up with state-specific considerations to address the key challenges that individual states face, the statement added. The report would be made public after it is tabled in Parliament by the government. The cover and title of the report are also unique and the use of scales on the cover indicates the balance between the states and the Union, it said. There were fears that funds to the southern states would be curtailed since one of the terms of reference to the 15th finance commission called for giving weightage to population. However, that fear may be allayed since the commission is likely to more or less neutralise it by giving more funds to those which have done better in terms of population control.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-239
10-11-2020||Business||Foreign investors to take management control of Darjeeling Organic Tea Estates||A clutch of foreign investors from Europe is taking over the management control and picking up a bigger ownership of the largest tea producer of Darjeeling. The Indian promoter, Sanjay Prakash Bansal and his family, will take a backseat in Darjeeling Organic Tea Estates Pvt Ltd (DOTEPL), which owns celebrated gardens such as Happy Valley and Ambootia, among others. With 14 gardens under the kitty, the company’s estimated crop from Darjeeling stands at about 1.5 million kg, a little over 15 per cent of the entire annual production of the hills. The overseas investors from Switzerland and Germany are being led by Artava AG and Auwa GmbH, who are called the ODAT Group. Even though some of them had invested in the DOTEPL for a while now, Bansal was at the helm as the chairman and managing director with a significant holding. Bansal has now stepped down from the post, stopped managing the company actively and Rembert Johannes Biemond, a nominee of one of the overseas investors, is set to become the non executive chairman of the reconstituted board. Bansal and his family members will not be on the board even as they will continue as a small shareholder. A communication from the company to its key stakeholders suggested that the move was required to ring-fence DOTEPL from financial difficulties being faced by Bansal’s other business ventures. “We had to take the step of changing ownership of the company because the company was facing extreme financial difficulty and lacked professional management; also the company needed fresh investments to operate smoothly. Unfortunately, other companies of the Bansal family had come into financial difficulties and without intervention and support, DOTEPL was facing the danger of being dragged along,” a letter sent out by acting chairman Biemond, read. In June this year, the company proposed a rights issue of zero coupon compulsorily convertible preference shares to be subscribed by the overseas entities, including Artava and Auwa, bringing fresh capital to the DOTEPL and further raising stake in the privately held company . A change in ownership and management control will make DOTEPL the second such planter in Darjeeling with a foreign holding. The world’s largest bulk tea producer Camelia Group Plc and its Indian subsidiary Goodricke Group own and manage some of the top gardens in Darjeeling such as Castleton, and Margaret’s Hope. When contacted by The Telegraph, Biemod declined to go into details pointing out that the process of transfer is still on but explained the rationale for the investment. “In general the investor group believes strongly in certified organic agriculture and in the future of organic certified Darjeeling tea, despite some issues during the last years. The company will strive to continue to be the top exporter of high quality organic certified Darjeeling tea,” Biemond told this newspaper. The shake up takes place in a year  Darjeeling — which produces the  finest of teas — will see production drop by 20 per cent, induced by the lockdowns. The Darjeeling Tea Association apprehends production to barely touch 7 million kg and exports may range between 3-3.5 million kg. The most sought after first and second flush teas, which are plucked in the summer months, are mostly exported. The lockdown dented the production to a large extent. In a good year, the 80 gardens in Darjeeling produce around 8.5 million kg tea and export 5-5.5 million kg tea, mostly to Europe and Japan. Darjeeling tea received protected geographical indication status in Europe from 2016. Fresh investment by the European investors suggest that Darjeeling tea could look for a brighter future despite high cost structure, low yield and competition from cheaper variety teas, especially from Nepal, industry observers say.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-240
10-11-2020||Business||Benchmark indices hit record highs as Biden wins||Benchmark indices hit record highs on Monday as Joe Biden’s win in the US Presidential election lifted global shares on hopes of better trade relations with China and another fiscal stimulus package. Domestic stocks may build on their gains when trading resumes on Tuesday on Pfizer’s announcement that its vaccine is 90 per cent effective in preventing Covid-19. Pfizer’s announcement led to a rally in global stock prices with US markets indicating a strong opening as Dow Jones Futures showed gains of more than 5 per cent even as other indices such as CAC 40 and DAX rose up to 7 per cent. In Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended up to 2.12 per cent higher. Despite rising coronavirus cases globally and concerns of expensive valuations, domestic shares have been in the positive territory because of better than expected results. Expectations that corporate earnings will improve further in the next quarter and another stimulus from the central government could be in the works helped sentiments too. Poll boost Equities got a further leg up after Joe Biden won the US Presidential elections and a divided house in the US led to a feeling that there will not be any adverse corporate tax changes in the new regime. Biden is likely to tone down the trade war rhetoric with China and focus on combating Covid-19 in the US, which should be positive for equities. Inflows from foreign portfolio investors have also been robust with data showing they have invested close to Rs 11,500 crore into equities in November. Provisional data from the NSE showed that they made net investments worth Rs 4,548 crore on Monday. Rising for the sixth straight session, the BSE Sensex on Monday rose 704.37 points, or 1.68 per cent, to close at its lifetime peak of 42597.43 after it touched a record high of 42645.33 during intra-day trade. The previous closing record for the Sensex was 41952.63, hit on January 14, 2020. The broader NSE Nifty broke records when it settled 197.50 points, or 1.61 per cent, higher to finish at its all-time high of 12461.05. The index also hit a historic intra-day high of 12474.05 during the day. Rupee slips The rupee gave up intra-day gains to settle 7 paise lower at 74.15 against the dollar on Monday, tracking weaker Asian peers against the greenback. Higher crude oil prices also put pressure on it. At the interbank foreign exchange, the rupee opened higher at 73.95 a dollar and gained strength to touch a high of 73.83 during the day. It, however, finally settled at 74.15, 7 paise lower than its previous close. Crude jumps Oil prices jumped as investors greeted the vaccine news, shrugging off worries about lacklustre demand. Brent prices added 8 per cent to $42.6. Oil prices were also supported by a weakening dollar and Biden’s victory, which boosted the demand for riskier assets and removed the election uncertainty from the market. Saudi Arabia on Monday hinted at a possible price hike. Saudi Arabia’s energy minister Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman said the oil output cuts could be adjusted as it has been in the past if there is consensus among members of the informal producers’ group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-240
10-11-2020||India||Jyotiraditya shines as BJP leads MP bypolls convincingly||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has taken a comfortable lead in the Madhya Pradesh byelections as former Congressman Jyotiraditya Scindia powering the party to a commanding position. The ruling party is either leading in, or has won, 19 out of the 28 Assembly seats for which byelections were held, while the Congress has won, or is ahead in, just eight. The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), which was holding on to the Morena constituency earlier in the day, has lost it to Congress’ Rakesh Mavai. Since Scindia’s exit from the Congress to join BJP, a move that took down the Kamal Nath government, he has been the face of the saffron party in the state. The elections, which are being conducted as a result of his departure as well as the deaths of sitting legislators in three constituencies, are in BJP’s favour at the moment. The BJP has 107 MLAs in the 230-member Assembly, and needs at least nine seats to stay in power. The Congress, on the other hand, needed to win all 28 seats if it had to return to power — or at least 21 in order to give itself a chance to bargain with the BSP, SP and Independent MLAs. Two ministers in the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government -- Aidal Singh Kansana (Sumaoli) and Girraj Dandotia (Dimani) -- have lost against their Congress rivals in the elections. OPS Bhadoria of the Mehgaon constituency, too, was among the ministers who were trailing but he managed to secure a comfortable lead with 54,033 votes. In other constituencies, the BJP is leading in 19 seats by margins of different ranges. Candidates of the ruling party are ahead of their rivals in  Gwalior, Gwalior East, Bhander, Pohari, Bamori, Ashok Nagar, Mugaoli, Surkhi, Bada Malhera, Anuppur, Sanchi, Agar, Hatpiplya, Mandhata, Nepanagar, Badnawar, Saver, Suwasara and Jaura seats. In Indore and Bhopal, BJP workers celebrated as leaders of their party took the lead for the road to the Legislative Assembly. A voter turnout of 70.72 per cent was recorded on November 3, when 355 candidates, including 12 ministers, contested for the bypolls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-568
10-11-2020||India||BJP leads in Madhya Pradesh, sweeps Gujarat bypolls||MADHYA PRADESH Seats: 28 BJP: 19 (13 won, 6 leading) Congress: 9 (5 won, 4 leading) BSP: 0  UTTAR PRADESH Seats: 7 BJP: 6 (won) Samajwadi Party: 1 (won)  GUJARAT Seats: 8 BJP: 8 (won) Congress: 0  NAGALAND Seats: 2 Independent: 1 (won) Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party: 1 (won) BJP: 0 Congress: 0  ODISHA Seats: 2 BJD: 2 (1 won, 1 leading)  MANIPUR Seats: 5 BJP: 4 (won) Independent: 1 (won)  CHHATTISGARH Seats: 1 Congress: 1 (won)  TELANGANA Seats: 1 BJP: 1 (won)  HARYANA Seats: 1 Congress: 1 (won)  KARNATAKA Seats: 2 BJP: 2 (won)  JHARKHAND Seats: 2 JMM: 1 (won) Congress: 1 (won)  (Tally at 9.30pm. Source: Election Commission of India)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-568
10-11-2020||India||Arnab Goswami moves SC seeking bail in abetment to suicide case||Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami moved the Supreme Court Tuesday seeking interim bail in the 2018 case of alleged abetment to suicide of an interior designer. The Bombay High Court had refused to grant interim bail to Goswami and two others on Monday and asked them to move to the local court for the relief. The appeal against the high court order has been filed in the top court through lawyer Nirnimesh Dubey. Besides the Maharashtra government, Goswami who is in Taloja jail, has made the Centre, the SHO of Alibaug police station, Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh and Akshyata Anvay Naik as parties to his appeal. The state government, through advocate Sachin Patil, has also filed a caveat in the top court to ensure that no order is passed on Goswami's plea without it being heard in the case. Goswami and the two others were arrested by Alibaug police in Maharashtra's Raigad district on November 4 in connection with the suicide of architect-interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother in 2018 over alleged non-payment of dues by companies of the accused. Meanwhile, the hearing on Goswami's bail plea is also scheduled to be heard in the trial court during the day. The high court, while rejecting the interim bail pleas of Goswami and the two other accused Feroze Shaikh and Nitish Sarda, had said, "no case has been made out for us (court) to exercise our extraordinary jurisdiction". "The petitioners have the efficacious remedy of seeking bail before the sessions court concerned. We have already noted earlier that if such bail plea is filed, then the sessions court shall decide the same in four days," it said on Monday. Goswami, Shaikh and Sarda had last week filed petitions in the high court challenging their "illegal arrest" in the case and seeking interim bail. Apart from seeking the interim bail, the journalist and other accused had also sought that a direction from the high court for staying the investigation into the case and quash the FIR against them. The high court will hear their pleas seeking to quash the FIR on December 10. Goswami was arrested on November 4 from his Lower Parel residence in Mumbai. The three accused were later produced before a magistrate who refused to send them in police custody and remanded them in judicial custody till November 18. Goswami was initially kept at a local school which is designated as a COVID-19 quarantine centre for the Alibaug prison. He was on Sunday shifted to the Taloja jail in Raigad district after allegedly being found using a mobile phone while in judicial custody. On Sunday, Pradeep Bhandari, a consulting editor with Republic news channel, wrote to Chief Justice of India (CJI) S A Bobde urging him to take cognizance of shifting of Goswami to Taloja Jail to keep him allegedly with "hardened" and "underworld" criminals and provide "some sort of safety" to him. He said Goswami has said that "his life is in danger and he has been beaten up in the morning" and urged the CJI to take cognizance of this matter and provide some sort of safety to him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-569
10-11-2020||India||In Bihar, BJP has edge, but Maha Gathbandhan catching up fast ||The RJD emerged as the single largest party in Bihar as counting for the Assembly elections continued well into the evening of Tuesday to gradually unspool an intense contest between the NDA and the Tejashwi Yadav-led Maha Gathbandhan The Opposition alliance of the RJD, the Congress and Left parties, which started the day by putting up a close fight only to later fall back from the NDA’s tally that seemed to surge after two-three hours of counting, picked up pace again and narrowed the gap by evening. Supporters as well independent poll watchers agreed the race was extremely tight in over 70 seats where the margin of leads was less than 1,000 votes. After about 10 hours of counting, no formation was clearly ahead in the race although NDA seemed to have an edge. As of 6.45 pm, the ruling NDA had won, or was leading in, 121 seats while the Opposition alliance had won, or was leading in, 114 seats, according to figures collated from the Election Commission of India website. The BJP had won, or was leading in, 73 seats and the JDU in 41. The RJD had won or was ahead in 76 seats, the Congress in 20 and the Left parties in 87 seats. As of the others, the BSP was ahead in 1 seat, the All India Majlis-E-Ittehadul Muslimeen in 5 and Independents 2. Counting of votes will take longer than usual and continue till late in the night because of a 63 per cent increase in the number of EVMs, the Election Commission explained. EC officials told the media in Delhi that over 1 crore votes were counted till around 1.30 pm out of nearly 4.16 crore votes polled in the three-phase elections. Out of nearly 7.3 crore voters, 57.09 per cent had cast votes in the polls. To ensure social distancing norms put in place due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the commission had increased the number of polling stations from nearly 65,000 in the 2015 assembly polls to 1.06 lakh. This meant an increase in the number of electronic voting machines as well. "We hope to finish the counting as per procedure late tonight," said Deputy Election Commissioner in charge of Bihar Chandra Bhushan Kumar. The NDA’s show in Bihar has defied exit poll predictions that Nitish Kumar could lose the chief minister’s chair to 31-year-old Tejashwi Yadav. The numbers put out by the pollsters varied but they all gave a clear lead to the Mahagathbandhan of the RJD, Congress and the Left parties over the National Democratic Alliance. The broad trend in Bihar, showing the ruling NDA marching ahead of the RJD-led Grand Alliance, perked up the mood among BJP and JD(U) workers, even as RJD and Congress activists hoped for things to change in their favour. At the BJP office at Beer Chand Patel Path, where there was not much activity for the past three days after exit polls projected a majority for the Grand Alliance, several leaders and party workers started coming in with beaming faces. State BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal was in the office monitoring the results closely. Bihar BJP spokesman Sanjay Singh Tiger said the BJP-JD(U) coalition had worked under the "double engine" governments -- NDA dispensations at the Centre as well in the state _ and the people of Bihar had blessed it. "The people know Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Nitish Kumar can speed up development of the state and hence they have reposed their faith in the NDA," Tiger told reporters. While Chief Minister Nitish Kumar is watching counting of votes at his official residence, some leaders and party workers started thronging the party office, a stone's throw away from the office of the BJP and the RJD in the heart of the city. Bihar JD(U) president Vasistha Narayan Singh said they were confident since the beginning that the people of the state would like the ruling coalition to continue and expedite the development process. Asked about the BJP performing better than the JD(U) and if Chief Minister Kumar will continue in the post, Singh said, "When top BJP leaders themselves have said that Kumar will be the CM irrespective of the individual scores of the alliance partners, is there any need to clarify this further?" JD(U) spokesman Ajay Alok said the people of Bihar had faith in Nitish Kumar and that was  reflected in the trends in favour of the NDA. In the RJD camp, which was on cloud nine till Monday with almost all exit polls indicating the party-helmed coalition coming to power in the state and its leader Tejashwi Yadav becoming chief minister, the initial euphoria appeared  to be dipping. A crowd of Tejashwi supporters that had gathered outside the 10 Circular Road residence of former chief minister Rabri Devi expecting a victory was thinning around noon. But some ardent supporters, carrying photographs of Tejashwi in a Delhi Daredevils jersey from his IPL days and also him taking oath as CM, stayed put in the hope that things would change for better with the progress of counting. Bihar RJD spokesman Mrityunjay Tiwari said, "It's like a T-20 match. The results will be decided only when the last ball of the match is bowled." In the Congress camp, initial excitement appeared to have evaporated with the trends showing Grand Alliance trailing the NDA. Scores of Congress leaders from across the country, including general secretary Randeep Surjewala, who had arrived here in the hope of party forming a government with Mahagathbandhan partners, were glued to TV channels hoping the trends would change in accordance to the exit polls. "We are not far behind, things will change in our favour," state Congress spokesman Rajesh Rathor told PTI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-569
10-11-2020||India||NDA ahead of Maha Gathbandhan in Bihar, but JDU is under performing ||The ruling NDA has gone ahead of the Opposition Maha gathbandhan (Grand Alliance) of the RJD, the Congress and Left parties, moving above the half-way mark after a close fight for Bihar's 243 seats. Within the ruling NDA alliance, Nitish Kumar's JDU, however, fell far behind ally BJP -- an outcome that was expected after Chirag Paswan's rebellion and his party, the LJP’s solo contest. The Lok Janashakti Party, which is leading on less than 10 seats, was expected to eat into the JDU votes and give an upper hand to the BJP, which had been chafing under Nitish Kumar's leadership in the state, reports ndtv.com. The ruling NDA was leading in 128 seats and the Opposition alliance in 99 seats. The RJD was ahead in 67 seats, the Congress in 21 and the Left parties in 9 seats. The BJP was leading in 72 seats, the JDU in 47. The LJP was leading in 7 seats. JDU spokesman K.C Tyagi appeared to have conceded defeat early.  "This is the biggest pandemic since 1918....We haven't been defeated by the RJD or Tejashwi Yadav... we have been defeated by the coronavirus,” he old NDTV. He also slammed the role Chirag Paswan played in this election, saying the Lok Janshakti Party leader "should have been denounced and controlled from the start". Exit polls on the Bihar Assembly elections have predicted that Nitish Kumar could lose the chief minister’s chair to 31-year-old Tejashwi Yadav. The numbers put out by the pollsters varied but they all gave a clear lead to the Mahagathbandhan of the RJD, Congress and the Left parties over the National Democratic Alliance. Exit polls have in the past gone both wrong and right and the picture will be clear only on Tuesday when the votes are counted. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had led the NDA’s campaign, addressing a dozen rallies and even writing a last-minute letter to Bihar’s voters appealing for support for Nitish. The BJP has been hoping to emerge as the single largest party in Bihar. The exit poll by Today’s Chanakya for CNN-News 18 projected a figure of just 55 (+/-11) seats for the NDA. It gave 180 seats (+/-11) to the Mahagathbandhan, which would be a landslide victory. The number of seats in the Assembly is 243. Axis My India for India Today TV gave 161 seats to the Mahagathbandhan, again a big victory. Chirag Paswan’s LJP, seen as the B-team of the BJP, was forecast to pick up only a handful of seats. But the big story coming out of the exit polls could be the emergence of jailed RJD boss Lalu Prasad’s younger son Tejashwi as the new leader of the state. Axis My India found that he was the most preferred candidate for the chief minister’s post, with 44 per cent respondents backing him. Nitish came second, with 37 per cent support. If the polls turn out right on Tuesday, it would mean that youths across castes had backed Tejashwi, who had made unemployment the central issue this election.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-569
10-11-2020||India||Lady Shri Ram student suicide bares gaps||The suicide of a Lady Shri Ram College student who hanged herself last week out of fear that financial strain would scupper her studies has underlined the gaps in institutional support for disadvantaged students left overwhelmed by the pandemic. Aishwarya Reddy’s mother complained on Monday that the college had “not given any help” to the former Telangana school board No. 2. College principal Suman Sharma said Aishwarya — who had returned home to Telangana in March after the Covid-19 outbreak — had never contacted or sought support from the Delhi-based institution, which had no means of knowing her situation or mental state. Nor did the second-year BSc (maths) student receive the monthly stipend of Rs 5,000 she was entitled to under the Science Pursuit for Inspired Research (Inspire) fellowship of the central government, for which she had received a provisional offer in August. Ashutosh Sharma, secretary to the department of science and technology which confers the fellowship, told The Telegraph that Aishwayra had not furnished the documents necessary for payment of the fellowship. Aishwarya, daughter of a mechanic, had stood second in her Class XII board exams in Telangana last year and was the first from her family to pursue higher education. She hoped to be a civil servant. She hanged herself at her home in Telangana on November 2, leaving behind a suicide note in which, media reports said, she termed herself “a burden on my family”. In the Telugu note, she asked that the fellowship money be paid to her family. Sharma said that as a special gesture, a year’s fellowship amount would be given to the family. “The financial situation created a burden on her. The college has not given any help,” Aishwarya’s mother Sumathi Reddy told reporters at an online news conference, organised by CPM student wing SFI. “If the Inspire fellowship money had come, it could have relieved her stress.” She said that a second notice from the college to vacate her hostel seat by November 10 had added to her daughter’s stress. The college had last year decided it would provide hostel accommodation only to first-year students. The first year ends usually in mid-summer but when the students began leaving in March – and looked unlikely to be back anytime soon -- the college issued a notice asking them to vacate the hostels. It wasn’t clear whether the notice was issued before Aishwarya’s departure, but she did leave behind some of her belongings at her hostel. With online exams in June-July marking the end of the first year, the college issued another eviction notice in October to the freshly promoted second-year students who held hostel seats. First-year admissions are over and the University Grants Commission has allowed institutions located outside containment zones to resume in-person classes, if they think fit, any time after November 6. Although Lady Shri Ram hasn’t decided on a date yet, it wanted to keep the hostels “ready for the new batch”. “We had already taken a loan of Rs 2 lakh to support her education. Now she wanted an additional Rs 15,000 a month to be able to stay outside the campus after the college asked her to vacate her hostel,” Sumathi said from her home at Srinivas Colony, Saad Nagar village, Rangareddy district. “She said she would become a laughing stock if she discontinued her education.” Sumathi said relatives had advised Aishwarya to seek transfer to a college in Hyderabad. “But she didn’t want to lose out on her studies; she never wanted a transfer,” Sumathi said. Aishwarya seems to have faced difficulties accessing online education, including virtual classes, from her mobile at home. According to a survey conducted by the college students’ council, Aishwarya had said she neither had a laptop nor adequate Internet facilities at home. Students’ council secretary Unnimaya said 39 per cent students of the college had no stable Internet connection at home and 27 per cent lacked access to a laptop. “We had informed the college about the digital divide but there was no response,” Unnimaya said. Aishe Ghosh, an SFI leader, said India’s public-funded higher education institutions were reducing their support for the socially and economically marginalised students, and were turning into “institutions of exclusion”. Sharma, the DST secretary, said the Inspire scheme required the beneficiaries to upload the necessary documents by December. He said Aishwarya had not uploaded these documents --- the first-year mark sheet, bank details and a letter from the institution head certifying the applicant as a student. “She could have submitted the documents as early as September and got the fellowship. I have checked the records: she never uploaded the documents,” Sharma said. The college principal said the first-year results had been released in August but Aishwarya never approached the college seeking a certificate that she continued to be a student. “We had no idea about her Inspire fellowship. She did not contact us,” the principal said. She said all the students and their parents knew about the college’s new hostel policy. “We issued the notice to all the students (boarders) to vacate the hostels so that the hostels could be maintained and kept ready for the new batch,” she said. “But she did not reach out to us on the hostel issue, either. She never reached out to us on any difficulty she faced in her online studies.” Asked about the students’ council letter about the survey revealing students’ problems with accessing online education, the principal said the college was looking into the matter. Nearly 12,000 students are offered the Inspire fellowship every year to encourage them to take up science research as a career. Students who make the top 1 per cent in aggregate marks in their Class XII exams from any state or central board are eligible to apply.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-569
10-11-2020||India||Arrested Kerala journalist's wife questions BJP's double standard ||The wife of a Kerala journalist arrested 36 days ago and lodged in a jail in Uttar Pradesh has questioned the double standard of the BJP leadership that has been speaking up for Republic TV managing editor Arnab Goswami but not for her husband. Raihanath Kappan, wife of Delhi-based journalist Siddique Kappan who was arrested while on his way to Hathras to cover the gang-rape and murder of a Dalit girl, said her husband was only trying to do his job when he was arrested. “Why this double standard? Goswami is an accused in a suicide abetment case. Why are these people not questioning the arrest of my husband and other journalists and activists jailed on cooked-up charges?” Raihanath asked during an interaction with The Telegraph on Monday. A native of Malappuram in Kerala, Siddique, 41, was arrested with three others and booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and other provisions of the penal code. “Our own minister in Delhi, V. Muraleedharan, decried the arrest of Goswami and called it an assault on freedom of the press. But he didn’t spare a thought for a man from his own state who has been locked up in a jail in UP,” Raihanath said. Muraleedharan, minister of state for external affairs, hails from Kerala. The only time Kappan called home was on November 2 when he spoke to his ailing, 90-year-old mother who lives with his elder brother. “From what I was told, he managed to speak to his mother for five minutes. When I checked on Truecaller (a call tracing application), I could see he had called from a landline in Mathura jail,” said Raihanath, who has been running from pillar to post to be able to get Kappan to sign his bail application. “He is a chronic diabetic who needs regular medication and medical attention. I have no idea if he is getting anything at all. Our only hope now is the Supreme Court,” she said, citing the habeas corpus petition filed by the Kerala Union of Working Journalists that is scheduled to come up on November 16 for hearing. Raihanath slammed media outlets that have been reporting that Kappan had received huge sums of money. “We haven’t been able to complete the construction of our house, which began eight years ago. My husband doesn’t even take a bank loan as he believes in spending what we have,” she said. The couple have three children -- two sons aged 17 and 12, and a 7-year-old daughter. “I’m surviving with the help of family and friends. But at the moment my only concern is about my husband. I want him back home at the earliest,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-569
10-11-2020||India||Koshyari expresses concern over Arnab's security, health  ||Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari has conveyed to the state government his concern over the security and health of Arnab Goswami, managing director of Republic TV, who is in judicial custody in a suicide abetment case. Koshyari, who had started his career as an RSS pracharak and sports the outfit’s black inverted-boat cap, phoned Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh and asked him to allow Goswami’s family to see him. Goswami is a staunch defender of the Modi government’s repressive measures.  Koshyari is known for the misadventure of swearing in BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis at 7.50am as chief minister and mocking current chief minister Uddhav Thackeray by asking if he had turned secular. On Monday evening, Prashant Kanojia, a journalist and Dalit rights activist who had been arrested by Uttar Pradesh police on the charge of posting a morphed image, tweeted: “My family wasn’t allowed to meet. Neither my lawyers could meet me in jail. I am a Mumbaikar but @BSKoshyari never showed such concern for me.” Kanojia added: “My SM (social media) inbox is full of threats. I am not afraid of those threats but worried about my family. Did Koshyariji ever speak about safety and security of my family? My own state governor failed to take (a) stand for me. Do I have to join BJP to be treated (as an) equal before law?” Responding to a Republic TV statement that said Goswami would spend his sixth night in judicial custody on Monday, Kanojia said: “I spent 80 nights.” Goswami and two others were arrested on November 4 in connection with the suicide of architect and interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother in 2018 over an alleged failure by companies of the accused to clear their dues. State government sources said relatives and lawyers are not allowed to meet those in custody because of Covid restrictions but can communicate over the phone. Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik said: “The way the governor has expressed concern for a special kaidi (inmate), Arnab, I think he (the governor) should understand that Arnab Goswami has been arrested for a serious offence.” If the governor wanted to express concern, he should have done so for Anvay Naik’s family, Malik said, adding that they had been seeking justice for several months. “It is not right to take sides with an accused….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-569
10-11-2020||India||J&K People’s Conference plea for early Article 370 hearing||The Sajad Lone-led Jammu and Kashmir People’s Conference petitioned the Supreme Court on Monday seeking early hearing of the pleas against the constitutional validity of the amendment to Article 370 on August 5 last year. The petition also challenged the various legal modifications the Centre had carried out since then relating to Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh — for instance, enabling outsiders to acquire land there — as illegal and as violations of the permanent residents’ rights. It said that although a bunch of petitions had been moved before the Supreme Court challenging the constitutionality of the changes to Article 370, the Centre had continued to carry the agenda forward by amending various Kashmir-related laws. The apex court had last heard this bunch of petitions on March 2, after which the pandemic prevented further hearings. Lone’s party was one of these early petitioners against the tweaking of Article 370, which stripped the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir of its special status. Its latest petition, apart from seeking early hearing of these pleas, challenges other government moves such as splitting the erstwhile state into two Union Territories and amending its land laws. With the apex court on Diwali break, the petition is expected to be heard next week. After 11 hearings of the earlier bunch of petitions, the apex court had on March 2 rejected the plea of some of the petitioners to refer the matter to a five-judge or seven-judge constitution bench. The court held that a three-judge bench was good enough. It also declined a plea to stay the amendments to Article 370. Monday’s petition, filed through advocate Pritha Srikumar Iyer, highlights that the Centre “has continued to affect drastic changes to the legal regime applicable to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, including by way of orders issued under Section 96 of the Reorganisation Act”. “These orders extend the applicability of various central laws to the Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, created under the Reorganisation Act. Further, the state laws of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir have also been repealed, adapted and modified,” the petition says. It says the changes made to Jammu and Kashmir’s constitutional status “impact the vested rights of the permanent residents of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir as well as the rights of other Indian citizens”. It complains that “the protection offered to the ‘economically weaker section’ and ‘low income group’ under the Jammu and Kashmir Development Act by way of allotment of housing sites is no longer restricted to permanent residents of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-569
10-11-2020||India||Congress weighs joining Jammu and Kashmir alliance ||The Congress seems to be cosying up to the seven-party alliance in Jammu and Kashmir that is campaigning for the restoration of Article 370, now that it is free of the compulsions of the Bihar elections. Farooq Abdullah, chairperson of the alliance, on Sunday said the Congress too was a part of the coalition. He said Jammu and Kashmir Congress chief Ghulam Ahmad Mir had told him the party would jointly contest the upcoming district development council elections with the alliance. Mir confirmed meeting Farooq but said consultations were under way within the Congress and a decision would be announced by Tuesday. The Congress had been part of the “Gupkar Declaration” signed on August 4 last year, a day ahead of the amendment of Article 370, that resolved to resist any move to scrap the state’s special status. However, the Congress had skipped last month’s deliberations during which seven parties — including the National Conference, People’s Democratic Party, People’s Conference and the CPM — floated the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration to fight for the restoration of statehood and special status. Congress sources said the party had stayed away from the alliance because of the compulsions of the Bihar elections. “That (the Congress joining the alliance) could have given the BJP an opportunity to repeat the claim that we are anti-national, although there’s nothing anti-national about it,” a source said. Mir, however, said it was too early to say whether the Congress would contest elections jointly with the alliance. “So far the truth is that I had a meeting with Farooq Sahib. Our general secretary in charge (of Jammu and Kashmir, Rajni Patil) has come and we’ll have a meeting with senior leaders. By tomorrow we will officially make our position clear,” Mir told The Telegraph. Farooq had told reporters on Sunday that the Congress was already a part of the alliance. “Who told you they have separated? They had come to meet me today…. You clear the misconception,” he had said in Jammu on being asked whether the alliance would have any dealings with the Congress. “We are fighting elections unitedly and the Congress is with us. Mir Sahib has told me we will fight elections together.” Leaders of the People’s Alliance are in Jammu to garner popular support against last year’s amendment of Article 370 and the new laws that allow outsiders to own land in Jammu and Kashmir. In a surprise development on Saturday, the alliance had decided to contest the maiden district development council elections in the Union Territory, which begin on November 28. The alliance claims its decision was dictated by the need to prevent the BJP taking advantage of the vacuum and winning seats, and to let the world know that its demand for restoration of the special status enjoys popular support. All the parties in the alliance had boycotted every election since 2018 in anticipation of the Centre’s plans to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status. Former chief minister and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti told a news conference in Jammu on Monday that the BJP’s policies were prompting Kashmir’s youth to pick up arms. “The BJP has not only repealed (key provisions of) Article 370 but also erased the glory of Babasaheb Ambedkar, who had incorporated the article in the Indian Constitution,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-569
10-11-2020||India||Nine states told to analyse Covid deaths daily||The Union health ministry on Monday asked nine states, including Bengal, to analyse deaths among coronavirus disease patients at the level of hospitals every day and intervene to reduce mortality wherever necessary. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan in a meeting with state officials also urged the states to promote “health-seeking behaviour” among the public to reduce the proportions of early deaths that occur within 24-72 hours of hospital admission. Health officials are concerned that some districts in the nine states — Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bengal, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Punjab, Rajasthan, and Telangana — have shown rises in daily new cases, declines in daily tests, and high mortality within 72 hours of admission. In a similar meeting with Chhattisgarh, last week, a senior health official had pointed out that 34 per cent of Covid-19 patients had died in some districts within 24 hours of admission. Bhushan said states should focus on increased testing, targeted testing in marketplaces, workplaces, and places of religious congregations that could have the potential to become super-spreaders. He also asked the states to trace an average of 10 to 15 contacts per new case detected. Health officials say daily analysis of in-hospital deaths would allow authorities to identify possible factors that might be contributing to unusually high mortality. Late diagnosis, poor clinical management or critical care infrastructure issues could lead to high mortality. The directives come amid a near-steady nationwide decline in daily new counts — only about 45,000 cases recorded on Monday compared to a peak of over 93,000 cases in mid-September — yet worrying signs of a slowdown in the pace of decline in several states and surges in others. India’s count of active Covid-19 patients has fallen steadily to about 500,000 cases on Monday from the mid-September peak of over a million cases. But this fall has not eased pressure on Covid-19 hospitals in Delhi, Haryana, or Kerala with large accumulating numbers of active patients. Delhi, which appears to be in the grip of a third epidemic peak with larger daily case counts, recorded over 7,000 new cases on Monday. Several private hospitals treating Covid-19 patients in the capital have reported that their full ventilator bed capacity is occupied. “The pressure never went away, but it looks like it is getting worse,” said Sumit Ray, a senior critical care medicine specialist at the Holy Family Hospital in Delhi. Ray is among medical experts concerned over how the epidemic will change in the weeks after Diwali. Some health experts attribute the surge in cases in certain states despite the overall decline in the epidemic as largely driven by behaviour. “Human behaviour is the critical factor driving the epidemic at different places,” said Tarun Bhatnagar, a senior researcher at the National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai. “We could expect differences in behaviour depending on the prior experience of case loads and differences in risk perception,” Bhatnagar said. “These would be influenced by local narratives and the resultant perceptions among people.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-569
10-11-2020||India||Bombay High Court refuses Arnab relief ||Bombay High Court on Monday refused to grant interim bail to Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami and two others in a 2018 abetment to suicide case, saying the accused have the remedy of seeking bail from the sessions court concerned. A division bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and M.S. Karnik, rejecting the interim bail pleas of Goswami, Feroze Shaikh and Nitish Sarda, said: “No case has been made out for us (high court) to exercise our extraordinary jurisdiction.” Goswami and the others were arrested by Alibaug police on November 4 in connection with the suicide of architect-interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother in 2018 over alleged non-payment of dues by companies owned by the accused. They were remanded in judicial custody till November 18 by the Alibaug magistrate’s court. The high court on Monday said: “The petitioners have an alternate and efficacious remedy of seeking bail before the sessions court concerned. We have already noted earlier that if such bail plea is filed, then the sessions court shall decide the same in four days.” The sessions court would hear and decide the appeals on merit, the bench said, making it clear the refusal of interim bail would not affect the chances of regular bail. The sessions court is already hearing the police’s revision petition against the magistrate’s order denying them custody of the accused, who have been remanded in judicial custody instead. Goswami’s lawyer Gaurav Parkar said the bail application, filed on Monday in the sessions court, would be taken up after the revision petition. The high court said it did not believe that the reopening of the case, closed last year, was illegal. The judges said: “In our opinion, further investigation ordered into the case by the Maharashtra government cannot be termed as illegal and without seeking permission of the magistrate.” “There is no manner of doubt in our minds that the state government can always direct a further investigation to the police officers concerned, as done in the present case.” Before carrying out the said investigation, the magistrate was intimated about the same, the court observed. “The victim’s rights are equally important like the rights of the accused,” the court said. In the present case, the informant (Naik’s wife Akshata) was neither given any notice nor heard when the “A” Summary report (closure report) was submitted by the police, it noted. “Even the order accepting the closure report was not communicated to the informant. The fact that the magistrate did not give notice and opportunity to the first informant to file a protest petition before accepting the report, goes to the root of the matter,” the high court said. The bench said two members of a family have lost their lives and allegations are made against the three petitioners. The court also said it cannot consider at this stage the submission made by Goswami’s counsel Harish Salve that the FIR does not disclose any offence against the petitioner. The petitions seeking quashing of the FIR have been posted for December 10.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-569
10-11-2020||India||Indian scientists develop Covid vaccine that can be stored at room temperature||Indian scientists have developed a candidate vaccine against the coronavirus disease that remains active after long-term storage at room temperature, raising hopes for novel vaccines that would not need low-temperature cold chain demanded by most vaccines. Researchers at the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, and collaborators in Faridabad and Thiruvananthapuram have designed a protein-based vaccine candidate formulation that they say looks promising and remains active at 37°C for over four weeks. Cold storage temperature for routine immunisation vaccines is typically 2 to 8°C and can be much lower for some vaccines. Their vaccine candidate uses a small fragment of the so-called spike surface protein of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, to stimulate the immune system into making neutralising antibodies against the virus. In studies in guinea pigs, the vaccine generated antibody levels comparable to those observed from several other vaccine candidates currently under clinical trials worldwide. Almost all vaccine candidates against SARS-CoV-2 under development need refrigeration or are in a frozen state before they are administered. Public health experts view the need for a low-temperature supply chain as a major challenge for vaccine delivery, particularly in the rural areas of low and middle-income countries. “The protein fragment we’ve used in our candidate vaccine elicits antibodies and it is stable at room temperature,” Raghavan Varadarajan, a senior scientist at the IISc molecular biophysics unit who led the research, told The Telegraph. The stability at 37°C for at least four weeks would be a major advantage in efforts to distribute a vaccine in rural areas that lack low-temperature storage facilities. Varadarajan and his colleagues published their findings in the Journal of Biological Chemistry on Thursday. The scientists have sought funding from the Indian government for downstream development — more exhaustive pre-clinical studies in animals and toxicity studies that are critical prerequisites ahead of human clinical trials. For the animal studies, the IISc group partnered with a Bangalore-based start-up Mynvax. The other collaborators are based at the Indian Institute of Science, Education and Research in Thiruvananthapuram and the Translational Health Science and Technology Institute, Faridabad. The researchers say the timeline for further development would hinge on funding. Accelerated pre-clinical and toxicity studies can typically take two to three months. The speed of efforts to develop vaccines against SARS-CoV-2 has been unprecedented. The very first vaccine candidate emerged only about two months after scientists had published the SARS-CoV-2 genome sequence. Three other vaccine candidates are already under clinical trials in India — an inactivated vaccine from the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, a DNA vaccine from Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila and an adenovirus-based vaccine developed by Oxford researchers. “The more diverse the vaccine strategies in play, the better the chances of success,” said a senior vaccine researcher not associated with the IISc effort. “Until a vaccine is proven effective in protecting against the disease, no one knows which one will make it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-570
10-11-2020||India||Rail stand to link movement of goods and passenger trains is illogical: Amarinder ||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Monday said the railways’ decision to link the movement of goods and passenger trains in the state was “illogical”. “Passengers wanting to come to Punjab can easily travel by train to… Ambala and Chandigarh…. from where they can go by road to their destinations in Punjab in a few hours,” he said, pointing out this was not possible for freight. Farmers protesting against the farm bills have lifted their rail blockade only for freight trains to allow supply of essentials. But the railways have declined to run only goods train services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-570
10-11-2020||India||Delhi woos Maldives, to offer support in UN ||Amid efforts by supporters of Abdulla Yameen to whip up anti-India passions with its “India Out” campaign, foreign secretary Harsh V. Shringla flew to Maldives on Monday for a two-day visit that saw him talk up the broad spectrum of New Delhi’s development partnership with Male in a competition for influence with Beijing on the atoll nation. India’s development partnership in Maldives not only includes infrastructure projects — a forte of the Chinese — but also community projects that seek to touch every aspect of life in the hope of earning the goodwill of the people that can absorb any change in government in the archipelago. New Delhi has also decided to support the candidature of Maldivian foreign minister Abdulla Shahid for the presidency of the United Nations General Assembly in 2021 when India will be a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council. In two of his speeches during Day 1 of his visit, the China factor in the India-Maldives relationship was evident as Shringla sought to highlight the terms of New Delhi’s engagement without referring to Beijing. In an address at the Maldivian foreign ministry, Shringla underscored the fact that India’s partnership in the Greater Male Connectivity Project (GMCP) will “conform to the hallmarks of India development cooperation; transparency; full participation and ownership of the host country; and competitive pricing”. He repeated this while addressing an event for the handing over of children’s parks to 67 islands of Maldives under the Cash Grants Projects. “Honouring the democratic traditions cherished by both countries, the underlying principles of India’s development cooperation of transparency, competitive pricing and ownership of the host country will be adhered to in implementation of the GMCP project. “India’s development projects in Maldives are demand-driven and will involve the Maldivian government at all stages. The tendering process and award of contract will also be done by the Government of Maldives,” he added. China is often accused of doing debt-trap diplomacy by enticing countries into taking cheap loans which they can ill afford to pay back; resulting in them remaining indebted to Beijing. This strategy has helped China increase its footprint in various parts of the world, including Maldives, during the Abdulla Yameen regime when there was a Chinese investment boom in the archipelago. India had announced its decision to invest in the GMCP — the largest infrastructure project in the Maldives in August. It will connect Male with three neighbouring islands, including a new industrial zone and is thrice the size of a similar bridge constructed by the Chinese.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-570
10-11-2020||India||Congress targets Modi and Naveen at farm law rally ||The Odisha Pradesh Congress Committee (OPCC) on Monday organised a Kheti Bachao rally here against the new farm laws of the Narendra Modi government. Hundreds of party workers on tractors and motorcycles joined the procession that began from the Congress Bhavan here and culminated in a rally in the millennium city of Cuttack, about 23km from here. Dozens of tractors were also part of the rally. Leading the rally Odisha Pradesh Congress-in-charge Dr A. Chellakumar lambasted the Modi government for adopting anti-farmer laws. Describing the laws as draconian and anti-farmer, Chellakumar said: “ The rally is aimed to educate people what the Narendra Modi government has done to them. Its aim is to bring awareness about these draconian laws and educate the farmers on how their interests are going to be badly hit. Most of the farmers are still unaware of these laws which would only serve the purpose of the big business and corporates.” Chellakumar said during the UPA government around Rs 74,000 crore was released for the development of agriculture sector.  “All the programmes including the MGNREGS were launched during the Congress regime,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-570
10-11-2020||West Bengal||3 held over WhatsApp scam in Rajasthan||The Jangipur police in Murshidabad district have arrested three members of a gang allegedly involved in a WhatsApp racket from Rajasthan’s Bharatpur late last week. A local businessman and a bank employee had lodged police complaints on September 29, alleging that they had repetitively been scammed of amounts ranging between Rs 2,000 and Rs 5,000 by a fake WhatsApp profile. Acting on the complaints, a police team led by assistant superintendent of police, Sandip Karra, arrested Shabbir, Rajpal Singh and Chiranjit Singh from Bharatpur in Rajasthan on Friday. The trio were brought on transit remand from Bharatpur and produced at a local court in Jangipur on Monday. They have been sent to police custody for a week. Explaining the gang’s modus operandi, a member of the investigating team said that they used to trap their victims by becoming friends on Facebook. “They used to pose as women and contact the victims via Facebook and then access the their phone number and contact them through WhatsApp. They used to lure the victims by sending obscene images and then blackmail them for extortion. Their phone numbers were associated with fake image of a woman,” the officer said. He mentioned that the extortion amount would range from Rs ,2000 to Rs 5,000 every month. “We tracked the culprits through the bank accounts where the complainants had transferred cash,” the officer added. Jangipur police chief Y. Raghuvamshi on Monday said: “This is a nationwide scam. We have recovered devices with over 570 inappropriate images, 75 videos and 100 phone numbers, all of which were used to blackmail targets. People should be alert and avoid interacting with such unknown numbers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-315
10-11-2020||West Bengal||Elephant calf separated from herd, sent back to forest||An elephant calf, which had separated from its herd to enter a tea estate in the Dooars on Monday, was sent back to the forests of Gorumara National Park and Chapramari Wildlife Sanctuary. Foresters are keeping watch on whether the herd accepts the calf. The elephant calf, around six months old, strayed into the plantations and the factory of Bamandanga-Tondu tea estate and even entered the premises of the manager’s bungalow. Residents informed foresters and a team from the wildlife squad in Khunia intercepted the animal and steered it back to the forest. “We feel the herd will accept the calf. Still, our men are keeping a watch on it as there are instances that once a calf comes in contact with humans, the herd does not accept it,” said a forest official. Within the past three days, this is the second time that an elephant calf separated from its herd. Last Saturday, an elephant calf was spotted in Redbank tea estate, located in Banarhat area of the Dooars. Foresters tried to take it back to the herd but the herd did not accept it. It was eventually taken to the pet elephants’ enclosure in Gorumara. At the enclosure, Matirani, an adult female pet elephant, along with the mahouts, are taking care of it. “It is a challenging task to re-induct a (separated) calf back into the herd. If the herd does not accept the calf, it is equally challenging to nurture it at the enclosure. Last Saturday, we had to bring the calf to the enclosure. On Monday, another calf was found. If the herd comes back and takes it away, it is fine. Otherwise, foresters will take it to the enclosure,” said Sima Chowdhury, an honorary wildlife warden of the state forest department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-315
10-11-2020||West Bengal||Siliguri municipality wants 2 new civic bodies||Rapid urbanisation in large stretches of the Siliguri subdivision that fall outside the Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) area (outside city limits) have made the Left-run Siliguri Mahakuma Parishad (SMP) board pass a resolution seeking two new municipalities be formed. If so, civic services can be extended to lakhs of people who dwell in these areas which still bore the rural tag. Last Friday, the SMP board passed the resolution and decided to forward it to the state panchayat and rural development department, and state municipal affairs and urban development department. The decision made by the Left-run board a few days before the expiry of its tenure (the board’s tenure will end on November 15) has come as a fresh poser for the Mamata Banerjee government. Many believe it is a part of the Left’s strategy to underscore the issue that has been a longstanding demand of the residents living in adjoining areas of Siliguri ahead of the upcoming Assembly elections. In Siliguri subdivision, there are four blocks — Matigara, Phansidewa, Naxalbari and Kharibari — along with the SMC area. While there are 47 wards in SMC area (out of which 33 are in Siliguri subdivision and the rest 14 fall under Jalpaiguri district), the rural area spread over these blocks or four panchayat samitis are under 22 panchayats, covering 837.45 square kilometres. Over the years, there has been steady urbanisation in most areas of Matigara and also in some areas of Naxalbari block like Bagdogra. Whether it is the Bagdogra Airport or the North Bengal University or the North Bengal Medical College & Hospital, all are still officially located in rural areas. Also, some shopping malls, multiplexes, several prominent hotels and even the entire Uttarayon Township are outside the SMC area. Tapas Sarkar, the sabhadhipati of SMP, said they want the state to constitute two new municipalities. “One would cover the areas of Matigara block while the other would cover Bagdogra. There has been rapid urbanisation and it is not possible for a panchayat or a panchayat samiti to extend civic amenities to people residing in these areas like a municipality or a municipal corporation. The residents have time and again flagged this issue before us and so we have passed this resolution. These areas should be taken out of the SMP area and new civic bodies should be constituted. The state government should take a call on the issue,” said Sarkar. At the meeting where the resolution was made, all nine members of SMP and heads of all the four panchayat samitis were present, he said. Another member of SMP said it was not possible for rural bodies to extend drinking water to households, develop roads across the region, install street lights, develop sewerage systems and introduce solid waste management systems across such a vast area. “This is where a civic body is needed. Municipal elections are due in most civic bodies of the state and also, from November 16, rural elections will be due in the mahakuma parishad and in rural bodies of the lower tiers across Siliguri sub-division. It is an appropriate time for the state to make a decision and carry out necessary demarcation,” said the member. Trinamul leaders are not ready to buy the theory. “The Left-run board has failed to carry out development across rural areas of the subdivision and are now trying to hide their failure by passing this resolution,” a Trinamul leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-315
10-11-2020||West Bengal||BJP MP Tejasvi Surya charges 4 Bengal police officers with assault||BJP MP Tejasvi Surya moved a breach of privilege motion against four officers of Bengal police on Monday for allegedly physically assaulting him and two other MPs on October 8 at a protest march to the state secretariat that the youth wing of the BJP had organised. “The police threw crude bombs at us, attempting to murder activists and MPs…a gross violation of the privileges of the MPs has been committed,” Surya, also the national president of the youth wing, said during a news conference at Delhi on Monday. The motion names four police officers, including Anuj Sharma, the commissioner of Calcutta Police and Kunal Agarwal, the commissioner of Howrah Police Commissionerate, as perpetrators. Surya said that a representation has been submitted to Om Birla, the Lok Sabha Speaker. “He promised us that he will consider our plea (the breach of privilege motion) and will forward our representation to the privileges committee for further appropriate action,” Surya added. For efficient discharge of their functions, MPs enjoy certain privileges and immunities. When such rights and immunities are disregarded, it is an offence under the law of the Parliament and is called a breach of privilege. Any member from either House can move a notice in form of a motion against the person or group responsible for the breach. Surya said that after the march was over, he visited the Jorasanko police station with MPs Nisith Pramanik and Jyotirmoy Singh Mahato, to file a complaint for attempt to murder MPs. He alleged his complaint wasn’t registered and all three of them were manhandled by the police. “On the same day, Locket Chatterjee, a female MP, faced police brutality,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-315
10-11-2020||West Bengal||GTA workers switch to TMC||Many employees of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA), who have been for years demanding permanent jobs, joined Trinamul on Monday by de-affiliating themselves from the Binay Tamang faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha. Both Bimal Gurung and Tamang factions of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha are now allies of Trinamul. The switch-over started on Saturday, when most GTA employees from Kalimpong decided to join Trinamul. On Monday a similar event was seen in Darjeeling. Anil Rai, president, United Employees Union (UEU), which was affiliated to Binay Tamang camp of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, had earlier said they would remain independent. He, however, rolled out a different logic on Monday. “Why should we detour instead of taking a straight route? We will support chief minister Mamata Banerjee as she is the one who can solve our problem,” said Rai. There are 4,565 pay-band employees in GTA, which constitute nearly 90 per cent of the workforce in the hill body. Some have been working for more than 30 years. Many have served under Gurung’s GTA, and under Tamang, the former GTA head who has now been replaced by Anit Thapa. Calcutta High Court had directed the state government in June 2015 to convene a meeting with GTA in four months to decide how it would set in motion the process of absorbing these employees in permanent posts, but there was not much progress. N.B. Khawash, coordinator, TMC (hills), said: I think willpower…was lacking (from hill parties to solve the issue).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-316
10-11-2020||West Bengal||Murder whiff in South Dinajpur family tragedy||South Dinajpur police have filed a murder case in connection with the Sunday deaths of five members of a family in Jamalpur village. Police initially suspected farmer Anu Burman, a cancer patient who was finding it tough to arrange money for his treatment, killed his wife, mother and two daughters, and then committed suicide. But now, “new information” has made the police suspect that the family might have been killed by outsiders. Police found names of three persons written on Anu’s hand and a chopper from a pond next to the house, which might be the murder weapon. Also, Anu had recently sold some of his land for Rs 3 lakh — apparently for his treatment — and the cash was supposed to be at home, sources said. But cops found neither cash nor around 30 grams of gold that his family was supposed to have at home. Anu’s cell phone was switched off. “We found that his call list has been deleted,” a police source said. “We have filed a murder case on Sunday night,” Debarshi Dutta, the SP of South Dinajpur, said. “The house has been sealed. We are getting fingerprint experts to find out whether any outsider had been to the home. Our officers are also waiting for post mortem reports.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-316
10-11-2020||West Bengal||Covid: 2-week dip in active cases in Bengal||For two straight weeks since Durga Puja, Bengal on Monday reported a drop in its total of active cases. Total active cases dropped from 37,190 to 34,021 in 14 days, going back to the level of October 18. This apart, Bengal logged 3,907 new cases and 4,396 recoveries. The state reported 57,764 recoveries in the 14 days after Puja, outweighing the 55,399 new cases detected. Calling this a “spectacular defiance of apprehensions”, a state minister said: “It brought a lot of relief to the state government and made the chief minister (Mamata Banerjee) very happy.” Bengal’s total Covid-19 caseload is 4.09 lakh now, including nearly 3.68 lakh recoveries and 7,350 deaths. Fifty-six deaths were reported on Monday, including 13 from Calcutta. The minister reminded that Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja and issued a similar set of instructions over Kali Puja-Diwali. “If we can manage to pull that off, we will have secured a major improvement by Christmas,” he said. Bengal’s recovery rate, a new high of 89.89 per cent now, inched closer to the national rate of 92.58. But the state’s mortality rate is 1.79 now, lagging behind the national rate of 1.47 per cent. Of the state’s total toll, 6,157, or 83.8 per cent, were attributed to comorbidities. With 44,346 tests on Monday, Bengal’s test total went past 49.59 lakh, at 55,101 tests per million people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-316
10-11-2020||West Bengal||Bengal Opposition parties seek error-free voter list||Opposition parties in Bengal on Monday urged the Election Commission of India to ensure the sanctity of the electoral roll revision process, curtailed this time because of the pandemic, to ensure free and fair polls. During an all-party meeting convened by the EC, all major Opposition parties — the BJP, the CPM and the Congress — raised concerns over the alleged misuse of the state machinery during the special summary revision process. Trinamul also urged the poll panel to ensure an error-free roll and ruled out the possibility of foul play from the state’s end. Trinamul, which went out of its way to help returning migrant workers stranded for months, stressed the need to add migrants to the roll. “Booth-level officers play a pivotal role in the revision process. An error-free role is of foremost importance for free and fair polls. Booth-level officers are usually contract teachers, under total control of the state government, specifically, under education minister Partha Chatterjee (Trinamul secretary-general),” said BJP state vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar. “We voiced those concerns in the presence of Parthada.” Chatterjee, however, dismissed the suggestion. “All state government officials are directly under the supervision and control of the commission during poll-related processes. The possibility (of foul play) does not arise,” he said. “We specifically told the commission about the need for proper addition to the roll of the lakhs of migrant workers who have returned to Bengal,” he added. Trinamul sources said they were keen that such people vote as they are likely to be angry at the BJP-led Centre. Roll revision is a crucial annual exercise for accurate update of the voters’ list, usually carried out over three months from September. Because of the pandemic, this time, it will start on November 18 and end on December 15. The disposal of claims and objections would be allowed till January 5. The roll would be published on January 15. “The pandemic has complicated matters, but if elections are being held despite the pandemic, roll revision must be done properly,” said CPM central committee member Rabin Deb. Roll revision in Bengal is to a great extent a political exercise, as political parties visit homes, especially in rural areas, to encourage all eligible voters to apply for inclusion of their names on the voter list. In rural areas, representatives of political parties also help new voter applicants with collecting relevant documents from government offices. Given the pandemic constraints and the narrower window, it is unclear how far the parties would be able to carry that out. Besides, there are concerns over the accuracy of removal of absentee, shifted and deceased (ASD) voters this time. “Even in normal years, after ASD voters are dropped during the revision, 40-100 ASD names remain for each booth. Most parties here try to take advantage of the flaw by sending dummy voters. If a party can get 50 ASD votes per booth in a constituency with 2,000 booths, it can get a head-start with one lakh votes even before a single (genuine) vote is cast,” said a source. “So, there are apprehensions, especially in the Opposition, over how effective the ASD clean-up will be this time,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-316
10-11-2020||West Bengal||Affordable AC bus link  to Salt Lake IT hub||The Khardah Municipality in North 24-Parganas, jointly with the state transport corporation, on Monday rolled out an affordable air-conditioned bus service to connect the town and nearby areas to Sector V in Salt Lake, Bengal’s IT hub. Trinamul MP from Dum Dum Saugata Roy flagged off the bus service from Khardah Municipality Ground in the presence of the members of the civic body’s board of administrators and transport department officials. A transport official said that it was for now a single-trip service. The bus starts at 8.30am from Khardah and leaves Sector V at 5.15pm to return to Khardah. After assessing demand, the number of trips will be increased. Sources said around 200 youths from Khardah work in private firms and IT companies in and around Salt Lake. In the new normal, with the dearth of transport facilities, the AC bus would alleviate commuting woes for youths working in Salt Lake, said a municipality official. “Though local trains will roll out from Wednesday, most of the youths said they would like to avail of the bus service as they want to avoid the rush in trains,” said Kajal Sinha, who chairs the board of administrators at Khardah Municipality. A municipal official said that they would ensure that Covid protocols were adhered to by bus passengers. He added it was a direct bus service to Sector-V and no one would not be able to board the bus midway. “However, they can get down at their respective destinations,” he said. “The new bus service was launched between Khardah and Sector V after repeated appeals from Khardah municipality,” said Rajat Kanti Biswas, the joint managing director of West Bengal Transport Corporation. Khardah commuters said they had to spend Rs 250 on one trip to their Salt Lake workplace, around 20km from the town. Rajib Mukherjee, an employee with an engineering company in Sector V, said the AC bus had come as a big relief for his budget. “For the past three months I have been spending huge sums on commuting to my workplace in Salt Lake and back. Each trip cost me Rs 250. It is a huge relief that we will be paying only Rs 55 for a one-way trip to office,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-316
10-11-2020||West Bengal||Mamata asks Modi to act to bring down essential items prices||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to intervene in bringing down the prices of essential items, while alleging that recent changes brought in through farm bills only encouraged hoarders at the expense of the masses. She said that amendments in the Essential Commodities Act removed cereals, pulses, oilseeds, edible oils, onions and potatoes from the list of essential commodities. “The amendments are seriously encouraging hoarders in hoarding and profiteering on essential items like potato, onion etc thereby resulting in price rise and consequent sufferings...,” Mamata’s letter reads. Her letter holds political significance as it hints a campaign to accuse the BJP-led Centre for the rise in prices. The state BJP has already blamed the Mamata government for the price rise. Mamata wrote to Modi that the amendments were hurried and went against the interest of farmers and consumers. “We had raised our serious concerns that these enactments were hurriedly made without adequate thought process or discussion...with the states. The adverse impact of these new Central Acts upon the farmers and consumers in terms of availability and prices of essential agricultural commodities is already visible now,” she wrote. Citing that masses were suffering amid the pandemic, she urged the Centre to step in immediately or allow the state to do so by restoring federal authority. “...I would urge the Central government to urgently step in to control hoarding, to increase supply and to bring down the rising prices of essential commodities...Otherwise, the power of the state government be restored...,” Mamata wrote. She cited examples of how the state had controlled prices using Essential Commodities Act in 2014 and 2015. A Trinamul minister said the letter was timely. Potato sells for Rs 40 and onion at Rs 80 a kg. “People are angry, but should know the Centre is at fault, not the state, whose powers have been seized.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-316
10-11-2020||West Bengal||Factors behind potato price rise in Bengal||The potato, a kitchen essential in Bengal that retailed at Rs 28 a kilo even a month ago, is now selling for Rs 40 in most markets of Calcutta amid murmurs that the price would keep climbing northwards. The issue took a political turn after the BJP accused the Trinamul-led state government of failure to control the situation, while Trinamul blamed the Centre’s decision to curb the state’s authority on enacting the essential commodities Act to prevent inter-state trade of agriculture produce, and thus curb the spiralling prices. The Telegraph spoke to government officials, potato traders and cold storage owners to assess the network of reasons behind the situation. High demand Besides domestic demand, Bengal’s potato is in high demand in neighbouring states. The early variety from Punjab, which usually arrives in markets by early November, is yet to reach this year. Over 1 lakh tonne of Bengal’s potato is going to states like Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Jharkhand, Bihar, Chattisgarh and Assam every month. Demand for potatoes went up in Bengal from 5 lakh tonnes a month to about 6 lakh tonnes when vegetable prices shot up after Cyclone Amphan. “We are bringing out 7 lakh tonnes from cold storage owners instead of 6 lakh tonnes in other years. Even that’s not enough,” said a member of West Bengal Potato Traders’ Association. “Until fresh produce from Punjab arrives, the price won’t come down. The market could be stable by November-end,” said a trader. Lack of state control Senior state government officials said that during supply snags earlier, the state government could restrict potato trade to other states by enacting essential commodities Act. But this year it could not do so because the Centre curbed the state’s authority by removing potato from the list of essential commodities via the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. “The state’s authority was curbed on June 5 when the Centre had promulgated an ordinance. As a result, we cannot take steps even if people of the state are suffering,” said Pradip Majumdar, agriculture adviser to the chief minister. A senior government official said the immediate effect of the farm bills led to prices shooting up for potato and onion. “But farmers for whom the bills were introduced did not benefit. Some traders enjoyed the benefit and common people suffered,” he said. Storage challenges This year, Bengal produced around 90 lakh tonnes, less than usual. Fewer potatoes reached cold storages with the nationwide lockdown coming into effect from March 24. “Cold storages could not work properly because of labour shortage...they could stock 57 lakh tonnes of potato this year compared to 64 lakh tonnes in 2019 and 70 lakh tonnes in 2018,” said a cold storage owner. Sources said if stock is less, traders are not in a hurry to release extra stock in the market. In the last few years, extra supply made traders hurry and clear stocks. This year, there is no extra supply.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-316
10-11-2020||North East||Flip-flop on Assam minister’s Facebook post||Facebook has restored a post by Assam cabinet minister and BJP leader Himanta Biswa Sarma claiming that a crowd had raised “Pakistan zindabad” slogans while receiving AIUDF chief Badruddin Ajmal at Silchar airport on Thursday. On Saturday, Facebook had flagged the video as “false information” after getting it “checked” by an independent fact-checker organisation Boom Live, which said “no such slogan was raised by AIUDF supporters”. The flip-flop by the social networking platform has been questioned by the Opposition Congress which filed an FIR on Monday seeking Sarma’s arrest for indulging in activities “prejudicial to communal harmony” through the “false” post. Even Alt News, a non-profit fact-checking portal, had said: “Upon closely listening to the audio, Alt News found that ‘Aziz Khan zindabad’ and not ‘Pakistan zindabad’ was chanted by AIUDF supporters.” Soon after the post was restored on Monday by Facebook without assigning any reason, Sarma asserted the video “is a genuine one and not doctored”. “Good that the video is restored once again,” Sarma said of the post which has been shared 1,500 times, received 2,600 comments and 6,900 likes till 6.30pm. The BJP leader also said the post was flagged because some people may have reported against it. “Look at the brazenness of these fundamentalists anti-national people who are shouting PAKISTAN ZINDABAD while they welcome MP@BadruddinAjmal. This thoroughly exposes @INCIndia which is encouraging such forces by forging an alliance. We shall fight them tooth & nail. Jai Hind,” Sarma had posted on Facebook and Twitter on Friday with a 44-second video. The Opposition Congress on Monday file an FIR against Sarma in Bhangagarh police station here for “creating” religious tension between two communitiesthrough a “misleading statement and a false” Facebook post on November 7. _Both the Congress and the AIUDF had earlier sought a thorough probe into the post which had targeted both the parties which are in talks for a grand alliance of anti-BJP parties for the 2021 Assembly polls. In the FIR, Assam PCC general secretary Ranjan Bora has stated that Sarma has a “habit” of making loose and communally sensitive statements and at a time when Assembly elections are round the corner such statements can “create” communal tension. “Therefore to maintain peace, the arrest of the accused person is of utmost importance so that he can be restrained from indulging in activities prejudicial to communal harmony,” the FIR said. Bora said Sarma should be booked under Section 153A of the IPC and under Section 67 of the IT Act. Assam PCC general secretary Diganta Choudhury told The Telegraph that the “flip-flop” by Facebook should come under scrutiny because its operations do not seem to be transparent and it is accused of allowing the spread of Islamophobia.Choudhury said, “Take the case of former Facebook India’s policy head Ankhi Das. She was allegedly opposed to blocking Right-wing hate content on the platform. She quit last month. In this slogan case, Facebook first flagged it as false information and then withdrew it. Why?” AIUDF general secretary Aminul islam has said the BJP has been targeting his party to polarise voters and defame the proposed AIUDF-Congress alliance._Sarma uses the term Miya or Mughal for illegal Bangladeshi Muslims. The BJP accuses the AIUDF for espousing the cause of illegal migrants who are seen as a threat to the identity and culture of indigenous Assamese.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-37
10-11-2020||Opinion||Did it again: BJP's arrogance & over-confidence||The combination of over-confidence and ignorance can have unfortunate effects. On one level, the fact that the Union home minister, Amit Shah, in his upbeat tour of Bankura ahead of the West Bengal assembly elections in 2021, paid tribute to the statue of a nameless tribal hunter under the impression that it was a statue of Birsa Munda, the anti-colonial leader, was simply comic. To be fair, the fault was not Mr Shah’s, but of the district leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party. They would be expected to know better, since a large slice of the BJP’s gains in West Bengal in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections came from the state’s tribal belt. One of the notable attributes of the party is its excess of confidence; Bankura’s BJP leaders obviously did not bother to acquaint themselves with the statue of the iconic leader. It was not comic at all that the people felt insulted at this show of disrespect; the BJP’s efforts to gloss over the gaffe by hurriedly placing a picture of the hero at the foot of the anonymous figure did not help — some considered it more disrespectful. But over-confidence is transgressive. The BJP chief in Bengal, Dilip Ghosh, has said that since the home minister believed the statue to be Birsa Munda’s, it will be so known from now on. That is paying tribute to Mr Shah, not Birsa Munda. It worsens the harm done by careless disrespect and is like history repeated. Mr Shah could not have been directly blamed either for the destruction of Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar’s statue in a Calcutta college in 2019, allegedly by his party’s followers, during a BJP roadshow he was leading before the general elections. There does, however, appear to be a relationship between the aggressive rhetoric of the potential conqueror and ignorance of the culture and history of the state to be conquered. The BJP, of course, was not as careless while erecting Vallabhbhai Patel’s statue in Mr Shah’s home state. Mr Shah appears a little jinxed as far as Bengal’s iconic statues are concerned, thus offering on a platter meat for the West Bengal chief minister’s appellation of ‘outsider’. The idea of a cultural outsider could be a useful weapon in the Trinamul Congress’s favour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-119
10-11-2020||Opinion||Right and wrong: Arnab Goswami's arrest||Sir — The manner in which Arnab Goswami was arrested is shocking and condemnable (“Goswami arrested in suicide case”, Nov 5). Goswami is not above the law, but was due process followed while arresting him? Many will not agree with Goswami’s style of functioning, but like every other Indian citizen he is innocent until proven guilty and has the right to get justice. A video that went viral showed Goswami being unnecessarily harassed by the police. However, it is also undeniable that his hooliganism and his reckless undermining of others’ free speech and liberties are the reasons many people refuse to sympathize with him. Several Union ministers and Bharatiya Janata Party leaders compared the arrest of Goswami with the Emergency-era crackdown on press freedom and said that the abetment to suicide case had been raked up in order to harass Goswami. Unfortunately, such leaders kept quiet when thousands of journalists across the country were arrested and trumped-up charges under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act or of sedition were registered against them. It is also a little ironical that just as Goswami had acted as judge, jury and executioner in the Sunanda Pushkar and Sushant Singh Rajput suicide cases, so too are people now sitting in judgment of him even though the charges against him are inconclusive. The power of the State machinery must be unleashed with the greatest circumspection. Even if an arrest is made, custodial interrogation is seldom necessary. Thousands of people are languishing needlessly in Indian prisons, pending trial. More important, while people are quick to compare events to those that took place during the Emergency, none seems eager to revoke provisions that were used to tighten the grip of the State during that time. Khokan Das,Calcutta Sir — While people may not agree on the need for and the manner of the arrest of Arnab Goswami for alleged abetment to suicide, the expression of outrage by Union ministers including the home minister, Amit Shah, is not only hypocritical but also most inappropriate with the potential to unduly influence the judicial process. Goswami has not been arrested for his journalism, but for alleged defaults in business transactions that are said to have led to the suicide of two people. None of these leaders are concerned about the freedom of the media when journalists across India are arrested. These ministers have betrayed their duplicity. S.K. Choudhury,Bangalore Thy name is woman Sir — Better late than never — the Oxford Dictionary has finally removed some sexist synonyms for the word, woman, in its latest version. It is a shame that it took a petition in 2019 and large-scale public outrage for the dictionary to carry out this exercise. It should know better than anyone else the importance of words and how they can implant subconscious prejudices in the minds of users. Unlike the Bard’s opinion, a lot depends on what one is addressed as. Roshni Sen,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-119
10-11-2020||Opinion||Dry days: India's water crisis||India’s water crisis is already serious; in the absence of decisive interventions, it is expected to get worse. This was one of the gravest takeaways from the World Wildlife Fund’s Water Risk Filter analysis. The prevailing situation in some Indian cities is a testament to the depth of the crisis. Jaipur and Indore are among the 100 cities in the world that are set to face the greatest of shortages in water by 2050. The list also includes 28 other Indian cities — Delhi, Calcutta, Mumbai and Bangalore are among them — that will be grappling with “increasing water risks in the next few decades”. A combination of factors has precipitated the crisis; they include climate change, rapid, unplanned urbanization, depletion of groundwater on account of extraction for industrial and agricultural use and the indifference among planners towards regenerating thinning reservoirs. That cities are parched is borne out by data. Chennai saw three out of four reservoirs run dry last year; Bangalore draws 1,450 million litres of water per day from the Cauvery, but a quarter of its population is forced to mine groundwater for survival as they remain cut off from the supply of river water. These inequalities are bound to lead to social strife in the near future. That groundwater — the main source of drinking water for rural India and an invaluable buffer between monsoons — has been depleted dangerously is evident from the Centre’s decision to tighten extraction norms. According to the new rules, no new major industries or mining projects will be allowed in ‘over-exploited’ assessment blocks, and existing commercial units will have to obtain no-objection certificates. Are there, however, checks and balances to ensure that the new regulations do not foster yet another bureaucratic system of ‘permits’ for groundwater usage for industrial purposes that could breed corruption? This is only one part of a hydra-headed problem. Policy falling prey to populism also aggravates water shortages. Calcutta, which wastes 30 per cent of the municipal corporation’s filtered water supply every day, does not pay a municipal water tax. South Africa’s Cape Town, which nearly ran out of water in 2018, reversed the crisis by involving residents and businesses in a host of water-saving initiatives. Such a participatory model must be adapted to the Indian context. The solution lies in tackling the problem holistically. Environment-based resolutions, such as reconnecting rivers to their floodplains and protecting vulnerable but critical resources — Calcutta’s disappearing wetlands are a case in point — must be accompanied by greater focus on improving replenishment of resources and, crucially, cutting public consumption by sensitizing citizens to the criminal wastage of water.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-119
10-11-2020||Opinion||US elections 2020: Time to rejoice||A pandemic. Postal delays. Legal challenges. Americans overcame these hurdles and more for a record-breaking turnout to elect their 46th president. November 3, 2020 will be remembered for unleashing five agonizing days of vote counting (in 2000 it took 35 days for Democratic presidential nominee, Al Gore, to concede defeat). To their credit, the volunteers, both Republican and Democrat, feeding in ballot papers for the counting were a picture of amity, unlike the incumbent president of the United States of America, Donald J. Trump, who continues to issue errant assaults on the integrity of the elections, alleging fraud and threatening to move courts. When television networks announced Joe Biden as the president-elect on Saturday, Trump claimed his rival was ‘falsely posing as winner’ and headed for the golf course. Trump’s supporters have flooded social media with querulous posts. “Democrats are not Americans. Republicans like me have fought and had buddies die for America,” read one. “The mail-in votes have been compromised. Democrats voted against abolishing slavery and supported the KKK,” said another. However, Biden’s supporters have opted for a more mature response. Pat Spencer from El Paso said, “When I cast my 2020 presidential vote I hoped it would contribute to restoring the soul of America as presidential candidate Joe Biden has emphatically promoted. As a daughter of a Mexican immigrant, having lived and worked as a former police officer less than two miles from the Mexican border, I view affordable healthcare, immigration and criminal justice reform, preserving freedom of the press and securing a living wage as the most important issues during this election. I am neither Republican, Democrat nor Libertarian. My hopes for our nation are to be united and solidly back in the worldview as leader in all things democratic. Today America deserves a day of jubilation and happiness. It was a sense of relief knowing that democracy still runs deep in the heart of our country.” Not too far away in Dallas, medical student, Avilasha Sinha, was relieved too. “To say that the 2020 United States presidential election was an emotional rollercoaster would be a gross understatement. On November 3, I went to bed with a feeling of despair. That night, Biden had tweeted: ‘Keep the faith, guys. We’re gonna win this’. Over the next few days, it felt as if not only the nation but the entire world was holding its breath. I woke up this morning to the news that Joe Biden had crossed the 270 electoral vote threshold. His victory not only buoyed our spirits, it highlighted the resilience of the American people. In the midst of a pandemic which has claimed over 236,000 lives, voter turnout was higher than in any election since 1908. I understand that this election is not a panacea for the problems affecting the United States, but it is a crucial and symbolic first step in the healing of this nation,” the young American-Indian said. Jayne Docherty, my former professor and director of the Center for Justice and Peacebuilding in Virginia and a Democrat, highlighted the non-partisan vigil being held every day in her town with a message that an election is not over until all the votes are counted. “We are hopeful that the power of citizens mobilizing non-violently can keep the process of counting votes on track. We still need all votes counted and every legal case decided or dismissed,” she cautioned. Across the miles in Arizona, the state which, along with Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania (worth a combined 57 electoral votes), flipped towards Biden, Rhoda Kraus, a champion of dignity and justice, summed up the electorate’s sentiments: “Going forward, I believe America will take up steady and patient negotiations on the local, national and global levels to repair damaged processes and restore human values”. Amen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-119
10-11-2020||Opinion||A fatwa on free speech||There is something frighteningly familiar in the unfortunate developments in France around free speech. The principles of the French Republic are invoked on the issue of free speech, quite often by emphasizing the cartoons of Prophet Muhammad, many of them going back to the their publication by the Danish newspaper, Jyllands-Posten. A disgruntled immigrant goes on the rampage, killing individuals as a protest against this assertion of free speech. The French establishment then rallies around the issue of free speech by saying that it is an indispensable and non-negotiable aspect of the Republic. French debates around free speech have acquired a character of almost cyclical repetitiveness. This prevents any possibility of the advancement of free speech, as the principle itself has become caught in an entrenched battle of attrition between the French Republic and its sullen, intractable immigrants. The expectation on the part of the French Republic is that the immigrants should fit in. What this presumes is that immigrants have nothing of value to offer to the host society and that their values corrode those of the French Republic. The speech by the French president, Emmanuel Macron, on the crisis of Islam, delivered a little before the slaying of Samuel Paty, is reflective of the tendency to mechanically reiterate liberal values as simple, standalone assertions that are at risk from radical Islam. Speeches such as Macron’s hardly help; there has been speculation that the speech was aimed at consolidating right-wing opinion. The immigrants, on the other hand, believe that the principle of free speech is used in an unprincipled manner to ‘pick on’ them and that the same principle is not asserted vigorously when it comes to other issues. The problem with many Western governments on the issue of free speech is that they do not seem to show the same level of urgency when it comes to issues aside from Islam. Take the case of the Rushdie affair which, in many ways, is the prototype of the now familiar stand-offs between Western governments and their Muslim immigrants. The Margaret Thatcher government in 1989 almost tried tutoring Muslim immigrants about how to conduct themselves in a free society like Britain. Yet the Thatcher government had gone to extraordinary lengths to prevent the publication of Peter Wright’s book, Spycatcher — the candid confessions of an intelligence officer — even in distant corners of the commonwealth such as Australia. The point is that free speech arguments made by Western governments seem to be fixated excessively on issues of Islam. The attitude of certain Muslims towards free speech and their support of Ayatollah Khomeini’s fatwa against Salman Rushdie was certainly problematic. But Western governments are equally complicit in the dominance that the media baron, Rupert Murdoch, exercises in their societies. There is as much danger to the cause of free speech there as there is in the problematic attitudes of Muslim immigrants. Furthermore, French and Western invocations of free speech tend to rest upon stereotypes of Islam. It is believed that there is an inherent incompatibility between Islamic values and the values of Western liberal democracies. This is not to, in any way, take the blame away from the degeneration of Muslim societies that is contributing in equal, if not greater, measure to these dénouements. Muslim societies tend to be mired in a malaise of immobility with ahistorical understandings of the shariah and the role of fatwas in Islamic jurisprudence. Both sides fail to see that it is only in the last two centuries that the fatwa has become frozen into a religious diktat. There is evidence to suggest that the fatwa, far from being a diktat, was a legal opinion proffered by a jurisconsult. The fatwa was mostly proffered when solicited by an individual trying to comprehend a way out of a problematic social and religious issue. A fatwa was more in the nature of a non-binding legal opinion; individuals could choose to overlook it and approach another religious authority for another fatwa. Western assertions of free speech are simply unable to understand this veritable free market of fatwas. Given that in the eyes of the Western establishments, the fatwa is the antithesis of free speech, what is proposed, perhaps in a truly dialectical spirit, is a fatwa for free speech. How about raising a metaphorical toast to such an idea?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-119
10-11-2020||Opinion||Donald’s trumped||And so it begins. With the days and nights flipped around because of the time zones, their mornings unfolding across our evenings, their days parading events in the wee hours of our nights. I check for when the first results will start solidifying on the networks and go to sleep, not daring to pray or allow myself too much hope. Sure enough, when I wake up and look, the polls have closed on most of the US east coast and the mid-west. For someone of my political leanings, the news is bad: there is no ‘blue wave’, there is no Democratic landslide, no liberal earthquake overturning the red-owned real estate in the Senate. Donald Trump and Joe Biden are running neck and neck, the usual suspect states at that point all falling neatly into familiar piles, the usually Democratic north-east and west coast going to Biden, the vast swathes in the centre of the United States of America painted red as if with a large roller. And then there is damage: Florida goes quickly to the owner of its Mar-a-Lago Club who’s been using it as a third presidential palace for the last four years; Biden hasn’t been able to mount much of a challenge in this key battleground state. Texas flipping to the Democrats? Forget it. Above Florida, Georgia is a deep pink, indicating a Republican lead. Slicing into the unevenly demarcated mess of blue states in the top right-hand corner, the rectangle of Pennsylvania, too, is the colour of raw meat. On the infographics pages, the House seats are about even as are the ones in the Senate. On the chart for the presidential election, the blue band is well short of the halfway point of 270 electoral votes while the red is moving in robustly from the right. And yet, the bloggers on the Dem-leaning newspaper sites of The Guardian and The New York Times and the anchors of the American networks critical of Trump show no outbreaks of sweat or despondency. ‘Wait, wait, wait!’ they all seem to be saying in a chorus, ‘these are still the walk-in votes from November 3, the postal ballots are still to be counted.’ At some point, Arizona and Nevada start to move in an unexpected direction, like a cricket ball reverse swinging at the last moment. Instead of the expected pink or red, the two western states develop a bluish tinge. Some pesky child with access to websites across the world picks up a deep blue crayon and clumsily colours in the blank chunks around the Great Lakes: Illinois, Wisconsin... and then Michigan too. Is it a mistake or has Wisconsin flipped back to the Dems? No, it’s correct. What about Michigan, with its armed militias parading around the State Capitol brandishing assault rifles, its extremist gangs planning to kidnap the governor? Well, they are who they are but Detroit, for instance, has voted 94 per cent for Biden; Michigan is blue. The jokes and arguments have all been made. Why bother so much about the American election? What great difference will it make to us in India? Do you really think if Biden wins it will make any great difference to the world? Americans can elect who they want as president, and these men can have slightly different policies at home, benign or injurious, but upon the rest of the world US presidents have mostly inflicted varying degrees of misery. You’re so caught up with the other side of the planet but you have no idea what is happening next door in Bihar! All valid points and questions, but still, the toxic orange hazardous waste has to be put in a bin and sealed before it causes more harm. On day 3, John King of CNN is showing incredible stamina; it’s a wonder his hand hasn’t fallen off from clawing at the huge touch screen to bring up the changing numbers. The names of obscure counties are now grooved into the ear: Maricopa, Elko, Allegheny, Lackawanna, Taliaferro. King’s repeated mantra plays in the dreams: ‘People have voted and we have to count those votes. That’s what we do. We count ’em.’ At some point, Georgia see-saws slowly to an even keel — the votes are tied. The lying complaints and whining have long started to emerge from Trump and his sycophants. Anderson Cooper has compared Trump to a fat turtle flailing on its back. At some point, Biden’s tortoise crawls past Trump’s supine hare in Pennsylvania, rolls past and keeps going. On day 4, even Fox News is obliged to call the election for Biden-Harris and dancing breaks out on the streets of America. Trump unleashes his legal war dogs and goes off to play golf. The dogs circle around, sniffing each other while the nation celebrates, or at least the record 75 million people who voted for Biden and Harris do. The Republicans, greedy and dishonest to the last, join Vladimir Putin and Xi Jinping in maintaining a baleful silence while Trump’s legal hounds figure out how to convince the courts, the voting public, and the world that the Democrats have somehow stolen the presidential election, rigged it while sportingly neglecting to flush people like Lindsey Graham and Mitch McConnell down the gutter and capture majority in the Senate, or sweep the House. No doubt some narrative describing this laser-bomb-precise ballot heist will trickle out of the Orange Fake News HQ in the coming days. No doubt we will be told how this Great Ballot Robbery was conducted across several states ruled by both Democrats and Republican governors. Many of us here in India will know exactly where to put these whopping lies broadcast by a debased leadership: right next to the claims of the great benefits of demonetization, tales of bold retaliatory air-strikes that kill hundreds of jihadis and claims of how demonstrably non-violent activists started violent riots. We are used to being told in the middle of the darkest night that we are actually looking at a shining dawn. As we watch this sordid attempt at retaining power play out, we have to hope that it will be possible to limit the damage Trump and his coterie can add to the devastation they have already inflicted. That they are now quickly disconnected from the huge power they should never ever have wielded. One brick prised out of a wall loosens surrounding ones, and prising Trump out of the White House could well be a start to bringing down the wall of despotism that scars the planet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-120
10-11-2020||Jharkhand||Mahto undergoes lung transplant at Chennai hospital||State education minister Jagarnath Mahto, who was on life support for 21 days after testing positive for a Coronavirus infection, underwent lung transplant surgery at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (GM) Healthcare in Chennai on Tuesday. “We found a suitable donor today (Tuesday) and decided to immediately proceed with the transplant,” said Dr. Apar Jindal, the Clinical Director of Lung Transplant, Interventional Pulmonology and Chest Medicine at MGM. Mahto underwent the surgery at night and was subsequently shifted to the ICU of the hospital, Jindal said. “We are done with the surgery and he (Mahto) is stable. He is not on ECMO (Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation) anymore, and we hope he will be fine very soon,” he added. As per the standard practice, the minister will be kept under observation in the ICU for the next two weeks. However, he will be conscious while under observation. Dr. Suresh Rao, Co-director of Institute of Heart and Lung Transplantation & Mechanical Circulatory Assist Device at MGM, told The Telegraph Online that Mahto was in the operation theatre for three hours for the surgery, and was stable after the procedure was complete. “We will keep him on medication and see how he is responding,” Rao said. According to doctors at MGM, the success rate of lung transplant is 70 percent. Mahto is the fifth Covid-19 patient to undergo a lung transplant at MGM hospital. Three of the four patients who underwent the surgery in the past are doing well. One of them could not survive. Mahto was in the priority list of patients in need of lung transplant in the Tamil Nadu capital, said Dr. Rao, refusing to disclose the identity of the donor in accordance with the protocol. Fifty-three-year-old Mahto, a JMM legislator from Dumri Assembly constituency, tested positive for Covid-19 on September 28 and was admitted to state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi. He was shifted to the ICU of Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital in the state capital on October 1 and put on non-invasive ventilation. The minister was flown to Chennai on October 19 after his lungs showed no signs of improvement and was put on ECMO, a life support system.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-240
10-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad rolls out web portal to register public grievances||Dhanbad district administration launched an exclusive portal, intended at ensuring transparent, speedy, time-bound and efficient redressal of grievances of common people with regard to different services, etc., on Tuesday. The portal is developed by the district unit of National Informatics Center and District Mineral Foundation Trust. The portal, esamadhan.egovdhn.in, a brainchild of Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar, developed on a user-friendly pattern both for complainants as well as different offices has registered 24 complaints including seven registered from district collectorate and 17 other registered through complaints through their smartphones, computers, etc. within four hours of launching from 10 am to 2 pm. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh, who visited the Public Grievance Cell of district collectorate today to take stock of the registration of complaints on the portal after its launching at  around 10 am, said, “Time-bound redressal of complaints of common people will help to solve the difficulties of the common masses and ensure building trust in the administration.” “All the departmental offices have been made accountable for the redressal and disposal of complaints related to their respective departments,” said Singh. Extolling about the specificities of the portal Singh said, “The facility of real-time tracking of complaints, right from it’s registration to resolutions have been made for portal and apart from this, the portal has been enabled with the messaging system for complainants about the different stages of complaint registration and redressal.” “It is a transparent, efficient and safe complaint redressal mechanism and people can register their complaints either in Hindi or English using their smartphones or computers at the place of their convenience,” further said Singh. Regarding the process for registration of complaints Singh said that complainant would have to first register at the portal by submitting their name, full address and mobile phone number at the portal after which they would have to upload their written complaint in PDF format on the portal. “The complainants will get a token number and SMS after registration of their complaint and the token number can be used for online tracking the redressal stage of the complaint, besides which he will also get an SMS about the step by step progress of redressal of his complaint,” informed Singh. “Besides registering the complaints through their smartphone or computers can also register free of cost online complain about the portal by visiting Public Grievance Cell of different Block Development Officer’s office or Circle officer’s office or the public grievance cell office of the district collectorate of with the help of computer operators of  different Panchayat offices,” said Singh, Notably, training to office superintendents, computer operators and public grievance officers of altogether 73 different departments have already been provided for complaint management. Executive magistratation Deepmala and Food Safety officer of Dhanbad Aditi Singh has been entrusted with the task of monitoring to smooth working of the portal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-240
10-11-2020||Jharkhand||Diwali diyas made by special children witness bumper sale ||Diwali diyas made by intellectually impaired, were up for grabs for a fortnight, has witnessed a bumper sale. Not a single piece is available now even though inquiries have been pouring in almost every day. The special students of Jeevika, a Sonari-based NGO working for the promotion of intellectually challenged, remained busy in modeling, painting and applying varnish to the diyas made in view of the festival of lights since last month. “All the diyas are exhausted. We are no longer selling the product even though people are enquiring about them. The special children worked hard and we feel happy that it has paid off,” said Avtar Singh, founder of Jeevika. According to him, the special children made 4,000 diyas which were procured from a potter in Asanbani, East Singhbhum. “Some diyas were also procured from Jamshedpur. Paint, varnish, wax and threads were purchased locally. The students are presently making diyas which have been ordered by customers in advance. We have also kept some diyas aside for gifting them to our well-wishers,” Singh, a former national cycling champion, informed. Six hundred decoration pieces as well as decorative eco-friendly bags have also been sold. The diyas were displayed and sold from the premises of Jeevika. The visitors appreciated the hard work and skills of the intellectually impaired. The special students, including Ganga Bai, Akash Sharma, Ankit Mukherjee, Ryan Francis and Pankaj Kumar remained busy for about four hours daily at the Jeevika centre. They were assisted by Anuradha Kumari, a temporary staff of Jeevika. “We were aware that there will be an unprecedented demand for diyas since Indians are boycotting Chinese products, including diyas. We were against taking an unnecessary risk since there will be a rush of people if we display more numbers of diyas for sale. So, we kept 4,000 diyas for sale. We wanted to be very cautious in dealing with the pandemic,” Singh explained. The diyas – in various shapes and sizes, the most unique being the turtles – were a hit among people from Jamshedpur and Ranchi. The diyas invariably get exhausted much before Diwali. The diyas are also purchased by different companies and social organizations in the steel city. Ryan Francis, who painted diyas also put strings in decorative paper bags, said he feels very happy with the sale. “We were very sure that the diyas would be sold before Diwali. Now, we are waiting for the gift from our school,” he added. The intellectually impaired will be getting pat and cash from the special school after Diwali. “We will surely recognize the toil of our students,” said Jeevika secretary Sukhdeep Kaur. Jeevika is striving hard to bring special athletes to the social mainstream. Some of its students have got married and are leading a happy life. Seven of its students have landed employment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-240
10-11-2020||Jharkhand||JMM-led ruling alliance wins Dumka, Bermo seats convincingly||The ruling JMM-Congress-RJD alliance retained Dumka and Bermo seats on Tuesday by defeating BJP candidates in a show that defied the national trend of  NDA candidates pulling off a string of victories in 56 byelections held across the country. The contest in Jharkhand did not go down to the wire as was expected during the early hours of counting which began at 8 am amid strict adherence to Covid-19 safety protocols. But the margins of victory in both seats were lower than the 2019 polls. In Dumka, a seat reserved for scheduled tribes and in the traditional JMM stronghold of Santhal Pargana, chief minister Hemant Soren’s younger brother Basant beat the BJP’s Louise Marandi by 6,440 votes, as per the figures released by Election Commission of India. Basant polled 79,964 votes, compared to Louise’s 73,524. Hemant had on the Dumka seat in 2019 by over 13,000 votes.  In Bermo, a Congress stronghold, Kumar Jaimangal won against the BJP’s Yogeshwar Mahto Batul by 14,169 votes, around 7,000 votes less than what his father had polled in 2019. Jaimangal got 92,751 compared to Batul’s 78,582 votes. Soon after the verdict, Hemant tweeted: “I thank people of Dumka and Bermo for reposing faith in the government and to strengthen it further by making our candidates win. I congratulate both the young winners on the historic occasion and bow before the voters for having faith in your government.” Both Louise and Batul had contested from the same seats in the 2019 Assembly election but lost. While the BJP banked on old war horses once again, both the JMM and Congress stuck to family ties by fielding Basant and Jaimangal, who is the son of former Bermo MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh whose death in May necessitated the bypolls.  In Dumka, the seat fell vacant after Hemant vacated it to retain Barhait after the formation of his government. State Congress president Rameshwar Oraon said the bypoll outcomes were in total sync with expectations right from Day One of the campaign. “The entire credit goes to the government’s good work with a pro-people attitude, workers of the ruling alliance and the voters at large. In 2019, people gave us full mandate for five years. However, bypolls had to be held in these two seats. People have voted us back in these two seats which show we are on the right track,” he noted. In Ranchi, Congress workers hit the streets, bursting crackers and playing drums to celebrate the victory hours before the state government announced a ban on fireworks during Diwali because of the Covid-19 pandemic.  The byelections, the first since the formation of the coalition government and the outbreak of Covid-19, were crucial for the incumbent regime to consolidate its strength in the Assembly in the wake of BJP's alleged threats of “toppling the government”. For the BJP, the bypolls were an occasion to try and make inroads into tribal pockets of the state after it lost miserably in the last elections despite being in power for a full five years, a first since the formation of Jharkhand in 2000. State BJP president Deepak Prakash issued a statement late in the evening to claim that compared to the last elections, the party had done better, which indicated that voters were ready for a change. "We accept the verdict, but compared to the 2019 Assembly polls, our margin of defeat had come down drastically, especially in Dumka, while votes polled had gone up."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-240
10-11-2020||Jharkhand||Pan India tribal conclave to go online this year||Samvaad, a one-of-its kind pan India tribal conclave organised by Tata Steel Foundation, is set to be back with its seventh edition from November 15 to 19. This year's conclave will take the conversations and celebrations onto a digital platform due to the ongoing pandemic. The Samvaad ecosystem has brought together more than 30,000 people from 117 tribes across 27 states of India and 18 countries in the last six years, and is also an event that the citizens of steel city keenly looks forward to. The theme for this year, `Coming together for social change ‘, representing a belief that there are inherent aspects of tribalism that places seamlessness as a core value of society and valuable lessons in wonderful stories of tribal communities coming together to positively influence their core development challenges. “We are living through times of immense uncertainties but our responsibility towards the extended Samvaad family is to not disrupt the wonderful journey of celebration and contemplation of event. This has given us the confidence to set up Samvaad 2020 online. We are doing this through a model which respects the current restrictions of mobility while balancing the gains and limitations that the digital format places on sustained conversations. The theme for this year is particularly relevant in the altered paradigms that have evolved in the last six months and will possibly continue doing so in the near future,” said Sourav Roy, chief, corporate social responsibility, Tata Steel. The conclave will hear stories from across the country. The event encourages participants to engage in experience sharing sessions in various areas that affect the communities and gives them an opportunity to enrich the platform with their thoughts. The five days will therefore witness a cross-pollination of ideas among more than 1,000 tribal women and men who are expected to join online and celebrate the vibrant cultures of different tribes. The many offshoots of Samvaad such as tribal handicraft,, tribal film screenings, tribal cuisine and the cultural performances of various tribes that contribute significantly to  the essence of Samvaad will bring the traditional practices and rich heritage to the common masses through its YouTube channel. The conclave will celebrate traditional cuisines of 16 tribes across 10 states with the dishes exclusively available for the people of Jamshedpur on online aggregator platform Zomato. Cinema lovers have a lot to look forward to as tribal films will be screened on the YouTube channel which will be held followed by discussions with the filmmaker. Around 500 school children from Jamshedpur will attend the screening. Art enthusiasts will get a chance to attend master classes on Oraon, Sohrai, Gond, Saura, Warli and Rajwar Bhittichitra art forms that will be hosted by tribal artisans. Each day will conclude with cultural performances from celebrated artists like Guru Rewben from Manipur and Tetseo Sisters from Nagaland and cultural groups from tribes of Galo, Siddhi, Damdami Madia, Bhumij and others. This year will also witness a release of a musical composition  as a tribute to Birsa Munda, curated by Padma Shri Mukund Nayak and the Samvaad musical collective, Rhythms of the Earth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-240
10-11-2020||Jharkhand||State bans bursting of firecrackers in public during Diwali||The Jharkhand government imposed a ban on bursting firecrackers in public places this Diwali, citing the Covid-19 pandemic, but said that a separate set of guidelines for bursting firecrackers in private places would be issued in accordance with National Green Tribunal (NGT) guidelines. The directive, issued by the Home, Prison & Disaster Management Department, comes close on the heels of an NGT order which prohibited bursting of firecrackers until November 30 in highly polluted cities, including Jharkhand’s Dhanbad. The Jharkhand notification permitted Kali Puja in pandals and temples across the state but prohibited the entry of visitors. “Kali Puja pandals shall be barricaded on all the sides in a way to prevent the entry of public. Only organisers up to a maximum strength of 15 are permitted inside the barricaded pandal,” the notification, signed by chief secretary Sukhdeo Singh, stated. The government turned down the various Kali Puja committees’ demand to allow lighting and decoration at pandals. In the notification, it stated that there should be no decoration or lighting at and around the pandals. Besides, no welcome gates should be erected. Kali Puja committees had also sought permission for distributing bhog, but the government decided against it to curb the spread of the coronavirus. However, the government allowed the use of public address systems at pandals for live broadcast of chanting of mantras only up to a limit of 55 decibel and not within a 100-meter radius of hospitals and courts. Puja committees will be allowed to play live chanting of mantras on loudspeakers from 7am to 9pm. As per the government notification, puja committees have been prohibited from taking out processions during immersion of idols. Also, immersions have to be done at places approved by respective district administrations. The ban on bursting firecrackers in public places comes at a time when Dhanbad, Sindri, Jamshedpur, Saraikela Kharsawan, Ranchi and Barajamda have been found to have higher air pollution levels than the upper limit set by the union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climatic Change, as per a report by Greenpeace India. However, only Dhanbad was added in the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) as a non-attainment city, the report stated. Several states in India have banned crackers this Diwali citing the effect of air pollution on the health of Covid-19 patients. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot was the first to announce a ban on sale and bursting of crackers on November 2. Later, on November 5, the Delhi government also imposed a ban on the sale and bursting of crackers after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal reviewed the Covid-19 situation in the national capital. A day later, the Karnataka government announced a complete ban on crackers this Diwali. Besides, the Calcutta High Court ordered a ban on sale and bursting of crackers across West Bengal owing to Covid-19 on November 5. Jharkhand has reported fewer Covid-19 cases than the states like Delhi and Rajasthan. However, the Covid-19 caseload in Jharkhand is above 1 lakh and the number of active cases is down at 4,251, as per data with the health department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-240
10-11-2020||Jharkhand||JMM-Congress-RJD alliance set to win in Dumka and Bermo||The ruling JMM-Congress-RJD alliance has retained Dumka and Bermo by considerable margins defeating BJP candidates. In Dumka, considered a prestige seat for JMM, chief minister Hemant Soren’s younger brother Basant Soren defeated BJP’s Louise Marandi by 6440 votes in his electoral debut from the party’s traditional stronghold. By end of the total counting process, Basant pocketed 79964 votes compared to Louise’s 73524. In Bermo, Congress’s Kumar Jaimangal trounced BJP’s Yogeshwar Mahto Batul by 14,169 votes. Jaimangal got 92751 compared to Batul’s 78582. Jaimangal, son of Congress veteran Rajendra Prasad Singh, is contesting elections for the first time after the sudden demise of his father, who won the 2019 assembly polls from Bermo. Counting of the votes polled in the November 3 byelections in Dumka and Bermo began at 8am on Tuesday amid heightened security and strict adherence to Covid-19 safety norms, poll officials said. The local administrations of both Dumka and Bermo have clamped Section 144 in their respective jurisdictions to bar victory processions in the wake of the pandemic. In Dumka, a seat reserved for scheduled tribe in Santhal Pargana, counting will be held in 18 rounds for 368 booths while in Bermo in Bokaro district, counting will be in 17 rounds. As many as 28 candidates are in the fray in both seats with 12 in Dumka and the rest in Bermo. However, the contest is largely expected to be between the ruling UPA and NDA in both seats. While chief minister Hemant Soren’s brother and JMM’s Basant Soren is pitted against BJP’s Louise Marandi in Dumka, battlelines in Bermo are drawn between Congress’s Kumar Jaimangal and  BJP’s Yogeshwar Mahto Batul.  Dumka deputy commissioner Rajeshwari B said they have ensured all security and safety parameters to ensure smooth counting at the Polytechnic College campus. “No one without a mandatory Covid-19 check and authorised identity card will be allowed inside the counting centre. Sufficient security personnel have been put on the job to ensure overall vigil. Focus is also on to ensure no unwanted gathering takes place,” she said. Rajeshwari’s counterpart in Bokaro, Rajesh Kumar, said that prohibitory orders were clamped in Bermo constituency in view of the counting. “This is to curb any chance of a spread of Covid-19,” he said, adding that the prohibitory orders would, however, not be applicable to marriage, markets or essential services. Counting for the Bermo seat is being conducted at the ITI Building premises in Chas. “Counting will take place in 17 rounds across 28 table,” he said. Dumka seat fell vacant in January after chief minister Hemant Soren vacated the constituency in favour of Barhait after winning from both seats. The bypoll in Bermo has been necessitated following the demise of Congress MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh in May. For the ruling alliance of the JMM, Congress and RJD retaining both seats will help maintain stability of the government. The BJP on the other hand is eyeing to increase its tally in the Assembly after being voted out of power despite offering Jharkhand its first stable government since the formation of the state in 2000. After MLAs are elected from filling of both seats, the 81-member Assembly will still have vacancy, that of Madhepur where JMM MLA Haji Hussain Ansari died recently after recovering from Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-240
10-11-2020||Jharkhand||Coal thieves of Mugma attack Kapasara Colliery manager ||A group of villagers working for Kapasara Colliery of Mugma area of Eastern Coalfields Limited (ECL), located about 25 kilometeres away from Dhanbad district headquarters, not just stole coal but also clashed with the ECL team led by VC Singh, General Manager of Mugma area, on Monday morning. The manager was on a regular inspection drive when he detected locals stealing coal. On confronting the locals, Singh was attacked by them with sticks. The villagers pelted stone at the manager, which caused severe damage to his vehicle.  In the scuffle that ensued, Geeta Devi (30), a woman hailing from Siyalkanali village, was injured while trying to flee from the site. She was stealing coal from the site. Following the clash, villagers sat on a demonstration, thereby disrupting work at the Kapasara Colliery. They charged Singh for scolding the villagers and air firing. They have submitted a written complaint against Singh in Nirsa Police station and have asked for his transfer. Sub-divisional police officer Bijay Kumar Kushwaha with his team had separate talks with both the protestors and the manager. They even sent the woman for a medical examination at Nirsa Community Health Centre. Talking to media, Geeta Devi, said, “I went to Kapasara colliery to bring in coal from there to cook food.  We do this regularly, but the manager was inspecting the spot, noticed us, and started to scold us. He used filthy language. When we were heading towards our village, he asked his bodyguard to fire at us. I hurt my right hand.” “Rampant illegal mining and coal theft is done by the residents of this area. In the morning when I was inspecting Kapasara colliery, a group of 100 coal thieves attacked me. They attacked me intending to kill me,” said Singh while accusing the villagers of coal theft. “The crowd, comprising men and women armed with stones, boulder, and sticks, when attacked us, my bodyguard fired in the air to save ourselves and not to harm anyone,” said Singh. He maintained that coal is a national asset and that he would not allow anyone to steal it. Bijay Kumar Kushwaha, Sub Divisional Police officer of the area, said, “The incident took place to protest against the manager drive to control coal theft. Singh is against the local villagers smuggling coal from the colliery.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-240
10-11-2020||Jharkhand||Motivation session for coal pickers at Jharia in Dhanbad||A 52-year-old alumnus of Bengal’s Visva-Bharati and a private tutor organised a motivation session for coal pickers at Jharia in Dhanbad on Monday to educate their children and not let them venture into hazardous open-cast coal mine areas for work. “Two of my students — Chanda Kumari, 13, and Pankaj Kumar, 14 — had left their studies and gone for coal picking and died when the mines caved in on November 9, 2018, at Jharia. In remembrance of those deceased children, I decided to hold an interactive session at Liloripathra (near Jharia railway station where the mishap had taken place) with the children and their parents about the importance of pursuing education, maintaining hygiene and not to waste their money in gambling and liquor,” said Pinaki Roy, who has been providing education to children of coal pickers through Coalfield Children Classes. During the hour-long session, the children and their parents were informed about the importance of education compared to working in risky conditions in the coal mines in an illegal manner. “Our centre not only helps such students but also guides them in taking up proper careers. We told the children about several avenues available to earn a livelihood without much cost. The parents were asked not to let their children venture into coal picking and not waste money on liquor and gambling ” Roy said. He has also provided free meals to 370 families of coal pickers between April and May during the lockdown with contributions from well-wishers. Roy, his wife and two other faculties have been helping the children of coal pickers by teaching them mathematics, English, art and computer free of cost at Hetlibandh, Gansadih and Sahanapahari Dobari — all areas affected by underground fires in Jharia — thrice a week for the last two years under the banner of Coalfield Children Classes. The students are also provided copies, schoolbags, water bottles and geometry boxes free of cost.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-241
10-11-2020||Jharkhand||Debate among tribals of Jharkhand on name of code||The tribals of Jharkhand appear to be divided on the name of their religious code even as a special session of the state Assembly on Wednesday is set to a pass a resolution for the code’s inclusion in the census form. While the tribals of the state have been demanding for a separate Sarna code for a long time, some of their organisations and leaders have also started asking for an Adivasi code instead of a Sarna code. Prem Sahi Munda, president of Adivasi Jan Parishad, was the first to make such a demand saying Sarna is the religious place of the Oraons while other tribes have different names for their religious places like the Santhals have their Jaherthan. As such, an Adivasi code would be appropriate for all the tribals, he argued. Congress MLA Bandhu Tirkey, however, did not agree. “Adivasi denotes the tribal community as a whole where as Sarna is identified with their religion,” Tirkey said, emphasising it should be a Sarna code and not an Advasi code as it involves the religious code. But Geetashri Oraon, former minister and president of Akhil Bharatiya Adivasi Vikash Parishad, favoured the name of the code should be Adivasi code. There are around 780 distinct tribal communities in the country and many of them have nothing to do with Sarna, she said, adding the term Adivasi would be acceptable to all the tribal communities. The National Coordination Committee for Tribal Religion, that had its national convention in Ranchi on Sunday, however, appealed to the tribals to be united for pressing for a separate religious code. One of the resolutions taken at its convention, the committee, however, said about asking an Adivasi religion code, not a Sarna code. Pointing out that the tribals have been demanding a separate religion code for them in the census form for a long time, the committee decided to hold a meeting in Delhi next month and also to hold demonstration in other state governments for creating pressure of those states to pass a resolution similar to that of Jharkhand for asking a separate religious code for the tribals. The Jharkhand cabinet in its meeting held on Monday evening decided to approach the Centre for consideration of inclusion of an Adivasi/Sarna code in the form to be used for the census 2021. At present, the census form has six distinct codes in its religion column for the Hindus, Muslims, Christians, Buddhists, Jains and Sikhs and those following tribals religious practices can not specify their religion in the form. That was why the tribals have been demanding a separate religion code for them in the census form.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-241
10-11-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand drive against Centre’s ‘rights violations’||As many as 10 tribal social organisations have decided to jointly launch a campaign called “Ek Soch” (a thought) in creating awareness at panchayat level about the BJP-led Union government’s alleged violation of the rights of tribals, Dalits and minorities in the state and the country and the blatant misuse of laws to harass rights activists. At a meeting held on Sunday evening at Bihar Club in Ranchi, over 50 representatives unanimously decided that the arrest of Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist Father Stan Swamy, 83, by the National Investigation Agency on fabricated charges, denial of bail and delay in grant of permission to use a straw and sipper cup for drinking to a person suffering from Parkinson’s disease has exposed the Centre’s desperation against those who raise voices for tribal, minorities and Dalits. They said people at village level need to be made aware about the government’s agenda. “With the turn of events in the country especially the arrest of Father Stan Swamy, who has always been vocal for tribal rights, we felt that it is high time that all like-minded organisations join hands to launch a joint campaign and make people aware about the real intent of the current central government. The people, be it tribals, minorities or Dalits, need to be made aware of their rights enshrined in the Constitution and also how the government is misusing the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act to target rights activists. We will be reaching to almost every panchayat in Jharkhand and inform the people,” said tribal women rights defender and senior functionary of the Adivasi Adhikar Manch, Aloka Kujur. Former tribal advisory council (TAC) member Ratan Tirkey, who was appointed secretary of the Ek Soch campaign, told The Telegraph that reaching out to the masses was the need of the hour. “Merely holding dharnas, forming human chains and holding agitation would not serve the purpose. The people who stand to be affected by the central government’s agenda need to be informed about it. The Ek Soch campaign hopefully will do that in Jharkhand,” said Tirkey. He said meetings would be held at the gram sabha level in the nearly 4,200 panchayats across the state. The members decided to observe November 26 as constitution day and December 10 as human rights day across the state. A meeting would be held at Bagaicha, the residence of Fr Swamy, on Tuesday to chalk out a course of action. Fr Swamy was arrested by the NIA on October 8 night from his residence near Ranchi and produced before a special court in Mumbai. He was remanded to judicial custody at Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai for his alleged involvement in the Bhima Koregaon incident and links with Maoist outfits. His bail petition was rejected by the special court on October 22. Leaders of almost all prominent Opposition parties, including Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren and his Kerala counterpart Pinarayi Vijayan, have condemned the arrest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-241
10-11-2020||Jharkhand||Free medicines meant for the poor dumped after expiry||In a district, that is infamous for its frail health care system, medicines worth several lakh rupees were found dumped at a secluded place, on Saturday. The huge stock of medicines allegedly had expired in the storeroom of Referral Hospital Simaria, which falls under the Simaria subdivision of Chatra district. This negligence has confirmed the claims of many that doctors and other staff posted in the hospital never cared to give the free medicines to needy patients, thereby resulting in the expiry of this huge stock of medicines. Notably, all the medicines had expired in 2012 but the hospital staff including the doctors didn’t have the time to check the medicine stock. The dumped medicines included 40 bags of expired DDT (Dichloro Diphenyl Trichloro-ethane), used to treat malaria and other insect borne diseases along with several injections and tablets. Locals, who spotted the dumped medicines, complained about the hospital not providing free medicines to the poor only to dump them after they expire. “Most of the hospital staff get a fixed commission from local medicine retailers and so they never give us free medicines. They ask us to buy from the market. They are not bothered about our financial burden,” accused one of the villagers. The hospital allegedly had dumped the medicines in a secluded place, close to the hospital. People hardly visit the spot. But the huge dump of medical waste made people take notice. Doctors and other staff of the hospital refused to comment or explain how all the medicine had expired. A health department official on condition of anonymity said, “It’s a huge lapse on the part of the doctors. They didn’t care to give these medicines to the needy patients.” He added, “The government is providing medicines to every healthcare centre to ensure that needy patients get the medicines for free. But, look at how government funds are wasted.” When The Telegraph online contacted Arun Kumar Paswan, the civil surgeon of Chatra district, he confirmed the news and informed that the investigation is on and the details related to the dumping of medicines are being collected from Simaria Health Department's officials. Paswan added, “I will ensure that a proper investigation will be conducted.” Chatra MLA Satyanand Bhokta told The Telegraph Online, “It’s a case of negligence and is a very serious issue. Strict action will be taken against those found guilty.” Bhokta is also the labour minister of Jharkhand. Chatra shares its border with Hazaribagh in Jharkhand and Gaya in Bihar. It is dependent on these two districts for medical facilities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-241
