11-11-2020||Calcutta||Nursing college answer to Covid crisis||The Institute of Child Health in Park Circus will on Wednesday inaugurate a nursing college, from where 120 nurses will graduate every year. In Bengal, healthcare delivery is hobbled by the absence of enough qualified nurses. The shortage is being felt more during the Covid-19 pandemic. Officials of private hospitals said the shortage could only be met if more nursing colleges were opened and existing colleges increased their seat count. Metro had on October 20 reported that a fresh round of exodus of nurses from private hospitals had threatened to derail plans to increase the number of Covid beds. The requirement of nurses has gone up because of the pandemic, said officials. While nurses used to work in three shifts of eight hours each earlier, they are now working in four shifts of six hours each. Working for a longer duration wearing PPE is difficult. “We will offer two degrees. One is a diploma in general nursing and midwifery (GNM). The other is a bachelor’s degree in nursing. Both courses can admit 60 students,” said Apurba Ghosh, the director of the Institute of Child Health (ICH). The course will be offered by ICH in collaboration with Nirmala Foundation, a trust that runs a nursing college in Kalyani. The courses will be affiliated to the West Bengal University of Health Sciences. Classes will start towards the end of November or December, said Ghosh. Private hospitals in Calcutta face repeated exit of nurses. Most of the nurses who leave private hospitals join the government health care. Rupak Barua, the president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India (AHEI), said the shortage of nurses in Calcutta was in the thousands. “The Nursing Council of India must relax some of its rules to encourage more hospitals to set up nursing colleges. Only then the deficit can be met. Rules have to be more practical and realistic.” He cited two rules that he said were posing obstacles to plans to set up nursing colleges. “For every 50 student, there must be about 22,000 sq ft space. Also, the rules say the college has to be within 9km of the hospital. A hospital without untouched land in Calcutta will not be able to open a nursing institute,” Barua said. Ghosh said they had plans to start a postgraduate course in paediatrics nursing from next year. “Nursing an adult and nursing a baby require very different skills. A baby will cry and the nurse has to take the baby in lap to calm him or her down,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-242
11-11-2020||Calcutta||50 shanties gutted in afternoon Tiljala fire||A fire destroyed more than 50 shanties along GJ Khan Road in Tiljala on Tuesday afternoon, police said. Twenty-two fire engines were able to control the fire by 6pm. The fire broke out close to Forum Atmosphere — a residential highrise on the Bypass — at 3.38pm. There were no reports of anyone being injured in the fire. People in the locality said the fire started spreading from one shanty to another and went out of control. “More than 50 families have been left homeless. Luckily, no one was trapped or injured,” an officer of Tiljala police station said. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee visited the area in the evening and instructed the Calcutta Municipal Corporation to provide the families with relief material at the earliest. “The actual cause of the fire can be ascertained only after forensic tests. The cooling process is still on,” a fire officer said. A forensic  team can visit only after the fire has been completely doused and cooled down, the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-242
11-11-2020||Calcutta||Snatcher strikes after Salt Lake dinner  ||A snatcher fled with the handbag of a woman walking back home with her sister after dinner at a Salt Lake restaurant on Monday night, police said. Rhitama Basak, 24, and her sister had stepped out of their home in FE Block to have dinner at a restaurant close by. This was their first outing since the imposition of the lockdown, she said. After leaving the restaurant opposite Central Park around 9.30pm, the sisters decided to go for a walk. “When we were close to a small park inside the Karunamoyee Housing Estate, a cyclist enquired the time. I told him the time before heading for home,” Basak said. She said they were walking down a lane near the Bidhannagar Municipal School when she felt someone pulling her handbag. She struggled to hold on to the bag but the man managed to grab it and flee. The sisters gave chase and saw it was the same man who enquired the time, Basak said. They called their parents and their father Basab Basak reached the spot, along with some neighbours. He alerted police and a team reached the spot. “The bag had some money and a smartphone. We have filed a police complaint.” Anuradha Paul, 36, another FE Block resident, said men often drank in the park in the darkness. “The lights here don’t function most of the time.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-243
11-11-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta cop help after delivery on road||A 29-year-old woman who was due to deliver 10 days later started having labour pains in a bus she boarded from Park Circus on Tuesday morning. She delivered a boy baby on Basanti Highway, around 8km from the government hospital she was returning from after her check-up. Manwara Bibi with her newborn and her sister-in-law Shabina Bibi were on the road for close to 30 minutes with a few people to help them till a police vehicle rescued them. Both mother and baby have been admitted to Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital. Manwara, a resident of Bhojerhat off Basanti Highway, had visited the hospital with Shabina for her check-up. “We were told at the hospital that the delivery date was 10 days later. We completed her check-up and boarded a bus for home,” Shabina said. “Her labour pain started in the bus and we had no choice but to get off, hoping to catch another bus to return to the hospital.” The two women got off the bus at West Chowbaga on Basanti Highway and could barely cross the road when Manwara went into labour. “I started shouting… an old woman from the neighbourhood came to our help. But others did not. The baby was born on the road. I was standing helplessly when a police vehicle came out of nowhere,” Shabina said. Souvik Chakraborty, the additional officer-in-charge of Tiljala traffic guard, was on his daily round when he spotted the women with the baby. He arranged to take them to hospital. “We were told that the woman and the child had been lying on the road for quite some time. It goes without saying they were most vulnerable at that time and needed immediate medical care,” the officer said. “We could manage to get the woman admitted to the gynaecology department of Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital. Now, both mother and baby are doing fine.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-243
11-11-2020||Calcutta||Fewer buses can pose transport challenge in Calcutta||Howrah station used to see 950,000 commuters travelling on suburban trains daily before the pandemic. And the bus terminus used to see close to 2,500 buses moving in and out till late at night. On Wednesday, when suburban train services resume, a little over a 1,000 buses will be available outside the station complex to address the transport needs of the majority of close to 500,000 commuters expected to turn up on Day 1. Most bus operators have withdrawn their buses from 60-odd routes ending at the bus terminus adjoining the station complex in Howrah. On Tuesday, several of them told government officials they won’t be able to resume services “so soon”. Many of their drivers and conductors have returned home to the districts in the past few months, several private bus operators said. Owners have withdrawn their buses to cut down on losses. Some of these drivers and conductors have switched to other professions to fend for their families and things can’t be restored overnight, the operators said. “How can it be done?” asked Tapan Bandyopadhyay of the Joint Council of Bus Syndicates. “Most bus owners have been incurring huge losses. Some have been unable to clear their dues. It is not possible to get back all members of our staff overnight and start running buses like before.” The challenge of arranging transport for the tens of thousands of daily passengers travelling by local trains is not lost on the state government. Sealdah station attracts close to 2 million suburban train passengers every day. Between Howrah and Sealdah, close to 3 million people use suburban trains for their daily commute. A quarter of this figure on the first few days of the resumption of suburban train services will mean more buses have to be on the roads to cater to the demand, particularly between 8am and 11am and 4pm and 8pm. “Unlike Howrah, there is no bus terminus outside Sealdah station. The station falls on close to 95 bus routes. We have requested private bus operators to increase the frequency of buses with each bus doing more trips to address the demand,” a transport department official, said. On Tuesday, senior department officials had met representatives of private bus and minibus operators at Bhowanipore, Alipore, Barasat, and Barrackpore in an attempt to find a way to meet the transport demands of daily passengers. There were no immediate promises, though. By the time the state government waived taxes, many bus owners had already started paying fines for not renewing fitness certificates of their vehicles within the grace period, bus owners said. The state government has not said anything regarding fitness certificates and fines. “We have asked the transport department to frame a policy on the matter of fitness certificates and fines,” Rahul Chatterjee of All Bengal Bus Minibus Samanoy Samity said. “There are several owners who have fines running into several thousands. How will they bring out buses?” The state government has decided that teams of transport officials will be outside stations from Wednesday to assess the demand-supply gap during rush hour and make arrangements accordingly. “If the waiting time is too long, we will run state buses to address the problem,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-243
11-11-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta Metro braces for commuter surge||The passenger count of Metro Railway, knocking on the doors of the 1,00,000 mark, is expected to go well past the figure once suburban trains resume on Wednesday. The Metro authorities have increased the number of trains in anticipation of the rush. But the next few days will tell whether the increase is enough, said officials. Starting Wednesday, the number of daily trains will be 190, up from 152, on weekdays. Most of the additional trains will start from Dum Dum. A substantial chunk of Metro passengers came from suburbs and got off at Dum Dum to board a Metro train before the pandemic. Metro officials are jittery about a possible surge in the number of passengers at Dum Dum station from Wednesday. “Additional Metro staff and RPF personnel will be deployed at Dum Dum Metro station to help suburban train passengers get familiarised with the process of booking an e-pass. Many of the passengers might not be aware of the system,” said Metro general manager Manoj Joshi. An e-pass is now a must for entry into a Metro station for passengers below 60. For boarding a train, a smart card is mandatory, irrespective of the age of the passenger. Before the pandemic forced the suspension of suburban services in March, Dum Dum looked chaotic with a sea of heads every day. A continuous swarm of passengers kept moving between the Metro and suburban stations. Metro services resumed on September 14 with a curtailed service to maintain Covid-19 protocols. Between September 14 and November 2, Dum Dum recorded close to 71,000 passengers, said a Metro official. In February 2020, the station had recorded a passenger volume of close to 20 lakh, the official said. The total footfall at Dum Dum, the busiest Metro station, has been around 20,000 every day over the past several days. “Around 10,000 passengers boarded trains from Dum Dum and another 10,000 got off at Dum Dum,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-243
11-11-2020||Calcutta||Trains to roll again in ‘very sensitive trade-off’||Local trains will leave Howrah and Sealdah stations before dawn on Wednesday, more than seven months after suburban services had been suspended to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The first train from Sealdah to Budge Budge is scheduled to leave at 3.45am and the first train from Howrah to Tarakeswar at 4.22am, a rail official said. The suburban services will start with close to 700 trains in the Sealdah, Howrah and Kharagpur divisions combined. It is less than 50 per cent of the number before the pandemic. The state’s chief secretary has called the resumption of services a “very sensitive trade-off” between livelihood and public health. The suspension of local trains has crippled the livelihoods of tens of thousands of people. At the same time, doctors have warned of a possible surge in Covid-19 numbers as local trains start running. Metro takes stock of the situation on the eve of the resumption of services. The RPF, GRP, and state police are expected to stop people without masks and tickets from entering stations. The city and Bidhannagar police are expected to deploy cops at stations in its jurisdiction — close to 25 in the Sealdah division. Random thermal screenings and staggered entry of passengers are on the cards. “If the platform appears crowded, passengers will be stopped in the concourse area for a while. If the concourse is full, people will be asked to wait outside the station,” an officer said. The arrangement will be similar to the crowd-control mechanism at Metro stations during Durga Puja. Staggered entry is unlikely to have much impact if there is no crowd-control at suburban stations. The state government has asked district administrations to be on their toes and coordinate with the railways to ensure the standard operating procedure it issued on Monday is implemented. Busy stations will have only one or two gates for entry and exit. The others will remain shut, a rail official said. But the fact that any person with a valid ticket is entitled to enter a station and board a train makes the job of maintaining distancing practically impossible. The Sealdah division has close to 175 suburban stations. The administration is looking at more than one person in uniform at every station. The prospect of a couple of cops versus a few hundred passengers — the rush used to be way more at several nondescript stations during rush hour — is not good. Multiple rail officials have said they have to bank on the “the awareness and good sense of people” to follow Covid-19 protocols. Even if everyone wears a mask, a few hundred people holed up in a compartment will be a public health nightmare, doctors have said. Representatives of the agency that has developed the Metro e-pass system were present at the meeting between government and rail officials at Nabanna on November 2. The meeting had been convened to work out the modalities of the resumption of services. But government officials had said they did not want to implement an “exclusionary” tech-based solution similar to the one adopted by Metro Railway. For passengers below 60, an e-pass is mandatory to enter a Metro station. In the absence of such access-control mechanism, the risk of overcrowding looms large on stations and on trains. The number of trains that will run between 8am and 11am and 4.30pm and 8.30pm can help ease the rush of passengers, a rail official said. “We will run 148 trains during peak hours compared to the 177 before the pandemic,” the official said. The new fleet will be less than 50 per cent of what it was before the pandemic but the number of trains during rush hour is “around 84 per cent” of the earlier number. The volume of passengers will go down because schools and colleges are shut and many senior citizens will avoid travelling on trains, another rail official said. “People who have no other option will travel by trains. Even a marginal dip in the passenger volume will help.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-243
11-11-2020||Calcutta||Chhath venue at Vivekananda Park razed||The Chhath Puja venue being built at Vivekananda Park since Friday, in violation of an order from the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA), was pulled down on Tuesday. The club that was constructing the temporary pool for the Chhath rituals broke the walls that had been built. When Metro visited the park on Tuesday afternoon, bricks were being removed. Some men were filling the trenches that had been dug to raise the walls. An official of the CMDA, the custodian of the park, repeated on Tuesday that they did not give any permission to build the temporary pool inside the park. “The temporary structure was dismantled on Tuesday,” the official said. The CMDA had ordered that the construction of the pool, undertaken by Cockler Lane Tarun Sangha, be stopped for the time being. An engineer at the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) with years of experience in maintaining parks said temporary constructions for pujas should be allowed but on condition that the organisers would restore the grounds after the events were over. “If any dais or a pool is constructed, it will inevitably damage a portion of the ground. There should be a clause that the party doing the temporary construction would restore the ground to the original condition,” said the engineer. “The clause should also mention that the custodian of the park will be the sole authority to decide if the resto-ration has been done properly or not.” The engineer rued the absence of such a clause when Durga Puja or Kali Puja pandals are erected inside parks of Calcutta. Apart from Vivekananda Park, Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar are among the parks and lakes that are looked after by the CMDA. The CMC is the custodian of over 700 parks, including Deshapriya Park, Tallah Park and Deshbandhu Park. “The CMDA did not give us permission to build the temporary pool. We have dismantled the structure,” said Sourav Basu, the president of Cockler Lane Tarun Sangha and also president of the Ward 86 unit of the Trinamul Congress. The club had written to the CMDA for permission to build the pool and started work without waiting for the consent. Sumita Banerjee, a green activist who has been vocal against the construction at Vivekananda Park, said the authorities should also impose strict conditions for erection of Puja pandals in parks. “There are parks in Calcutta where Durga Puja or Kali Puja pandals are set up. Deshapriya Park is an example. They do considerable damage to the parks. The authorities should allow the pandals on condition that the organisers restore the grounds after the pujas are over. No one should be allowed to destroy the parks at will,” said Banerjee. Another activist said parks were common resources that were best kept reserved for people to walk, run and play.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-243
11-11-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta High Court lays down Chhath norms||Two persons per family will be allowed to perform Chhath Puja rituals on November 20, the high court said on Tuesday. The division bench of Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Arijit Banerjee directed the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) and the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) to ensure elaborate publicity to inform Chhath worshippers about the cap in the city. As for the rest of the state, the respective district authorities have to undertake the publicity drive. The order said the vehicles that would ferry worshippers must not be covered. “Persons intending to travel to a water body should come in vehicles maintaining Covid protocol and without jostling with each other to get a toehold in the vehicle,” the order also said. Wearing masks will be mandatory at all stages. “Even when a vehicle… comes to a water body… all persons should not be permitted to alight or go to the water body,” the order said. The bench was hearing a public interest litigation by Ajay Kumar Das seeking a court order on maintaining the pandemic protocols during the upcoming festivals. In the previous hearing on November 5, the court had asked the Bengal government to “ensure that there is no use or display or bursting of firecrackers at all” during Kali Puja, Diwali, Chhath Puja, Jagaddhatri Puja and Guru Nanak’s birthday celebrations. Following a prayer by environment activist Subhas Datta, the National Green Tribunal had earlier issued an order directing the state not to allow Chhath Puja on the Rabindra Sarobar premises. The CMDA has approached the Supreme Court with a plea to allow Chhath at Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar. The two lakes still remain off limits for Chhath worshippers. The high court curbs are for festivities elsewhere. At the November 5 hearing, when the high court was laying down the Diwali and Kali Puja norms, it did not take up Chhath because the matter was supposed to have been heard in the Supreme Court before Tuesday’s hearing. But the top court has yet to take up the matter. The NGT order will stand for now, unless the Supreme Court decides otherwise, the division bench said on Tuesday. More than 150 ghats in the city will be ready for Chhath Puja rituals on November 20, CMC and CMDA officials have said. The bench said the government would have to strictly implement the November 5 directives banning the sale and use of firecrackers during the upcoming festivals. The bench said it would make the director general of the state police and the Calcutta police commissioner responsible for any violation of the directives but relented after an assurance from the advocate general, Kishore Datta. “Please keep trust in the state administration. The order of the court will be complied with. The state will take all measures to implement the order,” said Datta. The bench asked both the top cops to file a compliance report a week after the reopening of the court after the Puja vacation. The vacation ends on November 17. A senior official of the state administration said the government had already started working on implementing the court’s directives. Advocate-general Datta told Metro: “Please keep faith in the state administration. The state will take all necessary measures to implement the order. Just like for Durga Puja.” The high court said the “state should consider whether it may be in the best interest of all to suspend the operation of local trains on November 14 and November 15 and on the day of Jagaddhatri Puja or to manage the running of trains in such manner that people do not find it convenient to come to the city… or travel to other places of interest.” The state is “left free to make appropriate arrangements with the railways”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-243
11-11-2020||Calcutta||Bengal government issues SOP for suburban trains ||The Mamata Banerjee government on Tuesday issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) for suburban train services, which are scheduled to resume on Wednesday. The SOP was drawn up after home secretary H. K. Dwivedi held a video-conference with the district magistrates and superintendents of police of the districts where suburban trains would run such as Howrah, North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas, Hooghly, East Burdwan, East Midnapore, West Midnapore and Nadia. According to the SOP, passengers will have to mandatorily wear masks and the railways will have to make available an adequate number of trains keeping in mind public health constraints in the existing situation. Entry and exit points will be demarcated for movement of passengers and all the exit and entry points may not be made operational in order to handle movement of passengers in a proper manner. The Government Railway Police and the state police will work, in association with the Railway Protection Force, to control crowds. The railways have been advised to open ticket counters at the earliest so that passengers can buy or renew monthly tickets and a rush for daily tickets can be avoided. All passengers have to produce tickets while entering the stations to avoid unnecessary gathering. Train compartments and toilets at stations have to be sanitised at regular intervals for the safety of passengers. The railways have been advised to ensure that only a certain number of passengers are allowed on rains so Covid protocols can be maintained. The state government as well as the railways will continue with the publicity measures to make passengers aware of the dos and don’ts during their journey. The state government will also arrange for enough transport facilities at the stations to disperse passengers at the earliest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-243
11-11-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta schools send pay-up mail to parents||The La Martiniere schools have started writing to parents who have not paid fees of their children to clear the dues by the end of November, failing which the students may not be allowed to attend classes after December 8. “Please note that in terms of the Calcutta High Court Order… if you fail to clear the… outstanding fee by 30th November 2020, your child may not be allowed to continue classes with effect from 8th December, 2020,” reads the email sent by the schools. “We started sending the email to parents on Tuesday,” sources in the La Martiniere schools said. Hard copies of the letter will be sent later. Parents of about 900 students in both schools — La Martiniere for Girls and La Martiniere for Boys — have not cleared their dues, sources in the institutions said. Most of these parents did not pay the fees between April and September, while some have dues accruing since January. The outstanding amount varies between Rs 9,000 and Rs 80,000, a school official said. “The outstanding dues for a period of six months in both schools is Rs 5.5 crore.” The emails mention the outstanding amount for each student. “It is very unfortunate that in spite of reminders to clear the outstanding fees, you have not cared to make any payment so far,” the email reads. The school has a system by which the fee gets debited from parents’ bank accounts. “These accounts are having insufficient funds,” the school official said. The high court had on October 13 ordered private schools, including those run by the Church, to waive 20 per cent of the tuition fees of students between April and one month after the resumption of on-campus classes. The schools have also been restrained from charging fees on non-academic heads such as “laboratory, craft, sporting facilities or extra curricular activities or the like” till in-person classes resume. The court order also said the discounted fees would have to be paid by November 30. Beyond December 8, schools have been given the liberty to disallow students for non-payment. The La Martiniere schools announced the revised fee structure on October 31. The management announced a 20 per cent waiver across all classes. The schools had said that the “updated fee structure is pursuant to the judgement of the Calcutta High Court... the said fees structure, i.e, 80:20, shall be subject to the final outcome of the SLP (special leave petition) ...pending before the Hon’ble Supreme Court”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-243
11-11-2020||Calcutta||No need to queue up for life certificate||This November, pensioners will not have to queue up at the bank or the post office to submit their life certificates. India Post has launched a doorstep delivery service, through its India Post Payments Bank, keeping in mind how unsafe it is for the elderly to step out amid the Covid pandemic. Retired employees of central government, state governments and public sector undertakings can apply for the service and a postman from the nearest post office offering the service will come to generate a Digital Life Certificate (Jeevan Pramaan) at his doorstep. Metro explains how the service can be availed. What is a Life Certificate? Pensioners are required to furnish a “Life Certificate” to their pension disbursing authority i.e. bank or post office, every November either by presenting themselves personally or by delivering a life certificate. This year, in view of the situation, the last date has been extended till December 31. In itself, having to prove being alive is a difficult experience for many aged people. While marking physical attendance, many elderly people complain of indifferent government officials who do not appreciate the trouble they have taken to make the appearance. The whole process has become even more difficult because government offices and banks are allowing only a certain number of people inside and the rest have to wait outside in the sun. How to apply for doorstep delivery of the digital life certificate? What are the conditions to avail of the service? The pensioner should have his/her own Aadhaar number and mobile number. The Aadhaar card should be linked with the records of the bank or the post office paying the pension. Both pension paying authority and disbursing agency should be on record on the Jeevan Pramaan portal — jeevanpramaan.gov.in. What documents or information to keep at hand when the postman comes? Pension payment order number, type of pension scheme, name of the pension disbursing authority, pension account details, mobile number and Aadhaar number. The postman will come within two to three working days of the request being made. How will the certificate be generated? The postman will scan the fingerprint of the pensioner with his handheld Aadhaar-based fingerprint scanner for biometric authentication and to authorise the request. Digital life certificate will be instantly generated with Pramaan ID sent to the pensioner’s mobile phone as confirmation message. The certificate details will be automatically updated with the pension department on the Jeevan Pramaan portal. The certificate thus generated is stored online and can be accessed by the pensioner and the pension disbursing agency as and when required by them. What is the charge for the service? The charge is Rs 70. The service will be available till December. For further information on IPPB, visit www.ippbonline.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-243
11-11-2020||Business||Nabard to finance micro finance institutions||Nabard is planning to finance micro finance institutions (MFIs) to cater to the capital requirement of the last mile lenders. The development finance institute earlier had a Rs 200-crore fund called Microfinance Development and Equity fund with which it has funded several large microfinance institutions and also small finance banks. But the contribution was more in the nature of grant which Nabard, unlike equity investors, never encashed. Nabard is now considering if the institution can re-enter the equity funding space keeping in mind the capital requirement of MFIs emerging from the pandemic and the growth prospects of the sector. With several NBFC MFIs graduating to SFBs, there is also room for new players to emerge with capital requirement needs. “There is informal discussion with people within the organisation whether Nabard can re-enter this segment. In the earlier instance, Nabard had given money, but never encashed it. At the same time, competing institutions made tons of money by converting grants into equity,” Nabard chairman G.R. Chintala said at a seminar organised by MFI industry body Sa-Dhan. “This time when we enter we will put money as equity and also provide continuous oversight so that these institutions can grow and pay dividends, not just to the investors alone but to the society at large,” he added. MFIs had collectively raised fresh equity to the tune of Rs 1690 crore in 2019-20 increasing the equity base to Rs 4489 crore for the year against Rs 3050 crore in 2018-19. According to the Bharat Microfinance Report 2020 released by Sa-Dhan, top 10 NBFC MFIs cumulatively raised 91 per cent of the fresh equity during the year. Nabard chairman also called for more vigilance among the MFI industry stakeholders including self-regulatory organisations for the industry in light of the recently unearthed fraud involving an Odisha based microlender. Rating agency Brickwork Ratings downgraded the NCDs and bank loan facilities of Sambandh Finserve Private Limited in October after internal frauds were unearthed at the end of September 2020. “MFIs should refrain from doing such kind of ghost financing and build books and get money out of the banking system. SROs have a bigger role to play. In case there is a suspect, it should be immediately flagged off to all the lenders because ultimately the lenders have to take a hit,” Chintala said. He added that there should be a mechanism for the lenders to track how the MFIs are managing risk at their end.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-238
11-11-2020||Business||PUBG plans to return post Krafton and Microsoft Azure distribution deal||The popular gaming app PUBG plans to return to the country two months after it was banned over security concerns following a product distribution deal between parent firm Krafton and cloud computing major Microsoft Azure, reports said. The South Korean gaming firm has engaged with global cloud service providers in recent weeks to store user data in servers within the country. The gaming giant has informed high-profile streamers that it expects to resume services in the country before the year ends,   news site TechCrunch said in a report. Officials said they have not received any fresh communication for the revocation of the ban following the firm’s plan to store data within the country. Some reports had stated that apart from data security issues, the Indian IT ministry had got complaints from many quarters on the violent nature of the game and that does not change with altering the distribution right to another. The Ministry of Electronics and IT said it received reports and complaints from several sources that indicated the Android and iOS apps are “‘stealing and surreptitiously transmitting users’ data in an unauthorised manner to servers which have locations outside India”. “This move will safeguard the interests of crores of Indian mobile and internet users. This decision is a targeted move to ensure safety, security, and sovereignty of Indian cyberspace,” the ministry had said. The deal  will also  include PUBG on PC and consoles, in addition to PUBG Mobile, being hosted on Microsoft Azure’s cloud platform. “With privacy and data security being a top priority for Krafton, the company will be working with Microsoft to ensure personal data protection through Azure... The collaboration will ensure that privacy rights are respected and relevant software will be in full compliance with all applicable laws and regulations,” Krafton said in an official statement. PUBG Corporation is a part of Krafton. To allay the concerns over data security, Krafton said it will collaborate with Microsoft to introduce a verification process  to ensure that the personal data of players is in-line with the appropriate requirements in countries where Krafton and its subsidiaries operate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-238
11-11-2020||Business||GAIL’s Q2 consolidated net profit drops 8.5 per cent||GAIL’s second-quarter consolidated net profit dropped 8.5 per cent to Rs 1,068.16 crore, or Rs 2.47 per share, after losses on gas marketing offset gains made in the gas transportation business. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 1,167.58 crore, or Rs 2.59 a share, in the year-ago period, GAIL said in a filing to the bourses. Manoj Jain, chairman & managing director of GAIL, said the company’s plants and pipelines have achieved a pre- Covid level of performance. He added that though the Capex during the first quarter was affected by the lockdown, GAIL has moved swiftly to make up for the lost time and is trying to accelerate the progress in its ongoing projects. Turnover slipped 23.7 per cent to Rs 14,104.80 crore largely because of the lower gas prices during the quarter. Hindalco net drops Hindalco Industries on Tuesday reported a 60.2 per cent fall in consolidated profit after tax at Rs 387 crore for the September quarter but said it is expecting a strong third and fourth quarter as demand has returned in domestic as well as export markets. The company’s PAT declined because of a one-time impact of Rs 1,398 crore on account of the divestiture of the Lewisport unit of Aleris in the US, said Hindalco Industries managing director Satish Pai. The company had posted a PAT of Rs 974 crore a year ago. Kesoram back in black Kesoram Industries, the flagship of the Basant Kumar Birla group, returned to profit on the consolidated level after five quarters, buoyed by a strong realisation from the cement business. It made a Rs 6.25 crore profit in the July-September quarter, swinging from a loss of Rs 49.73 crore recorded in the same period last year. Total income, however, dipped marginally to Rs 669.18 crore from Rs 679.5 crore in second quarter of last fiscal. P. Radhakrishnan, CEO of the company, said Kesoram has executed a binding term sheet with an investor who would infuse liquidity by way of debt. “We are hoping to conclude the arrangement by December 31,” he said. Godfrey Phillips Cigarette maker Godfrey Phillips India on Tuesday reported a 9.23 per cent fall in consolidated net profit at Rs 103.06 crore for September quarter of 2020. The company had reported a net profit of Rs 113.54 crore a year ago. Total revenue from operations rose 9.50 per cent to Rs 822.21 crore during the quarter against Rs 750.81 crore in the corresponding period of the previous fiscal. Exide profit up 3.8% Exide Industries on Tuesday posted a consolidated net profit after tax of Rs 256.62 crore for the September quarter of 2020. Net profit was up 3.81 per cent compared with Rs 247.18 crore a year ago. The bottomline was aided by a better performance of the life insurance business where the segment profit was Rs 24.75 crore compared with Rs 5.06 crore a year ago. Consolidated total income was Rs 4032.27 crore compared with Rs 3785.32 crore a year ago. G. Chatterjee, MD and CEO of Exide, said there was an improvement in demand for replacement sales of automotive and UPS batteries. Bata net Footwear major Bata India has posted a standalone net loss of Rs 44.39 crore for September quarter of 2020 against a profit of Rs 71.37 crore. The company on Tuesday said since the opening up of the economy in June, it has taken measures on customer safety, product availability and channel expansion which has resulted in an increase in footfalls in retail outlets along with demand coming from e-commerce platforms. “As we inch back to normalcy, we are mindful that this is going to be a slow and steady recovery,” said CEO Sandeep Kataria.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-238
11-11-2020||Business||Toyota Kirloskar Motor declares lockout at Bidadi manufacturing facility||Toyota Kirloskar Motor on Tuesday said it has declared a lockout at its Bidadi manufacturing facility in Karnataka following workers’ union members resorting to a sit in strike at the factory premises to protest the suspension of a worker. The company’s Bidadi facility has two production plants with a total installed capacity of 3.10 lakh units per annum.  “Due to the current volatile atmosphere and to protect the safety of employees, the company is forced to declare a lockout until further notice,” TKM said. M&M profit drops Mahindra & Mahindra (M&M) has reported an 88 per cent drop in its profit after tax (PAT) to Rs 162 crore for the second quarter ended September 30, mainly on account of an impairment provision of Rs 1,149.46 crore for certain long-term investments. The auto major along with one unit, Mahindra Vehicle Manufacturers Ltd (MVML), had reported a PAT of Rs 1,355 crore during the July-September period of the previous fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-238
11-11-2020||Business||Indiarath announces launch of first batch of nine start-ups||Indiarath, India’s largest borderless incubator programme, on Tuesday announced the launch of its first batch of nine start-ups. Around 700 start-ups across India had applied for the programme with a majority of applications coming from tier 2 cities and beyond. The selected startups will be guided by giants such as Google, Amazon, Microsoft, Facebook, Silicon Valley Bank, Blume Ventures, Cisco, Paytm, OYO and Morgan Stanely. The 24-week long incubator programme has personalised sessions and coaching to help startups navigate any business challenge across verticals. The programme is focused on three broad categories that include upskilling entrepreneurs to handle real challenges through fundamentals, business remodeling, product designing and branding strategy, provided by some of the best experts from the industry in the form of masterclasses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-238
11-11-2020||Business||Govt may extend free foodgrain scheme and cash transfer plan for women||The government is mulling over plans to extend the free foodgrain scheme and cash transfer plan to the bank accounts of women in view of the spike in the number of coronavirus cases in the country. “The next round of stimulus would be a mix of measures to push demand and social safety measures. Continuation of the free food grain scheme till March is one amongst them being considered,” senior finance ministry officials said. Expectations are that the stimulus measures could be announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman before Diwali. With assembly polls in Bihar and by-elections across 11 states completed, the government now has the freedom to announce the measures without violating the model code of conduct. The Centre announced  free foodgrain scheme Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) in March initially for three months till June and later for another five months till November. Besides, 200 million women with Jan Dhan Yojana accounts will get an ex gratia payment of Rs 500 each for the next few months. The poor and vulnerable are likely to remain the focus of the government with international agencies such as  the World Bank warning the coronavirus pandemic is pushing millions of Indians into poverty  and eroding the hard-fought gains made in the past two decades. Deficit worry The distribution of free foodgrain under the plan during April-November is projected to cost a whopping Rs 1.5 lakh crore to the government. Given the financial constraints, the government is weighing its options to extend the plan till March, the officials said. The Centre’s fiscal deficit in the first half of 2020-21 has already accounted for 115 per cent of the budget estimate for the entire year. According to Controller General of Accounts data, the fiscal deficit at the end of September was Rs 9.14 lakh crore up 40.3 per cent year-on year. Economists have estimated the Centre’s fiscal deficit to exceed 7 per cent  of GDP in 2020-21. The budget had pegged fiscal deficit at Rs 7.96 lakh crore or 3.5 per cent of GDP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-238
11-11-2020||Business||TCS to acquire Deutsche Bank AG’s technology service business||Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) is acquiring Deutsche Bank AG’s technology service business in a move that will strengthen its position in the German market. Financial details of the transaction were, however, not disclosed. The country’s largest IT service firm announced that it will acquire 100 per cent of the shares of Postbank Systems AG (PBS) from Deutsche Bank AG. PBS is the full-range captive IT service provider that provides project management, application management and infrastructure support services to Postbank and other subsidiaries of Deutsche Bank. A statement from TCS said that PBS and its around 1,500 employees will become part of the company, thus deepening the relationship between the two organisations. It added that the acquisition will further add to its scale in Germany and strengthen the growth outlook. The transaction is subject to both parties finalising further agreements, which they intend to do by the end-2020. The transaction is also subject to customary regulatory and governmental approvals. Shares of the IT services giant on Tuesday ended nearly 3 per cent, or Rs 75.95, lower at Rs 2649.95 on the BSE. “We are pleased to deepen our long-standing partnership with Deutsche Bank, continue to help accelerate their digital transformation, and to acquire market specific capabilities in the banking domain,”  N.G. Subramaniam, chief operating officer and executive director, TCS, said while commenting on the transaction. Present in Germany since 1991, TCS currently partners over 100 leading German corporations in their growth and transformation journeys, including 17 of the DAX30. TCS had failed to meet estimates when it posted a net profit of Rs 7,475 crore during the second quarter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-239
11-11-2020||Business||Delhi HC seeks Amazon’s response on a plea by Future Retail Ltd||The Delhi high court on Tuesday  sought Amazon’s response on a plea by Future Retail Ltd (FRL) that alleged the US retail giant was interfering in its Rs 24,713-crore deal with Reliance Retail on the basis of an interim order by a Singapore arbitrator. Justice Mukta Gupta issued summons to Amazon, Future Coupons Ltd and Reliance Retail Ltd  on the Future Retail suit and asked them to file their written statements within 30 days. The court also said that the issue of maintainability of the suit, raised by Amazon, would be kept open. This came after the court heard arguments on behalf of Future Retail, Future Coupons, Reliance as well as Amazon. Last Saturday, Future Retail announced it had approached the Delhi high court seeking relief against an arbitration order passed by the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) with regard to the Rs 24,713-crore deal with Reliance. The Future Group company had maintained the Singapore arbitrator had passed the interim order against the company on an agreement in which it was not a party. Last month, the arbitrator barred Future Retail from taking any step to dispose of or encumber its assets or issue any securities to secure any funding from a restricted party. Senior advocate Harish Salve appearing for Future Retail on Tuesday told the court his client was not challenging the award by the arbitrator as the order was not recognised under Indian laws. Besides, there was no concept of an emergency arbitrator under Indian arbitration rules. Future Retail, Salve said, had no arbitration agreement with Amazon which can only seek any relief from Future Coupons. Salve argued Amazon had tried to perpetuate the falsehood that they didn’t know about the deal between Future Retail and Reliance till as late as September. He claimed the Biyanis were negotiating with Reliance as early as June and that Amazon knew about this. Salve maintained the letters sent by Amazon to the regulatory bodies such as the Securities and Exchange Board of India,  the Competition Commission of India as well as the stock exchanges telling them the Singapore award was binding, would hamper the deal with Reliance and would “sound the death knell” for Future Retail. Senior advocate Gopal Subramanium who appeared for Amazon opposed FRL’s plea saying all the arguments raised here by it were made before the Singapore arbitrator  which considered and rejected them. He argued that Future Retail, being a company of the Future group, would be governed by the arbitration agreement between Future Coupon and Amazon and that Future Coupon has a 9.82 per cent stake in Future Retail. He further pointed out that since Amazon holds 49 per cent stake in Future Coupons, it would only have half of the 9.82 per cent stake in its favour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-239
11-11-2020||Business||Benchmark indices break records with Pfizer vaccine news||Benchmark indices continued to break records as positive results from Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine trials and trends from the assembly elections in Bihar saw the Sensex closing for the first time above the 43000 mark. The 30-share index gained for the seventh consecutive session and vaulted 680.22 points or 1.60 per cent to a record close of 43277.65. During intra-day trades, it touched a lifetime peak of 43316.44. The broader NSE Nifty also closed at its all-time high of 12631.10, rising 170.05 points or 1.36 per cent. It hit an intra-day record of 12643.90. The rupee depreciated 3 paise to close at 74.18 against the dollar on Tuesday as higher crude oil prices and a stronger greenback overseas weighed on sentiment. The rise in crude oil prices had a negative impact on the domestic unit, but robust domestic equities supported the rupee and restricted the fall, analysts  said. However, their performance did not come as a surprise. Markets worldwide had surged on optimism of a global economic recovery after Pfizer Inc and BioNTech SE said on Monday that their vaccine candidate was found to be more than 90 per cent effective in preventing the coronavirus. Investor sentiments were also boosted by trends from the Bihar elections which showed the NDA inching towards victory, generating expectations of more reforms by the Centre. In Asia, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended with gains, while Shanghai settled lower. Stock exchanges in Europe were mostly trading on a positive note. Provisional data from the NSE showed foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) bought stock worth Rs 5,600 crore on Tuesday. “The global financial markets experienced a wave of euphoria over the potential breakthrough in the coronavirus vaccine development. An uptick in beaten down stocks and sectors were visible today viewing hopes of recovery in business,”  Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services, said. He said momentum can be sustained by further progress in vaccine development, a domestic stimulus package, consistent FII inflows and a bounce in sentiment following Joe Biden’s win in the US elections. “However, temporary correction due to profit booking cannot be ruled out because the market is highly optimistic that the vaccine development will rapidly improve the ground reality,” Nair  said. Tuesday’s rally was led by banking and finance stocks while IT and pharmaceutical counters witnessed profit booking. Banking shares have seen buying after better than expected results from SBI and HDFC and positive commentary from their managements on the road ahead. Pfizer cuts gain Shares of Pfizer Limited on Tuesday trimmed most of its early gains to close nearly 3 per cent higher. In early trade, it had zoomed nearly 20 per cent on positive developments over its vaccine candidate. The stock settled at Rs 5,048.45, a rise of 2.66 per cent on the BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-239
11-11-2020||India||Delhi Police arrest 10 for selling crackers||The Delhi Police arrested 10 people and filed 12 cases for alleged sale of firecrackers on Wednesday, said officials. The state government has imposed a total ban on crackers ahead of Diwali, from November 7 to 30, in a bid to combat the rising pollution in Delhi amid a surge in Covid-19 infections. The environmentally safer green crackers also come under the ban. "Among the 12 cases, one was registered in northeast district, one in outer-north, four in northwest, one in Rohini, two in west, two in outer and one in Dwarka," Additional PRO (Delhi Police) Anil Mittal said.  "Total 10 people were arrested on Wednesday -- one in northeast district, one in outer-north, four in northwest, one in Rohini, one in west and two in outer," he added. Mital informed that the cops recovered 1,769.89 kg of firecrackers, of which 1,638 kg was discovered from the west district. They also registered two cases in the east and northwest district for bursting firecrackers on Wednesday. According to Mital, one person, from whom 100 grams of firecrackers were recovered, was arrested from the northwest district. Till date, 29 cases were registered and 30 people were arrested for alleged sale of fireworks. Police recovered 2,792.77 kg of crackers from their possession. Two persons were arrested and 10 cases were registered for the bursting of crackers, they said. Saying that "celebration by crackers is for happiness and not to celebrate deaths and diseases", the National Green Tribunal (NGT) banned the sale and use of all types of crackers from November 9 midnight to November 30 midnight.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-565
11-11-2020||India||Filmmakers oppose govt move to regulate OTT content||A cross-section of writers and directors have criticised the government’s decision to put online content under the  purview of the information and broadcasting ministry, saying it could put Indian content creators at a disadvantage in the international stage and curb the personal and creative freedom of creators as well as viewers. Filmmakers such as Hansal Mehta and Reema Kagti were among those who did not take the government’s decision well. The move, as per a notification issued on Tuesday night, said that films, audiovisuals, news and current affairs content aired on online providers, including Netflix and Amazon Prime, would be monitored by the ministry. It said that the decision had been taken by exercising the powers conferred by clause (3) of article 77 of the Constitution, by amending the Government of India (Allocation of Business) Rules. The ministry will now have the power to regulate policies related to online content, including those of news, audio, visual contents and films. Signed by President Ram Nath Kovind, the notification said the move would come into effect immediately. MX Player CEO Karan Bedi, however, said he looked forward to working with the ministry to implement the efforts towards self-regulation. "As responsible content creators, we want to ensure this act not only takes cognisance of the nature of content being released, but also ensures that we safeguard creativity in this rapidly growing sector, Bedi told PTI. But Kagti said, ""It (the decision) puts Indian content creators at a disadvantage when they are competing on the world stage. I don't know what one can do...I don't know the legal ramifications of this. It is too premature to talk about what can be done. We should wait and hope things will get clear when the guidelines or whatever is the intent comes into play." "Nothing specific has been said regarding censorship, except that it is coming under the ambit of I&B ministry. I should wait to hear what exactly this means," she said, and added that filmmakers are asked to cut several scenes even though the movie is rated ‘A’. "I believe there should be no censorship regardless of the medium. Films and series can be age certified and classified but a free and democratic country should let its adult citizens decide what they would like to watch or not watch in a theatre, or on their phones and computers. The choice must belong to the citizen," the Lipstick Under My Burkha maker told PTI, adding that she fundamentally opposed censorship. "Whatever happened to the understanding with Mr (Prakash) Javadekar that OTT will be self-regulated? The govt is giving in to the basest demands of prudes. How is this progress in any manner? Don't like it, don't watch it. Don't impose your regressive views on a billion people. Where was the public discourse before this autocratic decision was announced? And what's the process to appeal, if there's one at all?" Mirzapur writer-director Anshuman wrote on Twitter. According to Danish Aslam, who created the show Flesh on the trafficking of women on Eros Now, said the joy of OTT platforms was that one could tell a story the way it was meant to be told without any artificial restrictions imposed from outside.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-566
11-11-2020||India||Cow dung emerges as major source of income for Chhattisgarh families||Cow Dung has become a major source of income for families and is emerging as a tool for providing employment, courtesy Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel government's new scheme 'Godhan Nyaya Yojana'. Godhan Nyaya Yojana, launched on 20th July 2020, on the auspicious occasion of Hareli, aims to promote organic farming and create new employment opportunities at rural as well asurban levels. Cow Dung is being purchased from the villagers and cow dung collectors, presently from 5454 Gauthans at the cost of 2 rupees per kg. To refuel the engine of rural development in the state, Chief Minister Mr. Bhupesh Baghel made an online payment of Rs Rs 8.97 crore , for the cow dung purchased from 77 thousand 592 villagers and cow herders in Gauthans, from October 20th to November 5. Payment of Rs 47.38 crore has been made to the dung vendors of the state so far within the scheme. 3677 Gauthans of the state are engaged in the selling of cow dung. So far, more than 23 lakh quintals of cow dung have been purchased. Vermicompost, called 'Gaudhan Vermi Compost'. is being prepared by the self-help groups from the purchased cow dung and are being sold at the rate of Rs 8 per kg, under the scheme. To promote the production of product, ditches are being rapidly constructed in Gauthans. More than 44,000 ditches have already been built, while 16,000 ditches are under construction. More than 8 thousand quintal vermicompost manure has been produced in the Gauthans till now. Since the initiation of the scheme, many beneficiaries have registered themselves in the district with 1,84,899 registered and 88,810 benefited cattlemen in the state currently. Payments are being made directly in the account of the beneficiaries. With Diwali around the corner, villagers have received their gifts in the form of payment. One such inspiring story is of Tirath Sahu: a landless mason who worked recklessly day and night to make the ends meet with whatever little they get. He soon realized that the mason's job is hardly catering to his family's basic needs, and decided to avail an additional income with the state Government's Godhan Nyay Yojana. To his astonishment, the scheme bore fruitful results for him and his income doubled instantly. His wife Keja Bai registered under the Godhan Nyay Yojan after being forced off her job of a school cook amid the Covid-19 crisis. His family collects and sells the cow dung available in the house and neighbourhood,or to his committee under the scheme. His family is living happily now, and their purchasing power and living standards have increased after availing the scheme. Tirath bought three grams of gold leaf for his wife's Keja bai's Mangalasutra and clothes for his kids as a gift. Since the commencement of the scheme, the family has managed to earn a net income of Rs 22,150 to date. Tirath's inspiring story paves the way for two things. First, with determination and faith, one can touch the highest peaks and second, that the Godhan Nyay Yojana, which includes income generation from something as basic as cow dung, describes the futuristic vision of the Bhupesh Baghel-led state government, which is heading towards fast track Development with its grounded schemes. "The government's Godhan Nyaya Yojana has provided typical Chhattisgarhi citizen like me and many others with a golden opportunity to seek benefit with the traditional cow dung related work," said Tirath. The benefit availed by beneficiaries like Keja Bai and her family is the hallmark of the successful implementation of the Godhan Nyaya Yojana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-566
11-11-2020||India||Delhi HC questions AAP govt on easing of Covid curbs||The Delhi High Court questioned the Aam Aadmi Party government on Wednesday for relaxing norms related to Covid-19 even though cases were increasing constantly, with no household “left untouched”. A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramanium Prasad asked if the government had any strategy or policy in place to tackle the ‘alarming’ situation in the state. The Delhi government has recently allowed 200 people to attend public functions and permitted public transportation to be fully occupied. The court questioned the rationale behind this move. It asked when Delhi, as a city state, was "hands down beating" larger states like Maharashtra and Kerala in terms of new daily infections over the past two weeks, what steps had the AAP government taken to contain the spread. The bench also noted that the daily number of new coronavirus cases was at 8,593 and “still counting” as received on November 10, and the number of containment zones numbered to 4,016. The court said that the Delhi government should have done something to deal with the cases when there was an alarming rise in the number of infections over the past two to three weeks. The latest sero survey report of the government detected the presence of antibodies in 25 per cent of the people tested, meaning that one out of four persons was infected with Covid-19, the court noted. "No household has been left untouched," the bench said, while referring to the sero survey data as it pulled up the state for relaxing norms in such a situation when other similarly placed states were bringing in restrictions. The court also asked why the Delhi government, which was being represented by additional standing counsel Satyakam, has not come up with any rule to enforce strict wearing of masks, which are being termed as a ‘vaccine’ till the real ones come. "Situation has surpassed advisories," the bench said, adding that the Delhi government would have by now introduced sanctions, through legislations, to ensure wearing of masks, had it been serious about the issue. The court reserved the matter for further hearing on November 19 while directing the AAP government to file a status report to describe the steps taken by it in the last two weeks, when the cases were on an alarming rise. The high court was hearing a PIL by advocate Rakesh Malhotra, which sought to increase the number of testing in the national capital and getting speedy results. The bench also questioned the government for preference of Rapid Antigen Testing to the much more accurate RT/PCR tests, when the "situation was as critical as it is now", with several asymptomatic people testing positive for coronavirus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-566
11-11-2020||India||India, China set to resolve border standoff in eastern Ladakh||India and China may be on the verge of a breakthrough in resolving the over six-month-long tense border standoff in eastern Ladakh with both sides broadly agreeing on a three-step process on disengagement of troops and withdrawal of weaponry from all major friction points in a time-bound manner, authoritative sources said on Wednesday. The broad contours of the proposal include removal of armoured personnel carriers within one day of inking an agreement, withdrawal of troops from specific areas on the north and south banks of the Pangong lake in eastern Ladakh and carrying out verification of the disengagement process by both the sides, they said. The specific proposals for the disengagement and restoration of the status quo ante as existed in April were finalised during the eighth round of high-level military talks between the Indian and Chinese armies in Chushul on November 6 on the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control(LAC). The sources said both the Indian Army and the Chinese People's Liberation Army(PLA) are looking at sealing the pact in the next round of Corps Commander-level talks as the proposals were agreed to by the two sides. The ninth round of military talks are likely to take place in the next few days. Nearly 50,000 Indian Army troops are currently deployed in a high state of combat readiness in various mountainous locations in eastern Ladakh in sub-zero conditions as multiple rounds of talks between the two sides have not yielded concrete outcome to resolve the standoff. China has also deployed an equal number of troops, according to officials. The standoff between the two sides erupted in early May. As a first step, both sides will remove their tanks, artillery guns, armoured vehicles and large equipment from the friction points along the LAC to their rear bases within three days from inking the agreement, the sources said. Under the second step, the PLA will go back to Finger 8 areas from their current position of Finger 4 on the north bank of Pangong lake while the Indian troops would position themselves close to the Dhan Singh Thapa post, the sources said. The mountain spurs in the area are referred to as Fingers. It was broadly agreed to withdraw around 30 per cent of the troops every day for three days, they said. In the third step, it was agreed to complete the disengagement process in areas along the southern bank of Pangong lake like Rezang La, Mukhpari and Magar hill. Indian troops occupied a number of strategic heights in the Mukhpari, Rezang La and Magar hill areas around the southern bank of the Pangong lake, after the PLA soldiers attempted to intimidate them in the area on the intervening night of August 29 and 30. "These are all proposals. There is no agreement signed yet," said a high-level source. In the final phase of the disengagement process, both sides will carry out a detailed verification process following which normal patrolling is expected to resume, the sources said. It is learnt that the top military brass deliberated on the proposals for disengagement and de-escalation of tension in eastern Ladakh before the eighth round of Corps Commander talks with the PLA. The disengagement proposal in Finger areas will mean there will be no patrolling between Finger 4 and 8 areas till there is a resolution of the standoff. India used to patrol till Finger 8. Army chief general M M Naravane on Tuesday said he was hopeful that the Indian and Chinese militaries will be able to reach an agreement on disengagement and de-escalation of tension in eastern Ladakh. After the last round of military talks, both sides described the negotiations as candid, in-depth and constructive. They said it was agreed to earnestly implement the important consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries and ensure that the frontline troops exercise restraint and avoid misunderstanding and miscalculation. At the seventh round of talks too, both sides had agreed to maintain dialogue and communication through military and diplomatic channels to arrive at a mutually acceptable solution for disengagement "as early as possible". India has all along been maintaining that the onus is on China to carry forward the process of disengagement and de-escalation at the friction points in the mountainous region. Following the sixth round of military talks, the two sides announced a slew of decisions including not to send more troops to the frontline, refrain from unilaterally changing the situation on the ground and avoid taking any actions that may further complicate matters. The sixth round of talks took place days after External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi reached a five-point agreement to resolve the row at a meeting in Moscow on September 10 on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation(SCO) conclave. The pact included measures like quick disengagement of troops, avoiding action that could escalate tensions, adherence to all agreements and protocols on border management and steps to restore peace along the LAC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-566
11-11-2020||India||Arnab Goswami granted interim bail by SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday granted interim bail to journalist Arnab Goswami in the 2018 abetment to suicide case. A vacation bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee also granted interim bail to two others -- Nitish Sarda and Parveen Rajesh Singh -- on personal bond of Rs 50,000 each. The bench said their release should not be delayed and the prison authorities should facilitate this. The top court directed that Goswami, Sarda and Singh shall not tamper with evidence and cooperate in the probe in the case. Goswami, Editor-in-Chief of Republic TV, had challenged the Bombay High Court's November 9 order refusing to grant him and two others interim bail in the case and asking them to move the trial court for relief. The top court, while hearing the plea, expressed concern over state governments targeting some individuals on the basis of ideology and difference of opinion. "We are seeing case after case where high courts are not granting bail and failing to protect personal liberty of people," the bench said while hearing Goswami's plea. The bench asked Maharashtra whether there was any need for custodial interrogation of Goswami, who is the Editor-in-Chief of Republic TV, saying the issue pertains to personal liberty . It observed that Indian democracy is extraordinarily resilient and the Maharashtra government must ignore all this (Arnab's taunt on TV). "Whatever be his ideology, least I don't even watch his channel, but if in this case constitutional court's do not interfere today, we are travelling the path of destruction undeniably. "If the government targets individuals on this basis...You may not like television channels but this should not happen, ," Justice Chandrachud said, adding, the point is can you deny personal liberty of a person on these allegations. The bench observed that assuming the FIR is gospel truth but that is a matter of investigation. "Is not paying up money abetment to suicide? It will be a travesty of justice if bail is not granted while FIR is pending, the bench told senior advocate Kapil Sibal who was appearing for the state." " 'A' does not pay money to 'B', and is this the case of abetment of suicide? If the high court don't act in matters like this, there will be complete destruction of personal liberty. We are deeply concerned for this. If we don't act in matters like this then it will be very disturbing," the court said. Justice Chandrachud also observed that courts are being attacked for judgements delivered by them. Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for Goswami, referred to various cases lodged against him and the channel and alleged that Maharashtra government is targeting him. This is not an ordinary case and the Bombay High Court being a constitutional court should have taken note of the incidents. Is this a case where Arnab Goswami is put in Taloja jail with hardened criminals, Salve said. I would urge the case to be transferred to the CBI and punish him if he is guilty. What will happen if a person is granted ad-interim bail, he said. Sibal referred to the facts of the case and said that details of investigation conducted in the matter are not before the apex court and if it intervenes at this stage, it would set a dangerous precedent. Senior lawyer Amit Desai, also appearing for the state, said this is not a case where the court should exercise its extraordinary jurisdiction to grant bail at interim stage. He said the state's ability to investigate a criminal case has to be respected. Goswami has challenged the Bombay High Court's November 9 order refusing to grant him and two others interim bail in the case and asking them to move the trial court for relief. The three accused were arrested by Alibaug police in Maharashtra's Raigad district on November 4 in connection with the suicide of architect-interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother in 2018 over alleged non-payment of dues by companies of the accused. The high court had, while rejecting the interim bail pleas of Goswami and two other accused Feroze Shaikh and Nitish Sarda, had said, "no case has been made out for us (court) to exercise our extraordinary jurisdiction". Apart from seeking the interim bail, the journalist and other accused had also sought a direction from the high court for staying the investigation into the case and quash the FIR against them. The high court will hear their pleas seeking to quash the FIR on December 10. Goswami was arrested on November 4 from his Lower Parel residence in Mumbai and taken to Alibaug in neighbouring Raigad district. He and the two other accused were later produced before a magistrate who refused to send them in police custody and remanded them in judicial custody till November 18. Goswami was initially kept at a local school which is designated as a Covid-19 quarantine centre for the Alibaug prison. He was on Sunday shifted to the Taloja jail in Raigad district after allegedly being found using a mobile phone while in judicial custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-566
11-11-2020||India||Indian engineering student found dead at Sharjah apartment||A fourth-year Indian computer engineering student was found dead in his Sharjah apartment, The Gulf News quoted the local police, as saying. It is being suspected as a case of suicide, they said. Jyot was found hanging from the ceiling fan of his home at Al Rolla area of Sharjah on November 2, the media report said. The 21-year-old’s brother Niral, speaking to the newspaper, said that the family had no idea that he was considering such a drastic step. Jyot was alone at home at the time of the purported suicide. Officials, who wished to remain anonymous, said that forensic teams have suspected no foul play. “My parents had gone to Al Ain. We do not know what was going on in his mind. It was very unexpected. He had not left behind any note and we have not come across anything later. We are trying our best to figure out what was going on in his mind and what was troubling him," Niral told the Gulf News. The matter has been moved to Public Prosecution. However, investigators are yet to find the reason for ‘Jyot committing suicide’, and are not convinced about the angle. We checked with the college. They said he was doing wonderfully in his studies and everything was going fine. He was a favourite among the faculty and they said he was good in his studies, one of Jyot's friends told The Gulf News.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-566
11-11-2020||India||Cricketer turned politician: the story of Tejashwi Yadav||An avid cricketer whose career never really took off, a political greenhorn who got power on a silver platter but failed to keep it, a scion of Bihar's most powerful family who could not get past the 9th grade. That was Tejashwi Yadav until the 2020 Assembly polls marked the coming of age of a politician who valiantly went down fighting an army of battle-hardened veterans. He may have failed to learn the textbook lessons at Delhi Public School, R K Puram, in the national capital but showed an uncanny knack of reading the mind of voters, like his more famous father, as he led the Opposition Grand Alliance to an impressive performance in the polls winning 110 seats in the 243-member Assembly. The 31-year-old also powered the RJD to the status of the single largest party in the House with 75 seats. Analysts feel Tejashwi's poll promise of sanctioning "10 lakh government jobs at my first cabinet meeting" was a masterstroke which had the young voter swooning in a state reeling from widespread joblessness sparked by COVID-induced lockdown when the return of countless migrants home brought the state's largely agrarian economy under further stress. The promise was good but not good enough to bring down the NDA government. As part of a cleverly crafted strategy that endeared him to liberals, he chose to steer clear of contentious issues like the Ram temple, a bait thrown at him by top BJP leaders, and stuck to his core agenda of unemployment and alleged corruption in the Nitish Kumar administration. For a young man whose ability to lead the party was called into question after the RJD's unprecedented debacle in the Lok Sabha elections when it failed to win even one of the state's 40 seats, it was no mean feat that he succeeded in galvanising an organisational machinery in stupor after the battering. Doubting his leadership qualities, allies HAM of former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, RLSP of former union minister Upendra Kushwaha and VIP of Mukesh Sahni jumped the ship in search of greener pastures elsewhere. Humility is a trait which, according to those who saw him at school or later as an aspiring cricketer, defines the younger son of two former chief ministers which was reflected in the manner in which he accommodated the Congress and the Left, seen as a spent force in the state ever since it was swept over by the Mandal wave. Another hallmark of his personality is the ability to think on his feet. After deciding early on in life that studies were not for him, Yadav chose not to cling to his cricketing aspirations either after the much-needed big break eluded him. Contracted by IPL franchise Delhi Daredevils for some time he remained in the reserve list. He announced his "retirement" from cricket just a couple of years before entering politics in 2015 at the tender age of 25. The new vocation came as a perfect pitch to bat on as he won from Raghopur in the Assembly election comfortably. Soon Lalu made it clear that Tejashwi was his chosen successor, and he was appointed the Deputy Chief Minister in the Nitish Kumar government. As fate would have it, Tejashwi's name cropped up in a money laundering case related to alleged illegal land transactions when his father was the railway minister in the UPA-1 government. Tejashwi was in his teens when the alleged scam happened. The development drew heavy Opposition fire and Nitish Kumar snapped his ties with the RJD, before returning to the NDA, giving up his ambition of heading a nationwide coalition for a "Sangh Mukt Bharat" which could pose a challenge to the Narendra Modi juggernaut. Tejashwi took the sudden loss of power on the chin, transitioning seamlessly into a doughty leader of the Opposition. As Lalu landed in jail following conviction in a number of fodder scam cases, Tejashwi, by now the RJD's chief ministerial candidate, kept the party afloat and also rallied leaders as diverse as Rahul Gandhi, Arvind Kejriwal and the Left bigwigs at a rally in New Delhi against the Muzaffarpur shelter home sex scandal, making his presece felt at the national level. Towards the end of 2018, he seemed bogged down by problems in the family. Much of his time and energy was spent trying unsuccessfully to prevent mercurial elder brother Tej Pratap's nasty marital dispute from playing out in the open. After the Lok Sabha poll fiasco, Tejashwi showed signs of torpor, choosing to spend most of his time away from Bihar and even giving a month-long Assembly session a miss during an outbreak of brain fever and flash floods in north Bihar, providing the Opposition with ample ammunition to attack him. Leaders of the JD(U)-BJP combine ridiculed him as an "ill prepared student afraid of facing exams" when he demanded that the Assembly elections be deferred in view of the raging Covid-19 pandemic. However, once the elections were announced, he steeled himself for the fight. The young leader displayed quiet ruthlessness while marginalising dissenters and guile in keeping his ambitious eldest sister Misa Bharti, a Rajya Sabha MP, away from campaign and Tej Pratap confined to his Hasanpur seat. As the NDA seemed losing its earlier surefootedness, doddering under the weight of LJP leader Chirag Paswan's rebellion, he seized the moment and launched an indefatigable campaign, addressing more than a dozen rallies a day. His frequent references to himself as "sher ka beta" (son of a lion) notwithstanding, leaders of the JD(U) and the BJP claimed he was shying away from using the pictures of his parents in his campaign as they were emblematic of the "jungle raj". Prime Minister Narendra Modi lent weight to the narrative by frequently referring to him as the "Jungle Raj Ke Yuvraj". He might have failed to lead his alliance to victory, but the Assembly polls have heralded the advent of a young leader on Bihar's political firmament who can feel the pulse of youth and has abundant promise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-566
11-11-2020||India||Over 7 lakh voters opt for NOTA option this Bihar election||A little over seven lakh voters in Bihar used the 'none of the above' or NOTA option in the assembly elections, according to the Election Commission. Nitish Kumar-led NDA was back in power in Bihar on Wednesday with a slender majority. The ruling coalition won 125 seats in the 243-member state assembly against 110 clinched by the opposition Grand Alliance to pave the way for a fourth successive term for Kumar in office. According to figures released by the EC, 7,06,252 people or 1.7 per cent of the voters opted for the option whereby they preferred not to vote for any candidate while exercising their democratic right. Over 4 crore votes were polled in the three-phase elections. Out of nearly 7.3 crore voters, 57.09 per cent had cast votes in the polls. The 'NOTA' option on electronic voting machines, introduced in 2013, has its own symbol -- a ballot paper with a black cross across it. After the Supreme Court order in September, 2013, the EC added the NOTA button on the EVMs as the last option on the voting panel. Prior to the apex court order, those not inclined to vote for any candidate had the option of filling, what is popularly called, 'form 49-O'. But filling the form at the polling station under Rule 49-O of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 1961, compromised the secrecy of the voter. The Supreme Court had, however, refused to direct the EC to hold fresh polls if the majority of the electorate exercises the NOTA option while voting. There were several seats in Bihar where NOTA option got more votes than the winning margin of candidates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-566
11-11-2020||India||Govt brings online content under purview of I&B ministry||The Centre, in a notification, has brought online content under the domain of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. The notification, issued on Tuesday night, said that films, audiovisuals, news and current affairs content aired on online providers including Netflix and Amazon Prime will be monitored by the ministry. It said that the decision has been taken in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (3) of article 77 of the Constitution, by amending the Government of India (Allocation of Business) Rules. Signed by President Ram Nath Kovind, the move will come into effect at once. The ministry will now have the power to regulate policies related to online content, including those of news, audio, visual contents and films. These rules may be known as the Government of India (Allocation of Business) Three Hundred and Fifty Seventh Amendment Rules, 2020, which shall come into force immediately. In the Government of India (Allocation of Business, 1961, in THE SECOND SCHEDULE, under the heading 'MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING (SOOCHANA AUR PRASARAN MANTRALAYA)' after entry 22, the following sub-heading and entries shall be inserted, namely:- VA. DIGITAL/ONLINE MEDIA. 22A. Films and Audio-Visual programmes made available by online content providers. 22B. News and current affairs content on online platforms, the notification said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-566
11-11-2020||India||SC questions Maharashtra govt over Arnab arrest||The Supreme Court on Wednesday questioned the Maharashtra government over the 2018 abetment to suicide case against journalist Arnab Goswami and said that it would be a travesty of justice if personal liberty of a person is curtailed like this. A vacation bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee said if state governments target individuals, they must realise then that there is apex court to protect the liberty of citizens. The top court expressed concern over state governments targeting some individuals on the basis of ideology and difference of opinion. "We are seeing case after case where high courts are not granting bail and failing to protect personal liberty of people," the bench said while hearing Goswami's plea seeking interim bail in the case of alleged abetment to suicide of an interior designer in 2018. The bench asked Maharashtra whether there was any need for custodial interrogation of Goswami, who is the Editor-in-Chief of Republic TV, saying the issue pertains to personal liberty . It observed that Indian democracy is extraordinarily resilient and the Maharashtra government must ignore all this (Arnab's taunt on TV). "Whatever be his ideology, least I don't even watch his channel, but if in this case constitutional court's do not interfere today, we are travelling the path of destruction undeniably. "If the government targets individuals on this basis...You may not like television channels but this should not happen, ," Justice Chandrachud said, adding, the point is can you deny personal liberty of a person on these allegations. The bench observed that assuming the FIR is gospel truth but that is a matter of investigation. "Is not paying up money abetment to suicide? It will be a travesty of justice if bail is not granted while FIR is pending, the bench told senior advocate Kapil Sibal who was appearing for the state." " 'A' does not pay money to 'B', and is this the case of abetment of suicide? If the high court don't act in matters like this, there will be complete destruction of personal liberty. We are deeply concerned for this. If we don't act in matters like this then it will be very disturbing," the court said. Justice Chandrachud also observed that courts are being attacked for judgements delivered by them. Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for Goswami, referred to various cases lodged against him and the channel and alleged that Maharashtra government is targeting him. This is not an ordinary case and the Bombay High Court being a constitutional court should have taken note of the incidents. Is this a case where Arnab Goswami is put in Taloja jail with hardened criminals, Salve said. I would urge the case to be transferred to the CBI and punish him if he is guilty. What will happen if a person is granted ad-interim bail, he said. Sibal referred to the facts of the case and said that details of investigation conducted in the matter are not before the apex court and if it intervenes at this stage, it would set a dangerous precedent. Senior lawyer Amit Desai, also appearing for the state, said this is not a case where the court should exercise its extraordinary jurisdiction to grant bail at interim stage. He said the state's ability to investigate a criminal case has to be respected. The hearing in the case is going on and would continue in the post-lunch session. Goswami has challenged the Bombay High Court's November 9 order refusing to grant him and two others interim bail in the case and asking them to move the trial court for relief. The three accused were arrested by Alibaug police in Maharashtra's Raigad district on November 4 in connection with the suicide of architect-interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother in 2018 over alleged non-payment of dues by companies of the accused. The high court, while rejecting the interim bail pleas of Goswami and two other accused Feroze Shaikh and Nitish Sarda, had said, "no case has been made out for us (court) to exercise our extraordinary jurisdiction". Apart from seeking the interim bail, the journalist and other accused had also sought a direction from the high court for staying the investigation into the case and quash the FIR against them. The high court will hear their pleas seeking to quash the FIR on December 10. Goswami was arrested on November 4 from his Lower Parel residence in Mumbai and taken to Alibaug in neighbouring Raigad district. He and the two other accused were later produced before a magistrate who refused to send them in police custody and remanded them in judicial custody till November 18. Goswami was initially kept at a local school which is designated as a Covid-19 quarantine centre for the Alibaug prison. He was on Sunday shifted to the Taloja jail in Raigad district after allegedly being found using a mobile phone while in judicial custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-566
11-11-2020||India||India's Covid caseload goes past 86 lakh mark||India's Covid-19 caseload went past 86 lakh on Wednesday, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 80.13 lakh, pushing the national recovery rate to 92.79 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry's data. With 44,281 more people testing positive for coronavirus in a span of 24 hours, the infection tally mounted to 86,36, 011, while the death toll rose to 1,27,571 after 512 new fatalities were reported, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of active cases dropped below five lakh. At present, there are 4,94,657 active cases in the country which comprise 5.73 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. The total recoveries have surged to 80,13,783, pushing the national recovery rate to 92.79 per cent, while COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.48 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 12,07,69,151 samples have been tested so far with 11,53,294 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 512 new fatalities include 110 from Maharashtra, 83 from Delhi, 53 from Bengal, 30 from Uttar Pradesh, 28 from Kerala, 25 from Tamil Nadu, 20 each from Karnataka and Punjab. Total 1,27,571 deaths reported so far in the country include 45,435 from Maharashtra followed by 11,430 from Karnataka, 11,387 from Tamil Nadu, 7,403 from Bengal, 7,261 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,143 from Delhi, 6,814 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,358 from Punjab and 3,770 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-567
11-11-2020||India||Delhi's air quality slightly improves, in 'very poor' category||Delhi's air quality slipped back into the very poor category on Wednesday after remaining in the severe zone for six days on the trot, with a change in the wind direction reducing the contribution of stubble burning in city's pollution. The city recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 388 at 9 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 476 on Tuesday. Delhi witnessed six severe air days on the trot till Tuesday. It had recorded seven severe air days in November last year. The neighbouring cities of Faridabad (345), Ghaziabad (390), Noida (339), Greater Noida (322), and Gurgaon (309), which fall in the National Capital Region (NCR), also recorded "very poor" air quality. The levels of PM2.5 which is about three per cent the diameter of a human hair and can lead to premature deaths from heart and lung diseases were 233 microgram per cubic meter ( g/m3) at 9 am, below the emergency threshold of 300 g/m3. The safe limit is 60 g/m3. On Tuesday, PM2.5 levels had soared to 528 g/m3 in the afternoon. PM10 level stood at 384 g/m3 at 9 pm. It had peaked to 685 g/m3 on Tuesday, according to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. PM10 levels below 100 g/m3 are considered safe in India and 500 g/m3 is the emergency threshold. According to the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP), the air quality is considered in the severe plus or emergency category if PM2.5 and PM10 levels persist above 300 g/m3 and 500 g/m3 for more than 48 hours. GRAP recommends measures such as a ban on construction activities, entry of trucks and car rationing scheme in such a scenario. The Commission for Air Quality Management in the National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas on Tuesday tasked the CPCB with operationalising and monitoring GRAP measures till a mechanism is set up by the newly-constituted panel. At a meeting, the commission also decided that in view of deteriorating air quality in the NCR region, there is a need to invoke the GRAP, which has been already notified by the central government. GRAP, which is a set of anti-pollution measures followed in Delhi and its vicinity towns according to the severity of the situation, came into force on October 15. An official of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the predominant wind direction is east-northeasterly, which is not favourable for transport of pollutants from farm fires in Punjab and Haryana. The city recorded a minimum temperature of 11.4 degrees Celsius on Wednesday morning. Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion. The central government's Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said, The change in wind direction and wind speed has positively impacted air quality. It is likely to remain in the upper end of the 'very poor' category on Thursday and deteriorate marginally on Friday. The farm fire count in Punjab was around 3500 on Tuesday, but the impact of stubble burning on air quality was negligible because of easterly winds, it said. The share of stubble burning in Delhi's PM2.5 pollution was 22 per cent on Tuesday. Delhi's ventilation index -- a product of mixing depth and average wind speed -- is likely to be around 12,500 m2/s on Wednesday, favourable for dispersion of pollutants. Mixing depth is the vertical height in which pollutants are suspended in the air. It reduces on cold days with calm wind speed. The ventilation index lower than 6000 m2/s with average wind speed less than 10 kmph is unfavourable for dispersion of pollutants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-567
11-11-2020||India||SC refuses to interfere with Calcutta HC order banning use, sale of crackers||The Supreme Court refused on Wednesday to interfere with the Calcutta High Court order banning the sale and use of firecrackers in Bengal during Kali Puja, saying preservation of life was more important amid the coronavirus pandemic. A vacation bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee said though festivals were important, but "life itself has been imperilled now" amid the pandemic. It said the high court knew the local condition better and it should be allowed to do the needful. The apex court was hearing an appeal filed by one Gautam Roy and the Burrabazaar Fireworks Dealers Association, challenging the high court order last week banning the use and sale of firecrackers during upcoming festivals, including Kali Puja and Chhath Puja, to curb pollution. Kali Puja will be celebrated on Saturday. "We are all battling for life in this situation and all of us have elderly people in our home," it observed. "We are in a situation where, at this time, preservation of life is more important and the high court knows what is required at the ground level." It added that the high court had taken care of the interest of citizens, especially senior citizens who may have comorbidities. The high court had directed that the ban would also be in force during the Jagaddhatri Puja, Chhath and Kartik Puja, adding that the guidelines -- which were in place during Durga Puja, such as no entry to pandals -- would also be in effect. It had lauded the state government for effectively implementing the court-directed guidelines during the Durga Puja and asked the police to ensure that the norms are strictly enforced on the other festivals as well. Fifteen people will be allowed in the Kali Puja pandals having an area up to 300 sq metres, and 45 in the bigger ones, the court had said, while disallowing procession during immersion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-567
11-11-2020||India||BJP wins 19 out of 28 seats in MP bypolls||The ruling BJP in Madhya Pradesh won 19 out of the 28 assembly constituencies, where bypolls were held on November 3, giving it a comfortable majority in the House and providing stability to its eight-month-old government in the state. The Opposition Congress clinched nine seats. With this, the BJP now has 126 MLAs in the 230-member House, while the Congress has 96 legislators. Due to the resignation of one more Congress MLA recently, the effective strength of the House is 229 at present. The comfortable victory of the BJP, which needed only eight seats to have a full majority on its own in the 229- member House, will not only provide stability to the party-led government in the state, but also further cement the position of senior leader Jyotiraditya Scindia, who quit the Congress earlier this year and joined the saffron party. Out of the 12 ministers who contested the bypolls, three were defeated by the Congress candidates. Prominent among them is woman minister Imarti Devi, who lost from Dabra by a margin of 7,633 votes. BJP minister Girraj Dandotia lost from Dimani by a margin of 26,467 votes. Another minister Adal Singh Kansana bit the dust from Sumaoli constituency by a margin of 10,947 votes. Scindia loyalist Tulsi Silawat won from Sanver by a margin of 53,264 votes. BJP minister OPS Bhadoria won from Mehgaon by a margin of 12,036 votes. The saffron party's Munna Lal Goyal lost by a margin of 8,555 votes against Congress Dr Satish Sikarwar from Gwalior-East. Out of the 22 MLAs who had quit the then ruling Congress in March this year in support of Scindia's move of leaving the party, 15 emerged victorious, while seven others, including three ministers, lost the poll battle. Though Congress left no stone unturned to portray Scindia as "traitor" because of his rebellion against the then chief minister Kamal Nath government that paved the way for the return of the BJP government in the state, the campaign plank failed to find much traction among voters. Scindia has repeatedly said his decision to quit the Congress was driven by "failure" of the erstwhile Nath government to fulfil promises made to people, especially farmers. "The victory of BJP in these by-polls will certainly strengthen Scindia's position in the BJP at the Centre," a political expert said. Though the BJP fared well in 19 of these 28 seats, it suffered losses in the Gwalior-Chambal region as three of its ministers Adal Singh Kansana from Sumaoli, Imarti Devi from Dabra, whom Nath had termed "item" in the run-up to the bypolls, and Girraj Dandotia from Dimani, faced defeat. The BJP had a narrow win in Bhander, where its nominee Raksha Santram Saronia defeated popular Dalit leader Phool Singh Baraiya by a margin of 161 votes. Besides, a Scindia supporter also lost in Karera in Shivpuri district. "There are a total of 34 seats in Gwalior-Chambal region and among them Congress had won in 26 seats in 2018. Bypolls were held in 16 seats in this region and among them Scindia's supporters won nine seats, which were basically the Congress seats," BJP spokesperson Pankaj Chaturvedi said. "Earlier, the Congress had more than 80 per cent of these seats, which it had won because of Scindia factor," he said. Scindia's supporters won decisively in the assembly constituencies of Bamori, Mungaoli and Ashok Nagar, which are part of Guna Lok Sabha seat. Besides, among the six ministers that resigned from the Congress along with Scindia, only Imarti Devi lost in bypoll while his loyalists like Tulsiram Silawat, Mahendra Singh Sisodia, Govind Singh Rajput, Dr Prabhuram Choudhary and Pradyumna Singh Tomar won decisively from their respective constituencies. Choudhary created a record by winning with a highest margin 63,809 votes from Sanchi (SC) seat. BJP got 49.46 per cent vote share against the Congress's 40.40 in these bypolls. Expressing happiness over the BJP's victory, Scindia said, "I express my gratitude towards the voters for giving a clear mandate to the BJP. The results of the bypolls proved that both former chief ministers Kamal Nath and Digvijay Singh were betrayers. It has become a habit of the Congress to question the credibility of the EVMs by not accepting the mandate." Elated over the BJP's performance, CM Chouhan said that the BJP has secured 11 per cent more votes than their rival Congress and termed it as "incredible". "We won the seats by huge margins and lost few by a thin margin. We humbly accept the victory," he said while announcing to implement the roadmap for 'Aatmnirbhar Madhya Pradesh' campaign immediately. Chouhan also accused the Opposition Congress of making false allegations and using indecent words against the BJP leaders. Congress leader Kamal Nath accepted the defeat and said that his party made efforts to reach out to the public. "We accept the mandate. We made every effort to reach out to the public. I also thank all the voters who took part in the by-elections. I hope that the BJP government will take care of the interests of the farmers, provide employment to the youth, maintain the respect and safety of women," Nath said in a tweet. In March this year, 22 Congress MLAs, mostly loyalists of Scindia, had resigned from the party and their Madhya Pradesh Assembly membership. This led to the collapse of the Kamal Nath-led state government and cleared the way for the BJP to again come to power. Scindia and his loyalists had joined the BJP, with many of them becoming ministers in the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-567
11-11-2020||India||BJP sweeps bypolls across states, Shivraj safe||The dream of the Congress for the emergence of a “moral voter” who would avenge the betrayal of their mandate in Madhya Pradesh lay shattered as the BJP swept the bypolls to 28 seats on Tuesday, ensuring that the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government completes the rest of its term. The BJP’s dominance was manifested across the country; while it won six of the seven seats in Uttar Pradesh, it bagged all eight in Gujarat and two in Karnataka that went to polls. While the BJP dominated by winning four seats in Manipur, it wrested the sole seat in Telangana, stamping its nationwide ascendance. It was only in Jharkhand where the ruling JMM and the Congress shared a seat each, apart from Chhattisgarh and Haryana where the Congress won the solitary seats going to polls. Former chief minister Kamal Nath poured in all his resources and energies to claw back to power in Madhya Pradesh and even received impressive crowd responses during the campaign but the results didn’t reflect that kind of support. Jyotiraditya Scindia, who had led 25 Congress MLAs in defecting to the BJP, faced public anger during electioneering and there was a general perception that he would struggle to retain his base in his fiefdom of Gwalior-Chambal. Congress leaders said they would have been happier winning more seats than the BJP in the bypolls even if they didn’t succeed in toppling the Shivraj government. While Kamal Nath said he accepts the people’s verdict with humility, many senior leaders expressed surprise at the outcome, insisting that the dominant sections of the society were angry at Scindia’s betrayal and believed that the defectors were driven solely by lust for power. Scindia, on the other hand, gained some legitimacy after the results. While the outcome in Madhya Pradesh must have shaken the Congress, which expected to win at least 22 of the 28 seats, the ominous signals from Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh will leave the party leadership demoralised. While the difference in vote share in Gujarat between the BJP and the Congress is a whopping 20 per cent, the expectation that the party will significantly enhance its presence in Uttar Pradesh under Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s leadership proved unreasonable. The Congress was undoubtedly the most active party in Uttar Pradesh over the past 10 months, trying to reach out to the people in their miseries and struggle. But its vote share remained at the bottom of the table with merely 7.5 per cent while the BJP polled over 36 per cent, followed by the Samajwadi Party (23 per cent) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (19 per cent). There was speculation about the BSP’s political demise and the SP’s decline because of their inaction against the Yogi Adityanath government but the assessment of the Congress’s strength was obviously overestimated. Priyanka will have to work harder if the Congress has to make inroads into frozen blocs of support in the state. While Uttar Pradesh will have Assembly elections in 2022, the Congress looks unprepared to pose any serious challenge to the dominant forces — the BJP and the SP. In Gujarat, the Congress has squandered its gains of the last Assembly elections when the BJP had scraped through to form the government. The new younger leadership has neither been able to keep their flock together nor break fresh grounds despite creating a lot of noise. The bypoll shock is bound to trigger discontent within the Congress and the demand for a full-fledged party president will intensify. Although Rahul Gandhi has led from the front despite not being in command formally, the party’s performance in the bypolls to 54 constituencies and the Bihar Assembly elections will give credence to the questions raised by dissenters, known as Group of 23, who had written to Sonia Gandhi, complaining about the drift in the party after the defeat in the 2019 parliamentary elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-567
11-11-2020||India||NDA claims crown; stellar RJD fight||The NDA scraped past a breathtaking challenge by the Tejashwi-led Mahagathbandhan to retain a skin-thin hold on power in Bihar on an extended see-saw day that saw chief minister Nitish Kumar downgraded and the state’s political polarities defined between the BJP and the RJD that emerged the single-largest party. Amid bitter neck-and-neck battling, the RJD claimed late evening that 119 Gathbandhan candidates had won and accused the state administration of declining victory certificates to some after they had been declared winners by returning officers. The bare majority mark in the 243-member Assembly is 122. RJD MP Manoj Jha, one of the party’s chief strategists, said late on Tuesday night that he had been assured by the Election Commission of fair redress. “We trust the Election Commission (EC), we do not trust the state administration,” Jha said. “We are assured that the voice of the people, as reflected by the campaign, will triumph, Nitish Kumar’s efforts to hang on to the chair by hook or by crook will be defeated.” Jha  alleged pointedly that Nitish’s chief ministerial office was being “used to unfairly influence the result on at least two dozen seats” through pliant bureaucrats. The NDA retaliated, saying the RJD was carping because it knew it had “lost the election”. The Election Commission, on its part, rebuffed the RJD’s specific allegations but indicated that recounts may be required on some seats, leaving a clear verdict in the balance. Early evening, the BJP headquarters in Delhi was in ecstatic throes over the impending arrival of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and party chief J.P. Nadda to mark victory. But the rites were swiftly aborted as it became apparent that the NDA’s victory was far from certain. The faithful were instructed to lower the celebratory decibel and disband. Nobody could be sure which way the verdict would turn. Close to midnight, though, the BJP officially claimed victory for the NDA ahead of the formal declaration of results. The results have already pronounced a few things worthy of note. The BJP, by far the stronger NDA party now, has snatched the baton from Nitish who must now play beholden and compliant chief minister should he be given the job he has publicly been promised. Tejashwi has ensured that Bihar has an ebullient Opposition in the RJD and its partners. He came tantalizingly close to snatching power, but was pipped at the post by a combination of factors that include a significant counter-consolidation of votes to arrest his surge to the top office. The late swell in NDA votes — a consequence of widespread perception that Tejashwi might wrest power — is evident from the fact that the NDA, and the BJP in particular, did far better in the second and third rounds of polling; the first was domineered by the Gathbandhan, word went out, and the BJP resorted to remedy losses. Critical to that effort was proactive rekindling of fears of the return of “jungle raj” towards the latter half of the campaign and Prime Minister Modi played chief drumbeater of apprehension. Forever keen on Bihar, Modi spearheaded the NDA campaign with recurrent visits and multiple rallies where he performed his trademark act of stoking bogey apprehensions about the Opposition and resorting to nakedly sectarian entreaty woven around the Ram temple and the invocation of Bharat Mata. There was more at stake for the BJP than just loss of power in Bihar. The message from a reverse in a heartland state tends to resonate beyond its physical boundaries; with polls impending in neighbouring Bengal, a state the BJP desperately wants to wrest from the Trinamul Congress, losing Bihar would trigger unhelpful ripples. What looked like a romp for the NDA at the beginning of the campaign became a tricky uphill towards the end essentially because Tejashwi surprised adversaries and allies alike with a stirring turn at the hustings. Only a day older than 31, Tejashwi was able to  rally his troops and Gathbandhan forces remarkably in the absence of the RJD patriarch Lalu Prasad. Tejashwi foregrounded unemployment and economic stress as key issues, and appealed to all sections of Bihar as opposed to his party’s traditional Mandal-Minority theme. His battlefront performance was no less outstanding for the fact that he put a veteran like Nitish in the shade and was duelling single-handed against none other than Prime Minister Modi, the lead NDA campaigner. The Gathbandhan’s performance was buoyed in good measure by Left parties which led on 18 of the 29 seats they contested but dragged down by the Congress, which hogged a 70-seat share but returned less than a third. RJD leaders had conceded privately through the campaign that they had given away far too many seats to the Congress. Ahead of the campaign, odds were stacked overwhelmingly in favour of the NDA, many willing to bet it would be a one-way race; Tejashwi was dismissed as a rookie incapable of posing a credible challenge to the formidable arithmetic and resources of the NDA. The RJD scion, though, made a battling fist of it with a campaign that was not only electric of energy but also well-meditated and focused. Its fundamental theme was to upgrade the RJD talisman of social justice to the quest for economic justice, a call that resonated across the battleground and brought an exuberance to Tejashwi’s election outings that was reminiscent of Lalu at his peak. A key element of the RJD campaign was also to studiously skirt default traps set by the BJP to buttonhole opponents as “minority rights champions” and create polarisation along sectarian lines. The RJD had won 80 seats in the 2015 Assembly polls in alliance with Nitish Kumar and the Congress; that Tejashwi has run his party to sniffing distance of that number and emerged as the single-largest formation in Bihar without Nitish is a sign of how stunning his dare has been. By contrast, Nitish stands drastically diminished as a leader and his JDU relegated to a distant third on the rostrum. The campaign was peppered by signs of his growing unpopularity; electorally, he was probably hurt by the widespread perception that part of the BJP’s objective was to reduce him in stature and size. The free rein given to LJP’s Chirag Paswan to openly challenge and contest Nitish while he remained an NDA ally was a sign he was playing trojan horse at the BJP’s bidding. Nitish might yet become chief minister, as the BJP has publicly promised, but with his reduced numbers he has been hollowed out and will keep office at the mercy of his altogether larger ally. Tejashwi, on the other hand, may have suffered the consequences of being perceived leader of the Bihar race in the latter half of the campaign. Paradoxical as it sounds, the more the RJD seemed close to hitting the tape, the more consolidation it caused of adversarial votes. The spectre of “Lalu raj” remains psychologically troublesome for fair sections of voters, especially upper castes and elderly voters who retain deep and unsavoury memories of the disorder that attended most of the 15-year Lalu reign from 1990-2005. In addition, Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM appears to have made significant inroads into the RJD’s ambitions in the Muslim-preponderent Seemanchal belt verging on West Bengal. Leading on a record five seats — their debut in the Bihar assembly — Owaisi’s candidates split and snatched minority votes whose default choice would have been the Tejashwi-led Gathbandhan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-567
11-11-2020||India||BJP trumps ally, fights for top slot||The BJP on Tuesday surged ahead to emerge for the first time in over two decades as the dominant player in the Mandal-dominated politics of Bihar. The party appeared all set to bag over 70 seats, pushing ally Janata Dal United to the junior position in the NDA and giving a tough fight to challenger RJD for the “party No. 1” slot. Nitish Kumar’s JDU looked clearly subjugated before the BJP, hovering around a meagre 43-seat tally while a neck-and-neck fight was on with the RJD for the single largest party position. This was for the first time that the BJP had gained the upper hand in terms of seat tally since it aligned with Nitish in 1996. There was also good news for the BJP from the bunch of by-elections across states. The party appeared unscathed by the economic crisis inflicted by the coronavirus-induced lockdown. In Bihar, a simmering 15-year anti-incumbency left ally Nitish battered and bruised but the voters seemed to have spared the BJP despite the fact that the party enjoyed power along with the JDU. At the BJP headquarters in Delhi, party workers shouted “Modi, Modi...” when asked about the startling performance that beat all predictions. Leaders said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s popularity had shielded the BJP from the Nitish government’s anti-incumbency. Modi had addressed around a dozen rallies in Bihar and written a last-minute letter appealing to the state’s voters that he needed a Nitish-led NDA government for development. Party leaders said Modi had not only helped the BJP to gain a towering position in Bihar but also rescued Nitish from sinking. What, however, appeared to have helped the BJP gain dominance was the role played by two marginal players — Chirag Paswan and Asaduddin Owaisi. Chirag’s Lok Janshakti Party, by going alone and fielding candidates against the JDU, seemed to have battered down Nitish’s tally while Owaisi’s All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen hit the RJD-Congress by deeply dividing the Muslim voters in the far-east or Seemanchal region. Owaisi’s AIMIM was on course to win five seats and harmed the RJD-Congress candidates’ chance of winning around 10 more seats. This strategy seemed to have damaged the two Mandal/social justice parties — the JDU and the RJD — and aided the traditional upper caste-backed BJP to rise to the top. Both the JDU and the RJD, despite being rivals, derive their strength from the backward castes. The emergence of the BJP showed the era of Mandal, or “social justice” politics that started in the nineties, was struggling to survive. The BJP, which had then pitched “kamandal” or Ram temple politics to counter Mandal, seemed to be gaining the upper hand in heartland Bihar too after Uttar Pradesh. The BJP may allow Nitish to continue as chief minister despite the JDU bagging a lesser number of seats but the BJP appears to be striving to achieve what it has already gained in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh, party insiders indicated. In Uttar Pradesh, the BJP had managed to woo the non-Yadav backward castes by projecting then state party chief Keshav Prasad Maurya, a backward, and also aligning with smaller backward caste parties like the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party and the Apna Dal. However, after poll victory, Yogi Adityanath, an upper caste Thakur, was chosen as the chief minister. Maurya is the deputy chief minister in Uttar Pradesh but he hardly appears to have any say, overshadowed by the saffron-robed Adityanath. Now in Bihar, backward caste Nitish may sit on the chief minister’s chair but he would clearly be dominated by the BJP having the strength of around double the number of seats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-567
11-11-2020||India|| Election Commission rejects RJD’s claim||The Election Commission of India on Tuesday night rejected the RJD’s claim that 119 candidates of the Gathbandhan had been declared elected. The deputy election commissioner in charge of Bihar, Chandra Bhushan Kumar, said at 10pm: “The results of 146 seats have been declared, and in 97 cases the trends are available.” Umesh Sinha, the Election Commission’s  secretary-general, added:  “The commission has never been under anyone’s pressure and whatever procedure needs to be followed will be done, taking the natural course of time to declare the results.” “Data comes to us after being authenticated and after being scrutinised by the returning officers and observers. It comes to us via due procedure. There can be a gap in the information they (the RJD) have and the official information,” Sinha added. This was the Election Commission’s  third media briefing on Tuesday. The votes were being counted under the new norms laid down for the pandemic. At 8.50pm, the RJD tweeted a list of 119 seats where it claimed that the Gathbandhan candidates had won after the completion of counting. “The returning officer congratulated them for the victory, but now they are not giving certificates and are saying that we have lost. They were also shown as victorious on the ECI website. Such loot will not be allowed in a democracy. After winning 119 seats, 109 are being shown on TV. Nitish Kumar is calling up the officers and getting the fraud done...,” the RJD tweet said. The party added that in Munger, the RJD candidate’s postal votes were being declared invalid and four EVMs are not being counted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-567
11-11-2020||India||Chiraj snips JDU votes||The Bihar Assembly election results have delivered a blow to Lok Janshakti Party chief Chirag Paswan’s ambitions but the LJP appears to have cut into Nitish Kumar’s JDU, which the young leader had vowed to pull down. The LJP won one seat as the counting continued into the night. In 2015, the party had won two seats. Chirag had vowed to uproot chief minister Nitish, while praising the BJP and describing himself as the “Hanuman” of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and gone alone in the polls. The LJP contested 136 seats, including 115 that the JDU fought. The 38-year-old Bollywood actor-turned-politician’s intentions were manifold: to eat into JDU votes, win enough seats to play kingmaker in case of a hung Assembly, and emerge from the shadows of his father, Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan who passed away in October, to establish himself as a leader to reckon with in Bihar. Chirag appeared to have succeeded in one — cutting into the JDU’s votes. The JDU was on Tuesday night leading in only 43 seats, almost 30 less than its 2015 Assembly election tally, and had been pushed into third position. Asked if Chirag had failed, a senior LJP leader said on the condition of anonymity: “Has he really failed? You must not see from the prism of the number of seats won. Chirag has established our party as a force to reckon with in the state. He has shown Nitish his place.” A perception had gained ground in the run-up to the elections that Chirag had the blessings of the top BJP leadership and had been tasked with cutting Nitish to size. Although the BJP has denied such a plan, its senior leaders stayed silent when Chirag attacked Nitish. Prime Minister Modi praised Ram Vilas in one of his campaign rallies, intensifying speculation that Chirag had the backing of the BJP brass. The JDU tried to downplay the Chirag factor. “Some chirag (earthen lamp) tried to burn our party, but fizzled out in the process,” JDU leader Ajay Alok said. JDU Bihar unit executive president Ashok Choudhary said: “We were expecting that the BJP would get more seats than our party because some people were hell bent on ensuring that we get less seats. We will evaluate everything.” Although the LJP, which has polled 6 per cent votes, is likely to be in the good books of the BJP for the blow to Nitish, Chirag’s party and the leader himself appeared to have lost their stature as independent entities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-567
11-11-2020||India||Congress lags behind, finger at selection||The Congress, consistently condemned as the “weak link” in the Opposition alliance, finally proved such a perception right by winning only 19 of the 70 seats it contested in Bihar, recording the worst strike rate among the main parties in the fray. Although those involved in election management insisted that holding the Congress responsible for the survival of the ruling coalition was an unfair criticism, almost every senior leader in Bihar was unhappy with candidate selection and felt even the campaign was mismanaged. The dominant view in the party was that the Congress squandered 20 seats at the very outset by picking wrong candidates. The most critical factor is the Congress leadership’s failure to understand the difference between politics and electioneering. Ask any leader what was their politics in the state for the past five years and the answer invariably is: Nothing. Little was done to strengthen the organisation even as the party remains out of power for over three decades now. The victory in 27 constituencies in the last election was presumed to be a sign of revival. Saner elements in the party know the 27 seats were won on the strength of alliance partners. That the Congress has not been able to create one strong leader from Bihar in the last three decade is not open to dispute. There is a joke in party circles that state president Madan Mohan Jha does not command the support of even 50 people across the state. One leader told The Telegraph: “Even the preparations for elections should have started at least two years ago, not just two months before voting. Had a strong team been constituted two years ago, the party would have been in a different shape. We should understanding that bombarding people with news conferences during elections doesn’t alter the ground reality.” The Congress carried on with a tired, uninspiring leadership that had failed to revive the party all these years. There is no evidence of a statewide political struggle over the last five years by senior leaders who played a key role in the party: Congress legislature party leader Sadanand Singh, Rajya Sabha MP Akhilesh Prasad Singh, PCC chief Jha or any other younger leader. While Sadanand Singh’s overriding concern was to field his apolitical son in the election — who eventually lost — Akhilesh Singh is known more for behind-the-scenes manipulation than mass politics. The in-charge of the state, Shaktisinh Gohil, was mysteriously sidelined as electioneering peaked and he finally quarantined himself owing to Covid-19 infection. The entire operation was taken over by Randeep Surjewala and Avinash Pandey, two leaders who had nothing to do with Bihar politics, a month before polling. If such turnkey projects succeeded, politics would have become child’s play. But the Congress is not willing to concede its infirmities and the entire focus is on proving that it got difficult seats. At a time when the BJP has snatched Tripura from the entrenched Left and dreams of winning Bengal — two states where it was almost a pariah till not long ago — the Congress is crying about difficult seats in a state that it ruled for decades. The arguments by party leaders almost suggest that the RJD was obliged to give it better constituencies. Party sources said the 70 seats it contested were traditionally non-UPA/non-Congress seats, where the strike rate of the BJP-JDU combine had been more than 95 per cent. One source said: “Whenever the JDU and the BJP come together, they become a deadly combination on the strength of caste and social arithmetic in these seats. For example, in 2010 when the BJP and the JDU fought the election together, they won 65 of these 70 seats. Similarly, in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the BJP and the JDU fought together and led in 67 of the 70 Assembly segments. The Congress was up against the most challenging seats in the state.” “When the BJP fought without the JDU in 2015, they won 58 seats, of which 24 were from this chunk of 70. Congress leaders insisted the party was a force aggregator in Bihar and the RJD had performed much worse whenever it contested alone, either in Assembly or in parliamentary polls,” the source added. “If you look at the data of 2010 when the Congress and the RJD had fought separately, the latter could not secure even a single win in this area.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-567
11-11-2020||India||Nitish Kumar faces questions ||The Bihar Assembly poll results have left chief minister Nitish Kumar in a bind: his JDU has slipped sharply and there are murmurs whether he would return as chief minister even if the NDA retains its lead and comes back to power. Till late night, the JDU was leading in just 42 of the 115 seats it had contested, down by around 30 seats from its 2015 tally. Nitish’s party was in third position in Bihar and had become the junior partner of the BJP. BJP Scheduled Caste cell president Ajit Kumar Chaudhary said party workers were demanding a BJP chief minister. “The poll mandate is for the BJP. Its seats are more than the JDU’s. There is a strong feeling among our colleagues that somebody from our own party should become chief minister,” Chaudhary said. Nitish spent the day closeted in his 1 Aney Marg residence. In the evening, deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi and MP Bhupender Yadav of the BJP called on him. Sources said Union home minister Amit Shah had spoken to Nitish. The question doing the rounds is whether Nitish will accept becoming the chief minister again if the NDA wins or decide to step aside. “The very question whether Nitish Kumar will be the chief minister or not is irrelevant. The BJP has already announced him as the chief ministerial candidate of the NDA,” JDU Bihar unit chief and Rajya Sabha member Bashistha Narain Singh said. JDU state executive president Ashok Choudhary pointed out that the NDA had fought the election with Nitish as the helm. “Nitish’s face is of hope, trust, reliability, safety, peace and honesty. The polls were fought under his leadership. Whatever seats the NDA gets will be for making him the chief minister,” Ashok said. Bihar BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal said: “When our leaders like Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and party president J.P. Nadda have announced Nitish as our next chief minister, there is no question of deviating from it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-568
11-11-2020||India||Tourist inflow rekindles hope in Sikkim||Tourism stakeholders in Sikkim are expecting a surge in tourist footfall in the coming Diwali weekend with the Himalayan state witnessing a steady flow of visitors ever since the sector reopened early in October. It was only a month ago that Sikkim allowed entry of tourists and the inflow of visitors has rekindled the hopes of the stakeholders whose earnings had dried up since March because of Covid-19-induced lockdown. The first phase of unlocking of tourism, which contributes handsomely to the state’s economy, began on October 10 after seven months of closure. Hotels, restaurants and other accommodations, however, are allowed to operate at only 50 per cent of their capacity. There is no official data available on the number of tourist footfall, but the tourism stakeholders estimate that on an average anywhere between 1,000 and 1,500 tourists have been arriving in the Himalayan state daily. “We have taken a conscious decision not to have over 4,000 to 5,000 tourists daily. Since hotels are operating at 50 per cent capacity, the occupation rate right now should be around 60 to 70 per cent of the reduced capacity,’ said Roshan Raj Shrestha, the president of Sikkim Hotel and Restaurant Association (SHRA). Shrestha said the idea behind unlocking tourism was to send a message across that Sikkim has put in place safe tourism practices to deal with the pandemic. “Luckily, not a single tourist has tested positive for coronavirus so far. We are hoping this will have a positive impact on next tourism season in April, May and June,” he added. Over 16 lakh tourists, including a little less than 1.40 lakh foreigners, had visited the state last year. Which means the overall inflow of tourists was almost three times greater than the state’s 6.50 lakh population. The figure this year has suffered a drastic fall because of Covid. The tourism sector is estimated to have suffered losses running into tens of crores because of the pandemic. “It will be impossible to recover losses this year. We will have to forget 2020 as a nightmare. Hopefully, if the coronavirus vaccine is available by early next year, we should do good business in both the spring and autumn seasons in 2021,” said a tour operator.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-568
11-11-2020||India||Homegrown vaccine shows promise||A homegrown vaccine candidate against the coronavirus disease similar in design to the candidate from Pfizer-BioNTech has shown promising results in pre-clinical animal studies and is now awaiting government approval for human clinical trials. The candidate from the Pune-based Gennova Biopharmaceuticals in collaboration with US-based HDT Bio is based on genetic material called mRNA, similar to the product developed by America’s Pfizer and Germany’s BioNTech that has shown 90 per cent efficacy in human trials. Pre-clinical studies, including tests on pigtail macaques, have shown that Gennova’s candidate called HCG019 is able to generate an immune response, including antibodies that can neutralise SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, scientists familiar with the studies said. “The data from animal studies look very encouraging. I’m hoping this candidate quickly goes into human trials,” said Govindarajan Padmanabhan, a senior biologist and chair of the vaccine evaluation panel of the Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council, a government agency that provided seed funding for the development effort. Padmanabhan told The Telegraph that Gennova is also working on “an innovative delivery system” to make the vaccine stable at temperatures between 2°C and 8°C. This, he said, would be an advantage over the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine that needs ultra-low temperature storage of around –80°C. Gennova has sought approval to move towards human clinical trials from the Review Committee on Genetic Manipulation (RCGM), a panel of experts under India’s department of biotechnology, a unit of the science and technology ministry. After RCGM approval, Gennova can apply to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisationfor clinical trials. “We’re hoping to start human trials by the end of this year,” Sanjay Singh, a senior scientist and CEO of Gennova said. “RNA-based vaccines have certain advantages, they represent a new generation of vaccines that hold great promise.” Like any vaccine candidate, HCG019 will need to go through three phases — phase 1 to evaluate safety, phase 2 to evaluate its capacity to generate an immune response, and phase 3 to evaluate that it can protect people from the infection. Pfizer and BioNTech on Monday announced that their candidate vaccine — also an RNA vaccine — has shown 90 per cent efficacy in protecting people from Covid-19 infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-568
11-11-2020||India||Owaisi spoils Opposition party||The Asaduddin Owaisi-led All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen, which had been seen as a “vote cutter”, appeared set to win five Muslim-dominated seats in Bihar on Tuesday. With the election results on a knife’s edge, the AIMIM appeared to have made big gains in Bihar’s Seemanchal region that was being seen as a stronghold of the Opposition Grand Alliance. AIMIM national spokesperson Asim Waqar told PTI that the final decision on who the AIMIM could back in case of a hung Assembly would be taken by Owaisi but ruled out supporting the BJP, asserting that his party’s fight had always been against the saffron camp. Ahead of the polling in the third phase on Saturday, the Congress had dubbed the AIMIM the BJP’s “B-team”. Bihar Congress chief Madan Mohan Jha had said the AIMIM would not have any significant impact on the Assembly polls as people would not “waste” their votes on it. The AIMIM said on Tuesday that its critics had got a befitting reply from the people. Asked about the assertion of the Congress and the Mahagathbandhan that the AIMIM was a “vote cutter”, Waqar said: “Those calling us that have got a befitting reply and their mouths will now be shut in the future as well.” On whether his party was likely to go with the Mahagathbandhan or the NDA, he said: “The decision will be taken by Asad (Owaisi) sahab, but the reality is that our fight is against the BJP and for the country. So the BJP and its alliance do not appear anywhere on our list.” Expressing happiness over the AIMIM’s performance, he said party workers were expecting such a result as they had toiled hard on the ground for the past five years. As per the latest available trends, the AIMIM had taken a substantial lead from Amour, Kochadhaman, Jokihat, Bahadurganj and Baisi. The AIMIM was in the fray in 20 seats, a majority of which went to polls in the third phase on Saturday, as part of the Grand Democratic Secular Front.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-568
11-11-2020||India||BJD snatches one bypoll seat from BJP||The results of the two Assembly bypolls in Odisha have reaffirmed chief minister Naveen Patnaik’s political invincibility with the ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) winning both Balasore Sadar and Tirtol seats. The BJD snatched the Balasore Sadar seat from BJP, its main rival in the state. Naveen, who is in his fifth consecutive term as chief minister, did not visit any of the two constituencies for campaigning unlike the senior leaders of the BJP and the Congress who held rallies and canvassed for their candidates moving from door to door. The chief minister instead addressed two virtual rallies in these constituencies in view of the coronavirus pandemic. Balasore Sadar in Balasore district was earlier represented by the BJP’s Madan Mohan Dutt. The BJP had made Dutt’s son Manas its candidate in the hope of cashing in on the sympathy factor. BJD candidate Swarup Kumar Das, who made his electoral debut in the bypoll, won the seat by a margin of 13,351 votes. The BJD managed to retain its hold on the Tirtol Assembly seat in Jagatsingpur district which had fallen vacant following the death of veteran Bishnu Charan Das, a former minister. The party had made his son Bijay Shankar Das its candidate. The young leader defeated his nearest BJP rival Rajkishore Behera by 41,703 votes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-568
11-11-2020||India||Amazon bows to anger||Amazon.com Inc said on Tuesday it had taken down listings of products such as briefs and doormats with Hindu sacred symbols, which were being sold on its overseas websites, following a furore on social media in India. #BoycottAmazon was one of the top trending topics on Twitter in India, with users sharing screenshots of Amazon listings of doormats and underwear emblazoned with insignia, including Ganesha. “We are taking down the products in question,” Amazon said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-568
11-11-2020||India||Modi, Xi share platform ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday shared a virtual platform with Chinese President Xi Jinping for the first time since the face-off along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh — at the 20th Summit of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation’s Council of Heads of State hosted by Russia. Given the virtual format, there was no scope for any meeting on the sidelines that have in the past helped break deadlocks. And, since the SCO does not encourage bilateral issues being raised at its meetings, the Prime Minister made no direct reference to the LAC situation but stressed the need for respecting each other’s sovereignty and territorial integrity while increasing connectivity in the world. Addressing the meeting in Hindi, Modi appeared to tick off Pakistan — again without naming it — when he described as unfortunate the repeated attempts to raise bilateral issues in the SCO in violation of its charter and the Shanghai spirit. This was a reference to Pakistan’s national security adviser Moeed Peerzada having the “new” map of the country in the background during an SCO meeting of NSAs in August, prompting Indian NSA Ajit Doval to leave the session in protest. Pakistan’s “new” map shows Gilgit-Baltistan and Kashmir as one territory, which has been described as “Indian Illegally Occupied Jammu and Kashmir”. Earlier, Pakistan used to describe Jammu and Kashmir as Indian-occupied Kashmir. The map also states that the region is disputed territory, whose “final status is to be decided in line with relevant UNSC resolutions”. Further, the international boundary on the eastern side has been extended up to the undefined frontier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-568
11-11-2020||India||SC lawyer Dushyant Dave questions priority to Arnab Goswami ||The Supreme Court will hold a special hearing on Wednesday during its Diwali recess to examine Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami’s plea for bail, prompting senior advocate Dushyant Dave to ask how Goswami gets “instant” hearing every time he approaches the top court while other petitioners languish in jail for months as they wait for their appeals to be listed. After his plea for interim bail was rejected on Monday by Bombay High Court, which said that by law Goswami should seek regular bail in the sessions court before approaching the higher courts, the Republic TV boss moved the top court on Tuesday. The Supreme Court has listed the matter before Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee on Wednesday. In a letter to the Supreme Court secretary-general, Dave, the president of the Supreme Court Bar Association, drew attention to the “extraordinary urgent listing” of Goswami’s special leave petition. “I address this letter to you as the president of the Supreme Court Bar Association to lodge a strong protest with regard to the subject matter which has been listed tomorrow…. I have nothing personal against Mr Goswami and I am not writing this letter to anyway interfere with his rights to move the Supreme Court. Like all citizens he also has the right to seek justice from the highest court,” Dave wrote. “The serious issue here is selective listing of matters that the registry under your leadership is indulging in for the last eight months during the Covid pandemic. While thousands of citizens remain in jails, languishing for long periods while their matters filed before the Hon’ble Supreme Court are not getting listed for weeks and months, it is, to say the least, deeply disturbing as to how and why every time Mr Goswami approaches the Supreme Court, his matter gets listed instantly,” the senior lawyer wrote. “Is there any special order or direction from Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India and the Master of the Roster in this regard? It is quite well known that such extraordinarily urgent listings of matters cannot and does not take place without specific orders from Hon’ble the Chief Justice. Or is it that as the administrative head you or the registrar listing is giving special preference to Shri Goswami?” he asked. Dave continued: “You are fully aware, and it is on record, that time and again I have received requests from various advocates on record to the effect that the matters filed by them are not getting listed for weeks and months though very urgent and involving serious issues requiring the Hon’ble court’s urgent intervention, including bail matters. They have even complained, giving names, that certain AOR (advocate on record) matters get instant listing while they have to wait in queue for a long time, sometimes against the same judgment being appealed against. “I must place on record that in a few cases you have kindly helped in getting such matters listed. But that is not the issue. The issue here is, why is this selective listing taking place when the system is supposedly computerised and is to work automatically? Why is it that despite the same, matters are getting circulated and that too before only a few Hon’ble benches? Why is there no foolproof system to be just and fair to all citizens and all AORs?… “…The likes of Shri Goswami get special treatment while ordinary Indians are made to suffer, including imprisonment…. “Even someone like Mr P. Chidambaram, a respected senior advocate, could not get similar speedy listing and had to spend long months in jail … “Sir, the subject matter (Goswami’s plea) was filed yesterday, it got instant diary number, though not final, and it is listed tomorrow. This is a gross abuse of administrative power, whosoever has exercised it on the administrative side. It gives an impression that clients represented by certain lawyers are getting special treatment, which does not speak well of the great institution that the Supreme Court is. “I request that till you install a foolproof system to ensure urgent listing on well-known principles, till you have listed all the matters filed by various AORs with urgent listing requests prior to November 10, you should not allow the subject matter to be heard. I request you to place my letter before Hon’ble bench hearing the matter tomorrow.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-568
11-11-2020||West Bengal||Flouting of Covid norms on local trains worry doctors||Doctors expressed concern over flouting of Covid safety norms in suburban trains that resumed services in Kolkata and other parts of West Bengal on Wednesday, warning that the pandemic situation would deteriorate. People jostled at several stations to catch the trains with compartments crammed as services resumed after seven months in the morning. Doctors said that such violations are ideal for the spread of the virus, diminishing the gains made over the past few weeks in the fight against the contagion. "We can clearly see people are not abiding by the Covid-19 safety protocols and this is definitely a matter of concern for us," said Dr Anirban Dalui, a public health specialist. "The problem is that those who are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms are travelling on the trains, risking the lives of people who are not taking proper precaution," he said. Dr Hiralal Konar of the Joint Platform of Doctors blamed improper planning by the state government and the railways for the violations. "The situation is quite alarming. I fear that if it goes on, the virus will spread to a level where it will be beyond control," he told PTI. "More planning was required keeping in mind that different people travel on the trains for different purposes. Those travelling to visit their relatives should not have been allowed. The government and the railways got ample to do the planning, but they could not," Dr Konar said. Senior physician Dr Syamasis Bandyopadhyay, however, said that it will take a couple of days for the commuters to understand and practice the safety norms while travelling on the suburban trains. "The situation is a concern for us but the government or the railways cannot be blamed. The common people have to show some responsibilities to maintain the physical distancing and follow the protocols while travelling," he said. "I believe the sense of responsibility will grow in a couple of days. We have to wait and see," Dr Bandyopadhyay said. The local train services under the jurisdiction of the Eastern and the South Eastern Railways have resumed. They were suspended in March as the nation went into a lockdown with the detection of COVID-19 cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-314
11-11-2020||West Bengal||GPS-fitted sound monitoring devices to track violators of firecracker ban ||The West Bengal Pollution Control Board (WBPCB) is distributing over 1,000 GPS-fitted sound monitoring devices among different police stations in the state to track people violating the firecracker ban during Kali Puja. The Calcutta High Court has banned the sale and bursting of firecrackers during Kali Puja and other upcoming festivals. "The devices will help the Calcutta and Bengal police forces pinpoint the spot and track the offender immediately," WBPCB Chairman Kalyan Rudra told PTI on Wednesday. The display board of the device shows the spot, date and time of the firecracker bursting along with the decibel level. A thermal printer embedded with the device enables the printout of the details for documentary evidence and prosecution, he said. "We have taught the police to run the devices. The WBPCB team in each zone will coordinate with the local policemen and offer assistance if needed," the official said. The GPS-fitted devices, developed by a state-run IT undertaking, are being used by the police and the WBPCB since Kali Puja last year. Earlier, the police used sound monitoring gadgets without GPS tracker and tried to nab violators after recording noise pollution in an area. The new devices will also be used to record decibel levels from loudspeakers and sound boxes blaring during the festival and take action if required.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-314
11-11-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul youth leader ‘assaulted trader’ in Malda’s Harishchandrapur||A youth Trinamul leader in Malda’s Harishchandrapur has been accused of demanding money from a local hardware trader, assaulting him and abusing his family after he refused to pay up. The incident that occurred on Sunday came to light on Tuesday when a trade body of Malda threatened to launch a business strike and demanded accused Durjoy Das be arrested. Sources said hardware trader Pawan Kedia had recently built a wall on his land. After some days, some elected representatives of the panchayat — the land is under Harishchandrpaur panchayat of Harishchandrapur-I block — asked him to demolish it. “They claimed the land belongs to the panchayat and told me I would have to demolish the wall in three days. I did not do it as I have documents to prove I own the land, and I readied my papers,” said Kedia. But before Kedia could approach panchayat authorities with papers, Durjoy, a youth Trinamul leader and son of elected panchayat member Basanti Das, met him on Sunday, the trader said. “He and some aides asked for money in exchange for settling the land issue. When I said no, they assaulted me at home and abused female members of my family.” Kedia filed a complaint against Das and some others with the police. “So far, the police have not taken any step against him,” added Kedia. Jayanta Kundu, secretary, Malda Merchant Chamber of Commerce, said the alleged attack on the trader and police inaction had left the business fraternity disappointed. Trinamul leaders tried to distance themselves from the incident. “We have no connection with it,” said Jiaur Rahman, youth Trinamul president of Harishchandrapur-I block. Chanchal SDPO Sajalkanti Biswas said police were probing the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-314
11-11-2020||West Bengal||Jute-growing village gets a taste of tea||A new sight — that of a lush green tea plantation — greets people at Bajejama Pakhihaga village of Cooch Behar these days. So far, the village under Matalhat panchayat of Dinhata never had a tea plantation. This area in north Bengal has primarily been known as an agrarian belt, with tobacco and jute its main crops. The credit for the change in the crop basket goes to Partha Pratim Sarkar, a resident of Bajejama Pakhihaga and social worker. Sarkar not only introduced tea plantation in the area by taking a plunge himself, but is also spreading awareness on how to grow tea leaves — a cash crop — among local farmers and migrant workers. Around four years back, Sarkar started working on his plan to develop a tea plantation over 50 bighas that he owns in the village. “The plantation is ready in around 30 bighas while work is going on in the remaining land. From the plantation, I started getting around 6,000 kilos of tea leaves a month from this season. I am sending the leaves to a tea factory in Madarihat and these days, I am earning Rs 18 to 20 per kilo,” said Sarkar. There has been a decline in the yield of tea leaves in large tea estates of north Bengal. This has led to the emergence of the small tea sector, and for the past few years, the small tea sector is contributing around half the total tea produced in the region. “I believe that in the coming years, small tea plantations like the one I have will be the major supplier of tea leaves. It can provide an opportunity to farmers who often suffer losses by cultivating traditional crops and can also be a means of employment for migrant workers of our district,” he said. As of now, there are some tea plantations in Cooch Behar district but most of those are in Mekhliganj subdivision close to tea belts of Jalpaiguri. The tea plantation has also created an opportunity for daily wage earners of the village, particularly those who are old and cannot do physically demanding work. In small tea plantations, around three workers get around 200 to 250 days’ work (of tea plucking) for every acre of land. “My plantation is spread over around 10 acres of land and I am engaging around 30 workers these days. Many of them are middle-aged or old, and find it convenient to pluck tea leaves,” Sarkar said. If more plantations come up in the rural pockets of Dinhata, it would create direct employment for many people, he pointed out. Sarkar’s plan has encouraged a number of other farmers of his village and some others who are from adjoining areas. “Many of them have approached me to know how they can start the plantations. I have provided them some guidance and have also asked them to visit the tea board’s office in Jalpaiguri and talk with small tea growers,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-314
11-11-2020||West Bengal||Lost elephant calf in Malbazar sent to rescue hub||An elephant calf was rescued from near the New Mal railway station in Malbazar subdivision of Jalpaiguri on Tuesday. This is the third elephant calf rescued in four days. Sources said on Tuesday morning, morning walkers spotted the jumbo calf that had strayed near the station. It is around one-and-a-half years old, foresters said. As more and more people gathered, the elephant got tense and started running around. Soon, a team from the Malbazar wildlife squad arrived and intercepted the calf. They tried to send it back to the forest but could not locate its herd. “It has been sent to the rescue centre in Gorumara National Park,” said Bibhuti Bhusan Das, range officer of the wildlife squad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-314
11-11-2020||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee looms large in omission ||On Bihar poll results day, a political drama of a possible rift in Trinamul played out in Bengal through parallel events in Nandigram held in memory of martyrs of the anti-land acquisition movement. Differences in Trinamul became apparent as state transport minister and party heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari and his followers appeared on the “apolitical” dais of the Bhumi Uchhed Pratirodh Committee (BUPC) to pay tributes to the martyrs, staying away from a hurriedly organised event by Trinamul for the same cause later in the afternoon. Suvendu, who is apparently disgruntled with Trinamul for apparently not getting his due, did not mention chief minister Mamata Banerjee in his speech. From the Trinamul dais, senior leaders Firhad Hakim, Purnendu Bose and Dola Sen obliquely attacked Suvendu, who was the main draw at the BUPC event. At 11am, Suvendu took the BUPC dais at the Gokulnagar High School Ground, Tekhali in Nandigram. The event, announced weeks ago and carried out annually since 2008, saw a turnout of around 35,000 to 40,000 people. Referring to the separate — and inaugural — Trinamul event, Suvendu asked in a largely anonymous diatribe,  why Nandigram was being remembered after 13 years. The question was linked to absence of senior Trinamul leaders in the annual event that he has been presiding over for years. The minister, who played a key role in the anti-land acquisition movement in Nandigram, did not even mention Mamata Banerjee once, peppering his speech with remarks that seemed to be laced with sarcasm towards the ruling establishment. “If you come before the elections, you also have to come after them…. We will meet in the battlefield, on the platform of politics. That battle will be won by the people, by democracy. Suvendu Adhikari does not have fear,” he said. Land movements in Singur and Nandigram proved pivotal to Mamata’s political career and propelled her to power in 2011. Suvendu, now 51, is one of the tallest leaders of the ruling party and is part of its seven-member apex steering committee as a general-secretary. His father Sisir Adhikari is the Contai MP, one of his brothers Dibyendu Adhikari is the Tamluk MP, and another brother Soumyendu Adhikari is Contai’s civic chairman. “BUPC zindabad, Nandigram zindabad, Joy Bangla, Bharat Mata zindabad…. Political analysts have been craving for a political statement from me from here. But I will not say anything political from this holy dais,” said Suvendu, flanked by brother Dibyendu, Khejuri MLA Ranajit Mondal, Contai North MLA Banasri Maity, Nandakumar MLA Sukumar De and Moyna MLA Sangram Dolui. Panskura West MLA Firoja Bibi, however, attended both events. “I will say what I have to say from an appropriate platform. Which path I can take smoothly, without falling into the gutter, I will specify from such a platform. Where I have been tripping, where my road is filled with potholes, where I have been facing difficulties, I will say everything, but not today,” said Suvendu. ‘Don’t aid BJP’ At 3.30pm, in Nandigram’s Hajrakata, the Trinamul event began. Organised on a 24-hour notice, it was attended by around 8,000 people. On the dais were urban development minister Firhad Hakim, technical education minister Purnendu Bose, Rajya Sabha member Dola Sen, Ramnagar MLA Akhil Giri, Patashpur MLA Jyotirmoy Kar and East Midnapore zilla parishad’s deputy chief Sheikh Sufian. Contai MP and Trinamul chief in East Midnapore Sisir Adhikari, Suvendu’s father,  was conspicuous by his absence despite receiving an invitation. “Never before was Mamata Banerjee ignored on the BUPC platform. For the first time, not only was her picture missing, even her name was not mentioned. That’s why we had to organise a separate programme here…. The BJP only divides, the BUPC should do the opposite,” said Sen. Bose said the Nandigram movement was historic and the crème de la crème of civil society from across the country had joined it because of Mamata. “Her leadership sustained the movement. Those who dare to omit her dare to forget history,” said Bose. Bose said everybody ought to remember that Mamata’s picture over their head and its absence made a great deal of difference. Hakim, like Adhikari a general-secretary and member of the seven-member apex steering committee of the party, said he and the others would have attended the BUPC event had they been invited, like in the previous years. “Don’t do anything to strengthen the BJP, which is what you do if you try to weaken Mamata,” warned Hakim. “Like there cannot be India without Mahatma Gandhi, China without Mao Zedong, Russia without Vladimir Lenin, one must never forget that there cannot be Bengal without Mamata Banerjee.” Murmurs of Suvendu’s dissatisfaction with Trinamul, coinciding with the rise of party chief Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek, have been doing the rounds for some time now, with many BJP state unit leaders claiming that it was only a matter of time that he would join the saffron camp. Some sources however said that Suvendu might form a separate political party that joins the NDA. Last week, when asked about Suvendu at a news meet in Calcutta, Union home minister Amit Shah dodged the question.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-315
11-11-2020||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal’s recovery rate past 90%||Bengal’s recovery rate on Tuesday went past 90 per cent for the first time, to reach 90.11 per cent, aided by a drop in the state’s total active cases for 15 days on the trot since Durga Puja. The state logged 4,415 recoveries, resetting the record for daily recoveries for the 21st time in 22 days, 3,891 new cases and 53 deaths, 15 of them from Calcutta. The total of active cases dropped from 37,190 to 33,444 in these 15 days, and has gone back to the level of October 17. The state reported 62,179 recoveries in the 15 days after Puja, outweighing the 59,290 new cases detected. With 15 days of continuous dip in active cases, Bengal matched its previous best spell that ended on September 7. Bengal’s total of novel coronavirus cases is 4.13 lakh now, including over 3.72 lakh recoveries and 7,403 deaths. “With a recovery rate of 90-plus, we are back on track. Before the setback of the first three weeks of October, we were en route to getting there a lot quicker. But now, we are chasing the national rate (92.68 on Tuesday) again,” said a minister. In yet another milestone, with 44,117 tests on Tuesday, Bengal’s test total went past 50 lakh, to touch 50.03 lakh, at 55,591 tests per million people. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja. The numbers of infections from the Puja days, largely available by now, has shown that the intervention was effective. The high court has issued a similar set of instructions to keep the outbreak from worsening over Kali Puja and Diwali. Of the total death toll, 6,200, or 83.7 per cent, were attributed to co-morbidities. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.79 now, still behind the national rate of 1.47 per cent. The state reported 33.61 per cent occupancy in the 13,508 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 101 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 4.32 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-315
11-11-2020||West Bengal||Cop held over custody death in Bolpur||An inspector of police formerly posted in Bolpur, Prabir Kumar Dutta, was on Tuesday produced at a Bolpur court through videoconferencing for allegedly beating to death a man in police custody in September 2016. Additional chief judicial magistrate of Bolpur Ayan Kumar Bandopadhyay remanded him to seven days in judicial custody and ordered his production at the court of the additional district and sessions judge on November 18. Dutta, who so far was posted as an inspector in East Burdwan, was brought in an ambulance outside Bolpur court, but stayed in it as he was ill. The court also ordered his treatment in custody, said his advocate Swagata Biswas. Dutta was produced before court on charges of culpable homicide not amounting to murder in the 2016 death of truck driver Raju Thandar, 26, causing disappearance of evidence of offence, among others. His name was in the supplementary chargesheet filed by the CID on October 5. “He surrendered at Narendrapur police station on November 8 as there was an arrest warrant against him,” said Phiroj Kumar Pal, assistant public prosecutor, who opposed Dutta’s bail plea. Pal had reminded the court that it was “worst crime” as a man died in police custody. Sources said the police had allegedly arrested truck driver Raju on September 11, 2016, but cops claimed they had rescued him from near the Bolpur sub-divisional hospital with head injuries a few days before. The police said Raju had been taken to the hospital where doctors declared him dead on arrival. Some people accused the police of beating Raju to death in custody. A mob ransacked the police station. Dutta was the inspector-in-charge of Bolpur police station when the incident occurred. The police stuck to their claim and lodged a case of unnatural death. Soon, activists of the Association of Protection for Democratic Rights (APDR) circulated a purported email sent to then district police chief and other senior officers by Dutta. The email said Raju was arrested. What emerged later was that the case filed following Raju’s arrest had been replaced by the name of one Babar Sheikh of Nanoor in Birbhum. What cops forgot to change were emails exchanged on Raju’s arrest. The case was handed over to the CID. “The police first claimed Raju was not arrested and later we discovered documents related to his arrest. Dutta, then inspector-in-charge of Bolpur, had tried to suppress the event of Raju’s death in custody. We demand his punishment,” said Sailen Mishra, the APDR secretary in Birbhum. The police said apart from section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence), Dutta had also been charged with 166 (public servant disobeying law, with intent to cause injury to any person), 167 (public servant framing an incorrect document with intent to cause injury), 323 (voluntary causing hurt), 325 (voluntary causing grievous hurt), 342 (wrongful confinement) and 343 (wrongful confinement for three or four days). Advocates said that all the charges established that Raju had been killed without the intention to murder in police custody and he had been confined illegally for four days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-315
11-11-2020||West Bengal||Haven’t sold pride: Bimal Gurung on new pact||Bimal Gurung’s supporters on Tuesday packed a community hall at St Mary-Tung area near Kurseong with people for him to address them from Calcutta through videoconference. Gurung explained in detail the need for a new pact with Trinamul and tried to flag off issues to his core constituency in tea gardens. Gurung’s party office at Patlebas, Darjeeling, also opened on Tuesday after a gap of more than three years. The Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader (Gurung faction) has started addressing large gatherings of party supporters through videoconferencing after three years, in an apparent bid to recover lost ground amid his prolonged absence from the hills after the Gorkhaland agitation of 2017. “Till now we have not sold the pride, the self-respect of our community,” Gurung said, emphasising he had told in “clear-cut” terms (to Trinamul) that his party could not forget the Gorkhaland demand. This statement acquires added significance as Gurung resurfaced on October 21 in Calcutta after three years to declare he was severing ties with the BJP-led NDA and support Trinamul in the upcoming Bengal polls, a party which has been against the separate-statehood demand. Though Trinamul does not support the statehood demand, Gurung’s speech showed he was committed to the cause of Gorkhaland. “I explained during a news meet (in Calcutta) that during the 2024 Lok Sabha election we will support whichever party that takes forward the Gorkhaland demand,” added Gurung. Politically, Gurung said, it was a do-or-die situation. “We were of the opinion that 2021 was most important and we had to take a swift decision keeping in the mind the (Bengal) election,” said Gurung, adding that a wrong decision would mean “the party would have died and along with it the issue (of Gorkhaland)...” Without taking names, Gurung alluded that the political chapter of rival Binay Tamang would “close” within a few days. Launching a multi-pronged attack on Tamang, who heads a breakaway faction of the Morcha, Gurung said that there were allegations of corruption in appointment of teachers and the interest of tea workers had not been taken care of. “During my tenure we always ensured a 20 per cent bonus at one go (this year the tea gardens decided to pay bonus in two instalments of 15 and 5 per cent). After I return I promise tea workers that you will get a 20 per cent bonus in 2021,” said Gurung. The 87-odd tea gardens in the hills employ around 70,000 tea workers. Along with the welfare of tea garden workers, employment would be another core area of focus, he added. “Difficult times” faced by his supporters on the run — Gurung said he too was on the run for the sake of the “community” despite having lived like a king (in Darjeeeling) — was another key point of his speech on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-315
11-11-2020||West Bengal||Tailoring skills for wives of Sunderbans migrant workers||A social outfit at Sandeshkhali in the northern Sunderbans has started skilling the wives of jobless migrant workers amid the pandemic. The Sandeshkhali Maa Saroda Women and Rural Welfare Society has chosen 50 women from financially underprivileged tribal families and distributed among them sewing machines, cloth lengths and thread rolls. The outfit aims to equip homemakers with tailoring skills. But as an immediate solution to lessen their financial woes, the women are being trained to make face masks and skull caps that are in demand during the pandemic. Last Friday, members of the welfare society handed over sewing machines funded by Linde Global Support Services Private Limited. Following the the nation-wide lockdown in March, many migrant workers from parts of Sandeshkhali-1 block returned home from mainly southern states where they worked as construction workers. On May 20, Cyclone Amphan made their lives worse. Despite unlock phases, many workers could not go back. Their wives, mostly homemakers, had no skills that could help them earn. Subhasis Mondal, secretary of the welfare society, said: “In such a situation, we decided to empower the women. Men can return to work at a later stage, but women can start earning at home.” To implement the idea, the organisation, supported by the Sandeshkhali-1 block administration, selected one member each from the 50 tribal women groups. Madhabi Sardar, 36, wife of a migrant worker from Metiakhali, said this training was a ray of hope after Covid and Amphan. “They will be trained in cutting, knitting, and sewing garments. We have requested the district administration to let them make school uniforms once their training is over,” an official of the welfare society said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-315
11-11-2020||West Bengal||Bankura starts off Jungle Mahal outreach||Bankura district magistrate S. Arun Prasad on Monday launched an outreach programme named “Weekly Grievance Day” to find on-the-spot solutions to grievances of people living in a district that is part of the state’s Jungle Mahal region. Sources said the move came a week after Prasad surveyed tribal villages in the vicinity of the district headquarters on foot to witness first-hand the problems of the people. In this initiative, Prasad is following his predecessor Uma Sankar S., who introduced the idea, but had to stop it following the Covid-19 outbreak, said an official of the district administration. The grievance day event kicked off on Monday at Rabindra Bhavan auditorium, the same venue where Union home minister Amit Shah held a political meeting on November 5. “We are intimating all the block level and departmental officials to address grievances on the spot. On the first day, around 40 persons came to us with grievances,” Prasad said. “The DM will visit different areas, mainly in pockets of the Jungle Mahal as part of the outreach programme every alternate Sunday,” an official said. The initiative is significant as the ruling Trinamul Congress had fared poorly in the area in the 2021 Lok Sabha polls. The BJP bagged five out of six parliamentary seats and the Trinamul lagged behind the BJP in 31 of 40 Assembly segments in the Jungle Mahal area. In the Ranibandh Assembly segment, the Trinamul had also lagged behind the BJP. In Bankura, ruling Trinamul lagged behind the saffron party in all 12 Assembly seats. Sources said chief minister Mamata Banerjee has asked district magistrates and other officials to reach out to remote areas of Jungle Mahal in order to address people’s demands and grievances. In her recent administrative meeting in Jhargram—one of the Jungle Mahal districts — Banerjee directed district officials to reach out to tribal hamlets and meet villagers to know what they want. Sanatan Kundu, an 82-year-old retired chemistry professor from Bankura’s Chhatna, met the district on Monday regarding an ongoing land related dispute. “I am facing severe torture by one of my relatives over land. I approached the district magistrate requesting him a solution for it. He assured me of help.” Senior officials said that earlier, such meetings or public grievance days used to take place in the office of the district magistrate. But now, authorities had chosen the Rabindra Bhavan auditorium to maintain Covid protocol.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-315
11-11-2020||North East||21 arrested in school scholarship funds scam ||Twenty-one people, including four headmasters, have been arrested by CID sleuths from four Assam districts for allegedly misappropriating pre-matric scholarship funds for the past two fiscals. Of the 21 arrested since Sunday evening by the CID sleuths with help of the local police from multiple locations spread over four districts — seven from Goalpara, seven from Darrang, six from Kamrup and one from Dhubri. “About Rs 10 crore has been misappropriated but the exact amount will be known after the probe is completed,” IGP (CID) Surendra Kumar said, conveying that the scale of the fraudulent operations. All the 21 accused were produced in the CJM court here on Tuesday. Six of them were sent judicial custody. The remaining 15 were sent to four days police remand each, Kumar said. The CID started probing  after an FIR was lodged by Mahmood Hassan, director, Assam Minority Board and state nodal officer for the pre-matric scholarship for minorities on August 28 for alleged misappropriation of funds for minority students for the year 2018-19 and 2019-20. There are two layers of verification of candidates, one at the school level and one at the district level but the fraudsters  managed to create login credentials of the headmasters (where they were not in league)  and managed to get into the system and siphon of funds, a CID official said. The case (20/2020) has been registered under Sections 120 (B),/406/409/419/420/468/471 of the IPC dealing with criminal conspiracy, forgery and cheating, among others. The arrested include four headmasters, one teacher, three customer service point owners, one president of school management committee, 10 middlemen and three electronic data processors, suggesting the presence of a well-entrenched racket. From one of the arrested persons from Goalpara, three laptops, 217 photographs of students, 104 student certificate, 173 pre-matric scholarship application forms and 11 bank passbooks were recovered. The fully Central government-funded scholarship implemented by the Union ministry of minority affairs  is for students from Class 1 to X who have secured 50 per cent and above in the final exams and whose parents/guardians annual income is less than Rs 1 lakh. Students from the five minority communities are Muslim, Christian, Sikh, Parsi and Jain are eligible to apply online for the scholarship and the scholarship amount (Rs 10700 per student per year is directly transferred to the account of the eligible students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-37
11-11-2020||Opinion||Move forward: Joseph Biden set to assume US presidency||Sir — Joseph Biden is set to assume presidency at a time when the United States of America is encumbered by three simultaneous crises (“The rising”, Nov 9). A brutal second wave of the coronavirus pandemic has reared its head, racking up more than 1,00,000 cases and 1,000 deaths per day. The US economy, too, cannot recover fully as long as the pandemic rages on unabated. But the third crisis, that of race relations, is the one that Biden and Kamala Harris will be under tremendous pressure to address expeditiously. In this regard, it must be noted that, in sharp contrast to Donald Trump’s actions as the president over the last four years, Biden has promised to unite all Americans. Biden’s victory is a mixed bag for the Narendra Modi-led government in India. While Modi has invested considerably in the Trump administration — he is even believed to have endorsed Trump for re-election — his government’s connection with Biden goes back to the Barack Obama regime when the incumbent external affairs minister, S. Jaishankar, was the Indian ambassador to the US and the present ambassador to the US, Taranjit Singh Sandhu, was his deputy. Both of them have reportedly kept in touch with Biden’s advisers, ensuring that the US maintains its bi-partisan consensus towards India. Many in Delhi might be worried that the Biden administration may apply greater scrutiny to issues such as civil liberties and human rights. As such, India will indeed have to recalibrate its foreign policy with regard to the incoming Biden administration. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — The electoral victory of Joe Biden in the US has considerable implications for India. The Biden administration is likely to strengthen ties between India and the US. On the other hand, there could be disagreements between the two countries over contentious issues such as religious fundamentalism, India’s Kashmir policy, the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, the National Register of Citizens, Islamophobic politics, the plight of migrant labourers issue and so on. Being a Democrat, Biden may not be as aggressive as Donald Trump on the China front. However, the US is unlikely to reverse its China policy altogether. As for trade, negotiations that were underway for trade deals might have to be reworked to some extent, especially keeping in mind the need to revive both economies in view of the Covid-19 crisis. Revisiting the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action policy could also prove to be beneficial for India. Besides this, Biden’s take on the Paris accord could be of great importance in fighting the problem of climate change. Venu G.S.,Kollam, Kerala Sir — As expected, Joe Biden has won the US presidential election by defeating Donald Trump. Along with Americans, the entire world had been witnessing with anguish the erratic decisions taken by Trump in the last four years. His right-wing leanings — including his tacit support to white supremacists which led to a huge divide among the American people — were rather disturbing. Trump’s autocratic decisions on many issues, some of which had massive global ramifications, forced many people to long for his exit from the White House and wish for a less controversial and more unbiased leader who could set right the mess created by Trump and then find ways for the US to get back its former glory as the ‘oldest democracy of the world’. Trump has now become a good example of what a leader should not be. Tharcius S. Fernando,Chennai Sir — It is a relief to hear the change in tone coming from the corridors of power in the US. The remarks made by the president-elect, Joe Biden, in his first speech were soothing compared to the harshness with which Donald Trump concluded his term. Biden’s words of compassion, call for unity among people and expression of respect towards rival Republicans reveal his faith in democratic norms. The promise to form an expert committee immediately to look into matters related to the war against Covid-19 sends the right signal to the administration and displays his no-nonsense attitude. Trump should pave the way for the smooth transition of power, instead of crying foul over a clear mandate in favour of his opponent. The people of the US have minced no words in bidding Trump goodbye. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh Think again Sir — Diwali is only days away, and several states in India are still doubtful about allowing the use of firecrackers, especially keeping in mind the plight of Covid-19 patients. Given the situation, should not citizens themselves resolve to celebrate Diwali without polluting the environment further? Diwali has traditionally been the festival of lights. What state governments should promote is for people to buy earthen lamps to decorate their homes and usher in positivity. This would also greatly help potters and other artisans who are already having to deal with a lack of business. Isha Agarwal,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-119
11-11-2020||Opinion||Breathless: Welcome ban on firecrackers||Amid the fear of the impending fury of sound and smoke that is integral to the festive season around this time of the year, the Calcutta High Court’s ban on the use of firecrackers has come as a welcome ray of light. Air pollution is one of India’s primary killers. India, it has been estimated, accounts for 60 per cent of the global deaths attributed to foul air; the country also has the dubious distinction of being home to 16 out of 20 of the world’s most polluted cities in the World Health Organization’s global PM2.5 database. There is no doubt that firecrackers are a major pollutant. Last year, air quality in New Delhi and other Indian cities had deteriorated to the worst recorded level a day after Diwali. The institutional response to the threat this year has been encouraging. Not just the Calcutta High Court but also the National Green Tribunal has prohibited the sale or purchase of firecrackers for the rest of the month in Indian cities and towns where the average ambient air quality for November fell under the ‘poor and above’ category. The Covid-19 pandemic has added to the concerns regarding public health. A connection between air pollution and Covid-19 mortality cannot be ruled out; a Harvard University study showed that an increase of only one microgramme per cubic metre in PM 2.5 is associated with an 8 per cent increase in the Covid-19 death rate. Several states — Delhi, Rajasthan, Haryana, Maharashtra and others — have announced bans on firecrackers. It is shameful that the Calcutta High Court’s progressive stance has not been matched by an energetic response from the Bengal administration. Bengal seems to have opted for a conciliatory approach, merely appealing to the people to not burst crackers, in spite of environmental groups and medical practitioners having written to the chief minister asking for a complete ban. This reliance on public goodwill is yet to make a difference on the ground; crackers are still being sold in traditional hubs. The administrative apathy to the spectre of pollution has shown itself in other ways too. The Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority had approached the Supreme Court to challenge the NGT’s rejection of its plea to use Rabindra Sarobar for Chhath Puja. It is a pity that environmental protection remains limited within the ambit of judicial intervention; is not people’s health the prerogative of the government? This administrative lethargy is instrumental in blunting the edge of targeted awareness initiatives and vigilant policing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-119
11-11-2020||Opinion||Close call: Bihar assembly polls||Of all the gladiators that had entered the electoral ring to win the crown in Bihar, there is conjecture that the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Rashtriya Janata Dal have left the arena as the most satisfied warriors. The RJD witnessed a late surge; but the people of Bihar have also gifted the BJP several aces. Its showing will assure it the status of the senior partner in its alliance with Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United). This could set the stage for the BJP to emerge — finally — from under Mr Kumar’s shadow and consolidate its position as the principal political force of the National Democratic Alliance in Bihar. This opening could give the party an opportunity to widen its electoral base in the state. The BJP would be hoping that its famed social re-engineering project would alter Bihar’s political landscape and make up for the ground lost by the NDA since 2019. The simultaneous — significant — weakening of Mr Kumar’s political position would also gladden the BJP’s heart. It is true that Mr Kumar was battling anti-incumbency. But it appears that the electorate seems have singled out Mr Kumar, not the BJP that was in power in partnership with the JD(U), for poor governance as well as the administrative failures to deal with the pandemic and its fallout on Bihar’s sizeable migrant constituency. There is reason to believe that the prime minister’s charismatic outreach helped the state BJP escape public disaffection. This election — it has kept political watchers on tenterhooks — will also be remembered for the spirited battle waged by Tejashwi Yadav, the principal lieutenant of the Mahagathbandhan. Mr Yadav’s challenge had been compounded by the absence of his father, Lalu Prasad, from the battleground. But Mr Yadav had soldiered on, infusing energy into the Grand Alliance’s campaign by keeping his focus on employment and social inclusion. Had the distribution of seats within the Mahagathbandhan been done wisely — the Congress has ended up punching way above its weight in terms of its strike rate — the RJD would have gained further. Mr Yadav has announced his arrival on Bihar’s political firmament. The photo-finish notwithstanding, the outcome in Bihar, when viewed along with the results of by-elections in several other states, including Madhya Pradesh where the BJP had toppled the Congress regime by encouraging defections, would not disappoint the saffron camp. The message would certainly spur the BJP on to newer conquests. Mission Bengal comes next.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-119
11-11-2020||Opinion||How ayushman is Bharat?||There has been an exorbitant rise in out-of-pocket expenditure and its subsequent impact on the consumption basket and intra-household allocation of resources has not gone unnoticed. In 2015, the World Bank and the World Health Organization had estimated that around 400 million people lack access to basic health services, and that 6 per cent of people in low and middle-income countries are being pushed further into extreme poverty because of increased spending on health. The Indian government attempted to tackle this issue by introducing the Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojana in 2008; the RSBY covered hospitalization expenses up to Rs 30,000 for families below the poverty line. However, the scheme did not make any significant difference. The Bharatiya Janata Party-led government launched the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana in 2018. Billed as the world’s largest publicly-funded health insurance scheme and designed in tandem with the sustainable development goals, the PM-JAY is an entitlement-based scheme, which provides an insurance coverage of five lakh to 100 million ‘poor and vulnerable’ households identified on the basis of the database of Socio-Economic Caste Census, 2011. Challenges of identification, sustainability, finance and synchronization had been highlighted on its completion of one year. Official records show that PM-JAY had facilitated over one crore treatments upon its completion of two years. Yet, narratives from the ground reveal glaring disparities. I recently undertook a study to understand the patterns of expenditure and savings among households headed by women in Lucknow district. I interacted with 60 such households, studying their spending on education, health and leisure. I will concentrate on my findings in health for this piece. PM-JAY extends its services to ‘female-headed households with no adult male member between age 16 to 59’. Such an analysis, therefore, merits scrutiny. My research findings show that low-income households prefer private hospitals because of their quality and quicker services. But they cannot afford the costs. Households engaged in daily wage work preferred prescriptions from pharmacies due to the paucity of time. Some households opted for homeopathic treatment on account of the tedious process of availing healthcare services. With the rise in income, households could afford private healthcare services. Most families with members employed with the government preferred public healthcare institutions since ‘connections’ facilitated quicker services. Out of the 50 households eligible for PM-JAY health cards, only two respondent families actually possessed it; of the two, one family did not plan on using it. The families complained of delays from the pradhan’s end and the lack of enthusiasm in the panchayat to procure the health cards for them. A number of eligible families — their names are on the official list of card recipients — had not received their cards. Upon questioning the local authorities, they were informed that there was no response from the higher authorities on the matter. Most families were unaware of the perks of the PM-JAY health card. Those who knew of the benefits said they were not enthused because of the lack of effective functioning of the initiative. One particular family revealed that they had been subject to stigma by the authorities on the production of the card. A report by UN Women and UNDP states that Indian women are 2.7 times more likely to die of Covid-19 death when compared to white women. Research has also drawn linkages between a robust health infrastructure and gender equity. A resilient and sustainable health network is a step towards attaining Sustainable Development Goal-5. The effective implementation of PM-JAY would be possible if we adopt an approach that tends to the community’s needs, is evidence-based and well-administered. Such a strategy will also ensure that the objective of PM-JAY — breaking the poverty cycle caused by exorbitant health spending — is met. Universal healthcare is based on the principle of equity. Equity in health is rooted in the paradigm of distributive justice. My recommendation to the government as a concerned citizen would be to conduct periodic gender-disaggregated analysis of PM-JAY to unlock its potential and improve its implementation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-119
11-11-2020||Opinion||A new deal||If the government spends a certain amount and raises it through taxes, the common understanding is that the real goods and services released by those who pay these taxes are then used by the government for its expenditure. But this understanding is wrong. A part of the tax comes out of savings and releases no goods and services whatsoever. Even the part that comes out of consumption releases goods and services that are quite different from what government expenditure requires. But then why is there this insistence that the government must finance its spending by raising an equal amount of revenue resources? In reality, the goods and services demanded by government expenditure come not from anyone releasing them but largely from using up the slack that exists in the economy in the form of unsold stocks of goods and unutilized capacity. Raising an equal amount of taxes to finance expenditure is simply to ensure that no claims against the government build up in private hands that can cause future problems through a liquidity overhang or debt-servicing (apart from increasing wealth inequality in society). Thus, the real question in raising government expenditure is whether there is enough slack in the economy. And the answer in a capitalist economy is usually yes, which is pertinent for the issue of economic rights in India. It has been estimated that instituting five basic economic rights - the right to affordable food, the right to employment (or full wages if employment is not provided), the right to free, publicly-provided, quality healthcare for all through a National Health Service, the right to free, publicly-provided, quality education for all up to university level and the right to an old-age pension and adequate disability benefit — would cost, in addition to what is currently spent under these heads, about 10 per cent of the gross domestic product. There is enough slack in the economy, even leaving aside the current pandemic period, to allow this additional expenditure. If this expenditure is not concentrated into one single year but staggered over a couple of years, during which capacity can be built up, then there is even less to worry about. Some recent data also remove all doubts about the availability of financial resources for instituting these rights. According to Credit Suisse, total private wealth in India in 2019 was $12.6 trillion (The Hindu, October 21, 2019), which has gone up further in 2020. An Oxfam report states that the top 1 per cent of the population owns 42.5 per cent of this total wealth (Mint, January 20). Thus, at the current exchange rate, the top 1 per cent owns wealth that exceeds Rs 400 lakh crore. Wealth estimates are notoriously unreliable as they are influenced by fluctuations in stock market prices. Even so, one can say with some certainty that the top 1 per cent of the population in 2020 held at least Rs 400 lakh crore of private wealth. If a wealth tax of 2 per cent is levied upon this, it would fetch Rs 8 lakh crore of tax revenue. A 2 per cent wealth tax rate is not unusually high. True, most European economies have either reduced wealth tax rates or abandoned it in recent years, but this has been done under the impact of the rightward shift in economic policy, which has also increased wealth inequality greatly. But two early candidates in the US presidential race, Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders, had proposed a progressive wealth tax. In Warren’s plan, 2 per cent was the minimum wealth tax rate on wealth starting from $50 million, and 3 per cent the maximum. Sanders too wanted a 2 per cent tax on wealth starting from $50m, although his minimum was 1 per cent on wealth between $32 and $50 million, and went up to 8 per cent for wealth over $10 billion. Interestingly, 18 super-rich Americans had come out strongly in support of the Warren plan (this was before Sanders unrolled his), wanting to be taxed more, and asking for a reduction in wealth inequality in that country. A wealth tax needs to be supplemented by an inheritance tax, because it is logically complementary (otherwise people would evade wealth tax by partitioning their wealth among children) and also because capitalist ethics demand it. These ethics suggest that capitalists’ earnings are justified because they have some special quality, such as entrepreneurship or risk-taking. But this does not justify their children inheriting wealth unless they show some such quality themselves; in fact, wealth through inheritance goes against the bourgeois justification for capitalists’ wealth. If we assume that one-twentieth of the wealth of the top 1 per cent of private wealth-owners — that is Rs 20 lakh crore — gets bequeathed to their progeny every year, then even a modest 25 per cent tax on the wealth so transferred should fetch the government a revenue of Rs 5 lakh crore. The word, ‘modest’, is apposite since Japan has an inheritance tax of 50 per cent, the United States of America 40 per cent, and most European countries also around 40 per cent. Just these two taxes — a 2 per cent wealth tax and a 25 per cent inheritance tax — levied only on the top 1 per cent of the population should, therefore, fetch Rs 13 lakh crore, or about 6.5 per cent of the GDP that would have been obtained in the absence of the pandemic. This is all the extra taxation that is needed to finance an additional 10 per cent of GDP as government expenditure. The reason is that when the government spends 10 per cent more of the GDP, this creates incomes in the hands of the people, whose demand then rises, creating further incomes and so on through various rounds of the ‘multiplier’. If we assume no import leakages and a multiplier value of 2.5, then the additional income that would be generated would be 25 per cent of the GDP. Even if 15 per cent of this accrues as tax revenue in the normal course to the government (the Centre and states taken together), it would amount to 3.75 per cent. The additional tax revenue required to finance an extra expenditure of 10 per cent of the GDP thus becomes only 6.25 per cent of GDP, which is more than covered by our two proposed taxes. Thus India can build a welfare State just by these two taxes levied on the top 1 per cent of the population. The figures presented above can be disputed. And there are issues of administration, including the division of tasks between the Centre and the states that we have not discussed. The point, however, is that the country can easily afford to build a welfare State with certain basic economic rights for every citizen. It is not resources but the lack of political will, or ruling class antagonism towards the working people, that explains why even after seven decades of Independence, the majority of the people live in abysmal poverty, with authoritarian-fascist elements whipping up prejudices to keep the poor from waging a united struggle against their material deprivation. The real antidote to the communalism and divisiveness currently being promoted is to invoke an inclusive notion of citizenship. The democratic forces in the country in their struggle against the divisive elements must work for a New Deal which, instead of offering a minimum basic income that smacks of largesse, institutes instead a regime of fundamental economic rights. The author is Professor Emeritus, Centre for Economic Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-119
11-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad auto drivers hiking fare are being punished: Transport officer||With the Jharkhand government making it mandatory for all public transport operators to reintroduce the pre-lockdown fares, regular disputes between the passengers and auto-rickshaw operators have become a norm in Dhanbad. While the passengers are insisting on paying the old fare, auto drivers are continuing to charge the increased fare, citing difficulty in managing fuel expense due to the constraint imposed on them of accommodating only a limited number of passengers in vehicles, due to Covid-19. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Ranjit Keshri, a shop owner at Jharia’s Steel Gate, said that despite the government calling for the restoration of old fare, the drivers are charging the same amount as they were charging while ferrying only two passengers during the lockdown period. “Travelling from Dhanbad Station to Steel Gate by auto would cost Rs 10 in the pre-lockdown time. Now, when the lockdown is over and there are limited restrictions, still the auto drivers are charging Rs 20 per head despite the fact that they are carrying more than 10 passengers,” said Keshri. Echoing a similar sentiment, Rajeev Keshri, a Jharia-based advocate who regularly travels to the Dhanbad Court by auto-rickshaw, said, “The pre-lockdown fare for Jharia to Dhanbad was Rs 13 per head. However, we are still being asked to pay the increased fare of Rs 25 per passenger.” “Things can’t be taken in isolation. The entire issue needs a holistic approach, the predicament of auto-drivers and auto operators also needs to be taken into consideration,” said Sunil Singh, president of Jharkhand Pariwahan Mazdoor Union. He maintained that prior to lockdown the auto operators were ferrying over 10 passengers in one auto but they have been asked to limit the number of commuters now. “As per the latest instruction we have to follow the Covid guidelines. Police are taking action on such vehicles carrying more than four passengers. It is not possible to manage the operation of vehicles at the old fare” said Singh, who also is an auto driver. According to him the operators had approached deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh and District Transport Officer Om Prakash Yadav to put forward their demand for revising the fare. “We have already submitted a memorandum before the sub-divisional officer of Dhanbad, Surendra Prasad, demanding an increase in fare by 30 per cent in view of changed scenario due to the pandemic,” said Chotan Singh, President of Dhanbad Pradesh Diesel Auto Chalak Mahasangh. District transport officer, Om Prakash Yadav stated that auto operators flouting the rules in Dhanbad are being punished. He said, “Auto drivers charging high fare are being fined in a bid to ensure the restoration of pre lockdown fare.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-239
11-11-2020||Jharkhand||Govt to hold low-key Statehood Day function ||The Jharkhand government is unlikely to hold a grand celebration on the 20th Statehood Day and instead only organise a ritualistic ceremony with limited guests for the first time since the formation of the state on November 15, 2000, a senior secretary rank official, in the thick of affairs said on Wednesday. The decision of holding a low-key Statehood Day ceremony was taken in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, said the official. Unlike the past years, the government will not invite special performers from other states this time around to perform in Ranchi during the Statehood Day celebrations, he added. “A Statehood Day celebration as grand as the ones held in the past years would encourage public gathering and increase the chances of Covid-19 transmission. We will have a ritualistic ceremony following the protocols, but there will not be any extravagance this year,” the official said, requesting anonymity. The government was yet to issue an official statement regarding the Statehood Day ceremony by the time this report was filed. Usually, the preparations for Statehood Day begin a month prior to November 15. This year, the government has been busy combating Covid-19 pandemic since March and is unwilling to take any risk of holding a gathering on Statehood Day. Every year, Bollywood singers and celebrities from the tinsel town perform at the Morhabadi Ground in Ranchi on the occasion of Statehood Day. Last year, singer Sukhwinder Singh enthralled Jharkhand residents in a star-studded evening on November 15. Bollywood singers Sunidhi Chauhan, Shaan and Kailash Kher have also performed in Ranchi on Jharkhand’s Statehood Day in the past years. On Statehood Day every year, the chief minister addresses the people of the state from Morhabadi Ground in presence of dignitaries and guests from across the country. In the evening, a grand celebration and light show is organised at the same venue. “As per the protocol, the chief minister will address the people of the state on Statehood Day from Morhabadi and garland statue of Bhagwan Birsa Munda. But limited guests will be allowed to attend the programme in person,” said a close aide of chief minister Hemant Soren. Jharkhand was carved out of erstwhile Bihar and established as an independent state on November 15, 2000 after years of struggle by leaders and tribal rights activists involved in the Jharkhand Movement. The government celebrates the contribution of the activists of Jharkhand Movement on this day every year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-239
11-11-2020||Jharkhand||Tata offers scholarship for sports enthusiasts||Employees of Tata Steel wanting their kids to make a career in sports can now look forward to getting a sports scholarship. The steel behemoth will be providing this grant to the children of permanent employees, who have a keen interest in sports. According to the scholarship scheme, all unemployed children of permanent employees who have participated or have won medals in national or international tournaments are eligible to apply for it. Applicants can apply under two categories – under 20 and under 25 years of age. Selected candidates who have represented India internationally will be given a sum of Rs 10,000, while those who have won medals at the national level will get an annual stipend of Rs 6000. According to the Tata Steel spokesperson, a five-member selection committee under the chairmanship of the chief (protocol and sports) will scrutinise the application to select the deserving candidates. “Application can be filled and sent to the company’s sports department at JRD Tata Sports Complex. The last date for the submission of applications is December 15,” he informed. He added, “Applications can be sent to officefice.headsports@tatasteel.com or anand.m@tatasteel.com.” A special category to help specially-abled sportspersons has also been created. Five male and female falling under the intellectually/physically/visually challenged and hearing impaired categories will be considered for this category. The scholarship will be given to general sportspersons (male and female) for sports recognized by the Indian Olympic Association (IOA). The disciplines recognised by IOA includes - aquatics, archery, athletics, badminton, basketball, billiards and snooker, bowling boxing, cycling, equestrian, fencing, football, golf, gymnastics, handball, hockey, judo, kabaddi, karate, kayaking and canoeing, kho-kho, modern pentathlon, netball, rowing, rugby, sailing, shooting, squash, table tennis, taekwondo, tennis, triathlon, volleyball, weightlifting, wrestling, and wushu. Tata Steel’s contribution to sports is well-known. Besides setting up three sports academies for football, hockey, and archery, the company also runs a training centre for athletics, handball, archery, basketball, golf, swimming, table tennis, boxing chess, karate. The company also boasts of having a dedicated sports department that employs former and current international sportspersons. Several children of Tata employees hone their skills under experienced hands at training centres which operate from JRD Tata Sports Complex. “It’s a very welcome step. We appreciate the company’s interest in promoting sports. I am sure it will not only boost the young athletes but will also encourage parents to let their children make a career in sports,” said a Tata employee whose son is a promising swimmer, on condition of anonymity. The steel giant, in the past, has produced international sportspersons, including archers Deepika Kumari, Jayanta Talukdar, and athlete Sinimol Paulose to name a few.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-239
11-11-2020||Jharkhand||Assembly passes resolution favouring Sarna Adivasi Code||The Jharkhand Assembly passed a resolution in favour of a Sarna Adivasi Code at a special session held on Wednesday with both ruling and treasury benches extending support to the draft that will now be sent to the Union government to seek its implementation during the 2021 national census. Chief minister Hemant Soren tabled the draft on the floor of the House at around 1.12pm for discussion. However, the original draft titled “Adivasis/Sarna Code” met with objections with a few MLAs from the ruling alliance and the Opposition asking that the slash be removed from the title to read Adivasi Sarna Code. Mandar MLA Bandhu Tirkey, who joined Congress this year after winning on a now defunct JVM-P in the 2019 Assembly elections, put forth the demand first. Soon, BJP’s Khunti MLA Neelkanth Singh Munda also raised objections, demanding the title be changed to Sarna Adivasi Code, or simply, “Sarna Code”. After a discussion, the chief minister said that the proposal which would be sent to the Centre would be named Sarna Adivasi Code. All members agreed. The 81-member Assembly has an effective strength of 80 after the demise of a JMM MLA recently. During Wednesday’s proceedings, about 70 MLAs attended. The rest were either away from Ranchi or were down with Covid-19. In his address, chief minister Hemant stressed that a separate code for tribals would go a long way in preserving their identity, religion and cultural diversity. “Reports suggest that the tribal population is on the decline nationally for the last few decades, and hence there is an urgent need to first assess their real population, religious affiliations among others, to understand the situation better and take corrective steps,” he said. Hemant said that providing a separate identity to those who follow Sarna (nature worshippers) would also send a positive message to the world about India’s commitment towards conservation of nature. “For Sarna tribals, jal, jungle and jameen (land, forest and land) are gods. Nature and environment are almighty. At a time when conservation is a global concern, it’s apt to recognise those who consider nature as their god. Therefore, we appeal to the Union government to include a separate column in next year’s census for Sarna,” he said. State finance minister Rameshwar Oraon, who is at a private city hospital undergoing treatment for Covid19, called the day historic. “The incumbent regime led by JMM-Congress-RJD in its poll manifesto had vowed to put in place a Sarna code. The Congress party has always been standing in support of this long pending demand of tribals. It is a historic day for Jharkhand to pass a resolution in its support. We hope the Union government too exhibits urgency to accept our demands this time,” he said in a statement. Oraon recalled that Sarna was recognised as a separate religion till the 1950s but during the census in 1961-62, the separate code was removed. “In 2011, as many as 50 lakh tribals across the country had put their religion as Sarna in the ‘others’ column,” he said. Mandar MLA Tirkey, who had earlier asked that the word, Adivasi, not be mentioned in the draft resolution, sounded convinced now. “It has become Sarna Adivasi Code, which is even better. Sarna is preceded by Adivasi and without a slash,” he said over the phone. Wednesday’s special Assembly session was convened in the wake of an avalanche of protests by various tribal groups to demand a Sarna code. The chief minister agreed to send a proposal to the Centre in the last week of October. The Congress and JMM welcomed the move. Party spokesperson Alok Dubey said, “One by one, the state government is fulfilling promises made to voters. Today’s (Wednesday) development is another step in that direction. We now hope the BJP-led Union government will exhibit its commitment towards tribals and the state of Jharkhand. Union home minister Amit Shah during poll rallies in 2019 in Jharkhand promised a Sarna code. It’s time to fulfil it.” During the session, newly elected MLAs of Dumka and Bermo — Basant Soren (JMM) and Kumar Jaimangal (Congress) — were administered the oath of office by Speaker Rabindranath Mahto.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-239
11-11-2020||Jharkhand||Three-day pottery fair begins at Bistupur||A three-day Diwali Mela, aimed at promoting potters to sell their work ahead of the festival, kicked off on Wednesday at the Chamber Bhavan in Bistupur. About a dozen of potters have participated in the fair organised by the Singhbhum Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SCCI), and have put designer diyas and other clay pots meant for Diwali, up for sale. “We will also  get buyers for the products made by potters. Apart from other customers we have asked all our members to make their Diwali purchases from those potters who have put up stalls at the venue of the fair,” SCCI president Ashok Bhalotia said. The fair will open at 11 am and continue till 7 pm on all three days, he added. Rajesh Prajapati, a potter participating in the fair said, "The demand for traditional diyas has dropped in the last few years and this has affected our business. This year we are not much optimistic of the sale due to the Covid-19 pandemic." In a bid to express the community’s plight, he said that earlier, potters’ hands would be full during the Diwali season, but eventually the numbers have dwindled. Another porter at the fair pointed out, "The increase in the price of raw materials and customers bargaining steadily is resulting in loss for potters." Notably, despite a ban on Chinese products  most households prefer plastic and glass products to light up their homes instead of earthen lamps. However, commoners are seen paying attention to the potters, given their poor conditions. In a bid to support indegenous workers, people have come up with the hashtag #PottersKiDiwali on Twitter, urging people to shop for traditional diyas instead of modern lamps and lights.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-239
11-11-2020||Jharkhand||Alcoholic man dies of fisticuffs in Telco||A grievously injured man was found lying in an unconscious state near his house in the urban slum area of Telco thana on Wednesday night. The victim identified as Prabhat Tiwary, was rushed to the MGM Medical College Hospital, where he was declared as brought dead. Tiwary, a resident of Bajrangi Bagan, was an alcoholic. He had picked up a fight with a local shopkeeper under the influence of liquor at around 11 pm on Wednesday night. The argument between the two led to shopkeeper assaulting Tiwary with others. According to sources, the victim, a private company employee, had sustained grievous injuries on his face and head during the assault. This made Tiwary loose conscious on the spot. His family was alerted about the around midnight. Following which, they rushed him to the hospital, where he was declared dead. The police on being informed about the unnatural death rushed to the hospital and seized the dead body for both Covid test and autopsy. Officer-in-charge of Telco thana, Akhilesh Kumar Mandal confirmed the death. “The man had reportedly picked up a quarrel with a local shop-keeper at Bajrangi Bagan and had abused the shop-keeper. In a reaction to the abuses, the shopkeeper assaulted him with fisticuffs along with others. During the assault, he fell down and succumbed to internal injury. Later, when his family members rushed the man to the medical college hospital, he was declared as brought dead,” said the OC while talking to The Telegraph Online. According to Mandal said, “Preliminary investigation indicates it to be a case of unintentional murder, but still we are trying trace people involved in the assault.” He added, “The family is yet to lodge a formal first information report or give a formal statement to the police, as they also are unaware of the people who assaulted the victim. The investigation is in progress, those found guilty will be punished. According to sources, the police already picked up four individuals in connection with the murder case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-239
11-11-2020||Jharkhand||Bokaro zoo gets ready for winter, fortifies enclosures||With the advent of winter in Jharkhand, Bokaro zoo has begun its annual exercise of ensuring that inmates don’t catch a chill. However, unlike earlier years, the focus is on providing natural remedies for the animals to beat the cold. According to a staffer of Jawaharlal Nehru Biological Park, animals love to enjoy the winter sun. Hence, the trees are being trimmed, in the park, with the sole objective of making adequate run rays reach the animal enclosures. “During this time of the year, we make adequate arrangements for the enclosures to be comfortable for animals. We will not only be placing room heaters but are also making arrangements for the sun rays to reach each enclosure so that they feel comfortable in a natural way,” said Gautam Chakraborty, in-charge of JNB Park. The zoo authorities also plan to light a fire inside the enclosures of the spotted deer and blackbucks. “We have collected firewood for the spotted deer and blackbuck enclosures, as they like to sit and enjoy the warmth of the fire from a distance. We have also made the necessary arrangements to have hay and wooden planks for the animals,” informed Chakraborty. Curtains inside the enclosures of animals like the panther, tiger, and lion will protect them from the cold wave. Chakraborty added that the snake, civet, and bird enclosures would have hay to make the cage cosier. Additionally, vitamins would be administered to the animals to beat the cold weather. The zoo has been closed since lockdown, thereby, making it possible for the management to carry out several developmental works inside the premises, right from bettering the enclosures to trimming the trees to carrying out beautification work inside the park. A beautiful garden is being developed inside the park for the visitors, in JNB Park, also known as Bokaro zoo. The park spread over 27 acres of land boasts of hundreds of varieties of animals, birds, and trees. The zoo has 26 animal enclosures, which houses animals like tiger, Himalayan bear, leopards, EMU, hippopotamus, deer, snakes, and several others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-239
11-11-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city coach named handball federation member ||Hassan Imam Mallick, a Jamshedpur-based mentor, has been nominated as a member of the technical committee of the Handball Federation of India (HFI). As a member of the technical panel, the chief coach of Tata Steel Handball Training Centre at JRD Tata Sports Complex will now be responsible for taking charge at national and international competitions. Mallick, a veteran with sound knowledge of the technical aspects associated with handball, has also played the role of a guide to help some of his trainees land a job at several organisations across the country. “I am thankful to HFI for nominating me as a member of the technical committee. I will use my experience and try to do a good job,” Mallick, a resident of Dhatkidih and an employee of Tata Steel, said. A former national medalist, Mallick has also been instrumental in producing players, some of whom have represented India in national and international contests. “I am optimistic to do a good job since I am well versed with the technical aspects of the game,” he added. Mallick says that after archery, handball is a job spinner in Jharkhand. “Over 3 graduates from our training centre have landed employment in various sectors. I think more employment can materialise if handball is effectively channelised in the state.  Our cradle is doing the needful in this direction,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-240
11-11-2020||Jharkhand||Finance Minister Rameshwar Oraon tests positive for Covid||Finance Minister Rameshwar Oraon was among the 252 people found to be Covid positive in Jharkhand on Tuesday. Oraon, the sixth minister in the Hemant Soren cabinet to get infected by the lethal virus, was admitted to Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital in Ranchi as a precautionary measure, leaders from the Congress party said. Oraon had met several bureaucrats, party workers and even chief minister Hemant Soren recently, putting all of them under Covid scanner. Besides, he was actively involved in the preparations for the twin assembly bypolls in Bermo and Dumka. Until Tuesday, at least five ministers in the Jharkhand Cabinet had tested positive for Covid-19. One of them, Minority Welfare Minister Haji Hussain Ansari died of a cardiac arrest. Health Minister Banna Gupta, Drinking Water and Sanitation Minister Mithilesh Thakur and Agriculture Minister Badal Patralekh also tested positive for Covid-19 earlier and recovered without complaining of any symptoms. However, Covid-infected Education Minister Jagarnath Mahto had to undergo a lung transplant surgery in Chennai. Meanwhile, five more people died of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand on Tuesday, taking the toll up at 910, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. The casualties occurred in Ranchi, East Singhbhum, Deoghar, Bokaro, Chatra and Giridih. Each of these districts reported one death each. The Covid-19 recovery rate, however, improved on the day as at least 456 patients overcame the virus in 24 hours, government data stated. The total number of Covid recoveries in the state inched towards 1 lakh on the day. As per government data, of the 1,04,940 people infected by the virus so far, 99988 have recovered, taking the recovery rate up at 95.28 per cent. None of the districts reported a triple-digit spike in Covid cases on Tuesday. With 43 cases, Ranchi reported the highest spike among all the 24 districts in Jharkhand. However, with 153 recoveries, the district also had the highest contribution in Covid recoveries reported on the day. As per government data, there were around 1200 active cases in Ranchi on Tuesday and around 1250 active cases in East Singhbhum, which reported 36 fresh cases against 85 recoveries. At least 31 people were found infected in Bokaro, 32 in Dhanbad, 12 in Deoghar and 12 in Simdega. As many as 13 districts reported a single-digit-spike on the day, while no cases occurred in Pakur. The government on Tuesday tested swab samples of 28,815 people and less than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers across Jharkhand have collected swab samples of 37 lakh people and tested 36.87 lakh of them. As per government data, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.24 per cent against the national average of 0.47 per cent. The doubling rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 284.91 days against the national average of 146.73 days. The Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 0.85 per cent against the national average of 1.48 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-240
