12-11-2020||Calcutta||Mamata calls for more trains||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday demanded more local trains to prevent crowding, echoing doctors and public health experts. “They should run more trains so that people are not too close to each other. More trains would mean less crowding,” the chief minister told a news conference at Nabanna. The state government and the railways will hold a meeting on Thursday at Bhabani Bhavan to review the situation. Sources in the state administration said the top brass had felt that the number of trains and compartments needed to be increased to ensure Covid protocols, especially physically distancing, could be maintained during rush hours. “We will ask the railway authorities to increase the number of trains, number of compartments in a train and the number of ticket counters so that Covid protocols could be followed properly. We don’t want Covid to spread rapidly following the resumption of suburban train services,” said a government official. The chief secretary, home secretary, health secretary, transport secretary and top police officers will attend the meeting, along with officials of the Eastern Railway and South Eastern Railway. Close to 700 daily trains will run for now, railway officials had said before the resumption of services on Wednesday. Around 1,500 local trains used to run every day before the Covid-19 pandemic forced suspension of suburban services in March. On November 7, Metro had reported on the concern of doctors on a curtailed fleet of local trains. Less trains will mean more people, both on platforms and on trains, risking a surge in Covid cases. Pulmonologist Ajoy Krishna Sarkar had said the local train services “should either be totally suspended or the full fleet should be run”. “A limited number of trains will automatically result in more passengers on each train,” he had said. On the first day of resumption of suburban services, the crowd on some trains during office hours showed the fear was not misplaced. Howrah and Sealdah divisions accounted for around 35 lakh passengers every day, most of whom were daily commuters. The crowd seemed less than usual on the first day of resumption but the numbers are expected to go up. During office hours, around 4,000 people used to travel on every single train before the pandemic. On Wednesday, the number seemed around 2,000, said a railway official. More trains on Wednesday would have distributed the load and could have added a semblance of physical distancing. Talks had been on between the railways and the state government to run around “10 to 15 per cent” of the usual fleet. The services, however, resumed with around half the usual number. Railway officials said they preferred a “need-based” rise in the number of trains. They pointed to “around 280 trains” that ran in the Howrah division, instead of 202 trains notified earlier. Similarly, the Sealdah division saw more than the number of trains notified. “To ease the rush, we will run additional trains on busy routes as and when needed,” said an official of Eastern Railways.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-241
12-11-2020||Calcutta||Supreme Court upholds firecracker ban order||The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to interfere with Calcutta High Court’s November 5 decision to ban the use of firecrackers during Diwali and other for-thcoming festivals this year because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The top court said the high court’s decision was justified as people’s lives could not be imperiled, although it agreed that festivals were an important facet of India’s culture. “We are not inclined to entertain the special leave petition under Article 136 of the Constitution. The special leave petition is dismissed accordingly,” the bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee said after briefly hearing senior counsel Siddharth Bhatnagar, who appeared for petitioner Gautam Roy. The petitioner had moved the apex court assailing the high court’s judgment which was passed while dealing with two public interest litigations that had sought a ban on the sale and use of firecrackers on Diwali, Jagaddhatri Puja, Chhath and Kartik Puja because of the pandemic. “We understand these festivals are important… but we don’t want to interfere with the high court’s order…. The high court knows the local situation better. You must understand that today we are in the midst of a pandemic. Preservation of lives is paramount…” the bench observed. Though the senior counsel tried to argue that citizens had a fundamental right to celebrate their festivals, the court was not impressed with the argument. He submitted that the high court passed an erroneous order, despite there being no empirical data available on pollution caused by firecrackers. “You can look at the situation in the country. Can you tell us whether people are able to step out of their houses in Calcutta, Delhi or any other part of the country (because of the pandemic)?” the bench asked. Justice Chandrachud noted that on account of the pandemic every section of society was facing hardships. “…We as judges are conscious that these are festivals, mean a lot to all of us. But you must understand that there are some values which are above the festivals. We are living in a situation where life is imperiled…” the bench observed while dismissing the petition. The division bench of Justices Sanjib Banerjee and Arijit Banerjee of the high court had on November 5 banned the use and sale of firecrackers to curb pollution amid the pandemic. The court had further said the ban would be in force during Jagaddhatri Puja, Chhath and Kartik Puja.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-241
12-11-2020||Calcutta||Risk of curtailed services exposed||Packed trains on Day One of resumption of suburban services left implementation of pandemic protocols largely to individual passengers and bared the risks of running a curtailed fleet. Railway officials said no one was allowed to enter a station or board a train without a mask. Many passengers underwent random thermal screening at stations. But beyond that, other Covid-19 protocols went for a toss at most places as the day progressed. The seats on the trains have been marked alternately to maintain physical distancing. Some early morning trains saw passengers adhering to the markers. But as the day progressed, no seat was left vacant. During the office hours, many compartments had no place to stand as well. A state government official said it was unfair to blame passengers crowding train compartments because “most of them are driven by livelihood demands”. A substantial number of people from districts, who come to Calcutta for work, are dependent on suburban trains. Their livelihood had been crippled by the suspension of the services. A fleet of 696 trains was announced in the run-up to the resumption. But on Wednesday, additional trains had to be run in both Howrah and Sealdah divisions to accommodate a surge in the number passengers, said railway officials. But the number was still far less than 1,500, the usual quota of daily local trains before the pandemic forced suspension of services in March. In the absence of enough trains, implementation of pandemic protocols was left largely to passengers. Howrah, Sealdah and Dum Dum stations saw a sizeable deployment of RPF, GRP and state police personnel. In the early hours of the day, the cops were proactive in ensuring that people stood according to the markers drawn on the platforms. As the crowd kept swelling, the markers were rendered useless at many places. At smaller stations in Calcutta and outside the city, social distancing seemed a distant dream. Around 10am, the Sealdah-bound Lakshmikantapur local entered Ballygunge station. Swarms of passengers made their way out of the compartments. But the train was still packed to the hilt. Four persons sat on most benches meant for three people. Around 100 people were jostling for space at the ticket counter at Serampore station around the same time. Around 9am, GRP personnel at Baruipur station were struggling to streamline passengers waiting for a Sealdah-bound train. “When I boarded the train at Barrackpore, it was packed but I found a place to stand. By the time the train went past Sodepur, there was hardly any place to stand as many more entered the same compartment,” said Atanu Ghosh, a Barrackpore resident who got off at Dum Dum. Pinaki Ghosh, a Serampore resident who works with a retail pharmacy chain’s outlet in central Calcutta, took a train to Howrah at the first chance on Wednesday. “The train was crowded but I reached my work place within 50 minutes. Till now, I used to ride a bike and it would take well over 90 minutes to come to work,” said Ghosh. Railway officials said the first day was better than expected. “The normal seating capacity of a train is 1,200. During office hours, around 4,000 people travel on every single train. On Wednesday, the number seemed around 2,000 during office hours. Two thousand people on a train are a lot but not like it used to be before the pandemic,” said an official of the Sealdah division. An official of the Howrah division said some trains on the Bandel route were most crowded. “But we had feared a bigger turnout. Perhaps some people are still wary,” said the official. But both divisions saw more trains than announced earlier. The Howrah division was allotted around 200 trains but over 275 ran. The Sealdah division also saw more trains than announced earlier. “We were prepared to run additional services according to the rush. Most of the additional services were run during the morning and evening rush hours,” said an official of the Howrah division.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-241
12-11-2020||Calcutta||Dial 100 to report cracker ban flout||Police on Wednesday announced helpline numbers on social media for people to report against crackers in the city. The move is in line with Tuesday’s high court order banning firecrackers during Kali Puja and Diwali and asking the police to execute the ban. People can dial 100 or 9432610444 to report anything related to firecrackers. “Say ‘No’ To Firecrackers”, read a poster, along with the helpline numbers, published by the city police. “Strict action will be taken if anyone is found violating the ban on firecrackers,” a senior cop in Lalbazar said. A person can be booked under the Calcutta police suburban act and the explosive substances act for violating the ban. Depending on the nature of the offence and the amount of seizure, if someone is charged with sections of the explosive substances act, he/she can be arrested. The charges carry a maximum punishment of three years in jail. The other penal sections that vary from disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant (Section 188 of the IPC) to sections of the Calcutta police suburban act result only in prosecutions and a fine of Rs 50. The adjoining commissionerate areas, including Bidhannagar, Howrah, and Barrackpore, have already started holding awareness campaigns and raiding various places to seize firecrackers. “We have circulated advisories to all police stations to implement the firecracker ban. The general level of awareness is high this year. The amount of seizure is comparatively less this year,” an officer of the Howrah commissionerate said. Bidhannagar police have started moving around Salt Lake, New Town, and Lake Town with loudhailers to announce the ban and holding meetings with people and asking them to follow the ban on buying, possessing and bursting firecrackers. The high court order mentioned the state had in its affidavit in court assured that measures had been taken to ensure complete implementation of the ban. “The state assures the court that measures have already been taken to ensure the complete implementation of the order and no effort would be spared to see that the air quality in the state is not polluted and the relevant order carried out without any breach,” the court order read. Police stations across the city have started holding anti-cracker awareness rallies and meetings with residents of highrises to make people aware of the court order. Raids and random searches were carried out on Tuesday and Wednesday, the police said. At least three people were arrested in Beniapukur, Tangra and the Survey Park area with firecrackers on Tuesday evening. One of them had 12kg firecrackers, another 10.5kg of chocolate bombs and the third 10 packets of multi-coloured firecrackers weighing around 1.2kg. “This year, our work has been reduced to a large extent because people are visibly scared to violate the ban. Every year around this time we seize large quantities of banned firecrackers; but this year, the seizure has been almost negligible,” an officer in the city police’s south division said. The court has directed the police to announce phone numbers on their websites and on hoardings and boards prominently across the state for people to report the use of firecrackers. “Such numbers should be attended to so that the complaints are immediately addressed without the identity of the complainants being revealed. The relevant numbers should be put up on the website and display boards by November 12, 2020,” the court had said in its order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-242
12-11-2020||Calcutta||16,500 teacher recruitments in 2 months||The state government will recruit 16,500 teachers in state-aided schools in the next two months, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced on Wednesday. In all, 20,000 candidates have cleared the Teacher Eligibility Test for appointment as teachers of Classes V to VIII (upper primary) in schools. “There are 16,500 vacant posts; so, within December and January recruitment will be done. The rest among the 20,000 will be recruited in phases,” she said at Nabanna. Those who clear the exam have to appear for an interview to get their documents checked, she said. At least 250,000 candidates applied for the TET primary exam that could not be held because of the pandemic. “The West Bengal Board of Primary Education will conduct the exam as soon as possible in the offline mode. Many of our students will then get employment. There is an importance of government service and everyone wants to be a teacher,” Mamata said. These applicants are looking for appointment as teachers of Classes I to IV (primary). The Teacher Eligibility Test for upper primary and primary was last held in 2015. The TET (primary) was held in October 2015. Around 3 million candidates took the exam for appointment to 43,000 vacant posts of assistant teachers in the 59,000-odd state-aided primary schools. The results were declared in 2016 and more than 41,000 candidates secured jobs in 2017. The West Bengal School Service Commission conducts interviews to recruit upper primary teachers and the West Bengal Board of Primary Education primary teachers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-242
12-11-2020||Calcutta||Fitness certificate, licence, road permit fines waived||The state government on Wednesday waived penalties on lapsed fitness certificates, driving licences and road permits with effect from January 1. But the fees have to be paid by June 30, 2021. The decision is applicable to all vehicles. Several bus owners have kept their vehicles off the roads as they have not been able to pay the fines for not renewing fitness certificates or road permits. A fall in the passenger count in the past few months because of the pandemic has hit their earnings and many bus operators have said they would not run their vehicles to avoid paying huge fines. Police said the fine for buses and minibuses running without valid fitness certificates is Rs 3,000 for the first offence and Rs 6,000 for every subsequent offence. The government decision will benefit private vehicle owners as well. Many haven’t been able to renew their driving licences during the pandemic. The fine for driving without a valid driving licence is Rs 450 followed by Rs 500 for every subsequent offence, the police said. “This has been done so that vehicle owners can run their vehicles without any fear. As a result of this decision I think everyone from bus, lorry, auto to taxi will find stability in their lives,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Wednesday. “The fear will not be there. If an owner finds his/her vehicle is not in good condition, he/she should run a check on his/her own.” The absence of buses was felt on Wednesday when suburban train services resumed. Thousands of passengers landed up at Sealdah and Howrah stations only to find there weren’t enough buses during rush hour. Several bus owners have not been able to pay their EMIs on vehicle loans for the past few months… how will they pay fines for not renewing fitness certificates?” asked Tapan Bandyopadhyay of the Joint Council of Bus Syndicates. “This move by the state government will provide all bus owners with huge relief… we hope to buses will return to the roads after Diwali.” The cost of running a fitness test is around Rs 900 but it can be done when pending dues, including road tax and permit fees, have been cleared, several private bus operators said. After the “grace period”, Rs 50 a day is additionally charged for lapsed fitness certificates. “In August the state government had offered relief from paying taxes. But there was no word on fitness certificates. Several bus owners have been sitting on fitness certificate fines ranging between Rs 7,000 and Rs 9,000,” Rahul Chatterjee of the All Bengal Bus Minibus Samanoy Samity said. “We are sure buses will now return to roads.” There are around 8,000 private buses in Calcutta and neighbouring areas. Almost half the number has been on the roads for the past few months. The state government had requested private bus operators to bring out their buses in full strength when local trains start running from Wednesday. At a meeting on Tuesday, most bus operators had told transport department officials that a waiver of fines on lapsed fitness certificates would be helpful.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-242
12-11-2020||Calcutta||Selection tests called off, all can write Madhyamik and HS||Students of the Bengal board in Classes X and XII will be allowed to write the Madhyamik and higher secondary exams next year without appearing in a selection test, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced on Wednesday. “For the Madhyamik and HS exams 2021, there will be no (selection) test. All students who are currently in Classes X and XII will be allowed to appear in Madhyamik and HS exams 2021,” the chief minister said. The education department, she said, decided to call off the selection tests because gatherings on campuses are not being allowed as a precaution against Covid-19. Usually, the selection tests for Madhyamik and HS are held towards the end of November and the beginning of December. The exams are conducted by individual schools and those who qualify in them are allowed to write Madhyamik and the Higher Secondary exams, which are usually held in February and March. Madhyamik is conducted by the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education and HS exam by the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education. The schools have been closed since March because of the pandemic. The chief minister had said last week that the institutions would remain closed at least till the first week of December, and any decision on reopening would be taken after that. Mamata, however, did not specify the dates of next year’s Madhyamik and Higher Secondary exams. “It will be informed when the exams will be conducted... right now schools have not yet reopened,” she said when asked if Madhyamik and HS exams would be held in the usual time next year. About 11 lakh students are expected to appear in Madhyamik and close to 9 lakh students in the HS exam next year. The heads of government and private schools in the city said the health of children was a primary concern. However, the government’s decision will lead to Class X students appearing in the first public exam of their life without any rehearsal. “Considering the pandemic and keeping the safety of children in mind, the students should not be made to go to school and write an exam,” said Sunita Sen, the principal of The BSS School. “But without any mock exam, students won’t be in a position to evaluate themselves. So, before the final exam, if the situation permits, some kind of a practice or rehearsal could be organised that will boost their confidence and prepare them to handle the questions better.” Sen also urged parents and teachers to ensure students get more exposure to sample questions. “Students should be encouraged to practise those within a stipulated time,” Sen said. School heads called for a more pro-active role by teachers and parents in the current situation to ensure the students do not suffer. “The decision to call off the selection test was taken perhaps to avoid the spread of infection. But schools could send model questions to students online. Students can write the answers at home and parents can submit the answer scripts to schools or teachers for evaluation. This will help the students,” said Parimal Bhattacharyya, the headmaster of Jadavpur Vidyapith. This system, however, cannot be implemented in remote areas because many students there lack smartphones and internet connectivity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-242
12-11-2020||Calcutta||Refund order to three hospitals||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Wednesday asked three hospitals to return various amounts to two men who were treated for Covid-19 and the family of a woman who died of the disease. The commission feels all three patients were overcharged. Fortis Hospital in Anandapur was asked to refund Rs 1 lakh, Divine Nursing Home in Beleghata Rs 1.3 lakh and BP Poddar Hospital in New Alipore Rs 1.84 lakh. A man who had been admitted to Fortis Hospital complained that he had been overcharged. “We examined the bill. It showed that the hospital charged the first six doses of Remdesivir at Rs 4,000 each, but the next six doses were charged Rs 5.400 each. We have asked the hospital to return Rs 8,400 for the additional Rs 1,400 they charged for each of the later six doses,” retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the commission’s chairperson, told a news conference. The patient was at the hospital from July 16 to August 3. “We also found that the patient was not offered the cheapest available brand of Meropenem. We had said in an advisory issued in August that a hospital must keep three to four brands of a medicine required for Covid treatment. If the doctor does not mention a brand, the hospital should offer the cheapest one available. But this was not done in this case,” said Banerjee. Remdesivir is an anti-viral drug and Meropenem is an antibiotic. They are both being prescribed for Covid-19 treatment, a doctor said. “The patient had to pay Rs 1.69 lakh out of his pocket. The insurance company paid Rs 7.89 lakh. We have asked the hospital to refund the patient Rs 1 lakh,” said Banerjee. A Calcuttan now living in the US complained to the commission that his mother was treated for Covid at Divine Nursing Home for 24 days. “The hospital billed Rs 7,30,192 for the stay. The complainant said the hospital had forcefully discharged the woman on August 20. She died on September 2,” said Banerjee. “The insurance company has approved the payment of Rs 90,000 and the rest was paid by the family…. The family alleged that the hospital did not admit the patient under cashless facility, which is why they had to pay such a huge amount. We have asked the hospital to refund Rs 1,30,000 to the patient’s family.” The chairperson added that the hospital said they did not allow the cashless facility because they were not sure whether insurance would cover charges of many aspects of Covid treatment. As for BP Poddar Hospital, the chairperson said the commission “did not find any justification” for the billed amount - Rs 4,34,800. The patient was treated at the hospital from July 6 to 20. “The hospital charged Rs 2,000 per day as doctors’ consultation fee, exactly double the amount at which the state government capped the fee. We also found that pathological tests were charged at exorbitant rates… The hospital has been asked to refund Rs 1.84 lakh to the man,” Banerjee said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-242
12-11-2020||Calcutta||Medica Superspecialty directed to feed poor kids||Medica Superspecialty Hospital has been asked by the state health regulator to spend Rs 10 lakh to feed poor children after it found the hospital guilty of charging more than the price capped for sanitisation. The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Wednesday said Medica’s action was a “blatant violation of the advisory issued by the commission on August 1, 2020”. The money has to be deposited with Lady Brabourne College within a month, retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the commission’s chairperson, said. The children will be identified from among those living close to the college, he said. “The order is meant to send a strong message to all clinical establishments that they cannot violate the commission’s advisories and charge more from patients. If required we will have to penalise them,” Banerjee said. The order against Medica has not been termed “a penalty”, though, he said. A retired state government employee lodged a complaint with the commission that the hospital had charged his wife and him Rs 250 each as sanitisation charges when they visited the hospital’s OPD to meet a doctor on October 15, Banerjee said. The commission’s order said the advisory it had issued on August 1 said patients visiting OPDs have to “pay Rs 50 as sanitation charge, Rs 50 for companion charge, and another Rs 50 in case a physician examines him/her in a PPE gown”. Amitava Chakraborty, the complainant, who lives in Dhakuria, had pointed out to members of the hospital staff that they could charge him only Rs 50 according to the commission’s advisory. But they did not listen to him. “He was asked to talk to higher officials of the hospital who, too, said that Rs 250 would be charged. Chakraborty told them that he knew the clinical establishment commission had capped the sanitisation charge at Rs 50,” Banerjee said. The couple were forced to pay “Rs 500 for infection control charges for two patients”, the commission said in its order. “They were forced to pay the money because they had to meet the doctor. Chakraborty wrote a complaint to us the same day he visited the hospital. He came back home and lodged the complaint,” Banerjee said. “It is a fit and proper case where we should impose a heavy penalty on the CE (clinical establishment). However, we refrain from doing so. We direct the CE to fund a benevolent project for Rs 10 lakh as and by way of CSR attracting appropriate tax benefit,” the commission said in its order. Alok Roy, the chairperson of Medica Superspecialty Hospital, said the hospital would spend the money. “We will comply with the order because this is for a good cause,” he said. “This happened because of some error on part of our employees. We have told the commission that we will check our system and find out if a similar error had happened with other patients. We will refund all of them the extra money that has been taken. We do not overcharge any of our patients.” The commission set up a three-member team, comprising Siuli Sarkar, the principal of Lady Brabourne College, Maitrayee Banerjee, a consultant biochemist and member of the commission, and Barnali Ghosh, a paediatrician with the Institute of Child Health at Park Circus. “They will be at liberty to involve students and teachers of Lady Brabourne College for the project,” Banerjee said. The project team will identify 100 to 150 malnourished children in the vicinity of Lady Brabourne College and “ensure intake of one boiled egg a day” by such malnourished children till the entire fund is utilised, according to the order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-242
12-11-2020||Calcutta||Leopard run over on sanctuary fringes||A leopard was run over by a speeding vehicle on NH55, on the fringes of Mahananda Wildlife Sanctuary, near Sukna on Wednesday morning. Foresters of the Darjeeling wildlife division have recovered the carcass. The killer vehicle is yet to be traced. Officials said the injury marks suggested the leopard was crossing the highway when it was hit by the vehicle. “Early in the morning, some residents spotted the leopard’s bloodied carcass on the highway near the Koklang forest beat of the Sukna forest. The animal was around one year old,” said a forest official. The accident spot is around 12km from Siliguri, between Sukna and Rongtong.   In recent years, this is the first time a leopard was found dead on this stretch of NH55, which skirts the wildlife sanctuary that is famous for leopards and elephants. Such accidents have been reported in the Dooars, near Gorumara National Park, as well. “Large stretches of the foothills are surrounded by forests and roads leading to the hills cut throughforests. Despite display boards marking animal crossing zones, some drivers do not slow down,” a forester said. The department, he said, will approach the Darjeeling district administration and the police to spread awareness among drivers. Wildlife conservationists have expressed concern over the death of the leopard. “It is necessary to conserve leopards. Stern action should be taken against those who flout rules while driving through fringes of wildlife habitats,” said Animesh Bose, an environmentalist in Siliguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-242
12-11-2020||Calcutta||Leopard run over on Mahananda Wildlife Sanctuary fringes||A leopard was run over by a speeding vehicle on NH55, on the fringes of Mahananda Wildlife Sanctuary, near Sukna on Wednesday morning. Foresters of the Darjeeling wildlife division have recovered the carcass. The killer vehicle is yet to be traced. Officials said the injury marks suggested the leopard was crossing the highway when it was hit by the vehicle. “Early in the morning, some residents spotted the leopard’s bloodied carcass on the highway near the Koklang forest beat of the Sukna forest. The animal was around one year old,” said a forest official. The accident spot is around 12km from Siliguri, between Sukna and Rongtong. In recent years, this is the first time a leopard was found dead on this stretch of NH55, which skirts the wildlife sanctuary that is famous for leopards and elephants. Such accidents have been reported in the Dooars, near Gorumara National Park, as well. “Large stretches of the foothills are surrounded by forests and roads leading to the hills cut through forests. Despite display boards marking animal crossing zones, some drivers do not slow down,” a forester said. The department, he said, will approach the Darjeeling district administration and the police to spread awareness among drivers. Wildlife conservationists have expressed concern over the death of the leopard. “It is necessary to conserve leopards. Stern action should be taken against those who flout rules while driving through fringes of wildlife habitats,” said Animesh Bose, an environmentalist in Siliguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-242
12-11-2020||Business||Sensex drops 236 points to finish at 43,357||Snapping its eight-session winning run, equity benchmark Sensex ended 236 points lower on Thursday, tracking losses in financial counters as profit-booking emerged amid lacklustre global cues. The new set of stimulus measures announced by the government also failed to enthuse investors, traders said. After dropping 466.12 points during the day, the 30-share BSE index ended 236.48 points or 0.54 per cent lower at 43,357.19. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slipped 58.35 points or 0.46 per cent to 12,690.80. SBI was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 3 per cent, followed by Kotak Bank, IndusInd Bank, NTPC, ICICI Bank, Axis Bank and HDFC Bank. On the other hand, HUL, ITC, L&T, Bajaj Finserv and Tech Mahindra ended with gains. "Having witnessed continued rebound for last eight trading days, domestic equities finally took a pause today and profit booking was visible in financials stocks," said Arjun Yash Mahajan, Head Institutional Business at Reliance Securities. Announcement of fiscal stimulus under Aatmanirbhar Bharat 3.0 by the finance minister mainly focused on job creation and pick up in infrastructure developments in the country, he stated. He added that a large number of mid-cap and small-cap stocks witnessed rebound with emerging clarity over corporate earnings in the backdrop of favourable management commentary and the government's serious efforts to spur investment activities in the country. Announcing a slew of measures to boost the economy, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman earlier in the day said the Indian economy is witnessing a strong recovery after a long and strict lockdown. She unveiled a new job creation scheme by giving subsidy to those establishments that make new hires. The subsidy would be to cover for retirement fund contributions by employees as well as employers for two years. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul ended in the red, while Tokyo settled on a positive note. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading with losses in early deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.07 per cent lower at USD 43.77 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-237
12-11-2020||Business||Sitharaman announces new employment generation scheme||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday announced a new job creation scheme by giving subsidy to those establishments that make new hires. The subsidy would be to cover for retirement fund contributions by employees as well as employers for two years, she said. Employees contribution (12 per cent of wages) and employer's contribution (12 per cent of wages) totalling 24 per cent of wages would be given to establishments for two years, she said. Under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Rozgar Yojana, every Employees' Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) registered establishment taking new employees would get this subsidy. The scheme will cover any new employee joining employment in EPFO-registered establishment on monthly wages less than Rs 15,000 crore. It would also cover EPF members drawing monthly wages of less than Rs 15,000, who made an exit from employment during COVID-19 pandemic from March 1, 2020 and is employed on or after October 1, 2020. The scheme would cover establishments registered with EPFO if they add new employees compared to the reference base of employees as in September 2020. The condition would be adding a minimum of two new employees for establishments with up to 50 employees. Those establishments with more than 50 employees, would have to give a minimum of five new jobs. The scheme would be operational till June 30, 2021. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharman on Thursday announced a Rs 900 crore grant to the Department of Biotechnology for COVID-19 vaccine research. She said the grant does not cover the actual cost of vaccine and distribution expenses, which will be made separately as and when the vaccine is available. She also said that Rs 10,200 crore additional budget outlay will be provided towards capital and industrial expenditure for domestic defence equipment, industrial incentives and infrastructure and green energy. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday announced a Rs 65,000-crore fertilizer subsidy for farmers as part of her stimulus package to boost the economy.  She said Rs 65,000 crore is being provided to ensure adequate availability of fertilisers to farmers and to enable timely accessibility of fertilisers in the upcoming crop season.  She said an additional outlay of Rs 10,000 crore will be provided for PM Garib Kalyan Rozgar Yojana in the current financial year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-237
12-11-2020||Business||Sensex declines by over 200 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 200 points in early trade on Thursday, tracking losses in financial stocks ahead of Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman's press conference. The 30-share BSE index was trading 226.79 points or 0.52 per cent lower at 43,366.88. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slipped 60 points or 0.47 per cent to 12,689.15. IndusInd Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 3 per cent, followed by HDFC twins, Kotak Bank, SBI, Axis Bank and ICICI Bank. On the other hand, M&M, Sun Pharma, Infosys, HUL and Nestle India were trading with gains. In the previous session, Sensex settled 316.02 points or 0.73 per cent higher at 43,593.67, while Nifty vaulted 118.05 points or 0.93 per cent to close at a record 12,749.15. The government on Wednesday approved a Production-Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme for ten key sectors, including telecom, automobiles and pharmaceuticals, taking the total outlay for such incentives to nearly Rs 2 lakh crore over a five-year period. Foreign institutional investors remained net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 6,207.19 crore on Wednesday, according to provisional exchange data. Domestic trade set up does not look inspiring as of now as the market is expected to take a pause here, said Arjun Yash Mahajan Head Institutional Business at Reliance Securities. "However, the possibility of announcement of additional fiscal stimulus by the government shortly may keep sentiment alive," he added. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman is scheduled to address the media later in the day. On the global front, US equities ended mostly higher mainly supported by technology stocks as continued surge in new coronavirus cases and resultant restrictions in select cities in the US made investors flock to stocks which emerged as winners during lockdown, Mahajan said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Tokyo were trading higher in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong and Seoul were in the red. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.18 per cent higher at USD 43.88 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-237
12-11-2020||Business||Mittal loses pipeline case in Essar resolution process||A bankruptcy court based in Ahmedabad has asked ArcelorMittal to pay Rs 1,308.87 crore to Odisha Slurry Pipeline Infrastructure Ltd (OSPIL) in a case linked to the Essar Steel insolvency process. The National Company Law Tribunal passed an order on Tuesday directing ArcelorMittal (AM), the successful resolution applicant of Essar Steel, to pay the sum by December 15, failing which the company may potentially face liquidation. The court order comes nearly a year after AM, along with Japan’s Nippon Steel (NS), acquired Essar for Rs 42,000 crore through a bankruptcy resolution process. Subsequently, AM acquired OSPIL through a separate insolvency process for Rs 2,350 crore in March this year. However, Srei Infrastructure Finance, which is a creditor to OSPIL and also indirect majority equity shareholder, had challenged the resolution process of the pipeline company at the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal. The matter is pending there. The latest twist to the Essar resolution process, which ran for more than two years and went up to the Supreme Court twice, comes at the instance of Srei again, which moved NCLT Ahmedabad seeking clearance of unpaid dues to OSPIL. OSPIL owns a 253-kilometre long pipeline connecting an iron ore beneficiation plant at Debuna to a pellet plant at Paradip in Odisha. It is a critical infrastructure to source raw material for Essar Steel, now AM/NS India. NCLT held that this amount is payable to OSPIL as right to use charges for the period Essar was under resolution. “The resolution applicant has contravened the provisions of such approved resolution plan by not making such IRP cost,” the NCLT bench said in the order. A successful resolution applicant is liable to pay insolvency resolution process (IRP) cost — which often includes the expense of running a plant pending resolution, such as user charges of a pipeline as in this case — apart from creditors. AM/NS India did not comment on the development but it is understood that the company will approach the higher court. A spokesperson for Srei said: “Srei has always maintained that Essar should have paid the outstanding RTU charges to OSPIL. If the payments were made, OSPIL would have serviced its debts due to its lenders and there would have been no occasion for it to be taken for insolvency as the lenders of OSPIL would not have suffered any losses. Hence, our stance has been vindicated by NCLT Ahmedabad.” Advocate Rishav Banerjee, who appeared on behalf of Srei, said the order widens the scope of IBC. “Any stakeholder who is affected by non-implementation of a resolution plan can approach the adjudicating authority for necessary directions and such stakeholder doesn’t necessarily have to be a direct stakeholder of the corporate debtor,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-237
12-11-2020||Business||Amazon defence in Future Retail's arbitration case||Amazon on Wednesday told the Delhi high court that the emergency arbitration award against Future Retail Ltd (FRL) by a Singapore arbitrator was a valid order and that the retailing giant had the right to inform the statutory bodies about it. The submission was made by Amazon before Justice Mukta Gupta during the hearing of FRL’s plea alleging that the e-commerce major was interfering in its Rs 24,713-crore deal with Reliance Retail on the basis of an interim order by Singapore arbitrator, SIAC. Senior advocate Gopal Subramanium, appearing for Amazon, said the suit filed by FRL was “doubtful’’ and not maintainable. Continuing his arguments from where he had left on Tuesday, Subramanium said FRL participated in the proceedings before the emergency arbitrator (EA) and also urged it not to pass an interim order till an arbitrator is appointed on behalf of the entire Future Group. According to a PTI report, Subramanium said that FRL cannot now say that the arbitrator’s interim decision was invalid and not binding on it. The senior lawyer added that FRL ought to have approached the courts here when the notice about the emergency arbitration was received by it in early October this year, but it chose to wait till now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-237
12-11-2020||Business||Coal India profit down 16% for September quarter||Coal India on Wednesday reported a 16.3 per cent decline in consolidated net profit at Rs 2,948.12 crore for the September quarter on the back of higher expenses. The net profit was Rs 3,522.70 crore in the July-September period a year ago. Income during the quarter marginally increased to Rs 22,237.82 crore from Rs 22,012.94 crore in the year-ago period. Expenses rose to Rs 18,177.82 crore from Rs 17,734.44 crore a year ago. Dividend for Centre The Centre will receive an amount of Rs 3,056 crore as dividend from Coal India Ltd as the miner has announced an interim dividend at a rate of Rs 7.50 per share for the 2020-21 financial year, an official said. The total interim dividend outgo for Coal India will be Rs 4,622 crore. Bank wage pact Over 8.5 lakh employees, mostly from public sector banks, will get a 15 per cent hike in pay, with the conclusion of the 11th Bipartite Wage Negotiations on Wednesday. The hike in wages would be for a period of five years starting November 1, 2017. After three years of intense negotiations, bank employees’ unions and the Indian Banks’ Association (IBA) have entered into a memorandum of understanding for the wage hike.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-237
12-11-2020||Business||Sensex hits a new high on positive global and domestic cues||There was no stopping the bull run on the bourses on Wednesday as benchmark indices closed at new highs on positive global and domestic cues and robust portfolio inflows. Besides expectations of a strong turnaround in corporate earnings, the chatter on the Street is that the current rally marks the start of another multi-year bull run in a visible throwback to the peaks that stocks saw between 2003 and 2008. The Nifty had jumped 5.5-6 times between April 2003 and January 2008. After touching its all-time peak of 43708.47, the Sensex ended with gains of 316.02 points, or 0.73 per cent, higher at 43593.67 on Wednesday. The NSE Nifty vaulted 118.05 points to close at 12749.15.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-237
12-11-2020||Business||RBI sees third quarter revival for Indian economy||The Reserve Bank of India believes that the Indian economy will bounce back in the third quarter (October-December) and show positive growth if the upturn in economic activity in October is sustained over the next two months. The latest forecast suggests that the central bank has started to cautiously signal that the Indian economy is preparing to heave itself out of the gloom and doom scenario painted by a variety of economists and global institutions such as the IMF and the World Bank which have almost universally projected an almost 10 per cent contraction this fiscal. In its baseline forecast made at its monetary policy meeting on October 9, the RBI had said real GDP would contract 9.5 per cent in 2020-21 “with risks tilted to the downside”. In its semi-annual monetary policy report, the central bank had forecast a 5.6 per cent contraction in Q3 and a 0.5 per cent growth in Q4. Now, the RBI believes that the turnaround may happen sooner — in the third quarter rather than the fourth. “With the momentum of September having been sustained, there is optimism that the revival of economic activity is stronger than the mere satiation of pent-up demand released by unlocks and the rebuilding of inventories.” “If this upturn is sustained in the ensuing two months, there is a strong likelihood that the Indian economy will break out of the contraction of the past six months gone by and return to positive growth in the third quarter of 2020-21,” it added It, however, flagged the unrelenting pressure of inflation as a downside risk. Another risk comes from the global economy which could feel the adverse impact of a second wave of Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-238
12-11-2020||Business||E-invoice rule in GST tightened||The government has tightened the GST compliance norm by making e-invoicing mandatory for any firm whose turnover exceeds Rs 100 crore from January 1, 2021. The earlier limit was Rs 500 crore. The move comes at a time the Centre and the states are facing a decline in tax receipts. The authorities had enforced e-invoicing of business-to-business transactions for companies with Rs 500 crore sales from October 1. “With only about 50 days left for the rule to come into effect, mid-size companies would need to ramp up processes and IT systems to enable compliance with the new regulation,” Abhishek Jain, tax partner at EY, said. The changes will bring a large number of medium enterprises under the ambit of e-invoicing. It is expected that it will be made available to all taxpayers for B2B transactions from April 1, 2021. Prakash Kumar, senior adviser of Deloitte India, said: “This will help to curb tax evasion and increase tax collections. It would be interesting to see the preparedness of such class of taxpayers, who were actually informed about this date many months ago itself. However, going by the resounding success of the October 1 roll-out for the larger companies, MSME’s too should be able to comply with the new requirement.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-238
12-11-2020||Business||Godrej group forays into financial services||The Godrej group has forayed into financial services by launching its housing finance arm. Godrej Housing Finance (GHF) will start by extending loans at 6.69 per cent interest, which is the lowest in the industry at present. This venture comes at a time both banks and housing finance companies are witnessing good interest as individuals take advantage of the low interest rates, attractive property prices coupled with discounts offered by developers to purchase new homes. The Godrej group said it will infuse up to Rs 1,500 crore as capital in the mortgage finance firm which will initially target customers buying apartments from the group’s realty arm Godrej Properties. “We believe we have gained good understanding about the real estate business and its connection with finance and are entering the new business after a carefully thought strategy,’’ chairman Pirojsha Godrej said. Managing director and chief executive Manish Shah, who joins the group from Bank of Baroda’s non-bank lending arm, said GHF will try to make lending affordable, flexible, and fair to customers. Shah added it is targeting a portfolio of Rs 1,000 crore by March 2021, and will touch Rs 10,000 crore in assets under management within three years of the launch with 40,000 loan accounts. Godrej said the group is committed to investing Rs 1,000-1,500 crore, which the business will need in the first three years. It may look to get  an external investor on board after three years and an initial public offering in 6-7 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-238
12-11-2020||Business||Haze over newly-approved production sop||The Union cabinet on Wednesday approved a production-linked incentive scheme (PLI) worth Rs 1.45 lakh crore that will be parcelled among 10 sectors over a five-year period. The scheme will encourage domestic manufacturing, reduce imports and generate employment, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said after the cabinet meeting. But the details are not forthcoming yet and if the scheme follows the previous PLI scheme for electronics, it is likely to leave many players in the lurch while benefiting only the bigger ones. The 10 sectors to get the incentives are: advance chemistry cell (ACC) battery (Rs 18,100 crore); electronics and technology products (Rs 5,000 crore); automobiles and auto components (Rs 57,042 crore); pharmaceuticals and drugs (Rs 15,000 crore); telecom and networking products (Rs 12,195 crore); textile products (Rs 10,683 crore); food products (Rs 10,900 crore); high efficiency solar PV modules (Rs 4,500 crore); white goods (Rs 6,238 crore) and speciality steel (Rs 6,322 crore). “The PLI scheme, since it is based on incremental output, is more effective from the government’s standpoint than some of the other grant based schemes such as mega food parks, which are more input oriented. The PLI scheme is also targeted towards the larger anchor investors who are capable of mobilising the initial investment for brownfield or greenfield projects by themselves,” said Arindam  Guha of Deloitte India. The government had approved another PLI scheme of Rs 51,311 crore effective April 1, 2020 for mobile manufacturing and specified electronic components among others. Analysts had pointed to several grey areas of the scheme. First, the incentives were in the range of 4 per cent to 6 per cent of incremental sales, meaning greater the production the higher the incentive. But higher production rests on higher demand — a company cornering a greater  share of the market will get more of the incentives muscling out the others as each sector will get the support only up to a limit. The scheme had thus attracted big players such as Foxconn, Wistron and Pegatron — all contract manufacturers for Apple — and Rising Star, which makes Samsung phones. The PLI scheme for mobile phones also has stiff annual incremental production targets — Rs 25,000 crore over the base level by the fifth year — which will work to the advantage of the bigger players. “The industry was eagerly awaiting this scheme to increase its competitiveness and take the growth of the sector to the next level. We look forward to the details of the scheme,” Kenichi Ayukawa, president of SIAM and managing director & CEO Maruti Suzuki India, said. S.P. Kochhar, director-general of COAI, said the telecom companies were yet to receive details of the scheme from the telecom department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-238
12-11-2020||India||TN varsity removes Arundhati Roy's book after ABVP's protest||A state-run university in Tamil Nadu has removed noted writer Arundhati Roy's 'Walking with the Comrades,' book from the syllabus of MA English course following complaints, including from RSS affiliate ABVP that it glorified the ultras and was anti-national in content. Opposition parties, the DMK and CPI(M), have opposed the move to take the book off the syllabus that chronicles the author's journey to hideouts of Maoists in Chhattisgarh and the way they operated out of the jungles. The BJP, however, defended the ABVP for demanding the removal of the book from the syllabus. The book has been part of the syllabus from the 2017-18 batch for the third semester of MA in English Literature of Tirunelveli-based Manonmaniam Sundaranar University's affiliated colleges. "Last week we got a written complaint from the ABVP. Subsequently, there were lots of other representations. We received complaints from our syndicate members as well," MSU's Vice-Chancellor K Pitchumani told PTI. Such complaints underscored the 'controversial' contents in the book and wanted it to be deleted from the curriculum for students, he said. Hence, a committee comprising senior academicians was set up to look into the matter. The former chairman of the board of studies who framed the syllabus and the incumbent chief was also part of it, he said. "The committee met on Wednesday and they decided the withdrawal of the book from the syllabus for its sensitive nature and in its place, a book of Padma awardee and naturalist, M Krishnan's 'My Native Land, Essays on Nature' has been included," he said. "This has been implemented immediately," he added. Krishnan (1912-96) was a renowned naturalist, a pioneer in Indian wildlife photography and writer and he was awarded the Padma Shri in 1969. The decision would be approved at a meeting of the university's Standing Committee of Academic Affairs, he said, adding they were not for 'controversy' since academics alone were important. Asked if the 'sensitive' nature of the book was not taken into account when it was included in the syllabus, the top university official said "probably it went unnoticed". However, as soon as representations were received against the book, prompt follow-up action was taken, he said. In its complaint, the ABVP's south Tamil Nadu unit alleged Roy's book openly supported Maoists and disseminated anti-national views. "It is a matter of regret that this book has been part of the syllabus for the past three years. Through this, the Naxal and Maoist ideology has been imposed on the students," the ABVP said demanding the book's withdrawal. Roy's interaction with Maoists and her visits to forests where she met them first appeared in an English magazine in 2010 and it was later published as a book. The RSS's official organ 'Organizer' also had days ago reported on ABVP urging the university to withdraw the book from the syllabus. DMK women's wing secretary and MP Kanimozhi said in a tweet that power and politics deciding "what is arts, what is literature and what the students should read" would destroy the pluralistic feature of the society. CPI(M) Lok Sabha member S Venkatesan said on his Twitter handle that the removal of the book was condemnable and wanted the move rescinded. The Tamil Nadu Progressive Writers and Artistes Association general secretary Aadhavan Dheetchanya condemned the removal of the book from the syllabus. National president, BJP Mahila Morcha, Vanathi Srinivasan defended the ABVP and said it was not the only organization that objected to Arundhati Roy's book forming part of the syllabus. The ABVP was one of the organizations that demanded its removal from the syllabus, she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-563
12-11-2020||India||Fresh fiscal stimulus, combined with incentives, for critical sunrise sectors||In an attempt to spark pre-Diwali cheer, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman delivered Thursday a third round of stimulus measures to help revive the Covid-devastated economy along with an upbeat assessment of growth prospects. The government’s 12-point Atmanirbhar Bharat 3.0 package involves an extra Rs 2.65 lakh crore in stimulus, bringing the total amount allocated to bolstering the economy since the pandemic’s start to nearly Rs 30 lakh crore or 15 per cent of gross domestic product. The plan also includes a new job creation scheme giving subsidies to businesses making new hires. Companies with fewer than 50 workers must take on at least two new recruits to be eligible while those with over 50 must hire at least five. With the number of Covid cases declining nationwide, Sitharaman declared a “distinct recovery” now is under way, pointing to rises in goods and services tax revenues and energy consumption and she said there was good pent-up demand. But the latest stimulus plan failed to fire up the stock market. The BSE’s 30-share Sensex slipped 237 points to 43,317 points, ending eight days of gains, with traders saying they were looking for more innovative solutions to spur an economy badly hit by a slide in consumption triggered by the lockdown earlier in the year. And the key question -- about where the money will come from -- wasn’t revealed. At the moment, the government can’t afford to pay the states money owing on their share of GST proceeds. The stimulus programme endeavours to ensure “critical sunrise sectors get necessary support from the government so we are able to build an India which is strong enough to serve the domestic market and link up with the global value chain,” Sitharaman told reporters. The programme was announced after the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) said the economy likely contracted for a second straight quarter, pushing India into an unprecedented recession. Gross domestic product shrank 8.6 per cent in the quarter ended September year-on-year, the RBI estimated in its first “nowcast'' calculated using high-frequency data which provides a more real-time insight into the economy’s state. Growth contracted by 24 per cent in the April-to-June quarter from the same year-earlier. “India has entered a technical recession in the first half of 2020-21 for the first time in its history,” the RBI said. Focus on leather, gems & jewellery Under the 3.0 stimulus package, Production Linked Incentives (PLIs) worth Rs 1.46 lakh crore are being offered to so-called “champion sectors” the government identified last May that include leather, gems and jewellery, autos, renewable energy, pharma and textiles. “This will give a big boost to the economy, investment, exports and job creation. A total amount of nearly Rs 1.5 lakh crore has been earmarked across sectors, for the next five years,” Sitharaman said. The PLI programme is part of a drive to support domestic manufacturing and manufacturing self-reliance and push India as an alternate global Asian manufacturing hub and divert investment from China. “This will give a big boost to the economy, investment, exports and job creation. A total amount of nearly 1.5-lakh crore rupees has been earmarked across sectors, for the next five years,” Sitharaman said. Help for MSME, real estate sector Sitharaman’s plan also involves extension of an emergency credit line guarantee Scheme for MSMEs -- micro-, small- and medium-sized businesses -- spanning 26 sectors until next March and additional credit up to 20 per cent. In addition they will get a one-year moratorium on loans as well as four more years to repay borrowings, Sitharaman said. She singled out for help the hard-hit real-estate sector which was reeling even before Covid. To bolster residential sales, the differential between the stamp-duty circle rate and the agreement value has been doubled to 20 per cent from 10 per cent for the period up to next June 30. The move applies to primary sale of residential units valued up to Rs 2 crore. “The income tax relief provides incentive to the middle class to buy homes,” Sitharaman said. "The measure will reduce the hardships faced by both homebuyers and developers and help in clearing the unsold inventory," she added. The government is also earmarking 180 billion rupees for affordable urban housing. The real estate sector was elated by the government’s plans with Knight Frank India Chairman Shishir Baijal predicting “unbridled property purchase activity.” He said “recognition of real estate as a core sector, creating ancillary industry demand and employment, and enhanced Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana – Urban allocation, will boost the housing demand in the country.” Also, “the increase in circle rate and transaction value threshold… will remove a transaction hurdle and save tax, thereby increasing the opportunity for unbridled property purchase activity,” he said. According to ANAROCK Research, some 5.45 lakh units across the top seven cities priced up to Rs 1.5 crore remain unsold while another 49,290 units priced from Rs 1.5-crore-to-2.5 crore also are still on the market. Housing had slowed long before the pandemic struck. The finance minister also relaxed deposit and performance and security rules for government tenders. She earmarked Rs 6,000-crore for equity investment in the debt platform of National Investment and Infrastructure Fund (NIIF) and Rs 65,000-crore for subsidized fertilisers. In addition, she awarded Rs 10,200-crorein extra stimulus for capital and industrial expenditure. A further Rs 900-crore has been allocated for research and development on an Indian Covid vaccine. Return to positive growth Sitharaman noted the RBI believes there’s a strong likelihood the economy will swing back to positive growth in the three months to December, ahead of its previous quarter by a quarter, “If the current upturn is sustained in the ensuing two months, there is a strong likelihood that the economy will break out of contraction of the six months gone by and return to positive growth” in the third quarter of fiscal year 2021, the RBI said in its monthly bulletin. “Incoming data for the month of October 2020 have brightened prospects and stirred up consumer and business confidence. With the momentum of September having been sustained, there is optimism that the revival of economic activity is stronger than the mere satiation of pent-up demand released by unlocks and the rebuilding of inventories,” the RBI said. Sitharaman got some support for her view that the economy is picking up from ratings giant Moody’s. The agency said it expected India’s economy would shrink by 8.9 per cent in calendar 2020, marking a marginal improvement from its previous forecast of a 9.6 per cent contraction. The RBI forecasts the Indian economy will shrink 9.5 per cent  in this fiscal year. The latest stimulus package came, though, against the backdrop of a warning by the RBI that keeping the system awash with cash is “taking a step into the unknown and could kindle inflation without reviving growth”. “There is a grave risk of generalisation of price pressures, unanchoring of inflation expectations feeding into a loss of credibility in policy interventions,” the RBI said. While inflation has been relatively subdued in recent years, historically it has been a bugbear for the economy. The RBI forecasts the Indian economy will shrink 9.5 per cent in this fiscal year while the International Monetary Fund calculates it will contract by 10.3 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-563
12-11-2020||India||Attorney General grants consent for contempt case against Kunal Kamra||Attorney General K K Venugopal Thursday granted consent for initiation of criminal contempt proceedings against stand-up comic artist Kunal Kamra for his tweets which allegedly criticized the Supreme Court, saying the tweets are in bad taste and it is time that people understand that attacking the apex court brazenly will attract punishment. Venugopal said, on Thursday, people believe that they can boldly and brazenly condemn the Supreme Court of India and its judges by exercising their freedom of speech, but under the Constitution, the freedom of speech is subject to the law of contempt. I have gone through each one of the tweets which you have annexed for consent to proceed by way of criminal contempt against Kunal Kamra. The tweets which I am extracting below are not only in bad taste but clearly cross the line between humor and contempt of the court, the Attorney General said in his letter to one of the applicants who had sought the consent of the top law officer for initiation of contempt proceedings against Kamra. I, therefore, grant consent to proceed by way of initiating contempt proceedings against Kunal Kamra, Venugopal said. The consent of either the Attorney General or the Solicitor General is necessary, under section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971, for initiating contempt proceedings against a person. The Attorney General said the other tweets also are highly objectionable and it would perhaps be for the court to decide the question as to whether these tweets also would constitute criminal contempt of the Supreme Court of India. I find that today people believe that they can boldly and brazenly condemn the Supreme Court of India and its judges by exercising what they believe is their freedom of speech. "But under the Constitution, the freedom of speech is subject to the law of contempt and I believe that it is time that people understand that attacking the Supreme Court of India unjustifiably and brazenly will attract punishment under the Contempt of Courts Act, 1972,” Venugopal said. Referring to tweets by Kamra, he said there is also “a picture of the Supreme Court building dressed in saffron color with a flag of the ruling party, namely the BJP having replaced the Tricolor”. “This is a gross insinuation against the entirety of the Supreme Court of India that the Supreme Court of India is not an independent and impartial institution and so too its judges, but on the other hand is a court of the ruling party, the BJP, existing for the BJPs benefit. All this in my opinion constitutes criminal contempt of court,” he said. In one of the letters seeking the Attorney General's consent for initiation of contempt proceedings against Kamra, three lawyers have claimed that he allegedly attempted to lower the authority of the Supreme Court of India through his tweets after the apex court had granted interim bail to Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami. In another letter, a Pune-based lawyer has stated that Kamra's unsavory comments on a sitting apex court judge and circulation of a morphed image of the Supreme Court premises, were published on Twitter. The apex court had on Wednesday granted interim bail to journalist Arnab Goswami in the 2018 abetment to suicide case, saying it will be a "travesty of justice" if personal liberty is curtailed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-563
12-11-2020||India||Asif Basra found dead in Dharamshala house||Actor Asif Basra, known for starring in movies such as Jab We Met, Once Upon a Time in Mumbaai and Kai Po Che! died on Thursday here, the police said. He was 53. The actor was found hanging in a private complex here by the police and a team of forensic experts is on the spot, said SSP Kangra Vimukt Ranjan. "He hanged himself around 12-12.30 today. We are investigating the matter. We have sent the body for post-mortem... Prima facie it is a case of suicide," he told reporters. The police are investigating the case and further details are awaited, Ranjan added. It is being reported that the actor had a property on lease for the past five-six years in McLeodganj, Upper Dharamshala, and used to visit the place regularly. "What? This is too shocking!! Shot with him just before Lockdown!!! Oh My God!!!" tweeted actor Manoj Bajpayee. "Asif Basra! Can't be true... This is just very, very sad," director Hansal Mehta said. In his over two decade-long career, Basra played supporting parts in many critically-acclaimed features like Black Friday, Parzania and Outsourced. Among his notable performances in Hindi cinema, Basra played a cunning stall owner in Imtiaz Ali's 2007 film Jab We Met, alongside the likes of Kareena Kapoor Khan and Shahid Kapoor. He played the father of Emraan Hashmi's Shoaib Khan in Milan Luthria's Once Upon a Time in Mumbaai (2010). Basra most recently starred in Amazon Prime Video's smash-hit series Paatal Lok.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-563
12-11-2020||India||Delhi air quality to improve post Diwali due to western disturbance||The India Meteorological Department stated that the air quality in Delhi-NCR region is likely to improve post Diwali as a result of a fresh western disturbance, which may increase the wind speed. Under its influence, light rain may occur in the area on Sunday, the MET department said. Whether the rain would be enough to wash away the pollutants is still a matter of speculation, Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre said. "However, Delhi-NCR's air quality is likely to improve post Diwali due to an increase in the wind speed. On Sunday, the maximum wind speed is expected to be around 12 to 15 kilometers per hour," he said. The IMD’s head of environment research centre VK Soni said firecracker emissions and calm winds may result in the air quality moving to the ‘severe’ zone on Diwali night. “The wind speed is expected to pick up thereafter and the wind direction will be east-south easterly,” he explained. “There will be a significant improvement in air quality by November 16”, Soni said. The forecasting agency also said that on November 15 and 16, the western disturbance will set off "scattered to fairly widespread" precipitation over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh; and isolated rainfall over Uttarakhand and the plains of northwest India. Over the next few days, northwest India may witness a two or three degrees Celcius rise in the minimum temperature, which will dip after the withdrawal of the western disturbance from the region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-563
12-11-2020||India||Akhilesh alleges irregularities in Bihar polls||Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday alleged irregularities in the Bihar Assembly polls and claimed that the opposition Grand Alliance was poised to win the election but "could not do so at the last moment". "We wanted to talk about the irregularities done with us (in Uttar Pradesh), but a more serious one has happened in Bihar. Tejashwi Yadav was poised to make his government but could not do so at the last moment. All those who have faith in democratic values are unhappy today and asking if this is how elections will be fought," he told reporters here. Yadav claimed that with only 14,000 more votes, the opposition alliance would have emerged as victorious in Bihar. "The Bihar election was more nail-biting than the US (presidential) polls. I do not know which trick the BJP used. This is the speciality of the BJP," the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said. He said elections today have become mathematics. "The BJP uses everything to win elections. I can give an example and also play a video to prove as to how all the officials, from the DM to police, were involved (in Uttar Pradesh). At some places, even during the checking of the body temperature while the voters were going in to cast their votes, they were threatened that such a temperature would be shown which would directly shift them to a hospital and ambulances were also deployed," Yadav said. He asserted that the SP would not leave the path of development come what may and claimed that the party's schemes were being repackaged by the current BJP-led government. "I can say it on record that we had given farmers and women pension. Maximum bank accounts and bank branches were opened during the SP regime and online transfer of money had also started, but this government only indulges in publicity and we will also do the same now," Yadav said. He also hit out at the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh for its claims of giving 50 lakh jobs, asking it to name the departments where these jobs were provided. He also asked what happened to the claims of investments worth over Rs four lakh crore in the state, as claimed by the government. "When the time comes, we will bring a scheme and spell out the details of where we will be giving jobs to youngsters," the SP president said. At least three farmers of Ayodhya also spoke at the press conference and recounted their problems at the hands of officials over land acquisition in their villages for the Sri Ram Airport and development of Ayodhya. They alleged that the officials were harassing them for signing the agreement under which their land is being acquired at very low rates. They also said they met Chief Minister Adityanath over the issue, after which the atrocities of the officials went up. Assuring all possible help from his party to the farmers of Dharampur, Ganja and Kutia gram sabhas who recounted their problems, Yadav said the government is taking land for a pious work and needs to show a big heart and revise the circle rate as there is never any dearth of money for it to serve people. He said the compensation amount for the farmers of these villages should be six times more than what they are being offered. Citing the example of the Agra-Lucknow expressway, the SP leader said the land for it was acquired after giving compensation to the satisfaction of the farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-564
12-11-2020||India||BJP MLA from Almora dies of Covid-19||Surendra Singh Jeena, BJP MLA from Almora district in Uttarakhand, died at a New Delhi hospital early Thursday. Jeena was being treated for Covid-19 there. Admitted to the  Sir Gangaram Hospital about a week ago, the 50-year-old passed away at around 4 am, according to Pradesh BJP vice president Devendra Bhasin. Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat condoled Jeena’s death and said that the “state has lost an energetic and farsighted leader.” "He was reckoned among the most active MLAs who took keen interest in the development of his constituency. He was the voice of the deprived sections of society," he said "In his death the state has lost an energetic and farsighted leader," the chief minister said, while praying for his family. Rawat also recalled meeting Jeena at his Delhi residence following the death of his wife. Pradesh BJP President Bansidhar Bhagat, too, offered his condolences and grieved at the legislator’s untimely death. "He was a young and energetic leader always active in public interest and organisational affairs. His death is an irreparable loss for the party and the society," said Bhagat. Assuring his and the party’s support, the BJP leader prayed for the strength of Jeena's family to bear the loss.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-564
12-11-2020||India||Arjun Rampal’s partner summoned by NCB||Actor Arjun Rampal’s partner Gabriella Demetriades appeared before the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Thursday in Mumbai for the second day for another round of questioning, an official said. The NCB is probing a case related to the alleged use of drugs in the Bollywood industry. Demetriades was questioned by the agency’s officials for about six hours on Wednesday, following which she was summoned again on Thursday. She arrived at the NCB’s zonal office at Ballard Estate in south Mumbai on this day, said the official. The anti-drugs bureau had conducted a raid at Rampal and Demetriades' house on Monday, after which it summoned the both for questioning. According to the official, the NCB had seized electronic gadgets including laptops, mobile phones and tablets while conducting the raid and had also questioned their driver. The agency, a day before raiding Rampal’s apartment, had arrested Bollywood producer Firoz Nadiadwala's wife after it recovered marijuana from their residence at suburban Juhu. The official also said that Demetraides’ brother Agisilaos had been arrested by the NCB last month in a drugs case from a resort at Pune’s Lonavala.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-564
12-11-2020||India||TN: Govt revokes order to reopen schools||The Tamil Nadu government on Thursday decided to revoke its order of opening schools from November 16 for classes 9-12, saying that they will continue to remain closed. The move comes days after the authorities sought views of parents regarding the same. The government also clarified that colleges and universities will open from December 2  only for research scholars and final year postgraduate students of science and technology streams, diverging from its earlier schedule to start from November 16. In an official statement, it said, “"The opening of colleges for all other courses will be announced later.” Hostels will open for only those students who will resume studies from next month, it added. Revealing the outcome of statewide consultations held with parents in private on November 9 regarding the resumption of classes for the current academic year, the government said that opinions were divided. While parents of some students wanted the institutions to reopen, others were against it in view of the coronavirus pandemic. According to the release, the school education department analysed these opinions holistically and took the decision. "The order on reopening schools from November 16 for classes 9-12 is cancelled. An announcement on reopening schools will be made later based on the situation," the government said after taking feedback from the parents. Following Chief Minister K Palaniswami’s announcement on October 31 regarding the reopening of educational institutions, DMK president MK Stalin lashed out at the government for its ‘hasty’ move. The Opposition leader said that a decision on this matter should be taken only in January 2021 after analysing the pandemic situation. Till November 11, a total of 7,50,409 people in tamil Nadu had tested positive for Covid-19, with 18,655 active cases being recorded in the state. The death toll stood at 11,415, while 7,20,339 recovered from the disease.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-564
12-11-2020||India||Indian economy in recession for first time in history ||The Indian economy is likely to have entered into a technical recession for the first time in its history at the end of the first half of 2020-21, according to a Reserve Bank of India report, prompting Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to blame the policies of the Narendra Modi-led government for the situation. "India has entered into recession for the first time in history. Mr Modi's actions have turned India's strength into its weakness," he said on Twitter. Rahul cited a report wherein a team of economists, including Michael Patra, the central bank's deputy governor in charge of monetary policy, has pointed out that the gross domestic product contracted 8.6 per cent in the quarter ended September. The Reserve Bank of India’s report is a part of its first ever published “nowcast,”' which is an estimate based on high-frequency data. The economy has slumped about 24 per cent in April to June, reports ndtv.com. In economics, when the GDP growth rate is negative for two consecutive quarters or more, it is termed recession. “Nowcasting” is the prediction of the present or the very near future of the state of the economy. "India has entered a technical recession in the first half of 2020-21 for the first time in its history," the authors wrote. The government is due to publish official statistics on November 27. The NSO estimates for the second quarter expected at the end of November 2020 will formally bear out the extent of improvement that occurred in the quarter gone by, the RBI said in a State of the Economy report, according to The Indian Express. The RBI, however, said the economy will break out of contraction of the six months gone by and return to positive growth in the October-December quarter of 2020-21. Incoming data for the month of October 2020 have brightened prospects and stirred up consumer and business confidence, it said. “With the momentum of September having been sustained, there is optimism that the revival of economic activity is stronger than the mere satiation of pent-up demand released by unlocks and the rebuilding of inventories. If this upturn is sustained in the ensuing two months, there is a strong likelihood that the Indian economy will break out of contraction of the six months gone by and return to positive growth in the third quarter (Q3) of 2020-21,” it said. However, "there is a grave risk of generalization of price pressures, unanchoring of inflation expectations feeding into a loss of credibility in policy interventions," the team of economists wrote in the Reserve Bank's bulletin. They also highlighted risks to global growth from a second wave of coronavirus infections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-564
12-11-2020||India||Serum Institute, ICMR complete enrollment for phase-III Covid vaccine trials||Serum Institute of India (SII) and ICMR on Thursday announced the completion of enrolment process of 1,600 participants in the phase-III clinical trials for COVID-19 vaccine Covishield in the country. SII and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) are collaborating on the clinical trials of the vaccine in the country. While ICMR has funded the clinical trial site fees, SII is taking care of other expenses for the Covishield. Currently, SII and ICMR are conducting phase II/III clinical trial of the vaccine at 15 different centres across the country, SII said in a statement. The entities have completed the enrolment of all 1,600 participants on October 31, it added. "ICMR has played a huge role in coming forward and strengthening India's fight against COVID-19. The collaboration will further aid us in putting India at the forefront of developing an immunogenic and efficacious vaccine," SII CEO Adar Poonawalla said. The partnership further testifies the importance of private-public institutes coming together in scaling up the management and containing the spread of the virus, he added. ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said the partnership is their contribution to lending expertise and support to bolster fight against the global pandemic. Based on the phase II/III trial results, SII with the help of ICMR will pursue the early availability of this product in the country. SII has already manufactured 40 million doses of the vaccine, under the at-risk manufacturing and stockpiling licence from Drugs Controller General of India. Covishield has been developed at the SII Pune laboratory with a master seed from Oxford University/Astra Zeneca.The vaccine made in the UK is currently being tested in large efficacy trials in the UK, Brazil, South Africa and the US. The promising results of the trials so far give confidence that Covishield could be a realistic solution to the pandemic. ICMR and SII have further collaborated for clinical development of another COVID-19 vaccine Covovax, which has been developed by Novavax, USA, and upscaled by SII. Drug firm Zydus Cadila on Thursday said it has successfully completed a phase 2 clinical trial In COVID-19 patients with its biological therapy, 'PegiHep', and it will now begin phase 3 clinical trial. In a regulatory filing, Zydus Cadila said "it has successfully completed a phase 2 clinical trial in COVID-19 patients with its biological therapy, Pegylated Interferon alpha-2b, 'PegiHep'... Based upon the results from its Phase 2 study, Zydus Cadila now plans to conduct a phase 3 clinical trial in India". Zydus Cadila, which is a part of the Cadila Healthcare group, said Pegylated Interferon alpha 2b significantly increased viral reduction and reduced the need for supplemental oxygen in moderate COVID-19 patients. "We continue to look at possible treatment options that are safe and efficacious in the treatment and management of COVID-19. Pegylated Interferon alpha-2b has shown the potential to reduce virus titres when given earlier in the disease and we will like to explore this biological option further. We are hopeful of reinforcing our treatment options to fight COVID-19," Sharvil Patel, Managing Director, Cadila Healthcare Ltd said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-564
12-11-2020||India||More than 47,000 infected in a day, Covid tally close to 87 lakh||India saw a single-day increase of 47,905 infections taking the country's COVID-19 caseload to 86,83,916, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease have surged to 80,66,501, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The coronavirus death toll climbed to 1,28,121 with 550 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of active cases remained below 5 lakh for the second consecutive day. There are 4,89,294 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country as on date which comprises 5.63 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. The total recoveries have surged to 80, 66,501 pushing the national recovery rate to 92.89 per cent, while COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.48 per cent. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 12,19,62,509 samples have been tested up to November 11 with 11,93,358 samples being tested on Wednesday. The 550 new fatalities include 125 from Maharashtra, 85 from Delhi, 49 from West Bengal, 31 from Punjab, 29 from Kerala, 28 from Tamil Nadu, 25 each from Haryana and Chhattisgarh, 23 from Karnataka and 20 from Uttar Pradesh. A total of 1,28,121 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 45,560 from Maharashtra followed by 11,453 from Karnataka, 11,415 from Tamil Nadu, 7,452 from West Bengal, 7,281 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,228 from Delhi, 6,828 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,389 from Punjab and 3,776 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-564
12-11-2020||India||Pollution levels dip in Delhi, air quality still 'very poor'||The national capital recorded its air quality in the 'very poor' category on Thursday morning even as experts said the situation was much better compared to two days ago when pollution levels were above the emergency threshold. A change in the wind direction -- from north westerly to north-north easterly -- was the reason behind the dip in pollution levels as it reduced the contribution of stubble burning significantly, according to government agencies and weather experts. The city recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 315 at 9 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 344 on Wednesday and 476 on Tuesday. Delhi witnessed six severe air days on the trot from November 4 to November 9, according to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. The AQI in neighbouring cities of Faridabad (306), Ghaziabad (336), Noida (291), Greater Noida (322), and Gurgaon (261), which fall in the National Capital Region (NCR), was also recorded in the poor and "very poor" categories. An official of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the situation is much better compared to Tuesday . The wind direction has changed preventing the transport of smoke from farm fires in Punjab and Haryana, he said. The official, however, said the air quality is likely to deteriorate marginally on Friday. The IMD said winds were calm in the morning and the minimum temperature was 11.6 degrees Celsius. Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion. There was shallow fog in the morning and the visibility was 800 metres at the Safdarjung Observatory. The Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR, said the change in transport level wind direction has led to a significant decrease in stubble burning-related intrusion in spite of high fire counts. The share of stubble burning in Delhi's PM2.5 was almost negligible -- 3 per cent -- on Wednesday due to unfavourable transport-level winds, it said. Deterioration (in air quality) is expected on Friday towards the higher end of the 'very poor' category, it said. The CPCB had on Wednesday ordered closure of hot mix plants and stone crushers in Delhi-NCR till November 17 in view of a likely increase in pollution levels during the festive season. It also asked the governments of Punjab and Haryana to take immediate stringent actions to curb stubble burning and authorities in Delhi-NCR to strictly check biomass burning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-564
12-11-2020||India||Sikkim women’s T20 debuts||The inaugural edition of Khangchendzonga Shield, Sikkim’s first women’s cricket tournament organised by the Sikkim Cricket Assoication (SiCA), got underway at the Sikkim Cricket Ground (SiCA) near Rangpo on Wednesday with a double header. In the first match of the T20 tournament, Mount Kabru easily defeated Mount Simvo by eight wickets. Batting first, the Simvos were restricted to a modest 73 in their 20 overs, which the Kabrus overhauled for the loss of just two wickets. In the second match, Mount Pandim defeated Mount Sinolchu by a similar margin of eight wickets. The Pandims made an easy job of chasing Sinolchu’s paltry score of 70. The four teams will play a match each against each other over three days, and the top two will clash in the final slated for November 21. In all, 64 cricketers are taking part in the tournament aimed at promoting cricket among women of the soccer-mad Himalayan state. “Historically, Sikkim has never had a cricket tournament solely dedicated to women. This step will serve as a platform for young women to showcase their talent and encourage more participation in the sport in the future,” said Lobzang G. Tenzing, SiCA president. The tourney was preceded by a three-day coaching camp, conducted by the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI)’s coach Atul Gaikwad. Seema Gurung, a player from Soreng-Chakung in West Sikkim, said she was excited to be part of both the coaching camp and the tournament. “We really enjoyed the coaching by Atul Sir. Unlike in the past when we had to go outside the state for training, it was nice to train in our own home ground this time,” Seema said. The Sikkim Cricket Ground (formerly Mining Ground) is hosting the first tournament after its development as the state’s only cricket-dedicated stadium. In its earlier avatar, the venue used to host multiple events, including political rallies and other jamborees. After SiCA was granted an extended lease of the ground by the previous government, the BCCI has funded its development as a cricket stadium. In the first phase of development at an approximate cost of Rs 2 crore, the entire ground has been re-laid. “Nine pitches have also been set up in the middle of the ground and eight practice pitches along the sides. The ground has a proper drainage system and the entire playing arena has been fenced,” said Roshan Gupta, a SiCA member.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-564
12-11-2020||India||Many ignored, but interim bail granted to Arnab Goswami||The Supreme Court on Wednesday granted interim bail to Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami who was arrested eight days ago in a suicide abetment case. “Please exercise your jurisdiction to uphold personal liberty.... Case after case, high courts are denying personal liberty,” the Supreme Court bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee told the high courts. The following are some Indians who have been languishing in jail without being convicted till now: Siddique Kappan, 41 Delhi-based journalist booked under UAPA by UP police Days in custody: 38 Legal status: Journalist union’s habeas corpus petition to come up in the Supreme Court (SC) on November 16. SC had earlier advised the union to approach the “correct court” to establish the whereabouts of Kappan Sudha Bharadwaj, 58 Ailing lawyer and activist arrested under UAPA Days in custody: 806 Legal status: On September 24, SC had refused to entertain a bail plea, saying: “You have a good case on merits. Why don’t you file a regular bail application?” Varavara Rao, 79 Ailing poet arrested under UAPA Days in custody: 806 In July, his family said he was unable to walk on his own or go to the washroom, and that he was hallucinating Stan Swamy, 83 Priest and tribal rights activist arrested under UAPA Days in custody: 34 The Parkinson’s Disease patient, along with Rao, is lodged in the same jail from where Goswami was released on Wednesday. Father Stan Swamy hadto move a special court for permission to use a straw to drink water Aasif Sultan, 31 Kashmiri journalist accused of aiding terrorists Days in custody: 808 His family members as well as his colleagues have denied the allegation, saying he had merely reported on militants Umar Khalid, 32 Former JNU student arrested under UAPA Days in custody: 48 On September 21, a Delhi court had dismissed his application seeking permission to meet his family during police custody||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-565
12-11-2020||India||Government control on OTT, news portals||The government has moved to regulate content on video streaming platforms such as Amazon Prime Video and Netflix besides online news portals, rejecting a code of self-regulation that 15 OTT platforms had signed in September. The audiovisual content of over-the-top (OTT) apps, and news and currentaffairs content on online media have been brought under the ambit of the information and broadcasting ministry. The decision has raised fears of “a licence raj on the Internet”. It has also prompted calls for a “liberal approach” from the Centre, while some have expressed hope that fake news would now be weeded out. In a gazette notification by the cabinet secretariat on Monday, the President amended the Government of India (Allocation of Business) Rules, 1961, to bring about the change. No reason was provided, and I&B minister Prakash Javadekar refused to answer questions at the briefing, saying he would speak on the subject on Thursday. The government had revealed its intent earlier in the Supreme Court during hearings in the Sudarshan TV case, when it argued the court should first focus on digital media rather than television content. The government has been particularly focused on online news portals, having been unable to control the digital media the way it has television and print. Earlier this year, the Vishwa Hindu Parishad had written to Netflix complaining that some of its programmes had hurt Hindu sentiments. It had named five movies and web series: Leila, Ghoul, Chippa, Sacred Games and Krishna & His Leela. In the Sudarshan TV case, the government had said: “It is the need of the hour that the court start first with ‘web-based digital media’ which includes ‘web magazines’ and ‘web-based news channels’ and ‘web-based newspapers’. They not only have a very wide reach but are completely uncontrolled.” The print media is regulated by the Press Council of India with the stated objective of “preserving the freedom of the press” and it has representation from the media. Television has a self-regulatory mechanism in the News Broadcasters Standards Authority. However, the government has rejected the self-regulation code for Online Curated Content Providers in India, which was signed by 15 video streaming platforms including Amazon Prime Video, Netflix, Zee5, Viacom 18, Disney Hotstar, MX Player and Jio. Unveiled by the Internet and Mobile Association of India (IAMAI) on September 4, the code sought to provide consumers with information and tools to help them decide what they wanted to see while allowing the content creators freedom to tell their stories. “By aiming to do what is best for both consumers and creators as guiding principles, the code intends for India to be one of the most dynamic and fastest growing entertainment industries in the world,” the IAMAI had said. The code provided for a framework for age classification and content descriptions for titles as well as access control tools, and a structured grievance redress and escalation mechanism for complaints of non-compliance with the guidelines. It made it mandatory for each OTT platform to set up a consumer complaints department and/or an internal committee and an advisory panel with an independent external adviser. Contacted by this newspaper for comments, an authorised representative of the IAMAI said: “We are not commenting on this issue.” Netflix declined comment while Amazon and Hotstar did not respond to requests for comment, a Reuters report said. Facebook and Twitter, whose news and current affairs content will come under the new regulatory regime, did not answer requests for comment, either, the report added. Karan Bedi, CEO of MX Player, told The Telegraph: “We look forward to working with the ministry to implement our industry’s self-regulation efforts. As responsible content creators, we want to ensure this act not only takes cognisance of the nature of content being released but also ensures that we safeguard creativity in this rapidly growing sector.” While actor Ashwin Mushran tweeted “the government just went OTT on OTT”, Aneesh Dev, founder-director of Dollywood Play — a dubbed Hindi film OTT — sought a “liberal approach” to regulating content. “The government should keep in mind the international standards in developed countries for allowing content, as there are millions of videos for which these platforms need to get scrutinised and seek necessary approvals. Hence there can be a more liberal approach of allowing content for an emerging medium like OTT.” Filmmaker Vikram Malhotra said the industry would have to “wait and watch”. “My only concern is that rules that currently govern access to content as well as its creation and distribution on other platforms cannot and should not be simply applied to the online medium,” said Malhotra, whose studio Abunduntia Entertainment produces films and shows, including some for Amazon Prime Video. The government move comes after the Supreme Court issued a notice last month to the Centre and the IAMAI on a petition from an advocate, Shashank Shekhar Jha, seeking an autonomous body to monitor and filter content on OTT platforms. Soon after the Supreme Court notice, the I&B ministry wrote to the IT ministry to explore ways of regulating online content. The Modi government had been scouting for ways to regulate OTT apps for several years. In March 2015, telecom regulator Trai had sparked outrage by floating a consultation paper that wondered if it was time to regulate OTT applications — especially communications apps — since they had started to hurt the revenues of telecom services whose networks they rode. The move fizzled out soon after. In mid-September this year, Trai told the telecom department there was no need to bring OTT platforms under any form of regulatory framework. “Any regulatory prescription in haste may leave an adverse impact on the industry as a whole. The authority is of the opinion that market forces may be allowed to respond to the situation without prescribing any regulatory intervention,” Trai said. “However, developments shall be monitored and intervention as felt necessary shall be done at appropriate time.” The latest move to regulate OTT content is a lot more sinister than the original intent. “It is a little like a licence raj on the Internet,” said cyber law expert Prashant Mali. However, another cyber law expert, Karnika Seth, cautiously welcomed the plan, saying: “It will weed out fake news.” She did not explain what litmus test should be used to identify fake news. “What kind of licensing will apply to OTT film and other providers will need to be looked into because it should not impinge on freedom of speech, yet regulate only to the extent it is necessary,” Seth said. She conceded that implementation could prove a challenge. In cinemas it’s possible to exclude certain categories of viewers, but the online platform is more open and everybody has the right to access it. “Does somebody have to prove their age to view a programme? How feasible this would be is yet to be seen,” she said. Sajai Singh, a partner at the law firm J. Sagar Associates, said: “Our hope is that the ministry of I&B will consider the recommendations made by the expert committee chaired by Shyam Benegal while trying to formulate the guidelines and procedure for certification of content on OTT platforms.” The Benegal committee, dealing with film certification, had in 2016 said the State would have to shift from the idea of censorship to that of certification. Singh said: “One key differentiator of the digital medium is the lack of public exhibition of content; rather, there is a pull factor wherein the consumer decides what content he or she wants to consume, at what time and after paying a transaction value. It is imperative that the industry is allowed to flourish and grow in a uniform, non-discriminatory and non-discretionary manner.” Additional reporting by Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-565
12-11-2020||India||Bengal on PM’s radar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday endorsed the continued leadership of Nitish Kumar in Bihar and appeared to turn his gaze towards poll-bound Bengal where he read out the “writing on the wall” to the BJP’s rivals. “Those who can’t challenge us through democratic ways have taken to killing BJP workers in some parts of the country,” Modi said without naming Bengal, where Assembly elections are due in 2021. He was speaking at the BJP headquarters here to celebrate the Bihar and bypoll victories. “I don’t need to warn. That will be done by the people. Elections come and go, victory and defeat happen.… This dance of death can never be allowed in a democracy. It can’t win a mandate and this writing on the wall should be read,” Modi said amid loud slogans of “Bharat Mata ki jai”. The BJP believes that the victories in Bihar and the by-elections have provided the party with the perfect optics to gear up for the Assembly elections in Bengal and Assam next year. Modi appeared to be using the Bihar outcome as a launch pad to boost the morale of party workers, particularly in Bengal where the BJP has never been in power. Modi drew attention to the BJP’s rise from “two MPs and two rooms” to “every corner of the country”. He said the BJP was the only party to have increased its strength after three terms in power --- a reference to the BJP winning the highest number of seats among the NDA partners --- but backed chief minister Nitish to lead the government. “We, workers of the BJP, shall work under the leadership of Nitish Kumar and leave no stone unturned to serve the people,” Modi said. The endorsement from the BJP’s talisman would put to rest speculation over the leadership of the NDA in Bihar after the poll results pulled the BJP to 74 seats, pushing Nitish’s JDU to third spot with just 43 seats. The Prime Minister devoted the better part of his 40-minute speech to lauding the BJP for winning the trust of the people election after election. He highlighted how the BJP had won not only in Bihar but across the length and breadth of the country in the by-elections and emerged as a true national party. “Not just in Bihar, we won in Manipur in the far east, Gujarat in the far west, Karnataka and Telangana in the south, in Madhya Pradesh and in Uttar Pradesh,” Modi said. “Today the BJP resides in the heart of every citizen of the country.… If you work sincerely for the development of the country, people will bless you.” Modi seemed to be chipping away at the perception that women were “silent voters” of Nitish. Referring to discussions on “silent voters” in Bihar, he said women had been the largest backers of the BJP because the party had ensured their safety, security and dignity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-565
12-11-2020||India||Lalu furious, Congress on sabotage alert||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Lalu Prasad is said to be seething with rage over the election results in Bihar, holding the Congress squarely responsible for the Opposition alliance’s failure to cross the halfway mark. While both the RJD and the Congress firmly believe that they would have been in the reckoning to form the government but for last-minute manipulations by the administration that snatched at least eight seats by force, Lalu is of the opinion that a stronger performance by the Congress would have rendered such calculations irrelevant. Although the RJD veteran and former chief minister is serving a jail term, he is currently at Rajendra Institute of Medical Science (RIMS) in Ranchi because of illness. Sources said Lalu had called up several important persons to convey his anguish over the Congress and had accused some leaders of the party, not Sonia Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi, of messing things up. A source told The Telegraph from Patna: “Laluji is dejected. He believes this was the best chance for his son Tejashwi to become chief minister. He laments that the Congress took 70 seats and didn’t fight well. ‘Fifty-one haar gaya (They lost in 51 seats),’ he is saying. He has spoken to many persons.” The majority of Congress leaders concede they could have done better and are looking for the “mysterious forces” involved in internal sabotage. A leader said: “First, we accepted unwinnable seats. At least 35 of the 70 seats were impossible to win. Then we fielded unwinnable candidates. We should have sought seats for strong candidates instead of hunting for candidates after grabbing seats. Good seats were identified and the list was given to the negotiators. But an entirely different set of seats was accepted. We were mystified by the development.” The disconnect between planning and execution was so disturbing that Rahul and his team felt helpless and now plan to undertake a drastic overhaul of the organisational machinery in the coming months, according to the sources. Appointing a strong and “trustworthy” team has become all the more important amidst strong rumours that the BJP-JDU leadership was already in touch with several Congress MLAs to bolster their wafer-thin majority. A list of nine “suspect” MLAs has been given to Rahul and surveillance has already been increased on their activities. The absence of general secretary in-charge Shaktisinh Gohil from the battlefield has become a major concern, weakening the institutional oversight over the Bihar affairs of the party. The campaigning had been managed by chief Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala, who was sent to Patna as an emergency measure when the high command realised that the state unit had not been working efficiently. While the capability of local leaders was always in doubt, the central leadership cannot escape its responsibility as the Pradesh Congress Committee has not been formed all these years. The PCC chief has been working without an executive. The pathetic state of organisational affairs may enhance the chances of defection as MLAs don’t see any future in the party. Confirming the fear of defections, a senior leader said: “If our MLAs can be bought in states like Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and Gujarat, where the leadership is much stronger, only God can save us in Bihar where there is no command and control.” Leaders of both the RJD and the Congress are talking about several candidates being allegedly defeated mischievously by the districts’ administration, with some results reversed after counting. “While the demands of our candidates for recount in several constituencies were denied, we know at least two cases where recounting was done without the rival candidate asking for it and the results were reversed. Eight cases of illegality will be challenged in court but the unfortunate part is that election petitions take years to fructify,” a Congress leader said, resigned to another tenure of BJP-JDU rule in Bihar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-565
12-11-2020||India||Resurgence perks up Left ||The Left parties bagged 16 of the 29 Assembly seats they contested in Bihar, snapping a streak of setbacks plaguing the alternative voice for years. The CPI-ML won 12 of the 19 seats it contested, the CPM two of four and the CPI two of six. The vote share of the Left also increased from around 3.5 per cent in the previous polls to 5.5 per cent despite contesting a fewer number of seats. The results are a big leap over the 2015 polls, in which the Left parties had won just three seats, all by the CPI-ML. This is also the Left’s best performance since 1995 when the parties had shared 38 MLAs in an undivided Bihar that included present-day Jharkhand. The front had slipped steadily since then. Buoyed by the latest results, the parties are now eying to expand to newer areas and conduct issue-based agitations for the common people. “It would have been more satisfying had the government changed. We would have then called it a brilliant performance. These elections have been an upsurge against the present government, an agitation by the youth and the common people and the explosion of their anger,” CPI-ML general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya told The Telegraph. “We had always been working on the ground irrespective of electoral outcomes, but now we have a stronger team in the legislature with several young leaders. We will try to serve the people in our constituencies better and also serve the cause of democracy in Bihar more effectively,” he added. The CPI-ML general secretary said the party would remain a part of the Grand Alliance. The party will also focus more on Bengal in coordination with the other Left parties. “The Bengal elections are very crucial this time and the people feel inspired by Bihar’s example. It is our next station. We will try to put up a fight together with other Left parties,” Bhattacharya said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-565
12-11-2020||India||Six of a family found dead in Odisha||The bodies of six members of a family were recovered from a house at Sanrapada village in Bolangir district in western Odisha on Wednesday, with police suspecting they were murdered. The deceased have been identified as Bulu Jena, his wife, their three sons and a daughter. The incident came to light after residents of the neighbourhood opened the door of Jena’s house when bad smell started emanating from inside. The victims were found lying under a blanket. Later, the residents informed the police. Police have also found some sharp weapons, pots and flowers from the spot. The police suspect a number of people were involved in the crime. Patnagarh tehsildar Puspanjali Panda said, “Injury marks have been found on the heads of the deceased. It seems to be a case of murder. Investigation is on to ascertain the reason behind the crime.” “The bodies have been sent for post-mortem. We have to wait for the reports,” said a senior police officer. Jena used to collect honey and sell it in the local market.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-565
12-11-2020||India||Day after, Nitish stays at home ||Nitish Kumar remained cloistered in his Patna residence on Wednesday meeting leaders close to him and purveying the changed scenario where his JDU is now the BJP’s junior partner. The JDU has won 43 seats to the BJP’s 74. In 2015, it had won 28 more seats. A JDU source said Nitish was unhappy at the way the Lok Janshakti Party had eaten into his vote base and the fact that the BJP had not taken assertive steps to rein in Chirag Paswan, who had launched a scathing attack on the chief minister and vowed to pull him down while declaring allegiance to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “The LJP cut away a massive number of votes in almost every constituency our party contested. We would have won at least 30 more seats had this not happened. Our leader is aware of the fact and also that the BJP did not do much to stop Chirag Paswan from doing so,” the JDU source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-565
12-11-2020||India||Vote share: BJP-JDU slide, RJD-Cong jump||The BJP-Janata Dal United combine may have won the Bihar election but its vote share in the state has dropped by 10.5 percentage points compared to the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Election Commission figures show. In contrast, the combined tally of the Rashtriya Janata Dal and the Congress shows a gain of 9.5 per cent votes over the 2019 figure. This does not include the 5.5 per cent votes their Mahagathbandhan partners — the Left parties — won from 29 Assembly seats this time. According to the final results, the NDA has won 125 of Bihar’s 243 seats, narrowly surpassing the majority mark of 122, while the Opposition RJD-Congress-Left alliance has bagged 110 seats. “While there’s no established formula to predict whether (and by how much) a party’s seat tally would increase or decrease with a rise or fall in its vote share, the vote percentage does indicate a party’s popularity among the voters,” a senior JDU leader told The Telegraph on the condition of anonymity. The BJP and the JDU had together bagged around 45.4 per cent of the votes in the 2019 general election, sharing 33 of Bihar’s 40 Lok Sabha seats between them. Six seats had gone to their junior partner, the Lok Janshakti Party, which broke away from the alliance in Bihar ahead of the Assembly polls. This time the BJP and the JDU together mustered just 34.9 per cent of the votes, marking a loss of around 10.5 per cent of the total votes. The BJP won 19.5 per cent of the votes, bagging 74 seats. Its vote share in last year’s Lok Sabha elections was 23.6, indicating a fall of 4.1 percentage points this time. Chief minister Nitish Kumar’s JDU has garnered 15.4 per cent of the votes and 43 Assembly seats. This represents a fall of 6.4 percentage points from the 21.8 per cent votes it had received in the general election. The two allies’ combined polling percentage shows a drop even when compared with the 2015 Assembly elections, when they were on opposite sides. The BJP then headed the NDA while the JDU led a Grand Alliance with the RJD and the Congress. In 2015, the BJP had won 24.4 per cent of the votes, which indicates it has lost almost 5 per cent of the total votes this time. The JDU had secured 16.8 per cent of the votes in 2015, which means its share has dropped by 1.4 percentage points. The RJD and the Congress have won 23.1 per cent and 9.5 per cent of the votes, respectively, against the 15.4 per cent and 7.7 per cent they had secured in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. This adds up to a combined gain of 9.5 per cent of the votes. Individually, the RJD has gained 7.7 per cent of the total votes and the Congress, 1.8 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-565
12-11-2020||India||SC sends ‘message’ to high court, frees Arnab Goswami ||The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed the “forthwith” release of Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami and two others in a 2018 abetment to suicide case, saying it would be a “travesty of justice” and “we are travelling the path of destruction” if personal liberty is curtailed. The apex court expressed concern over state governments targeting individuals on the basis of ideology. The court also granted interim bail to two others in the case — Neetish Sarda and Feroz Mohammad Shaikh. A vacation bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee restrained the three accused from interfering with the investigation or intimidating witnesses. Goswami and the others were arrested by Alibaug police in Maharashtra’s Raigad district on November 4 in connection with the suicide of architect-interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother in 2018 over alleged non-payment of dues by the companies of the accused. “Whatever be his (Goswami’s) ideology… I don’t even watch his channel, but if in this case constitutional courts do not interfere today — we are undeniably travelling the path of destruction,” Justice Chandrachud orally observed during the four-and-a-half-hour hearing. The court granted interim bail even as senior advocates Kapil Sibal and Amit Desai, appearing for the Maharashtra government, opposed such a relief on the ground that the regular bail application was to come up for hearing on Thursday. Desai also argued that since hundreds of such bail applications of various other accused are pending in different trial courts, no special consideration can be shown to Goswami. The Supreme Court rejected the argument, saying that as a constitutional court it was more concerned about a citizen’s fundamental right to liberty and that a message must go out to the high court that it should uphold the “personal liberty of citizens”. “…The appeals before this court arise from the order of the division bench of the high court of judicature at Mumbai dated 9 November 2020, by which the applications for the grant of the interim bail moved by the appellants pending the disposal of their writ petitions have been rejected…. “We are of the considered view that the high court was in error in rejecting the applications for the grant of interim bail. We accordingly order and direct that Arnab Manoranjan Goswami, Feroz Mohammad Shaikh and Neetish Sarda shall be released on interim bail, subject to each of them executing a personal bond in the amount of Rs 50,000 to be executed before the jail superintendent. They are, however, directed to cooperate in the investigation and shall not make any attempt to interfere with the ongoing investigation or with the witnesses,” Justice Chandrachud, who dictated the order in open court around 4.30pm, said. The court directed the authorities of Taloja jail and the superintendent of police of Raigad “…to ensure that this order is complied with forthwith”. Later in the evening, Goswami was freed. Bombay High Court had rejected Goswami’s bail plea on Monday, saying that by law he should seek regular bail in the sessions court before approaching the higher courts. Justice Chandrachud observed during Wednesday’s hearing: “We must send a message today to the high courts as well…. Please exercise your jurisdiction to uphold personal liberty…. Case after case, high courts are denying personal liberty.” Observing that it would be a travesty of justice if the personal liberty of a person was curtailed, the bench expressed concern over state governments targeting individuals on the basis of ideology and difference of opinion. “We are seeing case after case where high courts are not granting bail and failing to protect the personal liberty of people,” the bench said. The court asked the Maharashtra government whether there was any need for custodial interrogation of Goswami, and said the issue pertains to “personal liberty”. It observed that the Maharashtra government must ignore Goswami’s comments on TV. “Yes we are with you, they (victims’ family) deserve a fair investigation, but if a state targets an individual like (this), that is not fair…. I don’t even watch his (Goswami’s) channel, never turn it on. Our democracy is extraordinarily resilient. Governments must ignore all this,” Justice Chandrachud remarked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-565
12-11-2020||West Bengal||Bengal BJP chief’s convoy attacked in Alipurduar, greeted with black flags||Stones were hurled and black flags were shown at BJP state president Dilip Ghosh's convoy in Jaigaon area of Bengal's Alipurduar district on Thursday, where he had gone to attend party programs, police said. Several Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) activists were seen raising slogans against Ghosh, asking him to leave. Ghosh's vehicle was partially damaged in the attack, sources in the BJP said. A team of police officers, however, brought the situation under control, after forcing the protesters and saffron camp supporters to disperse. Ghosh later told reporters, “The TMC and their friends are getting desperate as they can sense defeat in the upcoming assembly polls. However, such tactics won't work. People are with us.” He also claimed that the incident goes on to show that law and order have completely collapsed in Bengal. After a Chai Pe Charcha session, we were on our way to another program, when our convoy was pelted with stones. Black flags were shown. “Such attacks by the ruling party and its allies prove that law and order have collapsed in the state. In a democracy such things don't happen,” he stated. District TMC chief Sourav Chakraborty, however, said that Ghosh was trying to foment trouble in north Bengal, and none of his party activists was involved in the incident. The GJM, led by Bimal Gurung, recently joined hands with the TMC, while the Binay Tamang faction of the Gorkha outfit has always been an ally of the ruling party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-313
12-11-2020||West Bengal||BJP worker found dead, party accuses TMC||A BJP worker’s body was recovered from a forested area in West Bengal’s Purba Medinipur district on Wednesday night. The incident soon triggered tension in the area as the saffron party accused Trinamool Congress ‘goons’ of murdering him. The ruling party however denied the allegations, saying they were "baseless and bereft of truth". According to a police officer, the deceased Gokul Jana’s body was found at the Itabedia area in the district on Wednesday night, following which an inquiry was initiated. The state unit of the BJP, in a Twitter statement, said, “Gokul Jana, BJPs booth worker from Kanthi Bhagabanpur assembly, was brutally murdered by TMC goons. His crime? He requested the husband of a TMC panchayat member affected by Corona to stay in quarantine!" "Is this how a democracy is supposed to survive under Mamata Banerjee's TMC in Bengal?" the tweet adds. BJP leader Sayantan Basu alleged that the police was trying to shield the murderers by hushing up the matter, adding that Jana was a victim of political rivalry. "Hundreds of our workers have been killed by the TMC in West Bengal and the police are not taking any action. The ruling party doesn't believe in democracy," he said. BJP national secretary Arvind Menon in a tweet condemned the “brutal murder” and posted a picture of Jana. The TMC, on the other hand, said that none of its workers had any connection to the death, and described the saffron party’s allegations as a “bunch of lies”. "We demand a thorough probe into his death. It seems the BJP has resorted to politics over dead bodies in the run up to assembly polls," a district leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-313
12-11-2020||West Bengal||Covid: longest spell of dip in active cases in Bengal||Bengal on Wednesday reported the longest spell of uninterrupted drop in its total active cases, the 16-day streak bettering the previous record of a similar 15-day phase that ended on September 7. The state, with 4,431 recoveries in the day reset the record for daily recoveries for the 22nd time in 23 days, aiding the drop in total active cases from 37,190, 16 days ago, to 32,836 now. The total has now gone back to the level of October 16. The number of new cases reported on Wednesday was 3,872, below 4,000 for the 16th successive day, since the end of Durga Puja. Bengal also reported 49 deaths, the day’s toll less than 50 for the first time in weeks. The state’s total toll stands at 7,452. “A fall of around 5,000 (total active cases) in just about a fortnight that included infections during Durga Puja…is something to be proud of,” said a minister. He added that Bengal’s recovery rate was now at an all-time high of 90.34 per cent and had not dipped once since October 22. “We are close to surpassing the national rate (92.8 per cent) soon. There have been a lot of positives in this post-Puja spell of drastic improvement in the Covid-19 situation, but the spike in recoveries is the most crucial,” said the minister. The state reported 66,610 recoveries in these 16 days, outweighing the 63,162 new cases detected. Bengal’s total novel coronavirus cases is nearly 4.17 lakh now, including over 3.76 lakh recoveries and 7,452 deaths. “We have undone so much of the damage from that alarming spell of the outbreak that ended just before Durga Puja. Having successfully handled the major festival, we are a lot more confident about the weeks to come,” said the minister. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja. The numbers of infections from the Puja days, largely available by now, has shown that the intervention was effective. The high court has issued a similar set of instructions to keep the outbreak from worsening over Kali Puja and Diwali. Bengal’s overall mortality rate improved to 1.78, but it is still behind the national rate of 1.47 per cent. Of the total death toll, 6,240 or 83.7 per cent were attributed to co-morbidities. The state reported 33.61 per cent occupancy in the 13,508 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 101 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 4.36 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-313
12-11-2020||West Bengal||Binay supporter stabbed, FIR names Bimal sympathisers||The Binay Tamang faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha voiced fears over the law and order situation of the hills after one of their supporters was stabbed and injured allegedly by supporters of the rival Bimal Gurung faction at Barnesbeg tea garden, some 8km from Darjeeling town, on Tuesday evening. According to an FIR filed by Chetan (Thapa) Chhetri, 32, supporters of the Gurung faction had held a meeting in the garden and soon some of them took out weapons and started chasing everyone on the road. “One amongst them stab me to kill me at the back and I felt unconscious (sic),” the injured Chetan said in the FIR where he named eight Gurung supporters. Ever since Gurung announced his decision to dump the BJP-led NDA and back Trinamul last month, his supporters are organising meeting across the hills. Now, both the warring Morcha factions are aligned to Trinamul. Anit Thapa, general secretary of the Tamang faction, slammed “politics relying on weapons” and added “if provoked we will respond appropriately.” The Gurung faction has not issued any statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-313
12-11-2020||West Bengal||Election Commission of India’s central force query raises eyebrows ||The Election Commission of India asked the Bengal government to send an estimate on central forces needed for 2021 Assembly polls, the query coming as a surprise for Nabanna. An official said it was tough for the administration to ascertain the requirement now as the final voter list was yet to be published and the number of booths not yet fixed. Electoral roll revision will start from November 18. The final roll is likely to be out by January 5. “The police directorate will assess the requirement and then only a reply would be sent to the ECI,” said a senior government official. He termed the letter “a routine exercise”, but other officials felt otherwise as this was the first time the poll panel started deliberations on central force needs so early. According to sources, the ECI sent the letter through the Bengal CEO’s office on Tuesday evening and the letter was sent to home secretary H. K. Dwivedi. “The state was asked to furnish requirements by Wednesday. Till evening, the state hadn’t sent a reply,” said a source. Some Trinamul insiders said the letter could be the result of the narrative that some state BJP leaders are spinning on the so-called worsening law and order in the state. “We think that the ECI should not be influenced by BJP leaders but judge for themselves,” a minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-313
12-11-2020||West Bengal||BJP hopes for Bihar rerun in Bengal polls||Jubilation erupted in front of the state BJP headquarters here on Wednesday, a day after the NDA emerged victorious in Bihar, with supporters hoping for a rerun of the victory in Bengal in 2021. Party workers converged at the central Calcutta office with a newly-coined slogan “Ebar Bangla, parle samla (Now it’s Bengal, defend if you can)”. Though no senior state leader was present at the 6 Muralidhar Sen Lane party headquarters on Wednesday morning, supporters distributed sweets, vermillion powder and urged the groups of dhakis to drum up celebrations. The mood was similar to that of May 2019 when the BJP pulled off stunning numbers — 18 parliamentary seats — in the Lok Sabha polls. “We are here to celebrate the win in Bihar. Now it is time for the people in Bengal to cast their votes and bring the BJP to power here,” said Narayan Chatterjee, a local BJP leader, standing amid a crowd of raucous supporters with boxes of orange-coloured sweets. Encouraged by Bihar, Bengal’s BJP workers and leaders on Wednesday took to social media — Twitter in particular — to emphasise the victory’s implications for Bengal. The trending hashtag #Now Bengal gained traction on social media by late Wednesday afternoon after being tweeted and retweeted by several senior leaders. Beneath the euphoria, some senior BJP leaders said in hushed tones that the battle for Bengal was more difficult. According to a party leader, the biggest challenge here would be that the party would be fighting it alone. There was no JD(U) here. Also, it is also no secret that the old guard led by state party president Dilip Ghosh and newcomers from other parties led by national vice-president Mukul Roy do not see eye to eye. Challenges posed by the ongoing pandemic were not lost on leaders either. Bengal has around 78,000 polling booths. The ECI plans to cap the number of voters per booth to 1,500, which would lead to an increase in the number of booths, but the BJP already has many unmaned booths, the leader said. In his recent visit to Bengal, even home minister Amit Shah had stressed the party’s weak booth-level organisation in the state. The party has to ensure that every counting table has one of their representatives, who is supposed to be present through the entire process irrespective of how long it takes. “We have so many euphoric supporters. But I doubt how many of them actually understand the technicalities of elections,” the leader added. “Work hard for five months and rule for 50 years," Shah had reportedly said in a closed-door party meeting. A source added that it was important that all internal differences were resolved immediately. “Under Sushil Modi, the Bihar BJP was able to put up a united fight. The petty quarrels that exist in the state unit here in Bengal are harmful for our future,” a state vice-president said on condition of anonymity. The BJP’s Hooghly MP Locket Chatterjee, in Bihar to campaign for the party during the second and the third phase of the polls, however sounded upbeat about her party’s prospects in Bengal following the Bihar win. She added that even if her party had lost in Bihar (which did not happen), winning Bengal was near certain because people have “rejected the Trinamul Congress”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-313
12-11-2020||West Bengal||Eight years on, reunion hope for Bangla girl||A Bangladesh girl who eight years ago had crossed the international border and stepped into India by mistake, will be handed over to her parents at the India-Bangladesh border in Petrapole of North 24-Parganas on Friday. The girl, then aged 12, had crossed the border and then somehow reached Siliguri. She was found roaming in the streets by police and shifted to a government-run home for destitute girls in Jalpaiguri and then to another shelter at Kamakhyaguri in Alipurduar. For some years, district administration had been trying to locate her parents, contacting the Bangladesh Deputy High Commission in Calcutta. “It was only recently that we came to know she is from Sirajganj district of Bangladesh. Her parents and two siblings are back home. We then took up the task of cross-verification with authorities of Bangladesh. While she identified her parents’ photographs here, her parents identified her there (in Bangladesh) too,” said Surendra Kumar Meena, the district magistrate of Alipurduar. The administration pursued the matter with the Bangladesh government through agencies of the state and the Centre. Finally, it was decided that the parents would be brought at the Petrapole-Benapole border on Friday where she would also be taken and handed over to them in presence of officials of both countries. “We are happy that she will finally return home. Last week, she underwent Covid-19 test and was found negative. On Thursday, she will be accompanied by our officials and reach Murshidabad from here. On Friday, she will be taken to the border for necessary formalities,” Meena said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-313
12-11-2020||West Bengal||After Bihar election results, Trinamul flutter in Left||A day after the Left’s best poll performance in Bihar in two-and-a-half decades, CPI-ML general-secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya expressed his disappointment at the Left Front’s stand vis–à–vis Trinamul in Bengal. The CPI-ML chief, whose party won 12 of the 19 seats it contested in Bihar, said the Left in Bengal should identify the BJP and not Mamata Banerjee’s party as the enemy. “So far, many in the Left have been treating Trinamul as the Number One target because it is in power. But the BJP is the growing danger in Bengal,” he said. “Rather than competing with the BJP in opposing Trinamul, it should be the other way round…. the BJP has to be recognised as the biggest threat to democracy across the country and in Bengal. One of the problems in Bengal is that many of our comrades there are not viewing state politics in the context of national politics.” Given its unflinching  stand of equidistance from the BJP and Trinamul, Alimuddin Street did not take this kindly. “It is ridiculous, what he said. Solely on the basis of one decent performance in the Bihar polls, such sweeping statements should not be made,” said a CPM central committee member. Front chairman Biman Bose, in Malda on Wednesday, told journalists about the allegedly communal nature of both the BJP and Trinamul. “Therefore, the question of forming an alliance with Trinamul in Bengal, for elections or otherwise, does not arise. The Left will fight both the BJP and Trinamul here,” said Bose, without taking Bhattacharya’s name. “We don’t need to blindly emulate the Bihar model.… Trinamul has no ideology, morality or ethics. It brought the BJP to Bengal.” CPM politburo member Mohammed Salim was caustic. “Sorry to say this, those who see Bengal with a telescopic view might have a different understanding, far removed from reality…. Trinamul was created to join the NDA and facilitate the BJP’s entry to Bengal and eliminate the Left.” CPM general-secretary Sitaram Yechury said it would be wrong to assume that joining forces against the BJP in Bengal would benefit anybody but the saffron camp. “Without fighting Trinamul, the BJP cannot be fought in Bengal,” said Yechury. “Trinamul has been in power in Bengal and there is massive popular discontent against it. If all non-BJP forces stand with Trinamul in Bengal, with the BJP in the Opposition, who other than the BJP will benefit from it?” However, Trinamul spokesperson Saugata Roy welcomed Bhattacharya’s suggestions. “Fighting on two fronts is a grave strategic error. Napoleon and Hitler understood that the hard way. Will the Left in Bengal also realise that after it is too late?” asked Roy, adding that indirectly or directly, the Left in Bengal should help Mamata in the fight against the BJP “for the nation’s sake”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-314
12-11-2020||West Bengal||By Jan 31, 3 new police battalions||The state cabinet on Wednesday approved a proposal to raise three police battalions for three different areas in Bengal. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who made this announcement after the cabinet meeting at Nabanna on Wednesday, gave out the details. “The Narayani Battalion will be set up in Cooch Behar (district) and the Gorkha Battalion would be set up for the hills. There will be another battalion for Jungle Mahal district whose name would be the Jungle Mahal Battalion,” the chief minister said. “The process of creation of the battalions would be completed by January 31, 2021,” Mamata added. Senior government officials said that each of the battalions would have 1,000 personnel. A total of 3,000 personnel would be recruited to set up these three battalions. The primary target of the ruling establishment, sources said, was to create jobs in all these three areas. Lack of employment opportunities still remains a major issue in these areas. A source said that it was being assumed that eligible youths hailing from these areas would get a chance to be recruited in the new battalions soon. “Even at least 20 per cent of the local youths are selected in the battalions, the issue of local unemployment would be resolved to some extent,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-314
12-11-2020||West Bengal|| Gyari Dolma in fray for chief||Darjeeling’s Gyari Dolma, 56, who earlier served as the home minister of the Tibetan government-in-exile, is vying to be the Sikyong (President) or the political leader of the exiled government, a responsibility that was discharged by His Holiness Dalai Lama until 2011. If Dolma does go on to win the election, it would be a historic moment as a woman has never been elected a “political leader” of the Tibetan government, hence the community. The two-phase “worldwide” election is slated on January 3 and April 11, 2021, and Dolma is the only women candidate for the highest post of the Kashag (cabinet), the apex executive body of the exiled government based in Dharamshala, Himachal Pradesh. The 1.5 lakh-odd Tibetan diaspora scattered across as many as 30 countries will on January 3 will write the names of people they would want to see as President. The present President of the exiled government is Lopsang Sangay, a Harvard Law School alumnus, also from Darjeeling. “I feel I am fit to handle this responsibility,” Dolma said, adding that her decision to contest was prompted by her desire to strengthen the democratic process initiated by His Holiness, utilise her experience – she has served as deputy speaker of the parliament for three terms apart from being the home minister — and make way for a woman leader for the Tibetan community. “As women, we have equal rights according to the Tibetan charter and being a woman who has served as deputy speaker, I feel it is my duty towards Tibetan woman today and for the future that I come forward to contest,” she said. Born to a Tibetan refugee family in Kalimpong that settled in Darjeeling, Dolma spent her schooling days in this hill station at Central School for Tibetans. Her family ran a restaurant in Darjeeling. Dolma pursed her graduation from Punjab University and obtained a law degree from Delhi University. An activist for the community, Dolma was elected to the exiled Tibet parliament at age 26. A community member said anyone can propose their name. “Technically there can be thousands of candidates but this is not how it works. So far eight names are doing the rounds.” Two candidates who get the most endorsements will face each other in the final round of the April polls. Then, the Sikyong in turn will nominate six others for the Tibetan cabinet. A similar process will elect the 45-member Tibetan parliament. Thus, two ballot papers — one for President and the other for Tibetan MPs — will be cast on the two voting days. Dolma is currently touring the region to campaign. Expressing deep gratitude to India, Dolma said that the future of Tibet and India was interlinked. She hoped India would take a proactive political decision regarding Tibet. She ideally wants the Indian Parliament to recognise Tibet as “an occupied nation”, she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-314
12-11-2020||West Bengal||Local trains run, social distance tossed out ||Eastern Railway and South-Eastern railway resumed suburban train services from Wednesday after a gap of about eight months. On the first day, Eastern Railway authorities operated 472 and 202 suburban trains in Sealdah and Howrah divisions, respectively, and South Eastern Railway operated 81 EMU trains. The Telegraph takes look at how the day panned out for railway staff and passengers in the new normal. At every station, the administration formed a team consisting of health workers, civic volunteers, police and railway officials to ensure that only those wearing masks entered the station and no one evaded thermal scanning. At Naihati in North 24-Parganas, police refused entry to two passengers after their body temperature was found above normal. The police in Nadia’s Chakdah and Barasat in North 24-Parganas did not allow entry to many passengers without masks. “I was allowed into the station after thermal scanning. If this is strictly followed chances of spread of the virus will be less,” said Mousumi Das at Naihati station. At many stations, passengers jostled to board trains. “People ignored safety norms when it came to grabbing a seat,” said a cop at Ranaghat station. Daily passengers stood in long queues at many stations to buy season and daily tickets. The trouble of passengers increased as the mobile ticketing app of the Indian Railways malfunctioned. Eastern Railway authorities couldn’t say when the app would work. “I had to stand in a long queue to get a ticket to Sealdah,” said Chakdah resident Siben Dey, who works at a mall in Calcutta. The first day was marked by low passenger turnout at most stations. The usual peak-hour rush was missing. Calcutta High Court and Kalyani resident, Rivu Dutta, said: “I avoided a train trip fearing a heavy rush since it could end up to be a risky affair.” Though railways had marked out every alternate seat not for use, passengers preferred to overrule the Covid protocol of physical distancing. A commuter said: “Asking passengers to leave a seat in a local train is an absurd idea.” An ER official in Sealdah said: “We don’t have any mechanism to ensure social distancing on board at this moment.” Railway hawkers demonstrated demanding permission to run their kiosks on station premises and sell their wares on board. Hawkers led by the CPM’s trade union wing Citu, staged demonstrations at Barrackpore, Ichhapur, and Barasat stations. The Citu leadership submitted a deputation to the divisional railway manager, Sealdah, demanding licence for hawkers against a fee. Citu leader Gargi Chatterjee said: “When everything is normal, the livelihood the of Bengal’s 60,000 rail hawkers remains jeopardised.” A recent promise by Sourav Chakraborty, Trinamul MLA of Alipurduar, that land rights would be given to those who dwell on railway land in the town has drawn rebuttal from officials of the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR). “We have come to know that the MLA of Alipurduar has declared that he will issue special land rights to people on railway land. I don’t know how it is possible without making any correspondence with the railways,” said S. Chanda, the chief PRO of the NFR.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-314
12-11-2020||West Bengal||Siliguri mayor  faces protest||Asok Bhattacharya, Siliguri mayor and chairperson of the board of administrators of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC), on Wednesday faced protest from a section of residents as he went on a visit to the Mahananda bank to look at arrangements ahead of Chhath Puja. Local people said that the civic body’s decision to put railings on the riverbank would cause inconvenience for devotees during the Chhath Puja. The civic body has taken up a beautification project on the left bank of the Mahananda that moves through Siliguri. As part of the project, railings have been put on a stretch of the bank. The Siliguri MLA alleged that local Trinamul leaders had orchestrated the protests. “I had been to the riverbank to examine the arrangements when some people approached me. They misbehaved with me and protested, while alleging that the ongoing beautification work would cause problems for the devotees. Their claim does not have any logic and soon, I realised that they are backed by Trinamul,” Bhattacharya said. Soon, he left the spot. Ranjan Sarkar, Darjeeling (plains) district president of Trinamul, denied the charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-314
12-11-2020||North East||Assam journalist’s death gives rise to suspicion among employers||A local television channel journalist died in Assam’s Tinsukia district after being knocked down by a vehicle, following which his employers alleged foul play. According to them, Parag Bhuyan was killed for exposing illegal activities and corruption in his area. Police said that Bhuyan, a senior correspondent at  'Pratidin Time', was knocked down by a vehicle near his house on NH 15 on Wednesday night. He was referred to a Dibrugarh hospital by a local medical facility following the accident, where he died Thursday morning. The vehicle was identified by CCTV footage and the Assam Police had alerted its counterpart at Arunachal Pradesh, a police official said. After this, the driver, who had escaped, was arrested along with his handyman. A probe into the incident has been launched and the police are interrogating the both. Officials added that the vehicle, owned by a woman in Arunachal Pradesh, is used by her son to carry leaves. Nitumoni Saikia, the editor-in-chief of the news channel issued a statement saying that the initial approach of the police was their reason for suspicion. . "... We suspect that the journalist was murdered as he has been doing a series of reporting exposing illegalities and corruption around Kakopthar." Saikia added that Bhuyan had received threats for these reports. "We at the Pratidin Time suspect it as a planned murder and demand a detailed inquiry into the whole incident and give justice to the family of late Bhuyan and Pratidin Time", said the statement. Bhuyan, a 53-year-old, was the younger brother of Asom Gana Parishad leader Jagadish Bhuyan and the vice-president of Tinsukia Press Club. Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal has directed the police to arrest all involved as soon as possible, and condoled his death. Ripun Bora, president of the Assam Pradesh Congress Committee, also demanded an investigation into Bhuyan's death. "We suspect foul play as the journalist was knocked down near his home and the driver of the vehicle fled from the spot".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-36
12-11-2020||North East||Meghalaya Democratic Alliance defeats no-confidence motion||The Meghalaya Democratic Alliance (MDA) led by Chief Minister Conrad K Sangma on Wednesday defeated the no-confidence motion moved by the oppostion Congress in the Assembly through a voice vote. Speaker Metbah Lyngdoh put the no-confidence motion to a voice vote after a discussion that lasted for about seven and half hours. MLAs from both the Opposition and the ruling MDA took part in the discussion in the House. The Opposition raised numerous issues, including mining of coal and management of the COVID-19 situation, besides health related issues. Leader of Opposition, Mukul Sangma, particularly raised the coal mining and transportation issue. Replying to the charges by the Opposition, Chief Minister Conrad K Sangma spoke extensively on the several developmental measures that his government has initiated for the welfare of the state. He cited that Meghalaya has been applauded as the 'second best' state in the country for good governance. The chief minister said that the state government had spent Rs 399 crore for ensuring safety of the people of the state facing the COVID-19 pandemic. He also listed out several allocations made for farmers and other working populace. The chief minister said the law and order situation in the state has improved and there has been a drastic drop in the cases of abduction and crime against women and children in the state. The chief minister told the assembly today that there was no illegal movement of coal from the state. He said task force were monitoring the movement of coal. He said an Education Policy has been enacted by the state government and every year 200 lower primary schools in the state would be developed. He said that Rs 800 crore would be spent in the education sector in the state, adding that returnees to the state were also being provided with financial assistance. The chief minister told the Assembly that his government would introduce e-coupons, the first of its kind in the country to all aspiring youth for skill development in various fields, including sports and music.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-37
12-11-2020||Opinion||Barriers broken: Kamala Harris to become US vice-president||Sir — While the victory of the Democratic candidate, Joe Biden, in the recently-concluded presidential elections in the United States of America was a relief — it means that Donald Trump shall no longer be the US president — more remarkable was the ascent of Biden’s running mate, Kamala Harris, to the post of vice-president (“Kamala crushes barriers”, Nov 8). She is not only the first woman to attain such a high position of leadership in the history of America, but is also the first Indian-origin and black vice-president. She was born to a Jamaican father and an Indian mother; she would be a perfect example of the diversity in leadership that American democracy has always claimed to uphold but never quite managed to put in practice. Throughout her campaign, Harris kept acknowledging her Indian heritage. She spoke of her mother, Shyamala Gopalan, who had taken Harris and her sister to India so that they could begin to understand their roots. Will her Indian heritage make her more sympathetic to the troubles of the South Asian community in the US, which has long borne the brunt of racism? Harris has been elected vice-president at a time when the question of race has become a significant one in America, with a primary focus on the plight of citizens of black origin. Her task, not only as vice-president but also as a leader of mixed heritage, will be to steer her nation, which has witnessed the bogey of white supremacism, towards a future that is free of prejudice towards minority communities. Most important, her victory could encourage more black women and women of colour to enter US politics. Anirban Lokesh,Delhi Sir — Kamala Harris being elected vice-president of the US is a significant moment in global politics. The US has long claimed to be the ‘leader of the free world’ but has never had a single woman as vice-president, let alone as president. In comparison, India, as a much younger democracy, has elected women to the highest offices in the country — Indira Gandhi held the post of prime minister, while Pratibha Patil was president from 2007 to 2012. In addition, several women have been chief ministers of various states in India. It was high time that this glass ceiling was broken in the US. It, however, remains to be seen whether Harris uses her power to work towards the uplift of marginalized women in her country. Her victory should not merely remain symbolic; one hopes that she will further the interests of women, especially those of black and South Asian origin, in a nation that has had a long, troubled history of violence and discrimination against both communities. Hearteningly, US politics has recently witnessed the rise of many young women leaders of colour who hold out a lot of hope for the future — the Congresswoman, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, is one of them. One hopes that Harris will work closely with such women leaders to bring about positive change in the general attitude of American society towards women from minority communities. It will also be interesting to see how the US’s foreign policy with regard to India shapes up during Harris’s term in office. Raina Mukherjee,Calcutta Silenced again Sir — It is disheartening that over-the-top platforms and video streaming service providers such as Netflix and Amazon Prime Video will now come under the Union information and broadcasting ministry. Under the current oppressive political and social climate in India, this only means that creativity and free expression will be stifled even further. Up till now, the video streaming platforms were the only places where creators and film-makers could release content that was even tangentially critical of the government. Now, under government regulation, heavy censorship will become the norm. Prakriti Basu,Calcutta Parting Shot Sir — The Mumbai Indians have emerged victorious in the 13th edition of the Indian Premier League. The skipper, Rohit Sharma, must be lauded for his brilliant captaincy throughout the tournament and for playing an exceptional knock in the final. By lifting the trophy for the fifth time, Sharma has proved why he is acknowledged as one of the most successful captains in the IPL. The team’s young talents, Ishan Kishan and Suryakumar Yadav, have also been impressive with their batting this year. The franchise has invested a lot in grooming these batsmen; it will be no surprise if they don the national jersey soon. Tushar Anand,Patna||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-118
12-11-2020||Opinion||Good wives: Culture ministry's Karwa Chauth craze||The Union ministry of culture’s enthusiasm for the ritual of karwa chauth seems a little puzzling at first sight. This time, the ministry sent out decorative messages by WhatsApp and Twitter wishing all women happiness for the occasion and lots of illumination by moonlight. The tweet explained that on karwa chauth women fast the whole day for the long life of their husbands and gaze on the risen moon through a sieve. What it missed mentioning was that this is a north Indian practice, not a countrywide one. But the present government in Delhi is least bothered by that. Everyone must enthuse over rituals in north India. So the ministry sent its WhatsApp wishes for karwa chauth happiness to institutions under it: evidently museums and libraries were expected to celebrate husbands too. This ritual is an example of the kind of items that the Narendra Modi government envisages including in the national list of intangible cultural heritage referred to in its vision document 2024. Intangible cultural heritage for the Bharatiya Janata Party must refer to occasions such as bhai dooj, raksha bandhan and karwa chauth that, according to the government that knows all, reaffirm familial relationships between men and women. The emphasis of karwa chauth is on treasuring the husband, clearly the superior in this relationship. The wife must fast for his welfare. The government website says that unmarried girls practise karwa chauth in the hope of good husbands. Numerous local rituals or vrats in different parts of India have similar goals, or allied ones, such as the welfare of children. The government’s endorsement of karwa chauth not only shows a north Indian bias, but, far more alarmingly, also glorifies at a national level a regressive ritual establishing gender inequality and destroying the notion of the independent woman. By implication, the details of the ritual prescribe the role of the wife and, thus, what an ideal marriage should be. It is based on the wife’s piety, self-effacement and worship of the spouse. The glosses on the website complete with two myths propagate marriage as the be-all and end-all of a woman’s life: she should start fasting as soon as possible for its sake. The ministry’s enthusiasm is not puzzling after all; it perfectly expresses the BJP’s values and culture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-118
12-11-2020||Opinion||Weak hand: Congress’s time for introspection||It is time, yet again, for a chintan baithak at 24 Akbar Road. The results of the Bihar assembly election as well as those of the by-elections in different parts of India should deepen the gloom at the Congress headquarters. In Madhya Pradesh, where the Bharatiya Janata Party had removed the rug from under the Congress’s feet by engineering defections in the latter’s rank and file, the Congress had banked on the conscience of the voter to avenge the loss of power. The people have spoken — but against the Congress. In Uttar Pradesh, where Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is said to be toiling to breathe life into a moribund Congress, the party lay at the bottom of the pile with only 7.5 per cent of the votes. This does not augur well for the Congress’s dreams — pipedreams? — of resurrection two years later. In Gujarat, the difference in vote share between the Congress and the BJP was 20 per cent: here too, the BJP triumphed in all eight seats. Two seats in Karnataka, where the Congress-Janata Dal (Secular) government was toppled unethically, were pocketed by the BJP. Only Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Haryana offered some solace to the party. In a vast, diverse and complex polity like India, electoral outcomes are decided by multiple factors. History has also shown that by-elections or assembly polls may not always be a reliable indicator of the national mood. But such inferences are not enough to conceal the Congress’s problems. India’s Grand Old Party resembles a rudderless ship on decidedly choppy political waters. The absence of a party president — Rahul Gandhi calls the shots but not officially — has introduced a dangerous rift, a point that had been raised by the ‘dissenters’ in their letter to the interim president. The vacuum at the top is matched by the dishevelled nature of the party organization. Bihar, where preparations for the elections started months before the polls, is a case in point. Compounding these limitations is an ideological affliction: amoral Congressmen think nothing of changing their stripes. Worse, there seems to be a perpetual sense of denial about these infirmities. The Congress remains frozen in inertia and, worryingly, in its sense of entitlement. The party seems to have forgotten one of the elementary lessons of democratic politics: power needs to be earned through energetic campaigns and imaginative policy that strikes a chord with the masses. The Congress’s irrelevance is likely to strengthen the BJP’s hegemonic grip. This could be ominous for the fate of democracy in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-118
12-11-2020||Opinion||Guardians of the environment||The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations has observed that supporting pastoralist systems would contribute directly to achieving several Sustainable Development Goals: elimination of poverty, achieving zero hunger, promoting good health and well-being, aiding economic growth, ensuring responsible consumption and production, and bolstering climate action and the biodiversity of life on land. In 2019, the government of Mongolia proposed to observe the International Year of Rangelands and Pastoralists in 2026. The international community is of the opinion that awareness of the importance of rangelands and pastoralists to livelihoods, healthy ecosystems and the adoption of climate change resilience strategies could be heightened by such an event. In a letter, T. Jambaltseren of the ministry of food, agriculture and light industry stated, “An [IYRP] could provide the impetus and momentum necessary for a worldwide understanding of the importance of these lands and people to global food security and environmental services.” Pastoralism has been the most sustainable form of production, livelihood, and land use in most of the world’s arid and semi-arid areas. Pastoralism, it is believed, is practised in more than 75 per cent of the world’s nations by around 500 million people. Pastoralists contribute massively to the preservation of biodiversity, improving soil quality and preventing desertification. Recent research has also shown that pastoral landscapes could have a neutral carbon balance as emissions from animals are offset by carbon sequestration in soils and plants. The community members could thus be described as stewards of the environment. However, their role in preserving the rich natural capital of arid regions with stressed resources is misunderstood and poorly documented. Ramzan Ali, a pastoralist from Kelan village, Bikaner district, owns a herd of 100 goats and sheep. On being asked whether he was aware of the demand for the IYRP globally and in India, he answered, “I am unaware of it. But, if it is being organized then it’s a piece of good news for our community. Hopefully, this should ensure our seamless access to the rangelands. For decades, these rangelands have proved to be a rich nutritious source of forage and we have conserved the biodiversity of these rangelands. The fodder insecurity is a critical challenge that threatens the well-being of our animals and disrupts the ecological balance.” By migrating to new pasturelands, pastoralists do not allow their animals to overgraze indigenous vegetation, ensuring the sustainable usage of these rangelands. A study by the International Union for Conservation of Nature and the United Nations Environment Programme argued that pastoralism could play a key role in the transition to a green, environmentally sustainable, global economy. Compared to agriculture, pastoralism is also better equipped to adapt to the changing resources and climate zones. In India, pastoralists are estimated to number 13 million, forming 1 per cent of the total population. There are some 46 castes or communities that have specialized pastoralist identities. The pastoralists chiefly rear cattle, buffalo, sheep, goats, camels, yak, ducks, guinea fowl, pigs, horses, and donkeys. For centuries, pastoralists’ knowledge of the management of natural resources has involved the adoption of practices that effectively conserve the diversity of vegetation, livestock species, vegetation cover, soil quality and water recycling. They have adopted selective breeding strategies so that indigenous livestock species can adapt to local climatic conditions and possess resistance to diseases, drought, and parasites. In India, pastoralists have been estimated to own 395.3 million livestock. The value of manure from their livestock as a source of nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium is said to be a massive $45 billion a year. If it were not for their livestock recycling nutrients and clearing weeds from fields during the non-farming season, then India would have been forced to rely on synthetic fertilizers. The ecological and economical costs of these fertilizers would have been perilously high. Government data since 2012 suggest that the pastoralist sector produced milk worth $2.7 billion and meat worth $2.2 billion annually in the formal sector alone. Nomadic livestock is a major supplier of organic meat and milk. This is because the rangelands remain the primary source of nutrition and pastoralists choose not to add minerals, vitamins, pro-vitamins or genetically modified supplements to their animal feed. In the arid and the semi-arid regions with frequent droughts, these healthy animal-source foods have ensured food security to pastoral communities. Sumer Singh, a pastoralist from Jaisalmer who along with his joint family collectively owns around 1,200 goats and sheep, said, “For centuries, our ancestors have sustainably used rangelands. I did not know about IYRP. It does sound like a good initiative. But, 2026 does seem far away. We need to quickly start responding to the problem of declining rangelands.” The IYRP could put the concerns of pastoralists back on the policy agenda of the nation and the world. Climate change makes it even more important to acknowledge and encourage the environmental services of pastoralists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-118
12-11-2020||Opinion||Key lessons||In most democracies, whether in Nevada or Nawada, political assessments are invariably shaped by media narratives and, increasingly, opinion polls. Last Tuesday night, in a nail-biting finish around midnight, the Janata Dal (United)-Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance narrowly prevailed over the Rashtriya Janata Dal-Congress-Left parties’ Mahagathbandhan in Bihar. In political terms, the outcome of any state assembly election is significant. The Bihar election was additionally significant for two reasons. First, the performance of the BJP in nearly all the assembly elections since the general election of 2019 had been either poor or indifferent. It was conclusively defeated by the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha-Congress alliance in Jharkhand, with its sitting chief minister losing his own seat. It lost its majority in Haryana and had to cobble together a post-poll alliance with a regional party to stay in government. Its high-voltage campaign against the Aam Aadmi Party government secured it a higher vote share but yielded only a few additional seats. And, although it clearly won the Maharashtra assembly election in alliance with the Shiv Sena, it failed to accommodate the ambitions of Uddhav Thackeray and had to be content sitting in the Opposition. To compound its woes, the loss of its long-term ally in Maharashtra was followed by the desertion of the Shiromani Akali Dal in Punjab of the NDA over the reforms in agricultural marketing. In short, although there was no danger to the stability of the Narendra Modi government at the Centre, the impression that the BJP as a party was losing momentum had started gaining ground. Secondly, the Bihar poll was the first occasion after the Covid-19 pandemic that public opinion on the measures taken by both the Centre and the state were being tested. This test was extremely significant. Beginning with the 21-day national lockdown, the pandemic had resulted in a massive disruption in the lives of nearly every citizen. The loss of casual jobs in the cities resulting in the mass migration of labour had affected Bihar — a state where a disproportionate number of people earn their livelihood in other parts of India — significantly. The disruption of livelihood and the impact on rural communities were bound to have a larger political impact. Bihar was the first test of whether or not the disruption and the government’s handling of this crisis had triggered a fierce anti-government mood. Just as the 2017 assembly election in Uttar Pradesh was the big test of how people had responded to the unsettling effects of the November 2016 demonetization, the Bihar assembly poll became the crucial Covid-19 test. It was an election to elect a government in Patna, but it was simultaneously a parallel verdict on the quality of the Centre’s response to the pandemic. The expectations of the outcome of an assembly election are only nominally determined by comparisons with earlier electoral verdicts. In the case of Bihar, this assessment was further diluted by the fact that the alignments that contributed to the BJP’s defeat in 2015 had been turned upside down by events. Consequently, despite the facile use of the 2019 general election outcome as a point of reference, this was an election where expectations were based less on statistical data and more on subjective, anecdotal evidence culled through the media. A perusal of the media during the election campaign suggested a journalistic consensus on two points. There was, first, a broad agreement that the chief minister, Nitish Kumar, was becoming a drag on the NDA campaign for re-election. There were no substantial charges of corruption against the state administration in the matter of relief distribution during the pandemic. Rather, the disquiet seemed to centre on the chief minister’s aloofness — often contrasted with the personal presence of the UP chief minister, Yogi Adityanath, at problem points — and his steadfast refusal to interact with the media. The alleged disdain for the media was contrasted with Tejashwi Yadav’s open house, something he has inherited from his father, Lalu Prasad. Secondly, despite the fact that the RJD seemed to bank on its traditional Muslim-Yadav social alliance in the matter of ticket distribution, the media narrative suggested that the MY social base had been substantially enlarged to accommodate all castes. In particular, the Mahagathbandhan’s promise to deliver 10 lakh government jobs was said to have tipped the scales quite decisively against Nitish Kumar and crystallized the anti-incumbency. An associated feature of the election that warrants emphasis is the exit poll findings. The exit polls, released after the conclusion of the final round of polling on November 7, were heavily weighed against the NDA. The polls also contained the clear suggestion that counting day would see a clear and emphatic verdict in favour of the Mahagathbandhan. It was suggested that Nitish Kumar’s departure after some 15 years as chief minister was assured. On November 10, both pundits and politicians switched on their TV sets with the full expectation that the rout of the NDA in adjoining Jharkhand was going to be repeated in Bihar. With the benefit of hindsight, it would seem that the pollsters erred in assuming that those who spoke the loudest represented the feelings on the ground. The Mahagathbandhan was blessed with the support of the assertive MY combine, articulate sections of the Left that commands considerable influence in the media, and the Congress. On top of that, the NDA campaign lacked synergy and coordination, with the BJP and JD(U) fighting separate campaigns. Taken together, the assertiveness of the Mahagathbandhan camp ensured that the silence of many others was interpreted as acquiescence. In particular, the pollsters and the media appear to have seriously discounted the big support for the NDA among the extremely backward castes and women voters. The turnout figures suggested that women participation in the polls exceeded the male turnout by nearly five per cent. The result was that the NDA support was underestimated by the pollsters in a similar way as Donald Trump’s support base was insufficiently factored in during the presidential elections in the United States of America. There was another conceptual fallacy. The poll data indicated that the support for the BJP was holding in the constituencies it was contesting. This put a big question mark on the nature and extent of anti-incumbency. The BJP was an important partner in the Nitish Kumar government since the JD(U) reverted to the NDA in 2017. Therefore, it was inherently illogical to assume that popular resentment against the state government would be carefully selective in nature and leave the BJP unscathed. In the election, the final tally for the JD(U) showed a dip and the BJP emerged as the clear senior partner of the alliance. But this decline owed almost entirely to the votes taken away by Chirag Paswan’s Lok Janshakti Party that played spoiler, taking away votes but not winning seats. It corresponded to the loss of RJD and Congress seats in the Seemanchal region thanks to the spectacular support secured by the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen among Muslim voters. The Bihar electorate gave a narrow verdict in favour of the NDA, defying the prevailing one-sided narrative. The outcome was riddled by many what-ifs — an inevitable consequence of the many spoilers in the race. Overall, however, the results indicated that the pandemic, while hugely disruptive in different spheres, hasn’t quite broken the mould of politics. Above all, the outcome pointed to the continuing relevance of the prime minister in national life and, through him, the unrelenting forward march of the BJP. Since 1990, regional parties have dominated Bihar. This is the first election where a national party has staged a comeback since the Congress decline three decades ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-118
12-11-2020||Jharkhand||Festive shopping ahead of Dhanteras and Diwali||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-238
12-11-2020||Jharkhand||Cracker sales on at designated areas in Jamshedpur||Retailers began selling firecrackers at designated places earmarked across the steel city on Thursday after the state pollution control board issued a directive limiting the time of bursting crackers to two hours on Diwali, Chhath and Christmas. As per the Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB) notification, crackers can be burst between 8pm and 10pm on Diwali on November 14. The sale of firecrackers in Jamshedpur will continue till November 15. "We are aware of the order. Tomorrow (Friday) we will issue a directive to all police stations to ensure that the guideline issued by the pollution control board is strictly implemented in steel city," said Dhalbhum SDO Nitish Singh. Singh ordered surprise inspections at all points of sale for crackers to ensure strict adherence to fire safety norms. The district administration has been issued temporary licences to over 250 retailers. Safety guidelines include selling only at designated points of sale, and keeping sufficient water, sand buckets and small fire extinguishers handy. Shops must maintain safe distance between each other to endure  fire tenders would be able to make their way in  case of an exigency. The retailers have been also asked to follow Covid safety norms. Various police stations have been directed to confiscate crackers if these were being sold at any other place other than the designated sale points. Wholesalers in Jugsalai had been issued safety guidelines last week. The two largest common sale points are Aambagan grounds in Sakchi with  around 40 firecracker sellers, and the  G-Town grounds in Bistupur with around 30 retailers. Other large sale points are at Baridih Durga Puja maidan (Baridih), Gandhi Maidan (Mango), Ram Mandir grounds (Sonari), RP Patel High School grounds (Jugsalai), N Type Durga Puja maidan and Sabuj Kalyan Sangha grounds (both in Telco), Circus Maidan (Golmuri), Sunday market (Birsanagar) and Burmamines Durga Puja maidan (Burmamines).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-238
12-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad witnesses brisk sales for Dhanteras, Diwali||Huge rush of people was witnessed in the market during the first day of Dhanteras this year. All this, as Dhanbad market, based on a large number of service class customers, made a comeback for the first time after the Covid-19 crisis and witnessed some brisk sell of a wide range of products including FMCG products and also automobiles, utensils, sweets, other items like diyas, candles, and other decorative materials, etc. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, Rajesh Gupta, former president of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry said the Dhanbad economy is based on the employees of a wide range of Public Sector Companies, institutions, and major private sector companies like Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL), Eastern Coalfields Limited (ECL), Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL), Tata Steel, Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited, Maithon Power Limited, IIT (ISM), BIT Sindri, Central Institute of Mining and Fuel Research, etc. who are largely unaffected due to the Covid-19 crisis. “Though the sale of clothes and footwear was abysmally low during the Durga Puja the situation improved significantly during the Diwali as people are buying all kinds of items like utensils, FMCG products, automobile, sweets, crackers, etc,” said Gupta. Echoing sentiments with Gupta, Surendra Arora, a gift shop owner of Bank More locality who is also the former president of Bank More Chamber of Commerce said that we are expecting the Diwali and Dhanteras sales to be also of the same tune as the previous year. Giving details of two-wheeler sale, AK Mazumdar, Manager of Guru Kripa Auto, “The sale of two-wheelers is likely to be almost similar to last year as we sold 995 two-wheelers on Dhanteras last year and since the Dhaneras is being celebrated on two days on Thursday and Friday we have registered 550 sales of two-wheelers.” Echoing sentiments, Gopal Chatterjee, Manager of Reliable Industries, authorized dealer of Maruti Cars said, “We have received 450 bookings of different cars this Diwali and which is almost the same as that of last Diwali.” “We are also facing a shortage of vehicles and some customers will be provided with vehicles during Chhath despite advance booking made by them due to short supply of vehicles from the manufacturers,” informed Chatterjee. Manish Kumar, Manager of the biggest outlet of FMCG products in Dhanbad, Great Eastern Trading Company said, “We are registering the sale of all products like television and especially Smart TVs besides washing machines, water purifiers, refrigerator, oven, etc.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-238
12-11-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city’s impressive Dhanteras shopping response in the midst of pandemic||Despite clouds of Covid-19 pandemic still hovering over the steel city, sales were impressive here both in the automobile sector as well as in the electronics sector this Dhanteras on Thursday. While the shop-keepers have made the sale of electronic goods, especially the air-conditioners, by giving lucrative discounts and offers, in the car segment the Covid-19 is playing its role for a brisk business. The majority of those who turned up at the showrooms of Maruti Suzuki or Hyundai are buying four-wheelers as they want to evade the public transport system in fear of getting infected with the Coronavirus. “The demand for high-end cars like Verna and Creta is so high that we have exhausted our stock.  From Thursday morning we have sold over 25 cars, mostly of high end. Part of Dhanteras is tomorrow also and by the end of tomorrow evening, the expected number of sales of cars will cross 60-mark,” said Rajesh Singh, sales manager, Hyundai Car, having its showroom on L Road in Bistupur while talking to The Telegraph Online. He pointed out that a very less number of cars are coming for their stock as production has not been full-fledged yet due to the pandemic. Similarly, Amit Singh, sales manager of Pebco, Maruti Suzuki's showroom on K Road in Bistupur said they are getting an overwhelming number of customers this Dhanteras. “Most of the customers are willing to buy Desire, but the customers are disappointed as our stock of this car model has exhausted. As a result of which several customers tend to book this car for delivery at a later date while several others settle at other models,” said Amit while talking to The Telegraph Online. He pointed out as Dhanteras is extended up to Friday evening, they expect the number of booked or sold out cars will cross 80-mark by then. The sale of electronic goods was equally impressive on Thursday. “During the lockdown, we could not sell air-conditioners and refrigerators incurring a loss, but now we expect to compensate the loss by promoting the sale of air-conditioners and refrigerators this Dhanteras despite it is not summer season,” said Ravin Singh, proprietor of National Electronics having his showroom on Kalimati Road in Sakchi while talking to The Telegraph Online. Ravi informed that they are giving a 40 percent discount to the Voltas company's air-conditioners, something which has become profitable for the people. “Despite the arrival of winter, customers are turning up to buy air-conditioners at as high as 40 percent discount too for the Voltas air conditioner. In some other company's air-conditioners, we gave a gift voucher of Rs 7,000, an offer which had not been given ever before,” said the shop-keeper who also has showrooms at Mango and Adityapur. He pointed out air-conditioners and refrigerators are being sold in greater numbers in comparison to other electronics appliances. Management of the Electrocraft showroom on K Road in Bistupur is also giving lucrative offers on the occasion of Dhanteras. “Earlier, we used to sell selective five types of electronic appliances at zero down payment basis, but this Dhanteras we have increased such facility for 10 items.  Moreover, we are giving discounts also on maximum items,” said Kishore Singhania, owner of the showroom while talking to this website.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-238
12-11-2020||Jharkhand||JFC unveils video wall to help fans connect with team||Jamshedpur FC fans will soon be able to connect with their team virtually during the seventh edition of the Indian Super League, which unfolds in Goa on November 20. The authorities have given supporters of every club an opportunity to be a part of its live video fan wall. This will be streamed into stadiums as well as on live television during the matches. With less than two weeks away till the JFC faces their opponent Chennaiyan FC during their first match,  the excitement for the football fans in the steel city is at its peak. “All the clubs will be without their fans and that direct emotional connection will obviously be missing. However, credit to ISL and Star for making the concept of the Fan Wall possible. We will be conducting contests for the fans to be able to feature on the Fan Wall. This will be a good opportunity for the fans to be connected virtually at the stadium. Twenty-thirty fans will be selected for the same,” said JFC chief executive officer Mukul Choudhari. He added that the JFC authorities will conduct contests on their social media handles including Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, starting Thursday, to select the winners.“All the fans have to do is answer correctly a simple question to be able to have a chance to be part of the Fan Wall. The winners will be chosen at random,” Choudhari said, speaking from Goa. He also spoke about the challenges the team may face in Goa. “Well, we were mentally prepared for the challenges. We knew it’s not going to be as easy as it is back at home in Jamshedpur. For example, in Jamshedpur our practice ground  is right downstairs at our players accommodation, but here in Goa it’s half-an-hour (12 km travel)  one-way. But the league has taken great initiatives and have been really helpful for all the clubs to settle. It’s a massive task to conduct a tournament of ISL stature in the current situation and the organisers have done a fabulous job to help us all.” The team has been establishing a bond and mixing well during its training as well as off the field, he explained. “That’s the whole point of having the pre-season in the end. Owen Coyle (head coach) has been focusing on fitness of the players too as many of them haven’t played a competitive match for almost seven months now (last matches played in February/March this year). The coach demands high intensity from his players and pre-season is of  paramount  importance. The team has already played a couple of practice matches and will be playing two more in the coming days,” he added. Choudhari said they promoted 10 ex-Tata Football Academy graduates to be available for the senior team. Four of them, Manisana, Manash Gogoi, Billu Teli and goalkeeper Vishal Yadav have been retained in Goa and others will be called on basis of requirements of the coach. On the home venue (Tilak Maidan in Vasco da Gama), he said the ground is being shared by JFC, NorthEast United FC, SC East Bengal and Hyderabad FC. “It will be very different without the fans and not being able to play at the Furnace (JRD Tata Sports Complex in Jamshedpur), but we have to adjust to the new normal,” he said while signing off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-238
12-11-2020||Jharkhand||Special guest's visit livens up Dhanbad orphanage||Rahul Kumar, an inmate of Hindu Mission Orphanage in Dhanbad’s Hirapur was sleeping after his afternoon lunch when he received a sweet surprise from a special guest who came to visit him. Surprised at receiving desserts and crackers from him, the 17-year-old recognised the guest -- and it was none other than Javed Pathan, a Mumbai-based television actor. Pathan was on a visit to his native home in Dhanbad for Diwali when he decided to  make the festival special for the children.. Rahul, son of a housemaid, Anita Devi, said, “We never expected to celebrate Diwali this year due to difficult times prevailing everywhere due to Covid crisis but Javed Pathan gave us a surprise when he came up with a variety of sweets and crackers”. The teenager is pursuing his electrician course at ITI Dhanbad. Echoing his sentiments, another inmate named Mukesh Kumar said, “The actor is so simple and humble that he spent more than an hour with us and took all details of our life in the orphanage. He also showed us the video clipping of his numerous TV shows including Mahrana Pratap, Balveer, and Ganesha”. Mukesh, a native of Topchanchi was abandoned by his parents. Speaking to The Telegraph Online on Thursday, Pathan said that some of the inmates were not aware of his fame and were really surprised when they watched the clippings of his television shows. “I came to know about the orphanage through some of my local friends of Dhanbad and after arriving at my home town last week I decided to visit them during Diwali to make the festival special for them”, said Pathan, who is also planning to visit Ranchi next week. There, he plans to visit Chief Minister Hemant Soren to discuss setting up a film industry in Jharkhand itself. He will return to Mumbai after 10 days. Pathan, an alumni of the DAV Public School, Hehal, said, “Jharkhand has one of the best locales of the country and with little support of the government a film industry can develop here. In that way, our youth, who are willing to make a career in acting, direction, music, dance and are compelled to migrate to other places and will not have to go to distant places.” Pathan acted in a number of mythological TV serials including Jay Jay Bajranj Bali, Jay Jagjanani Maa Durga, Mahadev, Jodha Akbar, Maharana Pratap, Baalvir, as well as a movie  titled Paranormal. He has also visited the US to as the chief judge in the Miss and Mrs Jersey Contest where Bollywood actor Dia Mirza was the chief guest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-238
12-11-2020||Jharkhand||Five more flights from Ranchi to start soon ||Five more flights will soon become operational from Birsa Munda International Airport to improve air connectivity after its recommencement post the nationwide lockdown. On Thursday, the state transport and civil aviation department gave its nod for more flights following a proposal from Ranchi airport a month back. Ranchi airport director Vinod Kumar Sharma confirmed the developments. “Finally, the state government gave its nod to start five more flights. Airports Authority of India (AAI) will soon finalize and announce the destinations,” he said. Currently, 12 flights (24 to and fro) are flying from Ranchi to Delhi, Bengaluru, Kolkata, Hyderabad, and Mumbai. Sharma added that all are running to its full capacity and there was a need to increase flights in view of the increased demands. “Before lockdown, we were operating about 32 odd flights to different places. Following the Unlock, it’s time to retain all the flights to improve air connectivity from Ranchi,” he said. Airport sources said that the additional flights are unlikely to begin by Diwali, which is scheduled on November 14 but they are trying to make them operational by Chhath. “Hopefully, by Chhath we shall start five more flights to handle the festive rush. Also with the onset of tourist season, operators are unlikely to face any losses,” said another official. Notably, as part of its mission to improve customer services, Ranchi airport from this month also introduced new parking rates to offer pocket-friendly options to park their vehicles while visiting the airport to drop or pick-up anyone. The airport authority had introduced time-based rate slabs replacing the fixed rate which was in vogue earlier. For example, the rate for vehicle parking for the first one hour is now charged Rs 20, Rs 35 for two hours, and so on. Ranchi airport was also rated first among 17 medium category airports across the country in terms in terms of customer satisfaction index survey conducted by the Airports Authority of India early this year, results of which were announced in the first week of October. Ranchi airport had scored 4.79 points out of a total of five points covering 33 parameters centered on the passenger facilities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-238
12-11-2020||Jharkhand||Crackers allowed only two hours, orders state pollution watchdog||Bursting of crackers during Diwali and other subsequent festivals this year will be allowed only for two hours during the night, the Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB) on Thursday notified the order in view of the National Green Tribunal’s diktat to all states amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. JSPCB’s member secretary Rajiv Lochan Bakshi in an official communiqué has stated that the bursting of crackers will be allowed between 8 pm to 10 pm on Diwali and Guruparv while during Chhath, the window will be between 6 am – 8 am. For Christmas and New Year, crackers will be allowed from 11.55 pm to 12.30 am only. Only green crackers will be allowed in select districts which had recorded moderately high air pollution levels in 2019. The districts included Ranchi, Ramgarh, Bokaro, Palamau, East Singbhum, West Singhbhum, Seraikela-Kharasawan, Hazaribag, Giridih, Dhanbad, Deoghar, Godda, Pakur and Sahebganj. “In these districts, only green crackers are allowed for sale, and bursting can be done between 8 pm – 10 pm. In the rest of the districts where pollution levels were within the limit, normal crackers with a maximum noise level of 125 decibels will be allowed but during the same window period for bursting,” he said, adding that anyone violating the directives will be liable for action under section 188 of IPC and section 37 of the Air Pollution Act, 1981. Two days ago, the state government notified the ban on crackers in public places during Diwali in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic following concerns raised by the medical fraternity of possible health complications which could trigger because of air pollution due to crackers with the onset of winter. The state chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA) had in fact demanded a complete ban on crackers this year. Dr. AK Singh, state president of IMA welcomed the move. “Limiting time frame for the bursting of crackers will help in controlling air pollution but the challenge lies in its effective enforcement across the state,” said Singh. Another doctor of Rims on anonymity, however, said that the move came very late. “By now, many had already bought crackers and the order banning the sale of non-green crackers in few districts is just eyewash. The order should have come weeks ahead of the sale of crackers. Also, how will administrations enforce a two-hour window? Already, the sound of crackers is ruling airwaves everywhere in the city, which is proof enough of everyone stocking sufficient stocks of fireworks. Let’s hope for the best,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-238
12-11-2020||Jharkhand||Bokaro Steel makes sanitary pads for rural women||Bokaro Steel plant (BSL), this Dhanteras, has installed machines to produce sanitary napkins which would be distributed among women belonging to the deprived class in the city. These machines are purchased from Padamshree, Arunachalam Muruganantham, known as Padman of India. Many of us have seen the famous movie Padman, which was inspired by the story of Arunachalam Muruganantham born in a poor family in South India. In real life, Arunachalam Muruganantham has invented the machine to manufacture cheap sanitary pads for poor women. His machines brought a revolution in the health of rural women not only in India but also in other developing countries. Now his machines are proving helpful for poor women in Bokaro also. BSL, a unit of SAIL, has purchased the machines for making sanitary pads from poor women. BSL has installed these semi-automatic sanitary napkin producing machines in the Swavalamban Center operated by Mahila Samiti, Bokaro at Sector-4. The Mahila Samiti is run by wives of BSL officers. These machines are producing high-quality sanitary napkins which are now being delivered to women. Chief of communication, BSL, Manikant Dhan said, “BSL started the sanitary napkin production project for women at the Swavalamban Kendra in collaboration with Mahila Samiti Bokaro in 2015. The project aims to make low-cost sanitary napkins and distribute them to rural women in the surroundings.” Initially, the project was being implemented in a manual manner and some women were employed through the Mahila Samiti. The total production of sanitary napkins was low due to manual machine production and the quality was also lower than other sanitary napkins available in the market. This made BSL lay an effort to increase the production and quality of sanitary napkins. Working in this direction, BSL decided to install advanced machines. It was also kept in mind that the new machines should provide employment opportunities to women along with improvement in production and quality. During the process, the officials came to know about Muruganantham (Padman) and his company manufacturing low-cost machines for making sanitary napkins. Dhan said, “The film Padman on the life of Arunachalam Muruganantham was also a source of inspiration for our work. BSL bought this machine from Muruganantham’s company JayaShree Industries.” With the introduction of the new machines, both the production and quality of the women working here have improved without any decrease in employment. Arrangements are being made to distribute the pads being built at the self-reliance center in the surrounding villages. Director In-charge, Bokaro Steel Plant, Amarendu Prakash believes that this project will play an important role in the health as well as the empowerment of women in the coming years and BSL's will be successful in fulfilling its objectives by implementing it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-238
12-11-2020||Jharkhand||Marine Drive reeks of municipal waste creating environmental hazards||The stretch of Marine Drive near Domuhani in Sonari reeks of municipal waste and air pollution which is leading to environmental hazards. Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC), the local urban civic body, is blamed for converting an area at Domuhani along the Marine Drive which also hosts several residential flats and apartments into a waste dumping yard. The daily wastes collected from different houses in areas that fall under the command of JNAC is dumped at the dumping yard. This practice is going on for the last few months. Several areas fall under JNAC command including Sakchi, Sonari, Kadma, Baridih, Agrico, Sitaramdera, Bhuiyandih, etc. A rough estimate suggests that areas under JNAC generate daily waste of over 200 tons. “Because of heat generation and formation of methane gas the waste catches fire and this results in air pollution and harmful effects on the environment,” pointed out Raja Ghosh, a local environmentalist. JNAC officials said though they are aware of the environmental hazard caused by the dumping of domestic wastes at that site but they are helpless. “The Khairbani waste disposal project in the outskirts of steel city failed to take off due to land-related disputes. So the vacant land along the Marine Drive in Sonari was the only option left with us for dumping domestic wastes collected daily from different areas,” said Ravi Bharti, a JNAC official. The proposed plant at around 35-acres land in Khairbani was expected to deliver state-of-the-art solid-waste treatment and scientific landfill solutions. Municipal waste collected from different points was supposed to be processed at the treatment plant to generate biogas and produce fertilizers and construction bricks. But, the project was facing hindrances due to protests by local tribal. Meanwhile, the Adityapur-based regional office of Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB) has taken notice of it. “We have sought explanations from JNAC on the dumping of municipal wastes at Sonari which is causing environmental hazards. Reply from JNAC is awaited,” said Suresh Paswan, regional officer of JSPCB talking to The Telegraph Online. Of late residents and daily commuters complain of air pollution, foul smell and dust while negotiating through that stretch. “Our life has turned hell as smokes always come out of the dump yard affecting the residents. Though recently we took this matter to the JNAC but to no avail,” said A K Chatterjee, a resident of Swarn Vihar, an apartment located close to the municipal waste dump yard spread in over 20 acres of land. Another elderly commuter rued, “Continuous exposure to such mess would definitely affect our health, and it will lead to heart-related ailments.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-239
12-11-2020||Jharkhand||Covid survivors cross the one lakh mark in Jharkhand||The number of people overcoming Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand crossed the 1 lakh mark on Wednesday as over 300 patients recovered from the lethal infection in 24 hours, taking the recovery rate up at 95.32 per cent in the state, government data highlighted. Meanwhile, at least three more Covid-19 patients died in Jharkhand on Wednesday while the number of active cases dropped close to 4000 as the recoveries outnumbered fresh cases on the day, data compiled by the health department stated. As per figures with the health department, at least 1,00,302 Covid patients have recovered from the infection in Jharkhand so far. As many as 314 Covid-19 patients recovered from the infection on the day against 284 fresh cases surfacing during the same period, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. With 78 fresh cases and 98 recoveries Ranchi topped among all the districts in terms of fresh cases as well as recoveries. The number of active cases in Ranchi dropped below that in East Singhbhum for the first time since the entry of the virus in Jharkhand on Wednesday. As per government data, there were 1181 active cases in Ranchi, while at least 1230 people were battling the virus in East Singhbhum. At least 13 of the 24 districts in Jharkhand reported a single-digit-spike in Covid cases, while three districts – Koderma, Hazaribag and Pakur – did not report even a single fresh case of infection on the day. As many as 40 fresh cases occurred in Bokaro, 29 in East Singhbhum, 16 in Gumla and 13 in Palamu. Meanwhile, state education minister Jagarnath Mahto, who underwent a lung transplant surgery in Chennai on Tuesday, was stable and recovering well, doctors from Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) Healthcare in the Tamil Nadu capital said. The minister will be kept under observation in Intensive Care Unit (ICU) for at least two more weeks. Another cabinet minister, Rameshwar Oraon, who was admitted at Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital after he tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, was also stable and did not complain of any severe symptoms, doctors from the private healthcare facility said. The government on Wednesday tested swab samples of 25,320 people and around 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers in Jharkhand have collected swab samples of 37.33 lakh people and tested 37.14 lakh of them. The Covid-19 tally in Jharkhand was 1,05,224 while the number of active cases reached 4009 on Wednesday. At least 913 people have died of the viral infection in Jharkhand so far. As per government data, the doubling rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.23 per cent against the national average of 0.39 per cent. The doubling rate of infection in the tribal state was 301.28 days against the national average of 180.14 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-239
12-11-2020||Jharkhand||Sindri fertilizer unit to commence production by Aug 2021||Sindri’s natural-gas-based fertilizer unit had been facing the challenge of being completed on time, but now it looks all set to be completed soon. The initial hiccup that the fertilizer factory of Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited (HURL) was facing due to the lockdown has been resolved. And the installation work of the Rs 6500 crore factory is back on time. According to officials, 79 per cent of the project was completed by October 2020. The factory will start production by August 2021 if the work continues at the same pace. The HURL fertilizer plant is a joint venture project with Coal India Limited (CIL), National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC), Indian Oil Company Limited (IOCL), and Fertilizer Corporation of India Limited (FCIL), Sindri. “Seventy-nine per cent of the work is complete.Ammonia converter, urea reactor, and CO2 absorption unit have been installed. The low-pressure and high-pressure flash drums have also been set up,” said Himmat Singh Chauhan, General Manager of HURL’s Sindri unit, during a press conference. “A switchyard of 220 KV capacity, along with the peeling tower has been set up at the site,” he informed. Regarding the ongoing work for other facilities at the Sindri unit, Chauhan maintained that the mechanical work for the installation work of two captive power plants of 20 megawatts each is complete. “These power plants will become functional by March 2020. Also, by the end of this year, the natural gas pipeline work will be completed. Work is in progress to have the demineralization plant and bagging building functional on time,” added Singh. He also hinted at getting the cooperation of the locals for the timely completion of the project. “Apart from having the factory set up, we are working hard to improve the basic facilities for the locals. We have plans to better the water and electricity supply here along with the healthcare facilities. We have planned to develop the existing Urban Primary Health Centre (PHC) of Sindri into a model health centre of Jharkhand,” elaborated Chauhan. Notably, deputy commissioner of Dhanbad, Uma Shankar Singh during a meeting with HURL, FCIL, Sindri unit, and Associated Cement Company (ACC) Limited, Sindri unit chalked out a plan for up-gradation of facilities of Sindri Urban PHC, on November 5 at the district collectorate. During the meeting, he constituted a committee led by Medical Officer in Charge of Jharia, Kumari Punam to prepare a detailed report concerning the facilities available at Sindri’s urban PHC. “Besides upgrading Sindri urban PHC we also have a long-term plan to revive the 205 bedded Hospital of Fertilizer Corporation of India in association with Fertilizer Corporation of India, State Government, and ACC Limited. Talking about improving the power supply of Sindri, Chauhan said, “We working with Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited to better the electricity supply. Work is also on to improve the water supply.” He added that they are also in talks with Dhanbad Municipal Corporation to replace the non-functional streetlights of Sindri in the next two months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-239
