13-11-2020||Calcutta||Part of New Town show, from the US||This year, Durga Puja was unique. The sad part was I did not get to see a single thakur. Ma Durga appeared virtually on a computer screen at home. The happy part was I got to participate in cultural programmes of two pujas — one in California, where we live, and another in Greenwood Park, our former home in New Town, where my grandparents live now. I have not attended Greenwood Park’s Durga puja for a while. I was born in Noida and moved to New Town when I was a year and half. Since then, I participated in Durga puja there every year until we moved to Los Angeles in 2016. When my mom was part of the Greenwood Park puja committee, I used to tag along with her to puja meetings, shopping and post-puja prize distribution ceremonies. In the cultural programmes, I used to sing and recite poems. For my last puja in Greenwood Park, I took part in a play with my neighbours Takai, Pablo, Rishav, Gogol, Arya, Rishi and his sister who would come over to our house daily for over a month to rehearse. Different competitions were organised in our complex in those Puja days by The Telegraph and I used to hang out in the pandal with my friends. After Puja got over, we got on a truck with the idol for immersion. After we moved to Los Angeles in March 2016, our family joined a group called Valley Bengali Community (VBC) where the members started Durga puja that year. A community school auditorium was rented for the weekend. The school was only two miles from my house. Most of the others had to drive an hour or two to get there. There were more people and a lot less decoration in the auditorium than there would be in our Greenwood Park pandal. I remember reciting a Bengali poem that year. Later, I joined Path Bhawan Bangla School to pick up the language as we do not have Bengali in school. Classes take place on alternate Sundays. We, the students of Path Bhawan, put up a performance at the puja held by the Bengali Association of Southern California (BASC). We usually stage a Bengali play, for which we rehearse at someone’s house in the weekends leading up to the puja. Last year, too, we attended the BASC puja, which is about 50 miles away from home. So we had to stay in a hotel for two nights. The puja was held in a school auditorium. At night, famous singers performed in a concert which people had bought tickets for. At the end of the Puja, we hired a U-HAUL truck in which all the idols and decorations were loaded. Then we drove it to someone’s garage where it would be stored till a year later when the same idol would be worshiped again. There was no immersion. This year, everything was online. The BASC puja was held in someone’s backyard and live-streamed. I gave virtual anjali and did a programme with my friends on puja in various regions of India. I spoke on Calcutta puja. I also played Rabindrasangeet on synthesiser and sent the video to the Greenwood Park organisers for their cultural programme. It felt nice to get to take part from so far away as my first performance there was when I was barely two and half! Abhiyan Lahiri is a 12-year-old student staying in California||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-240
13-11-2020||Calcutta||Finally an idol to celebrate||Puja evokes sentiments that hold a dear place in every Bengali’s heart, as it did in ours. However, in 2008 we moved to Kuwait, where Puja celebrations were virtually nonexistent. For seven long years, our celebrations in Kuwait lacked the quintessential feeling of ‘Pujo aschhe’. Since religious celebrations of other faiths were soft-banned in Kuwait, the Bengali association would manage to rent a school compound every year during the Puja week, and once school timings were over, in the evening, we would gather there to meet. A small puja would be held followed by a cultural programme and dinner, but it kindled no feeling of pujo. Everything had to be held in silence behind closed doors and end quite early in the night. It was an informal gathering of us Bengalis, worshipping a picture of Durga Ma since idols are banned in Kuwait. Everything changed when we came for our first Durga Puja in Greenwood Park in 2015. My daughter Aheli, who had grown up watching those Kuwait pujas, was mesmerised at the round-the-clock celebrations and activities that started well before Mahalaya. There was a real sense of community and spirit here; it wasn’t a glorified dinner party. The energy was infections as my daughter and I immersed ourselves in Puja preparations — from painting alpona to rehearsing dances for the evening cultural shows that lasted five days, from choosing all the attires we would wear to practising dhunuchi nach for bisarjan, my daughter finally felt the true essence of Puja. (In fact, mother and daughter were part of the dhunuchi dance team that picked up the runner-up prize in the contest at Upasana Ghat in 2018. This year, too, they presented dance items that were part of the cultural programmes that were webcast for Puja.) As for me, I was elated at finally coming back home and rekindling the old excitement of my youth, and re-experiencing what Puja meant for me. Piyali Gupta spends her daughter Aheli’s vacation in Greenwood Park. She is awaiting the resumption of flight services to return to Kuwait.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-240
13-11-2020||Calcutta||Hidco organises rangoli contest on Diwali-eve||There might be no rockets lighting up the night sky and no flower pots to add a dazzle to the street post-sundown this Diwali, in adherence to the high court order banning fireworks to prevent the air quality from deteriorating further and aggravating conditions of Covid-19 patients. But the Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) has come up with an event that promises to add both colour and light to an occasion which has been robbed of much of its sheen by the raging pandemic. With twin messages to save the environment and to shun crackers, Hidco has announced a diya festival and a rangoli competition, in association with local social welfare organisation New Town Forum & News. “We want to spread the message that there can be fun without bursting crackers,” said Hidco chairman Debashis Sen. At 4pm, teams of four will take the field at Mangaldeep Island. “There will be 15 spots surrounding the installation. The first 15 teams to register will compete. We will provide colours for the rangoli,” Sen said. From 5pm, everyone present will be asked to light earthen lamps. “The area has been decorated. Close to 1,000 lamps are being purchased. We will have drones taking photographs,” said Sen. The lighting will stay for three days through the festive weekend. A dandiya dance will be put up by residents while the lamps will be lit. On Saturday, gate no. 2 of Eco Park, Misti Hub and Taj Mahal in the Seven Wonders of the World corner of Eco Park will be lit up at 5pm. In the evening, Swapno Bhor, the senior citizens’ park, will host a community lamp-lighting ceremony. “We had a green fireworks show there last year. But there will be no fireworks this time. A musical performance has been arranged as well,” Sen summed up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-240
13-11-2020||Calcutta||Neighbours come to aid of New Town pensioners||A residential complex and a block committee in New Town have come forward to help out their elderly pensioner neighbours. They have taken the initiative to help generate their digital life certificate, which is a proof of the pensioner being alive. Submitting this to the pension disbursing authority — bank or post office — every November is mandatory in order to continue getting the pension. This year, the last date is December 31. The BA Block Cultural and Social Association has bought a biometric thumb impression scanner. “It cost us about Rs 3,000. We just had to install the driver,” said Prabir Mazumdar of the block. “The investment is insignificant compared to the comfort and security we are being able to provide our elderly neighbours who will not have to travel to the bank or the post office amid this pandemic,” he said. The best part of the initiative is that the block is ready to provide the service to anyone who turns up, irrespective of which block the person is from. A camp will be held again on November 15, from 11 am to 1pm, at the block’s puja venue. The idea came from block resident Ashish Mukherjee whose company had created the Jeevan Pramaan website through which the digital life certificate is generated. “We do have a couple of banks within walking distance but they are so crowded we are scared to visit them. This is so convenient,” said Tapan Ghoshal, a 68-year-old committee member. At Jal Vayu Towers, the treasurer of the apartment owner’s association Syed Humayun Siraj got in touch with the State Bank of India branch housed in Ahirini market. The bank held a camp at the housing complex for SBI customers last week. But I realised that since it was Aadhaar-based it could be extended to others as well,” said Siraj. “So I picked up from a bank official how to do it.” He is now offering the service on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday all November from 11am to 12.30pm. The bank has lent him the device. Service manager Prosenjit Das of the bank said he had been getting life certificates signed at customers’ doorsteps for the last two years. “This year, we are extending the service till Chinar Park without any service charge to customers of other SBI branches to which I will mail the certificates.” He is ready to train whoever wants to invest in the device and offer the digital life certificate service to his own housing or block pensioners.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-240
13-11-2020||Calcutta||Matching steps with mom, stick in hand||Corona or no corona, the tots of Eurokids Salt Lake love their annual dandiya celebration and this year they performed in a mix of online and offline shows. “Every year, we celebrate Navratri with this vibrant dance on campus but this time we asked students to dance from home, online. However many parents said their kids were desperate to come to class and so we allowed six of them to come and dance on campus. Another six danced from home,” said Soma Chandra, principal of the school’s BB Block branch. The school also has a branch in CK Block. The kids had come dressed in fineries — bright ghagras, kurtas and masks — and counted family members as backup dancers. Abir Sarkar danced to the Ramleela song Nagara sang dhol baje with his mother, Anya Banerjee Gomes did garba with her mother while Sarthak Sinha danced to Dholi taro with his mother and grandmother. Once in a while, the kids watching the show over Zoom unmuted themselves and others could hear and see what they were up to. Little Rishika Mundra was visible once in a while wearing a red Spiderman mask watching the show from inside her car. Mehenba Huidrom entertained on and off stage. Once in a while when his video inadvertently got turned on, others got to see him running around the room chasing objects that he sent flying and sometimes the four-year-old even rolled on the floor. But when he took stage Mehenba was a picture of poise. He remembered all the steps of Chogada tara and needed no cues from his mother and sister, who danced with him. “Had I given him a chance to dance he would have felt lazy and not practised. But I told him this was compulsory and he spent every evening learning the steps,” laughed mother Aurora. The family is originally from Manipur and Aurora danced with her son and daughter Malem, who too is a former student of Eurokids.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-240
13-11-2020||Calcutta||Laser show planned at Uniworld City||Residents of New Town’s biggest housing complex will get to enjoy a laser show on the night of the festival of lights. A 45-minute show high on technology and visual delight has been planned on Kali puja night on the premises from 8.30pm. “We used to have a half-hour fireworks show every year. But in view of the Covid situation and the high court order, we had to rule that out. Instead, we have arranged with a city-based company to present a laser show,” said joint secretary of the Uniworld City Cultural Association Pradipta Dutta. The cost will be almost double that of the fireworks display. Covid has also claimed another of their popular customs — an inter-tower rangoli contest. “Residents used to draw rangoli in front of their respective towers and we had a contest based on that. But that too has been ruled out to prevent a gathering,” Dutta said. The alternative has been spectacular. Professional artistes have been asked to draw alpona all along the sides of the 60ft street inside the complex. Residents, aged three to 60 years, are enthusiastically filling in the designs with rangoli in accordance with the colour schemes suggested by the artistes. On Saturday, a tribute has been planned to those who have lost the battle to Covid-19. About 1,300 lamps will be lit in their memory.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-240
13-11-2020||Calcutta||Festival retail mood in Calcutta: something is better than nothing||It is Dhanteras-Diwali time and stores in Calcutta on Thursday are decked out like every year, flaunting “best deals”. But it hardly had any effect on footfall, which was nowhere close to previous years. Retailers pinned their hopes on straws of positives, saying demand that had reached the pits during lockdown was on the rise. Around 3.30pm, a jewellery store in Gariahat had a handful of customers on each of the three floors. An employee held a gold earring close to her right ear for demonstration in front of a prospective buyer. “June to September saw business coming to an almost standstill. We hardly sold anything. There was a hint of a turnaround during Durga Puja. Things are finally looking hopeful during Dhanteras and Diwali,” the store manager said. A queue at the billing and delivery counter in the Moulali store of another chain had six buyers. Two months ago, the entire store did not have six potential customers at one go, store executives said. The volume of jewellery purchased is less than previous years because of a significant rise in the price of gold and silver over the past year, jewellers said. According to the calendar, Dhanteras started on Thursday night and would last till Friday evening. For retailers, the Dhanteras-Diwali period starts a day or two before Dhanteras and lasts till Diwali, which will be celebrated on Saturday this year. Dhanteras is usually mad rush at jewellery outlets, followed by consumer durable stores. From the traditional gold lane in Bowbazar to jewellery showrooms on Camac Street to consumer durable stores across the city, the crowd keeps rising by the hour and queues often spill on to streets. Buying gold on Dhanteras is an age-old tradition. Many people believe it is auspicious to buy some jewellery, even a small token item, during Dhanteras. Bulk buying, especially for the upcoming wedding season, also takes place during Dhanteras because of lucrative deals on offer at every store. Many people believe buying something new, like a TV, fridge or a small iron brings good luck. “We had expected the festive season to spur growth and help in recovery from the six-month drought. The price of gold has gone up significantly over the past year. But the spending capacity of people has not gone up. There is a renewed faith in gold, though. People still want to buy gold assuming it will be costlier in future,” Soumik Roychoudhury, director of MP Jewellers, said. At the Dalhousie outlet of a consumer durable retail chain, a group of sales executives looked expectantly at passers-by. Inside the store, dozens of people were busy checking out washing machines, TVs and microwaves. Another store of a different chain in Gariahat looked slightly busier. But even a casual walk-in customer got enough space and the individual attention of store employees, something unthinkable during this time in previous years. The chaos, typical of a festive night, was missing, though. “There is little ras (juice) in Dhanteras this time. But something is better than nothing,” an employee of the Dalhousie store said. When other sectors were crippled because of the pandemic, consumer durables did marginally better, retailers said. They attributed this to more people spending more time at home. “Android TV sets sold because people had to watch over-the-top media service. Washing machines and dishwashers saw a boom in sales because maids were absent from work,” Pulkit Baid, the director of Great Eastern Retail, said. “Consumers want to spend on things they would use every day. That is very much visible during Dhanteras and Diwali as well. They want to upgrade from a normal to an Android TV. They want to upgrade to a fully automated washing machine from a semi-automatic one,” he said. “Apart from gold, there is a promising demand for diamond jewellery, too, especially light and easy to wear items that can be carried off at the workplace,” Suvankar Sen, executive director of Senco Gold, said. “There is a kind of bullish sentiment that is not limited to the jewellery sector alone. During Durga Puja, people came out and bought a lot of stuff. That sentiment is still there and we hope it continues,” Subir Kumar Sen, director of BC Sen Jewellers, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-240
13-11-2020||Calcutta||Siblings weigh Covid risk in Salt Lake||It’s Kali puja tomorrow but pandals are no-entry zones. The day is Diwali also but the high court has banned fire crackers. Monday is Bhai Phonta but, again, how many sisters would be willing to meet their brothers and pray for their longevity while risking their lives at the same time? Like most other festivals this year, the three upcoming ones are set to be eclipsed by coronavirus. The Telegraph Salt Lake spoke to residents across the twin townships to learn how they are planning to spend the extended weekend. Debalay Gonchowdhury will be spending most of Bhai Phonta asleep in his New Town apartment, recuperating. He has tested positive and is in quarantine with his wife. “My sister, who lives in Budge Budge, will still come to our family home in Salt Lake’s GD Block to apply phonta to our dog, Dodo. She will cook something for me and send through the driver and I on my part, will send her some money over Paytm so she can buy something for herself,” says the 30-something man living behind Central mall. “It will be a Bhai Phonta like never before.” For octogenarian Samaresh Bandopadhyay, Bhai Phonta is sacrosanct. “I remember the festival of 1945 when my grandmother’s freedom fighter brother hoodwinked the police and came to take phonta from his sister. That’s how important the day is in my family,” reminisces the DL Block resident. His sister in Garia now holds a gala feast on the day with over 200 members of the extended family dining and taking part in stage events like mimicry of one another. “Three years ago, I was in Shilong on work but upon her insistence, took a flight and went over straight from the airport for phonta. This year, too, she is pleading with us to go meet her but it wouldn’t be right. How can she apply phonta from 2m away? Which brother would she leave out to reduce the crowd?” Just as deep is the grief in Somnath Banerjee’s heart. “Didi lives all alone in Chandernagore and waits the whole year to meet her three brothers,” says the senior citizen of AJ Block. “In a year that she has barely been able to socialise with neighbours, it would have meant the world to her if we could have gone over. But my brothers are against the idea. This will be the first time we will miss Bhai Phonta and I’m feeling worse as the day draws nearer.” Sankalan Datta recalls visiting his ancestral home in Behrampore every Bhai Phonta. “We bathe in the Ganga, visit the Charak mela nearby and have an awesome time with the extended family. It’ll all be virtual this time and it won’t be any fun,” says the resident of Karunamoyee F Block. Many adults, up to their 40s, however, don’t mind visiting one another for phonta, especially if the siblings live within Salt Lake and New Town. “The brother-sister relationship is created by God himself and I cannot miss meeting my sister at any cost,” says Soumen Goswami of CB Block. “And if people are visiting markets and restaurants without a worry why are they compromising on meeting siblings?” Tarasankar Chatterjee of HA Block, too, said he would fasten his mask, smear the sanitiser and visit his sisters in Ballygunge at any cost. “This time of the year is usually filled with fun and games,” says Sonali Sen of CK Block. During Kali puja she is involved with hosting antakshari under the Spectrum banner in neighbouring BL Block; for Diwali she and her family go to the park to watch fireworks display and on Bhai Phonta she and her brother go over to their sister’s apartment in Baranagar for a picnic of sorts. “This year, none of these will happen,” she sighs. “My brother, Basabbijay Sarkar, is a doctor in charge of 90 Covid patients at a time and obviously cannot seek leave now. Maybe my didi will come to Salt Lake to apply phonta and I shall tag along,” Sonali says. In other years, BE Block’s Jyoti Agarwal hires at least two pairs of helping hands to clean her home thoroughly over five or six days. “This time it is unsafe to call outsiders so we family members are slogging it out ourselves. Cleaning is a vital part of the festival as we believe Lakshmi may refuse to enter a home that is unkempt,” she says. Diwali shopping from Burrabazar has got replaced by online purchases but small scale pujas for the home and office are still on the cards. “Usually we visit the elders in the family the day after Diwali to seek blessings but this time we shall have have to do this over video call,” she says. If Jyoti wishes the court ruling allowed at least fuljhuris for the sake of tradition, Manish Kumar Hissaria is delighted the whole lot is banned. “My grandmother had asthma and I’ve seen how she suffered on Diwali nights,” says the BE Block resident whose family seldom bursts crackers anyway. “We shall clean up, perform puja, decorate the house with diyas and spend time chatting with one another,” says the entrepreneur. “Four or five of our relatives are down with Covid so we are neither inviting anyone over nor going over. We’ll miss full-fledged Diwali but there is no choice.” Despite the ban, Karunamoyee residents claimed they saw and heard fire crackers in the sky last Friday, from the FE Block side and at least one resident confessed that he is making plans to burst them on Saturday. “My friends and I usually spend about Rs 20,000 on fire crackers and burst them all night. This time the ban will make it difficult but my sources can still get me Rs 5,000 worth. I won’t buy the noisy ones and will burst the crackers alone without meeting friends as it’s unsafe,” said the Sector III resident in his 30s. Then again, some residents have stopped moping and are trying to do something for the needy this season. “Since our friends won’t be able to come over, we are collecting clothes and sweets from neighbours in AJ Block and shall distribute them with slum dwellers behind our block,” says Namitha R. Dalmia. “This will give me more happiness and satisfaction than bursting crackers.” Kakoli Das Mandal will be sharing food with inamtes of Prabortak, a home for the specially-abled in CL Block this weekend. “It will be an opportunity to teach compassion to my six-year-old too,” says the BL Block resident. Jyoti of BE Block felt the Lakshmi puja was more imporant than any fanfare. “And that we can do at home without a crowd. As for the fun and happiness, if it isn’t inside you, you’ll never derive it by busting crackers. Everyone is suffering due to the pandemic so we might as well grin and bear it this one year.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-240
13-11-2020||Calcutta||Salt Lake police on cracker alert||The police are conducting regular raids in areas where fireworks are generally sold and have made seizures from Dakshindari in Lake Town this week. They found chocolate bombs, fuljhuris, chorkis and kali potka from a house-cum-shop there. The high court has banned the use of fireworks in Calcutta and its adjoining areas and an officer of Bidhannagar Commissionerate said they had started awareness campaigns asking people not to use fireworks of any kind. More than 2,000 police personnel will be on the roads of Salt Lake and adjoining areas this year to not only ensure safe and peaceful celebrations but also to stop anyone from lighting up fireworks. The police have also mapped out areas from where most complaints had been recorded in the earlier years such as Lake Town, the airport area, Baguiati and pockets of Rajarhat. Special patrol teams will be despatched in these regions. “Let alone crackers, this year we will prosecute anyone using fireworks. We will keep an eye out for highrises as well,” said Mukesh, the police commissioner of Bidhannagar. Apart from prosecutions, the police is banking on raising awareness and are conducting regular announcements in markets, asking sellers not to sell the banned items. A similar exercise is being carried out in residential areas, asking residents not to light up fireworks. Like in past years, this year police pickets will be placed around big pandals like those in BF-CF Block, Rajarhat and Sukantanagar. The top brass of the commissionerate has already held meetings with the puja organisers and issued necessary directives. Police have noted that residents of highrises burst crackers on their rooftops and are not taking a chance. “We will deploy civic police volunteers in some housing complexes to dissuade residents from doing so,” another officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-240
13-11-2020||Calcutta||Covid tests must for contacts of people who test positive||Ward coordinators or outgoing councillors of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation have to ensure that contacts of people who test positive for Covid-19 undergo Covid tests, a member of the civic body’s board of administrators told them at a meeting on Thursday. Atin Ghosh, the member who is in charge of the CMC’s health department, told the ward coordinators if someone among the contact tests positive, they should be isolated immediately. Public health specialists have stressed on the three pronged strategy to trace, test and isolate to contain Covid-19. More tests would help identify more people who are carrying the novel coronavirus but do not have any external manifestation of symptoms and freely mix with others. Isolating them will prevent the transmission of the virus from asymptomatic carriers to uninfected people, the specialists have said. Metro reported on November 6 that the number of people undergoing Covid tests at the 72 rapid antigen testing centres of the CMC was below the expectation of civic officials. “Ghosh urged coordinators to mobilise people for tests,” a ward coordinator said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-240
13-11-2020||Calcutta||Fire kills 70-year-old, injures artisan in Calcutta||A 70-year-old woman died of burns and a 40-year-old artisan was seriously injured after a fire broke out in a house in Kalighat’s Patuapara early on Thursday. Residents of the area saw thick fumes coming out of the double-storey house on Kalighat Road around 4.40am and alerted the fire station. Four fire engines managed to douse the flames in little over an hour. By the time fire officers could rescue residents, Biva Pal, a widow, had suffered severe burns and was gasping for breath. She was sleeping in her first-floor room and was not aware of the fire. Two of her relatives managed to bring her out with the help of fire fighters. She was declared dead at SSKM Hospital. Rajib Pal, the artisan, is being treated at the critical care unit for burn patients. Fire officers said they were still to ascertain the exact cause of the fire though they suspect it was caused by a leaking LPG cylinder. A forensic team will visit the house on Friday. Patuapara in Kalighat is dotted with makeshift studios where artisans make idols. Pal had been working on Kali idols till late on Wednesday and had returned home past midnight, the police said. The fire has destroyed two of his unfinished Kali idols.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-241
13-11-2020||Calcutta||Thief strikes on test ride pretext in Calcutta||A city doctor who advertised on OLX — an online portal to buy/sell goods — he wanted to sell his motorcycle lost the two-wheeler when a person fled with it on the pretext of going for a test ride, police said. Investigations have shown the SIM card this person had used to call the doctor in Jadavpur belongs to a rickshaw-puller in Dum Dum, the police said. The rickshaw-puller has told cops that his SIM card had been stolen by one of his passengers a few weeks ago when that person had taken his phone to make a call during the ride. The SIM card is currently inserted in a phone that belongs to a youth in Bongaon. This phone had been used to make the call to the doctor. But the police have found that the Bongaon resident’s phone had been stolen a few weeks ago. Cops, though, managed to track down the suspected bike thief when he used the stolen SIM card in his phone. That gave him away, the police said. “The man has cunningly used stolen things to commit the crime… he thought he had not left any trail. But the police got a copy of his photograph he had used as his profile picture on WhatsApp,” an officer in Lalbazar said. “The doctor and the rickshaw-puller saw the photograph and confirmed his identity. He has been identified as Gauranga Kirtaniya. He was arrested earlier this week from his Hridaypur home in Barasat.” The motorcycle has been seized. There are two cases registered against him: one by the doctor whose two-wheeler was stolen and the other by the other by the Bongaon resident whose phone had been stolen. Kirtaniya has been booked for criminal breach of trust, cheating, theft and criminal conspiracy. He has been remanded in police custody till November 13.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-241
13-11-2020||Calcutta||Teacher’s shock: Driver on hire and WagonR gone||A college lecturer who had hired a driver for a few hours lost her WagonR when she stepped out of the car to buy medicines at a shop in Patuli. Investigations showed the “car agency” owner who had supplied the driver had neither seen the person nor collected any of his details, which might have helped cops track him down, police said. The woman lost her laptop and bag containing her ATM cards and some money, along with the car. Cops tracked the driver down through the tower location of his mobile phone and arrested him in Salar, about 170km from Calcutta in Murshidabad, on Thursday. He has been identified as Sarfaraz Hussain, a Beckbagan resident. Somrita Chakraborty, a resident of Usha Park, Harisabha Math, in Brahmapur had booked the driver on Wednesday. When she returned after buying the medicines, she found her car gone and the phone on which she had contacted him earlier switched off, the police said. She later lodged a complaint with Patuli police station. “The owner of Garia Car centre from where the family had hired the driver said he had never seen the driver nor had he any clue about his whereabouts,” an officer of Patuli police station said. “The centre does not even have an office. The complainant got to know of it by word of mouth.” The woman’s laptop and bag have been seized. Hussain has told cops he had kept the car in the Kalikapur area, the police said. He has been booked for criminal breach of trust. People who do not know driving often hire a driver. This option helps people travel in the safety of their own vehicles, more so during the pandemic, many officers said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-241
13-11-2020||Calcutta||4,000 Calcutta school bus operators seek waiver||Close to 4,000 school bus operators in Calcutta and adjoining areas have requested chief minister Mamata Banerjee to waive fines on lapsed fitness certificates and road tax as they have been out of business for over seven months. Vehicles have been in garages as schools are shut and it is discriminatory on the government’s part to offer certain sops to private bus and minibus operators, several school bus operators said. On Wednesday, the government had announced waiver of fines on lapsed fitness certificates, driving licence and road permits from January 1 for all vehicles and asked owners to pay the fees by June 30, 2021. Even though the government’s waiver is meant for all vehicles, including commercial ones, there is no clear mention about contract carriage bus operators who run school buses. Senior government officials said on Thursday they were still to get a notification of the decision and so couldn't say for sure if contract carriage operators had been included or not. “We have been paying road tax of around Rs 4,000 for every quarter even though private bus and minibus owners have stopped because of the government's relaxations,” Himadri Ganguly of the West Bengal Contract Carriage Owners and Operators Association said. “Neither the schools nor the guardians are ready to pay even half the amount that we had requested for. How do school bus owners survive?” “We hope the chief minister will look into our problems and find a way out,” Ganguly said. “She has been very sympathetic towards bus and minibus operators.” In August, the state government had waived all taxes for bus and minibus owners till September 30 and also the annual component of the permit fee bringing to bus operators a relief of around Rs 2,000 for each bus. School buses did not get that relief. School bus owners said the fees for renewing a fitness certificate was around Rs 800 but all pending taxes needed to be cleared before it could be done. “Unlike private buses and minibuses, we don't operate throughout the day and there are several conditions that have to be met for obtaining a permit to run a school bus,” a school bus owner who caters to several schools in and around parts of north Calcutta said. “The insurance fee is around Rs 45,000 to Rs 55,000.” The government is still to decide on the reopening of schools. “A driver needs to be paid Rs 12,000 to Rs 14,000, a helper Rs 8,000 and an attendant, which includes women at times, Rs 7,000. Over half the year is gone. How long can we pull through?” a school bus owner asked. Police said fines on lapsed fitness certificates for contract carriage bus owners was Rs 3,000 for the first offence and Rs 6,000 for every subsequent ones.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-241
13-11-2020||Calcutta||Pollution control board lists cracker hotspots in Calcutta ||The West Bengal pollution control board has sent a list of firework violation hotspots to both city and state police based on cracker-related complaints received last year. A senior official of the state board said on Thursday that this would help ensure better monitoring this year. The board pointed out that the onus to implement the high court’s blanket ban on fireworks lies on the police. Last year, the level of most toxic PM2.5 pollutants rose 10 times over the national permissible limit in Calcutta on Diwali night. “We have prepared a list of firework bursting hotspots with both Calcutta Police and state police based on the last year complaints,” said Rajesh Kumar, member secretary of state PCB. Last year, PCB lodged 15 firework-related complaints to the cops on the basis of the environmental protection act, but not much progress has been made on those cases. “I have to check the current status of those complaints,” said Kumar. The PCB, like earlier years, will maintain a control room to accept complaints and have mobile teams on the road to locate violations. The green lobby said that unless the administration swung into action immediately to  confiscate fireworks being illegally sold, the high court order will be largely flouted. “We have written to the chief minister demanding appropriate government order to implement the high court order about blanket ban on fireworks throughout the state as till now we could not see any serious effort on part of administration to  implement the order seriously,” said Naba Dutta of green platform Sabuj Mancha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-241
13-11-2020||Calcutta||More rush hour trains from today in Calcutta||The number of suburban trains will go up during the morning and evening rush hour from Friday, rail officials said after a meeting with state government representatives at Bhavani Bhavan on Thursday. Additional trains ran in the Howrah and Sealdah divisions on Wednesday and Thursday but trains were still overcrowded. A formal announcement regularising the additional trains is unlikely to have “much impact” on the implementation of distancing rules, rail officials said. “We will try to run close to 100 per cent of the trains during the office time from Friday. We will run at least 95 per cent,” U.K. Bal, the principal chief operations manager of Eastern Railway, said. The morning rush hour means 8am to 11am and the evening 4.30pm to 8pm, a rail official said. The number of trains that ran in the Howrah and Sealdah divisions during these periods before the pandemic was 354 (177 pairs). On Wednesday and Thursday, close to 145 pairs of trains ran during the morning and evening rush hour. The risk of running a curtailed fleet came to the fore on both days, forcing the authorities to run additional trains. “In the Howrah division, 202 trains were notified. But we ran around 300 trains throughout Wednesday as well as Thursday. Additional trains ran in the Sealdah division as well. But rush hour trains were still overcrowded,” an official said. From Friday, the number of notified trains during office hours will go up to around 170 pairs. “We are close to the maximum capacity during rush hour. But there is still overcrowding. Unless there is some access-control mechanism, maintaining distancing rules is not possible,” another rail official said. Packed trains in both the Howrah and Sealdah divisions made a mockery of distancing rules on Thursday, too. At Baruipur station, a senior citizen fell on the platform while trying to get off a local train amidst the rush of passengers in the morning. He had to be admitted to hospital. At Mullickpur station in South 24-Parganas, the queue at the ticket counter got so crowded that the RPF had to intervene. From the Krishnagar local in the Sealdah division to the Bandel local in the Howrah division, trains saw people fighting for space to stand. The formal rise in the number of trains came after the state government mounted pressure on the railways following a prod from chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The chief minister demanded more local trains to prevent crowding, something doctors and public health experts have been saying. Rail officials said the two days had shown a clear pattern. “The crowd is highest during rush hour. At other times, the seats marked to maintain distancing rules are empty. But during office hours, all seats are full and four people are sitting on a seat for three,” an official said. The railways had initially planned the resumption of services with “10-15 per cent” of the usual fleet. The number was raised to around 50 per cent following a prod from the state government. “The railways, particularly Eastern Railway, was asked to increase the number of trains, number of ticket counters and the number of compartments. They agreed to run 95 percent of trains during rush hour from Friday. It is expected that 100 per cent suburban trains will start running in the next few days,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-241
13-11-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta teachers worried over loss of practicals||Teachers across schools are concerned about the loss of practical classes because of the pandemic, especially for students in Class XII who are expected to appear for board exams next year. Usually, for each of the science subjects — physics, chemistry and biology — students in Class XII attend approximately 45 to 50 hours of practical classes in an academic year but this year there has been none so far. The heads of several ISC and ICSE schools have expressed their concern about the loss of practical classes to the council. The CBSE and state board schools are conducting staff meetings to discuss how and when the practical classes can be conducted. On the basis of lab experiments students prepare a file and have marks assigned on that file in ISC. In Higher Secondary, students have 30 marks assigned for practicals, of which some marks are assigned on what they do the entire year. But they could not do the hands on experiments and though schools are sending or planning to send them videos of the experiments or live demonstrations, teachers across boards said looking at videos was not the same as doing the experiments themselves. A physics teacher said it would be difficult to show optical experiments virtually. The practical is important not only for board exams but also for the next level of study, a school head said. “The skills that practical application of theoretical concepts give is necessary for anyone who wishes to take up science at the graduation level or pursue engineering or medicine,” Damayanti Mukherjee, principal of Modern High School for Girls, said. “It is not just learning by heart or being able to do derivatives but one needs to know the skills required for the next level and in the absence of that it will impact their learning. Therefore one cannot do away with the practicals. “For middle school a visit to the laboratory is ideal or desirable but for students in Classes XI and XII it is a non-negotiable aspect of gaining knowledge and skills.” Usually in most schools children have two periods of practical classes (40 minutes each) for each of the science subjects. “A part of the practical syllabus is a continuation of Class XI. But there are some new experiments (chemical kinetics) also and they need practice to be able to perform in the final exam else they will feel pressurised,” Suroopa Chakraborty, chemistry teacher at St James’ School, said. The head of a CBSE school said the first target for them would be to have practical classes once they reopen. “Practical is an extension of the theory and an important element to understand the theory,” Sharmila Bose, director of Sushila Birla Girls’ School, a CBSE school, said. Another CBSE school, Indus Valley World School, had a staff meeting to discuss about practical classes. “The real training is hands on,” said director Amita Prasad. Santosh Sen, a physics teacher in an ICSE school, said it was difficult to show some experiments in a video. "It is difficult to show some of the optical experiments in videos because students might not be able to understand in a video what they can do on their own in classes. But under the circumstances we will be sending videos to students,” Sen said. “If the situation improves and permits teachers can take extra practical classes for students.” Teachers felt students who have not handled instruments round the year and unlike books they do not have the apparatus at home. “Teachers also teach them how to handle instruments, some of which are sensitive and delicate. If they do not know how to handle, their balancing can go wrong and they will not be able to understand measurements,” Terence Ireland, principal of St James’ said. The ICSE council has sought feedback from schools regarding ICSE and ISC syllabus coverage, teaching and assessments. The council has asked how practical classes have been conducted and several schools have told the council that they could only do live demonstrations or send videos. “There is a difference between doing experiments on their own and seeing it. When children are doing it on their own and they do not arrive at a desired result they try it again. Being able to complete an experiment successfully generates an experience and satisfaction,” Sujoy Biswas, principal of Ram Mohan Mission High School, said. Suvina Shunglu, principal of Sri Sri Academy, said for junior classes they had been able to do practicals on videos. “But for seniors it is difficult to guide them on videos.” The administrator at Apeejay Schools, Rita Chatterjee, said “learning outcome is only theoretical without practical”. The problem is there in higher secondary schools, too. “I have practical classes in physics, chemistry and biology and in statistics, nutrition, and geography. If the situation improves and we can reopen we will have the important practical lessons in school,” Sunita Sen, principal of The BSS School, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-241
13-11-2020||Business||Sensex falls over 250 pts in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 250 points in early trade on Friday, tracking losses in index-heavyweights HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Kotak Bank amid weak cues from global markets. The market is taking a pause at these levels with higher possibility of profit-booking, experts said. The 30-share BSE index was trading 251.44 points or 0.58 per cent lower at 43,105.75. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slipped 68.95 points or 0.54 per cent to 12,621.85. IndusInd Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 3 per cent, followed by SBI, L&T, Axis Bank, HDFC twins, Kotak Bank and ICICI Bank. On the other hand, Asian Paints, Reliance Industries, Titan, Bajaj Finance and Sun Pharma were trading with gains. In the previous session, Sensex ended 236.48 points or 0.54 per cent lower at 43,357.19, while Nifty slipped 58.35 points or 0.46 per cent to 12,690.80. Foreign institutional investors remained net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,514.12 crore on Thursday, according to provisional exchange data. Trade set up in India does not look to be inspiring as global markets are trading lower now taking cues from US equities, said Arjun Yash Mahajan Head Institutional Business at Reliance Securities. Amid profit-booking, the market did not react much yesterday after the announcement of fiscal stimulus under Aatmanirbhar Bharat 3.0 by the Finance Ministry, he said. Meanwhile, industrial production entered positive territory after a gap of six months, mainly due to higher output in mining and power sectors, official data showed on Thursday. The industrial output grew by 0.2 per cent in September, according to the Index of Industrial Production (IIP) data. On the global front, US equities ended lower as investors turned cautious due to continued rise in COVID-19 cases and possibilities of further restriction on businesses in a large way. Additionally, dimming prospects of early fiscal stimulus due to Donald Trump's hard stance on US election result outcome may not result in smooth transition for the new government, also weighed on investors' sentiments, Mahajan added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo were trading with losses in mid-session deals, while Seoul was positive. International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.59 per cent lower at USD 42.84 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-236
13-11-2020||Business||CSE to not distribute laddus after Muhurat trading on Diwali||Calcutta Stock Exchange is going to break away from the decade old tradition of distributing laddu after Muhurat trading on the evening of Deepawali. An exchange official says the decision was taken in view of the pandemic and the court orders to maintain social distancing during festivities. The ghee-soaked laddu is usually a big draw at Lyon’s Range where people associated with the stock markets queue up in the evening to get hold of a box which contains the sweets. The popularity of the item can be gauged from the fact that the exchange, which has had no trading on its platform officially since 2013, had ordered 414 kg of the laddu from Bhikharam Chandmal last year, costing the exchange around Rs 1,78,000. The sweet comes in a box and contains four laddus, made of moong dal and desi ghee, each weighing about 150 grams. The exchange officials also send the sweet as a gift box to people associated with it. The distribution by the exchange goes on for at least three to four days. “Brokers, clients and those who work in their offices come to the bourse with their families for puja and Muhurat trading. We know many people will be disappointed with the decision but we cannot take risk when Covid-19 is raging,” Sankar Lal Singh, administrative officer of CSE, said. “We will conclude the rituals in a low key manner. Only whole fruits will be offered to the idols of Laxmi-Ganesh and the participation of people in anjali/aarti will be allowed with strict compliance of the order of the high court,” Ajit Day, past president of the exchange, said it was a right decision. “I am going to hold a puja at the office in a low key manner. Unlike past years, we are not inviting clients and associates,” Day said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-236
13-11-2020||Business||Grasim Industries announces sale of fertilisers business to Indorama Corporation||AV Birla group firm Grasim Industries on Thursday announced the sale of its fertilisers business to Indorama Corporation for Rs 2,649 crore. In fertilisers, Grasim is one of the largest urea producer in India with a capacity of 3,340 tonnes per day. It operates across seven states in northern and eastern India, comprising a network of  1,635 distributors and around 34,700 retailers, besides having access to close to one million farmers. Grasim said the sale will enable it to focus on its core business. It added that the fertiliser sector is tightly regulated and has a low return on capital employed (ROCE) because of high working capital and a long cycle of receivables even as it also has to deal with high maintenance cost. Marketed under the brand “Shaktiman”, the cement business posted revenues of Rs 2,678 crore in the previous fiscal and Rs 606 crore in the first quarter of this financial year. The company added that all assets, liabilities, litigations, brands and employees pertaining to Indo Gulf Fertilisers (IGF) will be transferred on a slump sale basis through a scheme of arrangement, subject to terms and conditions agreed between the parties. It is being done for a lump sum cash consideration of Rs 2,649 crore with certain closing adjustments. The transaction is expected to be completed in nine months. The business is being sold to Indorama India Pvt Ltd, a step-down subsidiary of Indorama Corp which is the largest producer of urea and phosphate fertilisers in sub-Saharan Africa and the largest producer of polyolefins in west Africa. “The divestment of the fertiliser business by Grasim is a strategic portfolio choice and unlocks value for the shareholders,” said Grasim Industries managing director Dilip Gaur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-236
13-11-2020||Business||Retail inflation hits nearly six-and-a-half year high of 7.61 per cent||Costlier vegetables and eggs pushed up retail inflation to a nearly six-and-a-half year high of 7.61 per cent in October, keeping it significantly above the comfort zone of the Reserve Bank. Retail inflation stood at 7.27 per cent in September 2020, according to the Consumer Price Index (CPI) data released by the government on Thursday. The Consumer Food Price Index rose to 11.07 per cent in October from 10.68 per cent in the previous month of September. It was 4.62 per cent in  October 2019. The RBI, which mainly factors in retail inflation while arriving at key policy rates, has been mandated by the government to keep inflation at 4 per cent (+, - 2 per cent). Aditi Nayar, economist at Icra, said, “While a base effect and some softening in vegetable prices may pull down inflation in the ongoing month, it is expected to recede below 6 per cent only in December.” IIP turns positive Industrial production entered the positive territory after a gap of six months, mainly because of higher output in the mining and power sectors, official data showed on Thursday. The industrial output grew 0.2 per cent in September, according to the index of industrial production (IIP) data. The IIP had contracted 4.6 per cent in September 2019.  Manufacturing recorded a marginal contraction of 0.6 per cent in September. The output of the mining and power segments grew 1.4 per cent and 4.9 per cent, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-236
13-11-2020||Business||Govt extends emergency credit line guarantee scheme||The government has extended the Rs 3-lakh-crore emergency credit line guarantee scheme (ECLGS) till March 31, 2021 and has also widended the scope of the scheme to include mid-sized companies in the 26 stressed sectors identified by the RBI-constituted K.V. Kamath committee. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said ECLGS 1.0 has covered Rs 2-lakh-crore loans sanctioned so far by the banks. There is still a headroom of Rs 1 lakh under the first scheme. The government said that it would assess the situation and decide on the additional guarantee cover for the 26 stressed sectors later. Through this scheme, firms having outstanding credit of Rs 50 crore to Rs 500 crore can get access to guaranteed collateral-free credit. The loans will have a one-year moratorium on principal repayment and another year for repayment. Most of these units with loan outstanding between Rs 50 crore and Rs 500 crore are promoter driven with not much assets to offer as collateral. Under ECLGS 2.0 , the mid-sized companies in 26 sectors with loan outstanding of Rs 50-500 crore will get 100 per cent collateral free additional loan up to 20 per cent of the loan outstanding as on February 29, 2020. There is no upper limit on the annual turnover of these companies. This translates into funds of Rs 10-100 crore to such units. The tenure of the additional credit under ECLGS 2.0 will be five years, including one-year moratorium on principal repayment. The stressed sectors identified by the KV Kamath committee were power, construction, iron and steel, roads, real estate, trading, textiles, chemicals and consumer durables. “We believe potentially around 40,000 entities can benefit from the scheme.  However, if the overall amount stays at Rs 3 lakh crore, the overall corpus of ECLGS 2.0 could be a constraining factor,” Soumya Kanti Ghosh, group chief economic adviser, State Bank of India, said in a research report. “Enhancement of the outstanding credit criteria to Rs 500 crore and no upper ceiling on the eligible company’s annual turnover will help a wider set of business enterprises, including MSMEs,” said Siddhartha Sanyal, chief economist and head of research, Bandhan Bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-236
13-11-2020||Business||Moody’s revises GDP forecast to an 8.9 per cent contraction||Moody’s Investor Service (Moody’s) has revised upwards its GDP forecast for India to an 8.9 per cent contraction in 2020 from a 9.6 per cent contraction forecast earlier as the economy inches back to growth with several restrictions being lifted after a strict nationwide lockdown. In its Global Macro Outlook 2021-22, Moody’s also revised upwards India’s GDP forecast for 2021 to 8.6 per cent growth from an earlier projection of 8.1 per cent expansion. The Indian economy had grown 4.8 per cent in 2019. The global rating agency was, however, quick to add that the recovery is patchy. Its projections come after the economy contracted a record 23.9 per cent in the April-June period of this year. On Wednesday, a monthly bulletin from the RBI said India has entered a technical recession in the first half of 2020-21 for the first time in its history as the July-September period is likely to record the second successive quarter of GDP contraction. It, however, added that if the recovery seen in October continues for the next two months, the Indian economy will come out of the contraction in the third quarter of this fiscal. “We forecast a gradual improvement in economic activity over the coming quarters.. However, slow credit intermediation will hamper the pace of recovery because of an already weakened financial sector,’’ the rating agency said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-237
13-11-2020||Business||Finance minister relaxes income tax rules||In a move to boost the real estate sector, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday relaxed income tax rules to allow the sale of primary residential units of up to Rs 2 crore value below the circle rate. The relief is being extended under section 43 CA of the Income Tax Act under which a home buyer will not have to pay tax on deemed income if the price of the residential unit is 20 per cent lower than the circle rate. At present, the difference allowed is capped at 10 per cent. “This measure will reduce hardships faced by both home-buyers and developers and help in clearing the unsold inventory,” she said. “The cap of Rs 2 crore means most projects in Metro cities will not be able to take advantage of this. The ideal situation would have been one where this relaxation would be applicable to commercial real estate transactions as well,” Niranjan Hiranandani, president, NAREDCO & Assocham, said. Sushil Mohta, president of Credai (Bengal), said land deals on the outskirts of Calcutta would benefit most from the announcement. “On Diamond Harbour Road, Rajarhat, Howrah or even Sector V in Salt Lake, the circle rates for land are much higher than the market rate. Many deals get stuck because the net realisation goes down for sellers and cost goes up for buyers because of tax incidence,” Mohta said. Jitendra Khaitan of Pioneer Properties said regular properties would benefit most. “There is not much of a gap between the circle rate and market rate for premium projects. But those that do not fall in the category also get assessed at a higher circle rate because of location,” Khaitain said. “The relief up to 20 per cent to buyers under Section 56(2)(x) of the IT Act for the said period will definitely boost demand, especially in the affordable and mid segments. For developers, this move will help clear unsold stock,” said Anuj Puri, chairman – Anarock Property Consultants. “The relief is given if the flat is purchased from promoters or builders. The circle rate adopted for stamp duty valuation is much higher than the actual market price of flats. Now if there is difference of up to 20 per cent in price mentioned in sale deed and circle rate, the promoter and purchaser of flat will not be burdened with tax on amount of difference,” said Narayan Jain, tax advocate. With inputs from Calcutta bureau||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-237
13-11-2020||Business||Centre announces Rs 1.19 lakh crore stimulus package||The Narendra Modi-government on Thursday announced a Rs 1.19 lakh stimulus package, which coupled with Wednesday’s Rs 1.45 lakh production-linked incentives takes the Centre’s boosters for Diwali to Rs 2.65 lakh crore in two days. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced tax relief on select home sale deals, enhanced credit guarantee programme for small businesses, provided incentives for new job creation as well as additional fertiliser subsidy. Under the job creation scheme, the government will provide a subsidy to establishments that hire workers or re-employs those they fired during the pandemic. The subsidy is equal to the contribution that an employee and the employer have to make towards the retirement fund, which is 24 per cent of the wages. Sitharaman said the government will provide Rs 65,000 crore of additional subsidy on fertiliser to ensure the crop nutrient is available to farmers during the current season. The finance minister cited data, including increase in tax collections for goods and services, rise in energy consumption and improvement in bank credit, to state that the economy was seeing “strong recovery” taking root. “In the last 10-15 days, there have been quite a few steps and indicators which have shown the recovery is happening, she said. Also, Rs 10,000 crore was provided for rural employment, Rs 3,000 crore to Exim Bank for extending lines of credit, and Rs 10,200 crore additional budget outlay for defence and infrastructure. A Rs 900-crore grant was made to the department of biotechnology for coronavirus vaccine research. The government also more than tripled the allocation for the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. From an initial allocation of Rs 8,000 crore for the scheme, the government has increased the allocation to Rs 26,000 crore this fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-237
13-11-2020||India||Delhi: Pickets, flying squads to monitor cracker ban||In a bid to implement the ban on sale and bursting of firecrackers ahead of Diwali, the Delhi Police has deployed pickets, formed flying squads and are making announcements for the same. The National Green Tribunal earlier this week ordered a total ban on sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in the NCR from November 9 midnight to November 30 midnight. The Delhi Police is also making sure that people follow Covid-19 guidelines. Additional PRO (Delhi Police) Anil Mittal said that their focus has been to ensure that nobody uses or sells crackers, and to maintain peace and harmony during the festival. Special teams and flying squads have been formed at the police station and district levels respectively to ensure regular checking. "Pickets have been placed at markets and places with high footfall to sensitise the public about wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. Public Address systems and banners are also being used. 'Machaans' have been set up at vantage points to check movements of suspicious and mischievous persons," he said. He added that market welfare associations have been assisting to ensure safe movement of shoppers and traffic. At strategic locations in marketplaces, the police have installed door-framed metal detectors. PCR, Prakhar, Emergency Response Vehicle and Quick Reaction Team vans will be working in tandem for successful handling of the situation. "Force has been internally mobilised to enhance police visibility. At the same time, police staff deployed on duty in market places have been advised to take full precautions while regulating the crowd. Senior officers are closely monitoring the ground arrangements," Mittal said. The Delhi Police have also taken to social media to warn the public about the NGT’s order. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southeast) R P Meena said that they are ensuring that there is no congestion in public places, especially market areas, and Covid-19 norms are followed. Any defiance will be strictly dealt with, he said. “We have deployed 13 companies -- 10 from our districts and three from outside,” DCP (Central) Sanjay Bhatia said. "Shopkeepers in market places have been asked to follow COVID-19 norms. We have told them not to allow too many people inside their shops and ensure the customers maintain social distancing and wear masks. We are also issuing challans to people for not following the social distancing norm," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-560
13-11-2020||India||Kodiyeri Balakrishnan steps aside as CPI(M) secretary||Kerala CPI(M) secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan stepped aside from his role, the highest office within the party in the state level, on Friday, in a major development ahead of the state’s local body polls. The move comes days after his son was booked by the Enforcement Directorate in Bengaluru over money laundering charges linked to a drugs case. The party maintained that it had accepted the Polit Bureau member’s request for leave to receive treatment. However, Opposition leader in the state Assembly Ramesh Chennithala dubbed the move as a delayed dawning of wisdom. The BJP and the Congress have demanded CM Pinarayi Vijayan’s resignation, following the development. The ruling LDF has been facing backlash over a number of allegations including the Gold Smuggling case, alleged corruption in the Wadakkanchery Life mission project and the questioning and subsequent arrest of Balakrishnan's son, Bineesh by the ED. Central committee member M V Govindan said LDF convener A Vijayaraghavan has been given the charge of state secretary. He added that Balakrishnan’s rejoining would depend upon how long his treatment would take. On questions regarding Bineesh’s arrest, the leader said it would not affect the party in any way, and Balakrishnan had already spoken on the issue. Balakrishnan, a 67-year-old, who has been an MLA  from Thalassery in Kannur district for five times, was first appointed as party secretary in 2015 for three years, and then in 2018. Considered the second-most powerful man of the party after Vijayan, Balakrishnan has been under treatment for some time. However, this is the first time he has decided to step aside as secretary citing health reasons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-561
13-11-2020||India||Green crackers to have QR coding system||Green firecrackers sold this year would have a novel feature of quick response (QR) coding system to avoid manufacturing and sale of counterfeit products, the Karnataka government has said in its order. The green firecrackers were introduced to check pollution during Deepavali. The other fireworks with harmful chemicals can affect the respiratory system and prove fatal if a person is infected by coronavirus. According to the order, the green firecrackers packing can be identified through the distinct green logo of CSIR- NEERI and PESO as well as a quick response (QR) coding system. "The QR code is a novel feature incorporated on the firecrackers to avoid manufacture and sale of counterfeit products. The feature will assist in differentiating green firecrackers from the conventional ones," the order said. The order of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change reads that green firecrackers do not contain harmful chemicals, thereby reducing air pollution due to firecrackers. Besides, these fireworks are less harmful than conventional firecrackers. The green firecrackers are manufactured as per the formulation developed by Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-National Environmental and Engineering Research Institute and product approval for new formulation is given by the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation. Green firecrackers would be available as sparklers, flowerpots and maroons, which are made with reduction in size of shell, elimination of ash usage and reduced usage of raw materials in the compositions. The government had said that the green firecrackers would be sold till November 16.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-561
13-11-2020||India||Kamra refuses to retract tweets or apologise for them ||Stand-up comic artist Kunal Kamra on Friday refused to retract his controversial tweets against the Supreme Court or apologise for them, saying he believes they speak for themselves. Kamra's statement comes a day after Attorney General K.K. Venugopal consented to the initiation of criminal contempt proceedings against him for a series of tweets following the apex court giving interim bail to Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami. “The tweets I recently put out have been found in contempt of court. All that I tweeted was from my view of the Supreme Court of India giving a partial decision in favour of a Prime Time Loudspeaker,” he said in a statement addressed to Venugopal and the judges on his Twitter page. "My view hasn't changed because the silence of the Supreme Court of India on matters of other's personal liberty cannot go uncriticized. I don't intend to retract my tweets or apologise for them. I believe they speak for themselves,” he added. Kamra, who was banned by several airlines after he heckled Goswami on an IndiGo flight earlier this year, said he enjoys a platform with a captive audience but a time slot before the Supreme Court was a scarce commodity and should go to more pressing issues in front of the nation. He also referred to contempt proceedings against lawyer Prashant Bhushan, who had refused to apologise for his derogatory tweets and was held guilty of contempt earlier this year. “I wish to volunteer having the time that would be allotted to the hearing of my contempt petition (20 hours at the very least, if Prashant Bhushan's hearing is anything to go by), to other matters and parties who have not been as lucky and privileged as I am to jump the queue,” Kamra said. The stand-up comedian and satirist then went on to list the important petitions pending in front of the court, listing the pleas on demonetisation, the challenge to the revocation of Jammu and Kashmir's special status, the matter of the legality of electoral bonds and countless other matters that are more deserving of time and attention. The apex court on Wednesday granted interim bail to Goswami in an abetment to suicide case, saying it will be a "travesty of justice" if personal liberty is curtailed. Terming Kamra's tweets “in bad taste”, Venugopal on Thursday said it was time for people to understand that attacking the apex court brazenly will attract punishment. “I have gone through each one of the tweets which you have annexed for consent to proceed by way of criminal contempt against Kunal Kamra. The tweets which I am extracting below are not only in bad taste but clearly cross the line between humour and contempt of the court,” the top law officer said in a letter to one of the applicants who had sought his consent to initiate contempt proceedings against Kamra. “I therefore grant consent to proceed by way of initiating contempt proceedings against Kunal Kamra,” Venugopal said. The consent of either the attorney general or the solicitor general is necessary, under section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971, for initiating contempt proceedings against a person.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-561
13-11-2020||India||Kashmir’s communication collapse: 2G services extended||Administration in jammu and Kashmir on Thursday ordered that 2G mobile data services will continue to be in force in 18 out of 20 districts of the Union Territory till November 26. The authorities cited apprehension about misusing high-speed internet to cause disharmony during the district development council as well as panchayat elections. Shaleen Kabra, the Principal Secretary of the Home Department issued an order on Thursday night saying that high speed data services will be available only in Udhampur and Ganderbal districts. The internet speed will be restricted to 2G in other parts of the UT, the notification said. “Postpaid SIM-card holders shall be provided Internet access. However, the same facility shall not be made available on prepaid SIM cards unless verified according to norms applicable for postpaid connections,” the home department said in its order. Fixed-line Internet connectivity with mac-binding shall be available, it added. The notice also stated that these directions will remain in force until November 26, and will be enacted with immediate effect.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-561
13-11-2020||India||Pakistani troops violate ceasefire along LOC in Jammu & Kashmir||A civilian was killed and another injured on Friday as Pakistani troops violated the ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) in Kamalkote sector of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said. The Pakistani troops fired mortars and other weapons, they said. The injured civilian has been rushed to a medical facility for treatment, they added. The officials said apart from the Kamalkote sector of Uri,ceasefire violations were reported from two other places -- Izmarg in Gurez sector of Bandipora district and Keran sector of Kupwara district. A defence spokesman also said that the Army foiled an infiltration bid, which was aided by the ceasefire violation, along the LoC in the Keran sector. Suspicious movement was observed by own troops at the forward posts along the LoC in Keran sector (in north Kashmir's Kupwara district) today. The suspected infiltration bid was foiled by alert troops, Srinagar- based defence spokesman Col Rajesh Kalia said. He said the infiltration bid was accompanied by initiation of an unprovoked Ceasefire Violation (CFV) by Pakistan. They fired mortars and other weapons. Befitting response is being given, Col Kalia said. The defence spokesman said the ceasefire violation spread to larger areas from Keran to Uri sectors. This was the second infiltration attempt within a week. The earlier unsuccessful infiltration bid in Machil sector during the intervening night of 7- 8 November was foiled in which three militants were killed. Three Army soldiers, including a Captain, and a BSF jawan also lost their lives during the operation. India Army is well poised to defeat all attempts by Pakistan to infiltrate terrorists into J-K, the spokesman said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-561
13-11-2020||India||Covid-19 situation to come under control in 10 days: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Friday that the situation related to Covid-19 in the state should come under control in seven to 10 days. He added that the Aam Aadmi party government is taking multiple measures in this regard. "COVID-19 cases have been increasing for the last few days. I am also concerned about it. We have been taking all appropriate measures to control it. We are considering taking more steps next week. I think the situation should come under control in 7 to 10 days and the cases should start decreasing," Kejriwal said at a press conference. The chief minister blamed the increasing amount of pollution for the surge in the number of infections at the national capital. "Pollution is the biggest reason behind the spike in COVID-19 cases in Delhi. We had the situation under control until October 20," he said. Kejriwal explained, while citing a report, that the anti-stubble solution made by Indian Agricultural research Institute, Pusa, was able to decompose 70 to 95 percent crop residue in 24 Delhi villages. He said that his government will submit the report to the Commission for Air Quality Management in the National Capital Region (NCR) and adjoining areas. It will also file a petition in front of the organisation urging to issue directions to all state governments to implement it. Delhi recorded 7,053 new cases of Covid-19, taking the caseload to 4.67 lakh on Thursday. The state also reported 104 fatalities, making it the highest in the period of over five months, which, according to authorities, pushed the death toll to 7,332. On Wednesday, the national capital recorded a spike of 8,593 cases with 85 new deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-561
13-11-2020||India||Central assistance to six states facing natural calamities||The Centre during a high-level committee meeting, chaired by Home Minister Amit Shah, has approved for releasing  nearly Rs 4,382 crore to six states as part of central assistance for the natural disasters they faced this year. West Bengal, Odisha, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Sikkim and Madhya Pradesh will receive the funds as assistance for the destruction caused due to cyclones, landslides and other calamities. “The high-level committee has approved additional central assistance of Rs 4,381.88 crore to six states from the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF),” the Ministry of Home Affairs said in a statement. West Bengal will receive nearly Rs 2,707.77 crore for cyclone Amphan, while for Odisha 128.23 crore has been approved. Rs 268.59 crore has been approved for Maharashtra for cyclone Nisarga. Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Sikkim will receive Rs 577.84, Rs 611.61 crore and Rs 87.84 crore respectively for floods and landslides during the south-west monsoon in the states. Following his visit to West Bengal and Odisha to analyse the aftermath of cyclone Amphan, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced financial assistance of Rs 1,000 crore and Rs 500 crore to the states respectively. “In addition, the prime minister had also announced Rs 2 lakh ex-gratia for the next of kin of the dead and Rs 50,000 for the injured, which was over and above the ex-gratia provided through the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) and the NDRF”, the statement said. “In all the six states, the central government had deputed Inter-Ministerial Central Teams (IMCTs) immediately after the calamities, without waiting for the receipt of memorandum from the affected states.” “In addition, during the financial year 2020-21, till date, the central government has released Rs 15,524.43 crore to 28 states from the SDRF", the statement added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-561
13-11-2020||India||‘Inadvertent error’ in locking Shah’s profile, Twitter says||Twitter on Friday said Home Minister Amit Shah’s account was locked temporarily due to an “inadvertent error” and the decision was revoked immediately. According to a Twitter spokesperson, his account is fully functional now. The microblogging site on Thursday had removed Shah’s Twitter display picture following a "report from the copyright holder". If one tried to click on Shah’s picture, a blank page popped up with the message, “ "Media not displayed. This image has been removed in response to a report from the copyright holder". "Due to an inadvertent error, we temporarily locked this account under our global copyright policies. This decision was reversed immediately and the account is fully functional," the Twitter spokesperson said. The Union Home Minister has 23.6 million followers on the platform. The incident comes at a time when the Centre has issued a notice to Twitter for depicting Leh as part of Jammu and Kashmir, rather than the Union Territory of Ladakh. Twitter has been asked to explain within five working days why the government should not initiate legal action against it and the representatives for disrespecting the territorial integrity of the country by showing a false map, sources from the IT ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-561
13-11-2020||India||Arjun Rampal reaches NCB office for questioning||Bollywood actor Arjun Rampal reached the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) zonal office here on Friday for questioning in a drug case, an official said. Rampal, who was initially summoned by the central agency on Wednesday, arrived at the NCB's zonal office in Ballard Estate, South Mumbai, around 11.00 am. The 47-year-old model-turned-actor will be questioned in connection with the case related to alleged drug use in the Hindi film industry, the official said. His partner Gabriella Demetriades was questioned by NCB officials for two consecutive days. The apex drug law enforcement agency, which is probing the case for the last few months, had questioned her for almost six hours each on Wednesday and Thursday. The NCB summoned Rampal and Demetriades after conducting a search at the actor's residence in suburban Bandra on Monday. The probe agency had seized electronic gadgets like laptops, mobile phones and tablets during the search and also questioned Rampals driver. A day before the search at Rampal's house, the NCB had arrested Bollywood producer Firoz Nadiadwala's wife after ganja was allegedly found at their residence in suburban Juhu. The NCB launched the probe into alleged drug use in Bollywood after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June. The central agency arrested Rajput's girlfriend, actor Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik and a few others under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Rhea and some other accused are currently out on bail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-561
13-11-2020||India||Almost 45,000 cases in a day, Covid tally close to 88 lakh||India's COVID-19 tally rose to 87.28 lakh on Friday with a single-day increase of 44,879 cases, while the recoveries surged to 81,15,580, pushing the national recovery rate to 92.97 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry's data. The death toll reached 1,28,668 after 547 more fatalities were reported in the country in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The COVID-19 case fatality rate has further declined to 1.47 per cent. There are 4,84,547 active cases in the country which comprise 5.55 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. With 44,879 fresh cases, the total coronavirus cases mounted to 87,28,795, it added. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 12,31,01,739 samples have been tested so far with 11,39,230 samples being tested on Thursday. The 547 new fatalities include 122 from Maharashtra, 104 from Delhi, 54 from Bengal, 25 each from Kerala and Tamil Nadu, 23 from Punjab, 21 each from Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh, 20 from Chhattisgarh and 19 from Haryana. A total of 1,28,668 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 45,682 from Maharashtra followed by 11,474 from Karnataka, 11,440 from Tamil Nadu, 7,506 from West Bengal, 7,332 from Delhi, 7,302 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,837 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,412 from Punjab and 3,785 from Gujarat. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-561
13-11-2020||India||No change in Delhi's air quality||The national capital recorded its air quality in the very poor category on Friday morning, and it is likely to enter the "severe" zone on Diwali night. The city recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 330 at 9 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 314 on Thursday. The neighbouring cities of Faridabad (327), Ghaziabad (360), Noida (331), Greater Noida (329), and Gurgaon (328), which fall in the National Capital Region (NCR), also recorded their AQI is the "very poor" category. An official of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the air quality is likely to deteriorate marginally during the day. The IMD said a fresh western disturbance is likely to increase the wind speed and improve the air quality in Delhi-NCR post Diwali. Light rain is likely on Sunday under the influence of a western disturbance. It is still to be seen if it is enough to wash away pollutants, Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre said. However, Delhi-NCR's air quality is likely to improve post Diwali due to an increase in the wind speed. On Sunday, the maximum wind speed is expected to be around 12 to 15 kilometers per hour, he said. V K Soni, the head of the IMD's environment research centre, said calm winds and firecracker emissions may push the air quality to the severe zone on Diwali night. The wind speed is expected to pick up thereafter and the wind direction will be east-southeasterly, he said. There will be a significant improvement in air quality by November 16, Soni said. The Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR, said the PM2.5 concentration in Delhi on Diwali is likely to be the lowest in the last four years if no firecrackers are burnt. It said pollution levels in Delhi during the Diwali period are likely to remain in the higher end of the very poor category in the absence of emissions due to fireworks. SAFAR said stubble burning-induced impact on AQI is expected to increase from negligible to moderate in the next two days. A spike in PM2.5 in the wee hours of November 15 is likely in case of fire-related emissions, it said. The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) had on Wednesday ordered closure of hot mix plants and stone crushers in Delhi-NCR till November 17 in view of a likely increase in pollution levels during the festive season. It also asked the governments of Punjab and Haryana to take immediate stringent actions to curb stubble burning and authorities in Delhi-NCR to strictly check biomass burning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-562
13-11-2020||India||Rohingya refugees ‘abducted’ in Bangalore||The small community of Rohingya refugees in the city is living in fear after some of their men were allegedly abducted for ransom and one of them is yet to be traced. Six Rohingya refugees were kidnapped on November 1 from a slum in Kempapura, a northeastern suburb of Bangalore under Amruthahalli police station, where 150 of them from 42 families live and work as rag-pickers. A gang of “illegal Bangladeshi migrants” is suspected to be behind the abductions, according to the Rohingya refugees. The FIR names Hilal and six others without mentioning their nationality. None of the accused has been arrested yet. In a letter to the UN high commissioner for refugees, the Law and Policy Research Institute, a city-based advocacy for human rights, has named Hilal, Masoom, Javed, Ali, Farooq, Kukan and an unidentified person as the attackers. The accused allegedly also assaulted five women, one of them pregnant, who tried to resist their men being taken away. The FIR has booked the assailants for outraging the modesty of women, wrongful confinement, assault and extortion. While five of the victims returned after their families paid Rs 40,000 to the kidnappers, one of them named Dil Mohammed, 24, was yet to be traced. Those released had later told the police that they had been kept at a building in Kadugodi, some 20km to the east of Bangalore, for two days. A police officer said a search was on to arrest the culprits and find the remaining victim. “The investigation is still on to trace them all. As of now, we don’t have any information if the suspects have left the city,” said the officer from Amruthahalli police station who declined to be named. Karimullah, a Rohingya who lives in the hutment colony, recounted the horror of the abduction around 4pm on November 1. “I am among those who saw these illegal Bangladeshis coming and thrashing our youths and kidnapping them. I have narrated the entire episode to the police,” Karimullah, who goes by a single name, told The Telegraph on Thursday. The matter came to light only five days later when some members of the socio-political organisation Swaraj Abhiyan intervened and got an FIR filed on November 5. The gang had sought “hafta (protection money)” for allowing the Rohingya refugees to continue with their rag picking. Karimullah said there was no trace of Dil Mohammed in any of the other slums where Rohingya refugees have been living for the past seven years. “The police say they are searching for him. But we fear the worst as the attackers would have either killed him or confined him at some place,” he said, adding such attacks had become common. “This is not the first time we are being targeted by Bangladeshis. At least we people are registered with the police and possess all documents. Yet we are being denied our right to life,” said Karimullah. He said the gangs often threatened them and collected hafta. “After we lodged the FIR in the kidnap case, they came thrice to threaten to kidnap our children and set fire to our hutments. None of us know what to do. We are ready to go to our own country (Myanmar) the moment things improve there,” said Karimullah, a father of five children who attend a government school. The Rohingya men have since been taking turns to keep night-time vigil, fearing a backlash for going to the police. R. Kaleemullah, state coordinating committee member of Swaraj Abhiyan who had helped the refugees lodge the FIR, echoed the fears of Kareemullah. “The Rohingya refugees have nowhere to go with these gangs threatening them. We have been in touch with the police to ensure the arrest of the suspects,” said Kaleemullah. “They want justice and we are trying to do our best to ensure they are not harmed by these gangs,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-562
13-11-2020||India||Modi-Biden phone conversation in due course, informs ministry||The first telephone conversation between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President-elect Joe Biden “will happen in due course at a mutually convenient time”, the Indian external affairs ministry said on Thursday. Over the past two days, Biden has spoken to eight heads of government across the world in a selection that, according to The New York Times, reflected a “return to traditional diplomatic protocol after years of President Trump’s haphazard foreign interactions”. In New Delhi, asked if Modi had requested a call with Biden, and if so when was it scheduled, foreign ministry spokesman Anurag Srivastava said it would happen in due course. According to the Biden-Harris transition team, the President-elect “participated in separate congratulatory calls” with the leaders of France, Germany, Ireland, the UK, Canada, Australia, Japan and South Korea. Japan, Australia and India are part of the four-member Washington-driven Quadrilateral. Sources pointed out that Biden was going by the book.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-562
13-11-2020||India||Arundhati Roy’s book too red for saffron ||A Tamil Nadu university has removed Arundhati Roy’s book Walking with the Comrades, a critical account of government action against Maoists and tribal people in central India, from its postgraduate English course following objections from RSS student arm ABVP. A senior administrator of the Tirunelveli-based MS University confirmed over the phone on Thursday that the ABVP had “given a representation” over a month ago for the 2011 book’s removal from the third semester of the course on “Commonwealth Writing”. The official, however, told The Telegraph that the institution’s decision to withdraw the book was based not just on the ABVP demand but also on similar representations, including one from the university’s syndicate members. The ABVP had said the book seemed to “glorify the Maoists” and might spawn a “culture of violence”, and that such an “anti-national” book should not be thrust on impressionable young minds, the administrator said. However, the official added: “Our own syndicate and academic council members too had expressed concern about the book.” After receiving all these representations, the official said, vice-chancellor K. Pitchumani had appointed a high-level committee to examine the matter. Its members included three faculty deans, the director of the academic council and the chairperson of the board of studies. In its report, submitted recently, the committee recommended pulling the book from the curriculum immediately, the administrator said. “It was a well-considered decision; we don’t see this as a threat to the university’s autonomy,” the official said. Roy’s book had been included in the curriculum in 2017. MS University reviews its syllabuses and texts every three years. This year’s review, scheduled in April, had been scuppered by the pandemic and the lockdown, and the university had decided to continue with the existing curricula for a year. But the ABVP’s demand seems to have forced the pace for the book’s removal. Poomani, a Tamil writer who won the Sahitya Academy Award in 2014 for his book Angnaadi, said the university’s decision was “not correct”. “How did they suddenly wake up (after three years and decide) that this book by Arundhati Roy could foster violence?” he said from his home over the phone. Poomani said the issue touched on writers’ freedom of expression and underlined that many of Roy’s writings are known for their critical stance against the establishment. Walking with the Comrades arose out of Roy’s travels through central India’s forests in early 2010. She wrote the book as a series of reports on the government’s operations against Maoists and tribal people against the backdrop of the region’s untapped mineral wealth that corporate houses were eyeing. The committee that recommended withdrawal of Roy’s book had suggested it be replaced with My Native Land: Essays on Nature by the naturalist, artist, writer and wildlife photographer M. Krishnan (1912-1996). Krishnan is known for his work on wildlife conservation in India and was part of the Project Tiger committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-562
13-11-2020||India||Centre unveils third stimulus package before Diwali for Covid-affected economy||The Centre on Thursday unveiled its third stimulus package for a Covid-battered economy that is teetering on the brink of a deep recession this fiscal, again massaging noble intent with the froth of big numbers. The funding provided by the three stimulus efforts has been computed at close to Rs 30 lakh crore — a figure conflated by estimating the value of the RBI’s pump-priming monetary measures till October 31 at Rs 12.71 lakh crore. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman claimed that the Centre had provided an overall economic stimulus worth 15 per cent of the GDP — and insisted that the claw-back to a recovery had begun. The latest package is estimated at Rs 2.65 lakh crore, which includes the Rs 1.45 lakh crore of production-linked incentives the cabinet cleared on Wednesday for 10 sectors. These incentives will be paid out over five years and, like a lot of other measures, stretches the tenure of the poorly cash-funded stimulus like a bubblegum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-562
13-11-2020||India||Attorney-general gives consent for criminal contempt proceedings against Kamra||The attorney-general, the principal law officer of the Union government, has granted consent for initiating criminal contempt proceedings against stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra over his tweets on the Supreme Court on Wednesday when it granted interim bail to Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami. Kamra’s social media posts were “not only in bad taste but clearly cross the line between humour and contempt of the court”, attorney-general K.K. Venugopal said in response to requests for consent to initiate contempt proceedings. It’s now up to Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde to constitute a bench to deal with the multiple contempt petitions against the hugely popular comedian who rarely minces his words. The matter is expected to come up for hearing next week. If proceedings are pursued and he is convicted, Kamra faces a maximum jail term of six months, besides a fine. In his response, Venugopal cited two tweets by Kamra: “Honour has left the building (Supreme Court) long back” and “the Supreme Court of this country is the most Supreme joke of this country”. Venugopal added: “Apart from this, (there) is a picture of the Supreme Court building dressed in saffron colour with a flag of the ruling political party, namely the BJP, having replaced the Tricolour. This is a gross insinuation against the entirety of the Supreme Court of India that the Supreme Court of India is not an independent and impartial institution and so too its judges, but on the other hand is a court of the ruling party, the BJP, existing for the BJP’s benefit. All this in my opinion constitutes criminal contempt.” If the Supreme Court initiates proceedings against Kamra, it will mark an uncommon arena of friction straddling popular culture and the highest judiciary of the land. On Wednesday, Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, part of the two-judge bench that granted the interim bail to Goswami, had given a personal insight into how he deals with sections of the media and social media posts. “I don’t even watch his channel, never turn it on,” Justice Chandrachud had said. The judge had observed that courts were being attacked for judgments delivered by them and, “I often ask my law clerk and they say that ‘Sir, please don’t look at tweets’.” Earlier this year, senior advocate Prashant Bhushan had been convicted of criminal contempt of court for tweets on the CJI and the judiciary. Bhushan had refused to apologise and the court had let him off with a Re 1 fine. The consent of the attorney-general is mandatory for initiating criminal contempt proceedings. On Thursday, Venugopal gave his consent to criminal contempt proceedings against Kamra in response to separate pleas by Aurangabad-based law student Shrirang Katneshwarkar and Pune-based advocate Abhishek Sharad Raskar. Referring to a few other tweets, which the AG did not quote in his letter, Venugopal said they were “highly objectionable and it would perhaps be for the court to decide the question as to whether these tweets also would constitute criminal contempt of the Supreme Court of India”. He said: “I find that today people believe that they can boldly and brazenly condemn the Supreme Court of India and its judges by exercising what they believe is their freedom of speech. But under the Constitution, the freedom of speech is subject to the law of contempt and I believe that it is time that people understand that attacking the Supreme Court of India unjustifiedly and brazenly will attract punishment under the Contempt of Courts Act, 1972. “I therefore grant consent to proceed by way of initiating contempt proceedings against Sh. Kunal Kamra.” In January, Kamra had confronted Goswami in a flight over the suicide of University of Hyderabad scholar Rohith Vemula. Subsequently, several private airlines had imposed a six-month travel ban on the comedian.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-562
13-11-2020||India||Bombay High Court orders Varavara Rao medical test||Bombay High Court on Thursday directed that doctors from a private hospital here should conduct medical examination of the jailed poet-activist Varavara Rao through video link, and a physical check-up if necessary. The court, which was hearing his bail petition, adjourned the hearing to November 17. Rao, 81, an accused in the Elgaar Parishad-Maoist links case, is lodged as an undertrial in the Taloja prison in neighbouring Navi Mumbai. A vacation bench of Justices A.K. Menon and S.P. Tavade was hearing a petition filed by Rao’s wife Hemlata, seeking that he be shifted to the private Nanavati Hospital for better treatment, an independent medical board be set up to assess his health, and he be released on bail. Rao’s lawyer Indira Jaising claimed that his health was “fast deteriorating”, and there was apprehension that he might die in prison. Rao suffers from dementia, is confined to bed in the prison hospital since August and has no bladder control, she said. If Rao died in prison, it would be a case of “custodial death”, Jaising said, adding that his detention violated his right to life under Article 21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-562
13-11-2020||India||Maoist outreach drive by Chhattisgarh NGO ||A Chhattisgarh NGO is raising funds to distribute menstrual cups and sanitary napkins to women, including Maoist rebels, in the southern part of the state with the hope that it will create an atmosphere for talks between the banned CPI(Maoist) and the state. The distribution programme will be conducted from Diwali on Saturday till Sankranti on January 14. The note by The New Peace Process — a group promoted by Bastar-based Bluetooth community radio CGNet Swara — on ketto.org says, “This Diwali, let’s extend our love to our sisters fighting strong in Bastar. After having borne the brunt of the decades-old Maoist insurgency, the beautiful district of Bastar, with its sprawling forests and vibrant culture, has seen large-scale devastation and violence…. The dearth of information surrounding menstrual hygiene adds to the regressive mindset and is thus a cause for concern. Hence, this Diwali, we wish to gift these women reusable sanitary pads and menstrual cups with the aim of initiating discussions around this topic.” They said these products can be an essential part of the kit gifted to the Adivasi women of Bastar, who roam around in jungles for most part of their day. “We plan on sending two reusable cloth pads and one menstrual cup as a gift pack, which will cost around Rs 1,000 each…. We intend on sending a portion of these gift packs as a peace offering to the Maoist female fighters as well, who joined the movement as an escape from their distressed living conditions with hopes for a better future.” Shubhranshu Choudhary, convener of The New Peace Process, said the idea came up in the quarterly “Bastar Dialogue” on October 2, which had participants from countries such as Colombia, Nepal, and the Philippines, where armed communist rebellions have taken place. In 2010, the Colombian military decorated nine trees in contested territory with Christmas lights and a message encouraging Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia cadre to come home. This was followed by Operation Rivers of Light, where people were urged to send Christmas greetings to rebels in floating LED-illuminated balls down rivers that flowed through rebel-held territory. This initiative reportedly led to one in 20 rebels leaving the forests. Choudhary, who also heads CGNet Swara, explained, “Whenever we went to the forests, the men would explain that they lose three days a month due to malarial fevers. Women say that for three days a month they additionally suffer as they cannot sit down to rest or dry the pieces of cloth used as sanitary napkins. We want to make a beginning by extending a hand of friendship.” The Process contacted several online donation sites that turned it down to avoid controversy. Police officers and politicians they spoke to were initially opposed to the idea, but Choudhary said they have come around to not preventing them from carrying out their work. “We were asked why we were trying to make life easy for the Maoists, and that this was an ‘urban Naxal’ idea. For the fighting to stop, both sides need to break the ice. Bastar division is larger than Kerala and a third of it is considered to be under Maoist control. We don’t want to fool people. A part of the kits will go to Maoists. Some of it will even reach villages in neighbouring states. We hope both sides will take it sportingly. The long-term goal is for talks to end the violence,” he explained. Undivided Andhra Pradesh had attempted talks with Maoists between 2001 and 2005, as did the Centre in 2009. These failed over the key condition by governments that Maoists must abjure violence. Hopes for talks had dimmed after the chief of the Maoist’s People’s Liberation Guerrilla Army M. Koteswara Rao alias Kishenji was killed by police in Bengal in 2011. After being elected in 2018, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel had said that “talks, not bullets” will end the insurgency. Choudhary added, “In the last two weeks, two of our teams who go there to gather news and talk to people were stopped by locals in these areas. One of them was asked to return and the other was questioned by Maoists and then asked to leave. Initially, we plan to drop off the kits with locals in five or six such areas. We do not want the government to be a party to this as they are a party to the conflict.” The Process derives hope from the fact that in a recent telephone survey of locals in Hindi (mainly spoken by non-tribals), Halbi (a link language between Marathi and Odia used in markets), and Gondi (spoken mainly by forest dwellers), an overwhelming majority said the solution to the conflict is through talks, rather than military means. Around 92 per cent of respondents on Hindi and Halbi wanted talks. For Gondi respondents, it was 100 per cent for talks. “The Maoists publicly claimed that intelligence agencies are doing this survey to spy on people. But one day, a journalist came to us with a message that Maoist-controlled villages are unable to participate in survey as there is no connectivity in their area,” Choudhary said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-562
13-11-2020||India||Military veterans fret over LAC ‘plan’ ||Several military veterans have aired scepticism about the reported India-China proposal to disengage from the Pangong Lake and expressed fear that if true, it could represent a Chinese attempt to push India farther away from the Line of Actual Control. The Chinese Communist Party-run Global Times newspaper on Thursday described as “inaccurate” the Indian media reports about the purported disengagement plan, based on claims made by unnamed Indian government sources on Tuesday. In the absence of specifics about the plan, a veteran suggested that China might be trying to create a buffer zone within Indian territory similar to the one in the Galwan Valley. He said the defence ministry should make the plan public if indeed one was being discussed. The July disengagement in the Galwan Valley had involved both sides pulling back 1.5km to create a 3km “buffer zone” that left the Chinese still within India-claimed territory. India, in contrast, lost its right to patrol a further strip of territory it used to control. India’s losses could be heavier if a repeat occurs at the Pangong Lake, where the Chinese are estimated to have advanced at least 8km within India-claimed lines, veterans said. “There’s a growing feeling among some defence ministry officials that the purported plan reflects a Chinese push to create another buffer zone within Indian territory,” the veteran said. “The government should come clean.” There’s been no official word from either country’s government or army about the purported disengagement plan. On Tuesday, government sources seeking anonymity had claimed a three-phase disengagement plan at the Pangong Lake. “It’s at a proposal stage and the modalities are being worked out. The big takeaway is that the Chinese are flexible this time and have shown interest in disengagement from the friction point,” one of the sources had said. A second veteran said that any buffer zone at the Pangong Lake would mean “India ceding territory and giving legitimacy to China’s claims” on the area. A retired lieutenant general sounded similar fears. He was sceptical about the possibility of a disengagement pact, however, citing how Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat had described the frontier as “tense amidst transgressions and belligerent actions by the Chinese” and warned that a wider conflict could not be ruled out. Global Times on Thursday said: “Indian media’s reports that detailed arrangements for a proposed disengagement plan are being discussed and finalised by Chinese and Indian militaries are inaccurate and not helpful for the two sides to reach their established goals. “Some Indian media outlets are good at projecting India’s tough stance through partially true and partially false information, with the aim of stirring up domestic nationalism.” On Thursday, India’s foreign ministry sidestepped questions about the purported disengagement plan, saying: “When we have something to share, we will share.” It said that during the November 6 talks, “both sides exchanged views on disengagement at all friction points” and “agreed to maintain dialogue and communication”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-562
13-11-2020||India||Facebook should be regulated: Ex-employee||A former Facebook employee, who quit the company two years ago over differences over its response to the Black Lives Matter movement, told a Delhi Assembly panel on Thursday that the social media giant has a bias towards ruling governments and needs to be regulated. Mark S. Luckie, a former strategic partner manager for global influencers focused on underrepresented voices at Facebook’s headquarters in California’s Menlo Park, appeared before the Delhi legislative Assembly’s committee for peace and harmony that is looking into the alleged culpability of Facebook or its employees in communal riots here in February that killed 53 people. Luckie said: “The goal with the recruiting of heads of public policy and those who work on those teams is to find people who have already talked to or have strong relationships with the governments which with they work. Facebook would like you to believe it’s a politically agnostic platform, but that will not be true as long as it hires from particular groups. If a person has a background with a particular party or government agency, their thinking is mostly likely to be influenced by their past.” The Wall Street Journal reported that Facebook’s public policy director for south and central Asia, Ankhi Das, opposed banning BJP leaders for hate speech. Another Facebook public policy executive — a role that entails both enforcing rules on hate speech and lobbying with governments — Shivnath Thukral went slow on acting against another provocateur of the BJP, Assam MLA Shiladitya Dev. Thukral replaced Das last month. Luckie explained that the trend of Facebook in several instances is that “the minority group is having their content reported at a higher rate or that misinformation is allowed to spread like what you saw in the Delhi riots… Governments have allowed Facebook to get away with as much as they like because often the government does not understand tech or how Facebook works”. Luckie said transparency would be Facebook’s downfall. “They want people to know as little information about the company as possible…”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-562
13-11-2020||India||Tejashwi: NDA won by deceit ||RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav claimed on Thursday that the public mandate had been with the Opposition Grand Alliance and accused the NDA of winning the elections by “dhan, bal and chhal (money, muscle power and deceit)”. Speaking for the first time since the Bihar Assembly election results were announced, Tejashwi mocked chief minister Nitish Kumar, whose JDU has been relegated to the third position in terms of seats, and wondered whether the veteran leader would “heed his conscience and give up his attachment to the chair” and “resign to respect the decision of the people of the state and not indulge in division, addition, subtraction and multiplication”. At a media conference in Patna, Tejashwi also alleged fraud in the counting of postal ballots and demanded recounting in several constituencies. “The people have given their mandate and the Election Commission has given its results. The public mandate is for the Grand Alliance while the Election Commission’s results are in favour of the NDA. This is not for the first time. The mandate was with us in 2015 also, but the BJP used the back door to capture power in the state,” the RJD leader and Lalu Prasad’s younger son, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-563
13-11-2020||India||Ideology vs national interest in Modi’s class ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said that one thing that had damaged the country’s democratic set-up heavily was the tendency to put one’s ideology over the national interest. Modi was speaking after unveiling a statue of Swami Vivekananda at Jawaharlal Nehru University, a centre of Left and liberal thought that the Sangh parivar sees as one of its principal ideological adversaries. “Kisi ek baat jisne hamare desh ki loktantrik vyavastha ko bahut nuksan pahunchaya hai, woh hai rashtraheet se jyada prathamikta apni vichardhara ko dena (One thing that has damaged our democratic system heavily is the attachment of greater importance to one’s ideology than the national interest),” Modi said, addressing the students through videoconference. The students had broken into chants of “Modiji ko jai Shri Ram, jai Shri Ram” as soon as the Prime Minister’s face appeared on a giant screen installed on the campus. Cries of “Bharat Mata ki jai” and “Vande mataram” were heard too, and Modi waved backed in acknowledgment. “Because my ideology says this, so in matters of national interest too I shall think and work according to my ideology — this is not the right path,” Modi said. “Yeh raasta sahi nahi doston, yeh galat hai (This path is not right, my friends, it’s wrong),” he emphasised. The RSS-BJP has been striving to control the JNU campus since Modi came to power in 2014 but the university continues to be dominated by Left student unions. Leaders of the BJP and its parivar partners have repeatedly described JNU’s Left student leaders as “urban Naxals” and “anti-nationals”. Modi didn’t use such terms but said that whatever pride one may take in one’s ideology, no compromise was acceptable in matters of national interest. “Today, everyone takes pride in one’s ideology. It’s natural. But in matters of national interest, it (one’s ideology) should be seen to be on the side of the nation, not against the nation,” he said, raising his index finger to stress the point. Modi highlighted how, in the past, people of different ideological beliefs had united under Mahatma Gandhi’s leadership to fight for the country’s independence. He also cited the example of the Jana Sangh — the BJP’s predecessor — Left parties and socialists joining forces to oppose the Emergency. “In the struggle against the Emergency, former Congress leaders and workers, RSS swayamsevaks, the Jana Sangh, socialists and even the communists had come together. Many people associated with JNU too had joined them. None of them needed to compromise with their ideology,” Modi said. “When it’s a matter of the country’s unity and integrity, taking a decision burdened by one’s ideology harms the interest of the country.” At the same time, compromising with one’s ideology to serve selfish interests is wrong, Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-563
13-11-2020||India||Salvo in Congress at parachute leaders after Bihar election performance||Senior Congress functionary Tariq Anwar created ripples on Thursday by openly airing what was being whispered in political circles: that the NDA had retained power in Bihar because of the Congress’s poor showing. “We should accept the truth. Bihar was denied a Mahagathbandhan government because of the poor performance of the Congress,” Anwar, Congress general secretary in charge of Kerala and a former Union minister, tweeted. “The Congress should do introspection and find out what went wrong. The entry of AIMIM (Asaduddin Owaisi’s party) in Bihar is not a good omen.” Anwar is not only one of the Congress’s senior-most leaders in Bihar, he comes from Katihar, part of the region where Owaisi’s party made deep inroads into the Congress support base. His call for introspection implies he is unsure what went wrong — which can be a clever way of saying he did not play a decisive role in election management, if he was involved at all. Asked why he had posted such a tweet despite being a key office-bearer, Anwar told The Telegraph: “I have only said that our performance was weak and we will have to examine the reasons.” He added: “Who can say that we are satisfied with 19 seats, less than the 27 we won last time despite contesting more seats?” Anwar refused to discuss other issues publicly, asserting that the post-mortem can happen only at a party forum. Another senior Congress leader, asking not to be quoted, said: “None of us were involved. The level of contact with us was about mere formality, to create the excuse that everybody had been consulted. “We were treated as though we had all been infected with the coronavirus. While two or three leaders from Bihar were indeed part of election management, around a dozen seniors were deliberately kept out. A team was sent from Delhi — it managed the show from a hotel and a rented accommodation in a posh colony.” The politician added: “We used to watch on television individuals who had never come to Bihar in the past landing and taking off in helicopters at places whose names they didn’t know. “We campaigned for a few candidates on our own, only to create an impression that we were involved in the election. Rahul Gandhi speaks against parachute candidates; we saw in Bihar not only parachute candidates but parachute politics and parachute culture. We all knew that at least 35 candidates would not win under any circumstances.” The Congress contested 70 of Bihar’s 243 seats and won 19. A Muslim leader said: “We are criticising Owaisi for encroaching on (the Congress’s) Muslim votes. Should he sit at home to facilitate our victory? He is right when he says that non-Congress Muslim leaders are not there only for mushaira (poetry sessions) and biryani parties. “We had got an early warning when the AIMIM won a by-election in Kishanganj. What did we do to counter his (Owaisi’s) influence? How many meetings did we hold in the past two years with Muslims in Katihar, Kishanganj or Purnea to explain Owaisi’s politics?” The anger is so widespread in the Bihar Congress that several middle-rung leaders and workers have been heard saying that anybody coming from the high command would be taught a nasty lesson. “There was no PCC (state Congress committee) executive and the party operated through a clique,” an All India Congress Committee member said. “The local leaders were not involved; no discussion took place in the state units. We demand that Rahul Gandhi call 200 important party workers and leaders from Bihar and honestly discuss the murky affairs for two days.” Asked about the party’s performance in Bihar, P. Chidambaram told a news conference: “I agree the result is disappointing. The Congress Working Committee will review the performance.” Asked why the people had rejected the Congress’s charges about the sliding economy, job losses, unplanned lockdown and mismanagement of the Covid crisis, Chidambaram said: “I don’t think the result is a rejection of these issues.” He added: “Bihar is the poorest state and it almost voted for a change. We will anyway continue to raise those issues and talk about the plight of the bottom half of the population, which is very bad.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-563
13-11-2020||India||NDA will decide on Bihar CM: Nitish Kumar ||A sulking Nitish Kumar said on Thursday he had made no claim on the chief minister’s post after the election results. “I have made no claim. The National Democratic Alliance will decide,” Nitish said when reporters asked him who will be the chief minister. “It has not been decided when the oath ceremony will take place, whether it will be after Diwali or after Chhath Puja. We are analysing the results of this election. Members of all four parties (that are a part of the NDA) will meet tomorrow (Friday),” Nitish said. The JDU president asserted that “the people have given a mandate to the NDA and it will form the government again”. Nitish made the statements when he visited the JDU state headquarters and met the newly elected MLAs. However, sources said Nitish had agreed to take on the responsibility after entreaties by senior party leaders of his party and also from the BJP. “He was not comfortable with the idea of becoming the chief minister again in the light of the poor performance of the party in the polls. However, we reasoned with him that the elections were fought with him as the chief minister candidate and he should not back out now,” a senior JDU leader told The Telegraph. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had iterated on Wednesday that Nitish would be the chief minister. Some saw in Nitish’s statements an attempt to ensure that the BJP, now the senior partner with far more MLAs than the JDU, gave him a free hand to run the government. Nitish appeared to blame Chirag Paswan’s LJP for the poor performance of the JDU.  “Our campaign was for the entire NDA, but candidates were deliberately put only in our seats. However, if people vote for others despite our work, it is their right,” Nitish said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-563
13-11-2020||India||Ammunition haul in Odisha's Malkangiri||Security forces have seized a huge cache of arms and ammunition from Odisha’s Malkangiri during an operation to flush out suspected Maoists. During the operation on Wednesday, the security forces recovered 14 hand grenades, two land mines, 13 electronic detonators and more than 140 live cartridges. Security forces intensified their operations in the hilly terrain following the visit of director-general of police Abhay on Sunday to review the situation. Abhay, who reviewed anti-Maoist operations in the region bordering Andhra Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, along with BSF inspector-general M.S. Sharma, had appealed to the rebels to give up arms and avail of the state government’s “excellent” rehabilitation policy benefits. “People of the area want development. The government, too, wants development. However, Maoists have been trying to spread terror. I appeal to them to surrender. The government has an excellent rehabilitation policy for them,” Abhay had said. Earlier known as the “cut-off” area because of its difficult topography, this part of Malkangiri was rechristened as “Swabhiman Anchal” following the inauguration of the Gurupriya bridge connecting it with the district’s mainland in 2018. The “cut-off” area shot into international headlines in 2011 when the then Malkangiri collector, R. Vineel Krishna, was kidnapped by the rebels. He was released by the Maoists following weeklong negotiations with the state government. The turning point for the residents of this once benighted belt, that got cut off from the mainland in 1960s following the construction of the Machkund reservoir, was the inauguration of the Gurupriya bridge by chief minister Naveen Patnaik in July 2018. It connected 151 villages having a population of 25,000 with the rest of the district by a road after around five decades. Before the bridge was inaugurated, the only means of communication with the mainland for the people of this region were boats. While the residents faced all kinds of hardship, they were also forced to follow the diktat of the rebels who ruled the roost in the area which the security forces found hard to penetrate and government officials rarely visited for the fear of the Maoists. The scenario has changed now with the BSF setting up six camps iin the area. While the security forces are now in a strong position to step up their operations against the rebels, the area is also witnessing development for the first time in decade.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-563
13-11-2020||West Bengal||Soumitra's health worsens, doctors worried ||The neurological condition of actor Soumitra Chatterjee deteriorated on Friday and a doctor attending on him said it is the worst in his over one month stay at the hospital where he is admitted.  An EEG has shown that there is very little activity in the brain, the doctor said.  Though Chatterjee did not suffer any convulsion, his heart conditions too are not good, he said.  His oxygenation requirement has gone up and his kidney function has deteriorated.  "Chatterjee's condition has actually deteriorated. His neurological condition is worst in the entire period of his stay. It deteriorated in the last 48 hours. We did an EEG but there is very little activity within the brain itself," the doctor said.  The neuro board will be closely monitoring Chatterjee for the next 24 hours. "As of now the situation is grim but may be by God's grace he will come out of this", the doctor said.  On the few positive side there has been no bleeding while his liver function and other parameters are stable, the doctor said in the bulletin.  "Overall it seems his situation won't be good in the coming 24 hours. For the first time we are expecting unfavorable outcome of the entire thing. We are giving our best but it seems our best may not be adequate for full recovery of Mr Chatterjee," he said.  The 85-year-old had undergone the first plasmapheresis on Thursday and tracheostomy on Wednesday.  The legendary actor, who debuted in Satyajit Rays masterpiece "Apur Sansar", has been under treatment in the hsopital since October 6 after testing positive for COVID-19.  He later tested negative for the infection but Covid- 19 encephalopathy set in and various other complications surfaced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-311
13-11-2020||West Bengal||First plasma exchange conducted on Soumitra||Doctors treating iconic actor Soumitra Chatterjee on Thursday conducted the first plasmapheresis on the veteran for raising his plasma count and his condition was stable but critical, one of the physicians of the private hospital said in a statement Thursday. The "first episode" of plasmapheresis was done on 85- year-old Chatterjee and it went off well, with no external bleeding, the doctor said. "Though there was a little bit of drop in blood pressure that was easily corrected and in the afternoon, we had repeat CT scan which didn't show any abnormalities. He is stable and his blood pressure is now fine," the doctor said. Chatterjee had fever, the doctor said. "That could be the reason of plasma being given. That may be the cause for temperature. We were worried about some substantial bleeding may happen during plasma. That did not happen," he said. The doctors are going to repeat the procedure of plasmapheresis and dialysis on the veteran actor on alternate days, he said. Plasmapheresis is a process in which the liquid part of the blood, or plasma, is separated from the blood cells and replaced with another solution such as saline or albumin, or treated and returned to the body to treat autoimmune disorders. On the previous day, Tracheostomy was successfully performed on the legendary actor. Tracheostomy is an opening surgically created through the neck into the windpipe to allow direct access to the breathing tube. The legendary actor, who debuted in Satyajit Rays masterpiece "Apur Sansar", has been under treatment since the first week of October after testing positive for COVID-19. He later tested negative for the infection but COVID- 19 encephalopathy set in and various other complications surfaced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-311
13-11-2020||West Bengal||Tamang  waves ‘green flag’ dare at Gurung||Binay Tamang on Thursday announced that unless he “waves the green flag” his archrival Bimal Gurung would not be able to return to the hills. Tamang, in the same vein, asked Gurung’s supporters not to be excited too soon. Ever since Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Gurung, who was on the run for the last three years, surfaced in Calcutta on October 21 and announced his decision to sever ties with the BJP and support Trinamul Congress in the upcoming Bengal assembly, both he and Tamang, the leader of the rival faction of the same party, have refused to share any platform. Tamang is also an ally of Trinamul. With tensions intensifying,  the most talked-about topics in the hills are the return of Gurung and the law and order situation. “Unless Binay Tamang waves the green flag from here, he (Gurung) cannot move from Calcutta,” said Tamang and urged Gurung’s supporters not to be “too excited.” “We know what has transpired in the meeting (between Gurung faction and Trinamul leaders),” claimed Tamang. Following the October development in Calcutta, Gurung’s supporters are holding meetings across the hills. Tamang claimed that the fate of Gurung would be similar to former Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) leader Subash Ghisingh. Soon after Gorkha Janmukti Morcha gained popularity in the hills, Ghisingh was forced to stay in Jalpaiguri and Siliguri for nearly five years at a stretch from 2008 onwards following opposition by Morcha leaders, including both Gurung and Tamang. “Then the green flags (GNLF cadres) used to say that he (Ghisingh) will climb the hills next week. I tell you the fate of Bimal Gurung will be like Appa (as Ghisingh was addressed by his supporters). They (Gurung’s supporters) will say he will come and then they will give another date,” said Tamang. Leaders of the Gurung faction are now saying that Bimal Gurung would climb up the hills after following due legal processes which they claim should be completed “within a fortnight.” The other issue that Tamang raised was the possibility of a law and order problem on Gurung’s return. “Even before Gurung’s return his supporters are trying to create unrest,” said Tamang and referred to a Darjeeling incident where a Tamang supporter was stabbed and injured allegedly by Gurung’s supporters. Reacting sharply these claims, Mani Gurung, leader of the Gurung faction, accused Tamang of “day dreaming.” “I think he might be daydreaming, we have nothing to say (to these statements),” said Mani. Mani refuted the claim of violence and instead said that Tamang’s supporters tried to disturb their meeting. “They are trying to provoke our supporters and trying to muddy the waters in the wake of our leader returning to Darjeeling. Even last night (Wednesday) they tried to create disturbance,” said Mani. The Tamang faction has also decided to hold a public meeting in Tukvar, Gurung’s bastion, after Diwali. Tamang said a notification to conduct a survey on tea gardens to grant land rights would be issued soon by the state government. “I would also like to thank the chief minister on her decision to raise a Gorkha battalion with a strength of 1000 personnel,” said Tamang.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-312
13-11-2020||West Bengal||Sixth arrest in BJP leader’s murder||The CID team probing the murder of BJP leader Manish Shukla arrested another alleged assailant from Bihar on Thursday. Based on information revealed by those arrested in the case, the CID team picked up Amar Yadav, 25, early on Thursday from an undisclosed place in Bihar. Amar is likely to be produced before a court in Barrackpore on Friday. With this, police have so far arrested six persons in connection with the case. Manish, a former councillor of Titagarh Municipality in North 24-Parganas, was gunned down on October 4 in Titagarh by four bike-borne assailants. Amar had allegedly been sent by Subodh Singh, the alleged mastermind, as a technical hand. Amar’s job was to check firearms, a CID officer said. Earlier, CID took into custody Sujit Rai, 26, and Roshan Yadav, 26, sharpshooters from Punjab. Police had arrested Subodh, who allegedly planned the murder from a jail in Nalanda, and a Titagarh businessman as suspect for his enmity with Shukla. BJP MP Arjun Singh iterated Trinamul’s hand in the murder. “Shukla’s murder was a planned conspiracy. We suspect some ruling party leaders and policemen were involved. We think the real culprits are being protected.” Trinamul has denied the allegations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-312
13-11-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul worker shot over ‘smuggling feud’||Dharamveer Nonia, 42, a Trinamul worker was shot dead and two others sustained bullet injuries when two factions of the ruling party allegedly clashed over wresting control of smuggled coal and sand in West Burdwan’s Andal on Wednesday night. The two injured — Pannalal Nonia, 40, and Maheshram Nonia, 37 — were admitted to a private hospital in Durgapur.  All the three run brickfields in Andal. Sources said supporters of the two rival factions of the Trinamul Congress got involved in an argument over taking control of smuggled coal transport at Khash Kajora in Andal around 11pm on Wednesday. “The argument snowballed into a clash with iron rods. Suddenly one of them opened fire at Dharamveer and the other two,” said a source. As Dharamveer, who received three bullets in his head and chest, and his two associates slumped to the ground, the attackers fled on bikes. Police reached the spot and sent the three of them to hospital. Dharamveer was declared dead on arrival by the doctors. Sources said the two groups — one backed by Trinamul youth wing district president Rupesh Yadav and another one led by Vishnudeb Nonia member of the West Burdwan zilla parishad — are at loggerheads over control of illegal sand and coal trade. Dharamveer and the two injured are close to Vishnudeb, while attackers are from the Rupesh Yadav faction. The police said they arrested six persons, including the prime accused Bidyut Nonia, in connection with the case so far. Sources said Bidyut is close to Rupesh Yadav. Sources said Vishnudeb’s faction was active and leading the illegal trade in the area since rural polls in 2018. However, after the recent change in the Trinamul district functioning committee, Yadav and his followers were trying to take control of the area. “The supporters of Rupesh Yadav got a boost after he became Trinamul youth wing president recently. He is now trying to take control of the area,” said a Trinamul source. Both Rupesh and Vishnudeb denied the charges. “Two groups of criminals had clashed in which one person was killed and two were injured. The police are looking into the matter. It is not a political matter nor is the Trinamul involved in it,” said Rupesh and ruled out any factional feud. “We will not tolerate such law and order problems in our area. We are against illegal activities, including coal and sand smuggling,” Vishnudeb added The BJP and the CPM held Trinamul responsible. “Ruling party factions are involved in fights over control of coal and sand smuggling here,” said Lakshman Ghorui, BJP president in West Burdwan. CPM district committee member Tufan Mandal echoed Ghorui.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-312
13-11-2020||West Bengal||Murder slur on health worker kin in East Midnapore’s Gazipur village ||An elderly man was beaten to death allegedly by the husband and brother-in-law of an ASHA health worker in East Midnapore’s Gazipur village on Wednesday evening after he visited their house to report the activities of a Covid patient in the area. Gokul Jana, 62, had reportedly gone to the home of Minati and Sankar Jena to report that the husband of a local panchayat member, diagnosed with Covid-19 and confined to home quarantine, had been roaming in the town and going to public gatherings and functions including weddings. “Apparently an argument broke out when he accused Minati of neglecting her duties. This enraged her husband and brother-in-law Subhash,” said an eyewitness, adding that the senior citizen was beaten on the spot and left lifeless. “Sankar Jena slapped Gokul hard on the side of his head and he fell to the ground and died,” said a villager. Later, the body of the sexagenarian was sent to Contai sub-divisional hospital for post-mortem. Local sources denied political undertones to the incident though BJP workers later claimed that Gokul was their party worker. “Both persons named in the FIR have already been arrested and an investigation has started,” said additional SP (rural) Vidit Raj Bhundesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-312
13-11-2020||West Bengal||NIA visits Birbhum to probe year-old blasts||A team of officials from the National Investigation Agency (NIA) visited Birbhum’s Lokepur and Sadaipur on Wednesday and Thursday in connection with a probe into two blasts last year. The visit assumed importance as the ruling Trinamul leaders said it was a motivated entry by the central agency while the BJP welcomed it. The first blast occurred on August 29 last year and the next on November 21, both in homes of Trinamul functionaries. Sources in NIA said the agency took up probe into these twin blasts following a home ministry directive on August 31 and on September 3. The central agency drew up a formal FIR after registering a case. The case was filed at the NIA police station in New Delhi. “The visits are a part of our preliminary inquiries,” said a senior official of the NIA. Sources said that there was more into the proactive approach of the central agency. Some Trinamul leaders see in this another attempt by the Centre to enter into the heartland politics at the local level. On August 29, the cowshed adjoining a room of Hitunnessa Khatun, chief of Sahapur gram panchayat, was blown to bits and a villager was injured by splinters in Renguni village of Sadaipur. Police arrested Sheikh Badruddoza, the gram panchayat chief’s father, for allegedly stockpiling crude bombs. Three months later on November 21, the tin shed of the Lokepur house of Bablu Mondal, a Trinamul worker, blew off. Police arrested his two sons but Mondal is absconding. Police said the explosion was from stockpiling crude bombs. The NIA team first visited the house of Mondal and interacted with his family. Sources said they wanted to find out about his two sons Mritunjoy and Niranjan as they were allegedly involved in storing materials for the bombs. The team then visited Sheikh Badruddoza. “I don’t know what they (NIA) want to find. They stayed for an hour. I told them the bombs were kept at my home a year ago as a result of a factional feud. They took details of my contacts,” said Badruddoza, also a Trinamul booth president. The NIA has already stepped up activities in Murshidabad in connection with its probe into alleged al Qaida operatives. Trinamul leadership in Birbhum now sees the NIA’s entry as yet another reason to create a flutter ahead of the Assembly polls. “This move reconfirms what our chief minister's said about how the Centre has been trying to engage central agencies to create a sense of fear,” said Anubrata Mondal, the Birbhum Trinamul chief. “It’s surprising the NIA has come to probe into an incident that happened a year back.” His BJP counterpart hyamapada Mondal welcomed the NIA. “Bengal police always try to suppress incidents if Trinamul is involved.” “We need a violence-free Bengal,” said Mondal. “The crude bomb culture is not new in Birbhum, Murshidabad, East Burdwan and adjoining districts. Police have recovered at least 10 thousand crude bombs in the past two years. However, the NIA may want to probe it separately,” said a police source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-312
13-11-2020||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court prod on teen death ‘in custody’||A division bench headed by Justice Harish Tandon of Calcutta High Court on Thursday sought reports from the state home secretary and director-general of police on the alleged custodial death of a 15-year-old boy in Birbhum’s Mallarpur on October 30. The home secretary was directed by the court to state if there were child-friendly corners at every police station in Bengal. The DGP was asked if there were closed-circuit television cameras at police stations and how many of them work. Both the home secretary and DGP have been told to submit their reports by November 25, the next hearing. The boy, arrested on suspicion of theft, was found hanging in the toilet of the Mallarpur police station on October 30, triggering villagers to accuse cops of custodial death. The order was passed during hearing of the case demanding protection of minors in juvenile homes amid the pandemic. During the hearing, the petitioner’s lawyer had stated the Mallarpur incident, which prompted the court to seek the home secretary’s report. A lawyer said: “Under the Child Rights Protection Act, there should be at least one child-friendly corner to keep a minor accused between the period of arrest and production before Juvenile Justice Board.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-312
13-11-2020||West Bengal||Bengal doctors blame festive revelry for Covid spike||At least three north Bengal districts have reported a surge in Covid-19 cases during the past one-week, a trend that has been dubbed as an “after effect of Durga Puja” by doctors of the region. Ahead of Durga Puja, doctors and others associated with healthcare had anticipated that coronavirus cases might rise after the festivities if people do not adhere to the health safety protocols. After the Puja days, the district health department had come across some data that indicated a surge because there had been overcrowding in the marketplaces. “We had pointed it earlier that it would take a couple of weeks after the Puja to know the extent of infection. It is unfortunate but our apprehensions have proved to be correct. In the past seven days, over 1,000 new cases have been reported in Darjeeling district which is nothing but an after effect of Durga Puja,” said Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty deputed in north Bengal for Covid-19. Similar is the situation in Jalpaiguri and Malda districts, where over 100 new cases were reported in most days the last week. As per the data available with the state health department, 12,980 cases — highest in north Bengal — have been reported in Darjeeling district till November 10. Also, Malda and Jalpaiguri recorded 10,565 and 10,245 cases, respectively. “Diwali and Chhath Puja celebrations are ahead and if people still remain lackadaisical, Covid-19 cases would surge further from the end of this month,” said Roy. According to sources, the state health department has decided to open a dedicated Covid hospital at the North Bengal Medical College & Hospital located on the outskirts of Siliguri. “The NBMCH has a new building on the campus which is isolated from other buildings. We have space for around 130 beds in that building. We are also planning to set up around 16 critical care units (CCUs) at the facility. We are working on the proposal and will launch the hospital after receiving approval from the state,” said an official of the district health department. Also, the distinct health department has decided to conduct tests of all shop owners and their employees across Siliguri on a regular basis to ensure that the contagion does not spread in marketplaces. “The shop owners and their employees deal with hundreds of people every day. That is why, after every seven to 10 days, their tests will be conducted. This would help us segregate those tested positive and those visiting shops will be sure that there is little risk of contamination from the shop keepers or their staff,” the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-312
13-11-2020||West Bengal||Raiganj chef has cracker of an idea ||Fireworks are banned by the high court this Diwali, but not taste bombs. Subhadip Modak, a professional chef, and his wife Sudipta, who reside in Collegepara of Raiganj town, have hit upon a cracker of an idea. The chef, helped by his wife, are shaping chocolates — both dark and milk — modelled on crackers to help people celebrate Diwali. Subhadip, who used to work as a chef at a hotel in Goa, had returned home after the Covid-19-induced lockdown was clamped across the country. Since then, he has been staying at home. It’s been a strange year for him, but he pointed out that amid the Covid-19 pandemic, doctors and environmentalists had time and again asked people to abstain from bursting crackers this time during Diwali. Calcutta High Court also imposed a ban on the sale and use of crackers because of the pandemic. Subhadip said the situation made him put on his thinking cap. “I thought of making cracker-haped chocolates. Also, to pack the chocolates, I am using wrappers and stickers similar to wrappers and stickers of normal crackers. These are packed in boxes that look like those that contain crackers. I want children and people who will miss the crackers to get a feel of them,” said the chef. Along with his wife Sudipta, Subhadip is now busy making and wrapping chocolates that look like chocolate bombs, charki (light spinner), tubri (flower pot) and tarabati (sparkler sticks). A box “cracker chocolates,” Subhadip said, comes for Rs 250. “There will be an assorted collection of chocolates. “We offer doorstep delivery,” he said. Those who eat chocolates sparingly or are on a diet can safely store chocolates for four to five months in the refrigerator, added the chef. This innovative initiative has earned the appreciation of Raiganj residents. “It is evident that many children would feel disappointed without crackers this Diwali. These chocolates are a good alternative for them during the coming festivities,” said Dilip Pal, a trader based in the town.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-312
13-11-2020||West Bengal||Wary of Owaisi, Trinamul finds an ally to consolidate votes||The minority cell of Trinamul has joined hands with the All India Minority Organisation (AIMO), an umbrella outfit for the cause of minorities, to intensify their activities across Bengal, particularly in districts with a significant minority population. Nasir Ahmed, the state working president of Trinamul’s minority cell, and all-India president of the AIMO, who was here on Thursday, said the primary aim of the minority cell would be to consolidate minority votes in favour of Trinamul. His comment is significant in the backdrop of the just-concluded Bihar elections, where Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM drew support of the Muslims, which cost the anti-BJP Mahagathbandhan dear. “We will launch a comprehensive campaign among minorities, keeping in mind the upcoming Assembly elections. Our leaders in all districts have been instructed to reach to the grassroots and apprise people as to how they have benefited through social welfare schemes and the decisions formulated by the state government since 2011,” Ahmed said. In Bihar, the AIMIM bagged five Assembly seats among which include Baisi and Amour in Purnea district and Kochadhaman and Bahadurganj in Kishanganj district. Both these districts are at the interstate border. “There are indications that the AIMIM will field candidates in some districts of Bengal such as Malda, Murshidabad, North Dinajpur and North 24-Parganas, where there is a high concentration of minorities. It is evident that the AIMIM has acted as a spoiler for the Mahagathbandhan in Bihar. That is why Trinamul is on the alert and intends to engage its minority cell to retain its support,” said a political analyst. That the cell has taken up political activities in minority belts is evident in Malda, a district where Trinamul’s performance has not been up to the mark compared to most other districts of Bengal, both in past Assembly and Parliament elections. In Malda, representatives of the cell have started a campaign in villages, asking voters to choose Trinamul over the AIMIM and are proactively trying to help the minority populace. “We are making it clear to the minorities that it is not the AIMIM but Trinamul that can help in their development. Our leaders are moving into every village with this message. They are also listening to people’s problems, particularly from the economically weaker sections, and trying to solve them with the help of our party and the administration,” said Mosharraf Hossain, Malda district president of the minority cell. Additional reporting by Avijit Sinha in Siliguri and Soumya De Sarkar in Malda||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-312
13-11-2020||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee picture defaced in East Burdwan||A picture of chief minister Mamata Banerjee was defaced with cow dung allegedly by BJP workers in East Burdwan’s Raina on Wednesday night. Asim Pal, Trinamul block president in Raina II, lodged a complaint against six local BJP workers in this connection. “The BJP workers of the area started sloganeering against Trinamul after the result of Bihar elections was declared. We did not react to avoid a confrontation but later we found out that the picture of our chief minister put up near our party office had been defaced with cow dung. We have lodged a police complaint,” said Pal. BJP leaders, however, denied the allegation, and claimed that party workers were not involved in the incident as it was not the culture of the party. “Mamata Banerjee is chief minister of the state apart from being the Trinamul chief. We don’t have a culture of defacing someone’s picture,” said a BJP leader. Police said they have started a probe into the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-312
13-11-2020||West Bengal||Covid recoveries outrun new cases since Dashami||Bengal on Thursday, continuing with the longest spell of an uninterrupted drop in total active Covid-19 cases, logged 3,856 new cases and yet another new high in daily recoveries at 4,453, spurring the recovery rate to rise to 90.57 per cent. Since the end of Durga Puja, the state has seen 17 consecutive days of a drop, bringing the total active cases down from 37,190 on Vijaya Dashami to 32,185 on Thursday. In the 17 days, Bengal reported 71,063 recoveries and 67,018 new Covid-19 cases, reversing the alarming trend of more infections than recoveries witnessed over several weeks in the run-up to the festival. Bengal’s total novel coronavirus cases is over 4.2 lakh now, including over 3.81 lakh recoveries and 7,506 deaths. On Thursday, Bengal reported 54 more deaths, including 17 from Calcutta. The recovery rate has been on an unbroken streak of rise since October 22, inching closer to the national rate of 92.86 per cent. A minister called it an “incredible momentum”. “If we can sustain this, the total active cases will fall below 25,000 by November-end. It will be a good place to be for a state like us at this stage of the pandemic, heading into the next year,” he added. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja. The numbers of infections from the Puja days, largely available by now, has shown that the intervention was effective. The high court has issued a similar set of instructions for Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. Of the state’s total death toll, 6,285, or 83.7 per cent, were attributed to comorbidities. “There has also been an improvement in mortality data since Puja. On Vijaya Dashami, Bengal’s mortality rate was 1.85, with 2.09 in infected males and 1.45 in infected females. On Thursday, it was 1.78, 2.03 in males and 1.37 in females,” said the minister. The national rate now is 1.47 per cent. In these 17 days, there have been 960 deaths, including 771 (80.31 per cent) comorbid deaths. The state reported 33.05 per cent occupancy in the 13,508 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 101 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 4.39 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-313
13-11-2020||West Bengal||Stones thrown at Dilip Ghosh convoy ||Stones were hurled at SUVs, black flags waved and “Go Back Dilip Ghosh” slogans rent the air as the convoy of the BJP state president moved through Asian Highway 48 and reached Jaigaon, a town  on the India-Bhutan border, on Thursday. Two cars in Ghosh’s convoy were damaged, prompting the BJP to accuse Trinamul of orchestrating the attack. BJP supporters, led by MP Saumitra Khan, demonstrated in Calcutta, burning an effigy of Mamata Banerjee. Trinamul leaders denied the charges and called the incident a “spontaneous outburst” of people. On Thursday, Ghosh who is touring north Bengal, headed for Khoklabusty of Jaigaon for a public meeting. As his convoy rolled on AH48, some 100 people with black flags and posters saying “Go Back Dilip Ghosh,” assembled at GST More on the way to Jaigaon, shouted slogans and waved black flags. At Jharnabusty, another 6km away, another group started pelting stones at the vehicles. Ghosh’s SUV was hit by pebbles but escaped major damage. The SUV next to his — that of Kalchini MLA Wilson Champramary — was hit and its windscreen damaged. Flying stones hit another SUV, that of the Alipurduar district president of BJP’s ST Morcha. Police brought the situation under control. At the meeting, Ghosh directed his ire at Trinamul. “When the hills were on fire, (Bimal) Gurung was a criminal and forced to leave the hills. But recently, Gurung is in the good books of Didi because he is supporting Trinamul. This is all Didi’s gameplans and she intends to use Binay (Tamang) in hills and Gurung in the foothills. She is trying to fool the Gorkhas...” Accusing Trinamul of the attack, he said the party was panicking at the thought of losing to the BJP. Mridul Goswami, Alipurduar district Trinamul chief, called the protests “a spontaneous reaction” of people. “They are fed up with BJP’s hollow promises.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-313
13-11-2020||West Bengal||Bengal brew belt seeks Assam sops ||Stakeholders of the Bengal tea industry have demanded monetary benefits from the Mamata Banerjee government, close on the heels of the BJP-run government in Assam announcing a slew of incentives for its tea belt. The demand has come as a fresh poser for Mamata, particularly because Assembly elections will be held in the state in a few months, around the same time state elections are due in Assam as well. On November 6, the finance (institutional finance) department of Assam came up with a notification, announcing the “Assam Tea Industries Special Incentives Scheme (ATISIS), 2020.” Under the scheme, Assam will provide a 3 per cent interest subvention on working capital, 25 per cent one-time subsidy on purchase of plant and machinery meant for the production of orthodox and speciality teas, a production subsidy of Rs 7 per kilo against each kilogram of orthodox and speciality teas and a complete holiday on agricultural income tax from the last financial year to 2021-22 fiscal. Sources in the tea industry said that of the total tea produced in Assam, around 89 per cent is CTC while the remaining 11 per cent happen to be orthodox and speciality teas. “It has been found that the average price realisation of orthodox teas is higher than CTC tea. Also, the cost of manufacturing the orthodox teas is around 20 to 25 per cent higher than CTC tea. To encourage the industry so that more orthodox teas are produced, the scheme incentivises manufacturers,” said a planter who owns tea estates in Assam. These decisions by the neighbouring Sarbananda Sonowal government have prompted tea planters’ associations of Bengal and those in the small tea sector in the state to raise similar demands. So far, the Trinamul government has waived cess and agricultural income tax, raised the ceiling of land that can be used for tourism purposes in tea gardens and created a corpus of Rs 100 crore for the tea industry. These are not being deemed sufficient by many stakeholders, especially in a year wracked by the pandemic and consequent lockdown. “Other than these waivers, the tea industry (in Bengal) has not received any cash benefits in the form of subsidy and neither there has been any subvention on interest. It would largely help the industry if the state comes up with a similar incentive scheme like in Assam,” said Bijoygopal Chakraborty, who is the president of the Confederation of Indian Small Tea Growers’ Associations. “In Bengal, the industry also gets a waiver of the agricultural income tax. But as far as other components are concerned it would be good if the Bengal government comes up with such assistance,” echoed Prabir Bhattacharjee, secretary general, Tea Association of India. In Bengal, much like Assam, orthodox teas to the tune of 10 million kilograms are made only in Darjeeling hills, a fraction of the total production of over 300 million kilograms of tea. Time and again, tea experts have underscored the need to augment the production of orthodox and organic teas, a move they feel can help in growth of the industry. The pandemic-induced lockdown from March hit the tea industry in Bengal and Assam hard. Tea gardens in both states lost their “first flush”, a major revenue spinner, that is usually harvested in March.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-313
13-11-2020||North East||Ulfa (I) explosives expert surrenders||Ulfa (I) deputy commander-in-chief Drishti Rajkhowa and four of his close aides surrendered along with a large cache of arms on the Meghalaya-Assam-Bangladesh border on Tuesday, a result of “nine months of relentless pursuit”, a defence ministry statement said on Thursday. Rajkhowa, 50, an explosives expert, was an active member of the “terrorist outfit” of Ulfa for 30 years. His surrender will deal a blow to the banned Ulfa (I) as it had been trying to gain prominence and revive insurgency in lower Assam by undertaking large-scale recruitment, an official statement said. However, Ulfa (I) chief Paresh Baruah told the media that Rajkhowa, who hails from lower Assam’s Goalpara district, was allowed to surrender on “humanitarian grounds” because his wife was suffering from cancer and his two children were minors. The development comes amid a fresh push by the Centre to end all insurgency movements in the Northeast. Rajkhowa had been operating for Ulfa (I) along the Bangladesh, Assam and Meghalaya border but with Bangladesh stepping up its operations of late, he and the others crossed over to Meghalaya to surrender, sources said. The aides who have surrendered have been identified as Vedanta, Yasin Asom, Ropjyoti Asom and Mithun Asom.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-36
13-11-2020||North East||Meghalaya High Court refuses to quash scribe case||Meghalaya High Court has refused to quash a criminal case filed against Shillong-based senior journalist Patricia Mukhim for a July 4 Facebook post as it “apparently seeks to promote disharmony or feelings of enmity, hatred or ill-will between two communities”. Mukhim, a Padma Shri awardee, told The Telegraph on Thursday that she would contest the ruling in the Supreme Court as soon as possible because she had only “raised” the issue of “continued” attacks on non-tribals in the state in her post. The Facebook post had been written in connection with the July 3 attack on a group of youths playing basketball at Lawsohtun, Shillong, by another group of 20-25 unidentified youths, resulting in injuries to the victims. Seven persons were arrested. Police registered a criminal case at Laban police station accusing Mukhim of inciting communal tension between tribal and non-tribal communities and defaming a traditional village institution of the Khasis, the complainant. The police had also issued a notice under CrPC Section 41A on July 9 requiring Mukhim to appear before the investigating officer within seven days of receipt of the notice. The journalist then moved the court with a prayer to quash and set aside the July 6 complaint. However, in his November 10 order, Justice W. Diengdoh of Meghalaya High Court held that the Facebook post had “sought to create a divide to the cordial relationship between the tribals and non-tribals living in the state of Meghalaya, even alluding to the role of the state machinery as being biased in this regard”. “…What can be established herein is that prima facie, it appears that a case under Section 153A IPC is made out against the petitioner herein,” the court added. Section 153A of the IPC deals with promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc, and doing acts prejudicial to the maintenance of harmony. In her post, Mukhim had said: “...The attackers, allegedly tribal boys with masks on, should be immediately booked. This continued attack on non-tribals in Meghalaya whose ancestors have lived here for decades, some having come here since the British period, is reprehensible to say the least. The fact that such attackers and trouble mongers since 1979 have never been arrested and if arrested, never penalised according to law, suggests that Meghalaya has been a failed state for a long time now.” Requesting the state government and the police under DGP R. Chandranathan to take the matter with the seriousness it deserves, the post had added: “Show us, the public, that we have a police force we can look up to.... And what about the Dorbar Shnong of the area? Don’t they have their eyes and ears to the ground? Don’t they know the criminal elements in their jurisdiction? Should they not lead the charge and identify those murderous elements? This is the time to rise above community interests, caste and creed and call out for justice.” Dorbar Shnongs are traditional village institutions of the Khasis and are composed of all Khasi inhabitants of not less than 18 years of age. Prevailing age-old customary and traditional governance and adjudication are carried out at Dorbar Shnongs. The high court said after going through the Facebook post: “... What can be deduced is that there is an attempt to make a comparison between tribals and non-tribals vis-à-vis their rights and security and the alleged tipping of the balance in favour of one community over the other. “This, in the opinion of this court, would fall on the mischief of Section 153A (a) IPC as it apparently seeks to promote disharmony or feelings of enmity, hatred or ill-will between two communities.”Mukhim told this newspaper: “My Facebook post was not to create communal disharmony but to uphold the human rights of those assaulted by arresting the assaulters so that the rule of law is upheld for every citizen irrespective of community.” Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee had on Wednesday observed during the bail hearing of Goswami that the apex court was more concerned about a citizen’s fundamental right to liberty and that “personal liberty of citizens” must be upheld. Mukhim, who fears that her personal liberty is at risk, referred to Justice Chandrachud’s message to high courts that they “exercise your jurisdiction to uphold personal liberty…. Case after case, high courts are denying personal liberty.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-36
13-11-2020||North East||Bodoland People’s Front leader quits before council polls||Rajya Sabha MP and one of the mainstays of the Bodoland People’s Front (BPF), Biswajit Daimary, resigned as working president of the party on Wednesday, the first step before he formally joins the ruling BJP to work “at the state and national level for development of all”. The development, BPF watchers said, could impact the party not only in the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) polls next month but also the ties between the BJP and BPF, coalition partners at Dispur, after the election. BPF has been ruling the BTC since its first polls in 2005. “He was one of the BPF mainstays, part of the think tank. He used to help take care of the party’s affairs in Delhi and Dispur. His advice was valued. His departure will definitely have an impact,” a source said. A former All Bodo Students’ Union leader, Daimary, 49, was first elected as an MLA in 2001 and has been a Rajya Sabha member since 2008. His present Rajya Sabha term will end in 2026. Assam cabinet minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had announced a couple of days ago that Daimary will be leaving the BPF. Daimary, who is “very close” to Sarma, told The Telegraph that he has resigned from the party post on Wednesday and will join the BJP later this month, a development Congress said was aimed at weakening the BPF politically. “As a RS member, I need to take stock of the legal impactions of my move because I was elected as a BPF member. But today I have announced I am on my way out. I am joining the BJP shortly because I want to work at the state and national level as I think all issues related to BTC has been settled after the signing of the January 27 Bodo Accord in Delhi,” Daimary told this newspaper. Daimary said it was best for him to leave the BPF because there were “differences” with the leadership over the Bodo Accord, which BPF chief Hagrama Mohilary has not endorsed publicly despite being one of the signatories. Daimary also said there was no development roadmap. “I have always wanted to work for the people of my state and country which I think will not be possible within the BPF. Time to move on. I now want to work for the state and the nation and the BJP is the right platform,” he said. He also said BPF legislator Emmanuel Moshahary would be joining the BJP on November 20. The BPF has 12 MLAs in the Assembly of whom three are cabinet ministers in the BJP-led state government. Campaigning has picked up for the BTC polls which is going to be a hard fought one with the BJP contesting 26 seats, the Congress 13 and the AIUDF on 7. The BPF is contesting 37 seats. The polls were scheduled for April but had to be put off because of the coronavirus pandemic. The BJP has claimed that it will form the next council while the BPF is certain of retaining power despite the challenge posed by United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL), which is contesting on all 40 seats. Assam PCC general secretary and senior spokesperson Durga Das Boro said the developments suggest the BJP was out to finish the BPF by poaching their leaders. “The saffronisation of the BTC has begun,” Bora said. “The Congress-AIUDF combine will win more than 10 seats,” Boro, who is also the Bodoland Territorial Region Congress Coordination Committee chairman, said. He also criticised Daimary for allegedly stabbing the BPF in back. “BJP has today projected Daimary as the next BPF chief if they are in a position to form the council,” Boro said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-36
13-11-2020||Opinion||Preparing for long-lasting Covid ||While we worry about Covid-19 that has caused such disruption and tragedy for many people in India and globally, it’s useful to recall that the world has seen many pandemics. For instance, there was a time when tuberculosis was a pandemic, killing one in seven people. In Europe and in the US, 25 per cent of all deaths between 1600 and 1800 were due to TB. In 1953, when the first nationwide data was published the US had 84,304 cases. In 2016, that number had fallen to 9,272 cases. From one in four, the infection rate has plummeted to one in 100,000. How did this happen? No, the bacteria didn’t go anywhere, and it still infects people with low immunity. But the threat diminished drastically due to effective drugs and the creation of a number of care centres for patients. When a person was diagnosed with TB, family members and other people who came in close contact with the infected person were tested and then treated. These procedures are things of the past and only symptomatic patients are treated now. In countries where TB is endemic a quasi-effective strategy of universal vaccination is a norm and there’s variable evidence that it offers quite long immunity, at least for children. Because of vaccination at childhood and increased awareness amongst common people, it’s now moved from being known as the “Rajrog” (king of all diseases) for which there was no cure, to an infectious disease which can be treated. Still India has 25 per cent of all the world’s TB patients -- 2.15 million cases in 2018. We have a declared goal of eradicating this menace from the country by 2025. WHO has set a similar target for 2030 for the world. Tuberculosis is not the sole menace in this country. We have faced similar situations with illnesses kala-azar, cholera, malaria, plague, leprosy. Now let’s pause for a moment. Is there a similarity in the situation we’re facing now from coronavirus infections? Since the end of last year, we’ve been facing the coronavirus pandemic. Close to 40 million people worldwide have already contracted the infection, though the presumption is that documented cases are the tip of the iceberg. Close to 1.2 million people have died of Covid-19 worldwide, bringing the case fatality rate to around 2.8 percent. Of course, this is according to the number of people who have been identified as having contracted the infection. The real death rate among all people who have been infected must actually be much lower. According to an estimate by Stanford University’s John Ioannidis, published in the World Health Organization Bulletin, the death rate varies from location to location and must be between 0 and 1.54 per cent. If one takes the median value to project a global estimate, the chance of death in infected individuals aged below 70 is five in 10,000. Let’s also keep in mind the corresponding current numbers for tuberculosis. The mortality rate for tuberculosis cases, as per Global Health Observatory (GHO) data for 2017 from WHO, is around 10 per cent (an estimated 1.3 million people died of tuberculosis out of the close to 10 million new cases registered in 2017). Do you know how many children die within the first year of their life? In the US the estimate for 2018 was 0.5 per cent. For India the number is close to 3 per cent! So, it could be argued that we’ve overreacted to Covid-19. But that’s because of the sheer speed with which the contagion touched all seven continents (an Antarctic cruise ship had to cut short its trip because of cases on board). We still haven’t found any magic=bullet drugs to treat the infection and the virus is too random in its health impact for anyone to feel secure that they won’t be affected by it. Moreover, hospital systems are designed for average patient loads, not epidemics. So when containment fails, the exponential growth of cases can transform a public health emergency into an operational crisis. Patients with severe Covid-19 require an average of almost 15 days of respiratory support. Such lengthy treatment time will further stretch resources. There are also suggestions that the media has also fed the Covid-19 panic. The pandemic and its aftermath will be better solved by the application of proper scientific methods. Still, as Matt Ridley commented in a recent Wall Street Journal article, “Scientific method remains the best way to solve many problems but bias, overconfidence and politics can sometimes lead scientists astray.” We have seen this from the moment the pandemic broke out. There were esoteric models on the effects of countrywide lockdowns, disproportionate hype for potential drug treatments and over-optimistic projections about vaccine timelines. Now we’ve perhaps reached the peak of infection prevalence or are approaching it fast, the next phase of endemic management will benefit enormously from better planning. Is there a chance that this novel coronavirus will become endemic, like tuberculosis and many other infections? This depends on how the infection is handled by the body’s immune system when it first sees the virus, either through natural infection or on vaccination. If the immunity to infection is long-lasting, the chances of it being endemic will be low. But our experience with related viruses, like other respiratory infections including other human coronaviruses, makes this less likely. Thus, we should probably be proactive -- think ahead and chalk out plans for how to deal with Covid as an endemic disease. While planning this, the focus should be on saving people who are liable to get severe cases. Possibly, we will need to look at opening more COVID hospitals and care centres all over the country – maybe consider having one or two beds for a population of 10,000. These facilities would be dedicated to COVID-19 and should have at least one high-flow nasal oxygen supply system with small medical oxygen plants. If we plan ahead, and start building these small-scale peripheral COVID care centres in municipalities and panchayats all over the country, the lives of a big fraction of prospective severe COVID patients might be saved. On any estimate it will be worth the cost. Yes, the manpower to run such an enterprise will be lacking. But a technical training programme could be undertaken to build a battalion of paramedics who’ll work under the supervision of a centrally located core team of doctors. Here we should pay heed to interesting work done in West Bengal in the recent past by Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee, the Nobel Laureate from Massachusetts Institute of Technology. This 2016 study published in Science showed that a short-term multi-topic training programme can significantly increase the efficiencies of informal healthcare providers without any formal medical training. A major instance of such innovative human resource mobilisation was recently seen in West Bengal. A large number of migrant workers, who recovered from Covid-19 were employed in hospitals after short training courses. The battalion was aptly named the Covid Warriors. For example, Sariful (name changed), who worked in a restaurant in Mumbai till March, was seen in a new avatar in June - donning a pristine white PPE suit he was busy measuring blood pressure and blood oxygen levels in patients admitted in a Calcutta ICU. This desperate time requires such out-of-the-box innovative ideas. In a hub-and-spoke model, more sophisticated tertiary centres would remain the hub with facilities for mechanical ventilation or other advanced facilities. Of course, this would not only serve the needs of Covid-19 patients. It would definitely prove to be a great investment into the country’s healthcare system. Major efforts towards developing easily deployable cheaper hospitals, by major research organisations like Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), could also prove to be useful for such community care centres. Another major problem faced in recent months has been the lack of access to molecular diagnostic laboratories. The only reliable test for SARS-CoV-2 is what’s called the RT-PCR. Most hospitals in the country did not have access to these machines or even the necessary expertise to use them. In an unprecedented move, major academic research institutes came forward to either open up testing laboratories within their premises or helped to set up satellite centres in hospitals by lending the necessary equipment and manpower. In a country like India, it will prove to be really difficult to provide access to such sophisticated laboratories everywhere if SARS-CoV-2 becomes endemic. Indian scientists have already taken up the challenge to develop cheaper and easier point-of-care diagnostics more suitable for India. The most prominent success story has been the FELUDA test developed by CSIR. Meanwhile, what can we, the citizens, do? We would perhaps help the situation a lot by not panicking, at the same time as not taking it lightly. Yes the festive season is on. Please keep yourself and others around you safe by avoiding crowded gatherings. And if you suspect infection, get tested. But don’t rush to get admitted in hospital unless you are among the very few patients requiring oxygen supplementation. Hospital beds and resources are scarce. Stay isolated at home and take the necessary medicines. Most of you will never experience any more discomfort than that associated with the common flu. Dipyaman Ganguly is an immunologist at CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Biology, Calcutta, involved in clinical trials and research with COVID-19 patients. Supratik Gangopadhyay is a veteran software professional based in Chennai with expertise in healthcare systems.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-117
13-11-2020||Opinion||Dark web: Cyber attacks on pharmaceuticals||Public health has been compromised by the pandemic. The health of pharmaceutical companies is under threat too, but from a different kind of source. The Indian pharmaceutical company, Lupin, is the latest victim of this ‘contagion’ — cyber attacks. This incident has been reported just a fortnight after Dr Reddy’s Laboratories isolated its data centre services after suffering a similar cyber strike. What is especially worrying is that the attack took place soon after the latter got the nod to conduct trials of Sputnik V, a vaccine for Covid-19 developed by a Russian research institute. During the period from July to September, India has allegedly witnessed 4.25 lakh cloud security breaches and the country, it has been reported, is the sixth most vulnerable nation when it comes to such depredations on pharmaceutical firms. A study by Deloitte has also revealed that the pharmaceutical industry is one of the principal targets of cybercriminals. Even though commercial and medical data are under serious threat, the discourse on data privacy in India is disproportionately tilted towards protecting personal data. The intellectual property of private companies such as research data belonging to pharmaceutical companies are incredibly valuable and, hence, vulnerable. If the integrity of research data is compromised, a medication may lose consumer trust or, worse, be rendered ineffective. In India, protecting such data remains the onus of the pharmaceutical companies themselves. Although the government introduced the personal data protection bill, 2019, it does not adequately address the vulnerabilities of India’s data economy. Instead, the bill proposes a preventive framework that is inclined towards excessive government intervention. This could lead to a significant increase in compliance costs for businesses and end up in a troubling dilution of privacy rights of companies vis-à-vis the State. This is not the only anomaly. The push towards a digital economy has not been accompanied by a simultaneous emphasis on online security. A legal framework for the future of health data privacy is, hearteningly, in the works. The draft digital information security in healthcare bill is being crafted to protect citizens’ health data as part of an ambitious health data digitization drive. Could the scope of this legislation be widened to include medical data of companies rather than just personal data of patients? What would be even better is to have one comprehensive law that covers all aspects of data. It should be drafted in consultation with the State, commercial firms and individuals — the critical stakeholders in the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-118
13-11-2020||Opinion||Greater good: How the poor live||The ministry of rural development has been considering the creation of a social registry — the Social Registry Information System — to track the living conditions of the poor on a real-time basis. The details recorded, such as special events or adverse shocks that affect the well-being of an individual or a family, would help the government design better interventions. It would also make redundant the periodic surveys conducted to gather data. This process not only takes time but also affects the accuracy of the data by the time they reach the tables of policymakers. In principle, the SRIS would appear to be a superior system. This idea evolved from the socio-economic caste census of 2011. Attractive as it may appear, the notion has conceptual as well as practical difficulties. Hence it seems to be stuck in a file without moving towards implementation. One complication relates to what precisely needs to be monitored and measured. There are many metrics that are important: consumption expenditures, savings, incomes, assets like land, uncertainties and insecurities faced from the primary source of livelihood, and the geographical location of the family. It is well-known that the fortunes of households living on the edge of poverty fluctuate a great deal, moving in and out of poverty. How would poverty be measured continuously if interventions are to be prompt and effective? Another difficulty pertains to the gathering and collation of the data for use. Would the data be left to the local government or should they be left to a specialized cadre of field workers trained to process data and do some basic analytics to glean patterns of change. In this case, the costs of gathering data would become significantly higher than those incurred for conducting the periodic surveys. It would be incorrect to claim that the lack of evidence is the main reason for the persistence of poverty. One way by which the distribution of benefits could be improved is by organizing it at the village level in the presence of a government functionary and a locally elected official. The actual distribution could be done equitably through a consensus of opinion. Local information is best known to the local people. Random checks could be carried out later as to how the actual distribution took place. Cash benefits could continue to be deposited directly to the Jan Dhan accounts. Where there is political will, there is usually a feasible way.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-118
13-11-2020||Opinion||In a parallel universe||Money makes me uncomfortable. The less I have it, the more uncomfortable I become. Which is a universal phenomenon, but the roots of my discomfort are deep, personal and very boring, and not very clear even to me, but its manifestations are quite overpowering. For me, and others. I always remember Stephen Leacock’s story, “My Financial Career”, in which the narrator enters a bank to deposit a tiny sum of money and from sheer nervousness, conjures up a crisis that overwhelms not only him, but also the entire bank staff. During the lockdown I had not attended to money matters at all. It was imperative that I did and I needed help. On a friend’s recommendation I got in touch with an accountant. His name was Amit Shah. I looked forward to meeting him. When he arrived one morning, he turned out to be very unlike his famous namesake, which was not surprising. The young man who got out of the car was slim, bespectacled, wearing a neatly pressed shirt tucked into neatly pressed trousers; his hair, too, was neatly pressed on the left side of his head. He seemed to be in his thirties. In a few seconds, with a pleasant smile, he sized up all my problems — and my limitations — and assured me that everything would be taken care of. I felt great relief; the kind of relief that comes with the knowledge that someone else is there to actually solve your problems. I offered him a cup of tea and he agreed to it. I think he may have felt some pity for me. But I wanted to ask him the question. Sipping from the cup, I asked him: “So how does it feel to have a name like that?” He smiled and said he knew I was about to ask him that. He said that he was as different as possible from the home minister of India. He hated politics, because he grew up in the late Eighties and Nineties watching some of the biggest episodes of political violence in the country. But he likes number-crunching, likes to deal with money and wants a certain amount of material security — and his profession allows him all of this. He will be working, however, only till he can build a certain amount of capital, so that he can retire and do what he really wants to do. Which is music. He is a passionate singer, he said. He learnt Indian classical vocal from an early age and performs riyaz every evening, after work, at least for an hour. He trains with his guru every weekend. And, very tentatively, he added that he has started a YouTube channel where he posts recordings of his performances (mostly at home, very few in public) and told me what it was called, “Only if I had time and interest.” And one day, he said, he would build a school for training in classical music, because he is not comfortable sometimes with the way the music is being taught these days. Which made me wonder again about discomfort. Not tragedy, not devastation, but an unease with what you have, you inherit? And what can follow from it, like violence? The accountant did not say what he did not like about the teaching of some classical music now and looked into the middle distance so pointedly that I knew our conversation had come to an end. “So I tried to reply to your question,” he said, smiling, as he got up to go. I told him that I would like to see him again, which was true, because I was certain my financial career had not yet ended and I would need help again. But I would like to see him again. Just. Did all this really happen? Well, I made up the first name. I am given to fantasies. I like to think of alternatives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-118
13-11-2020||Opinion||An India in chains||Some attributes of freedom are the most precious of all human rights. The right of an individual to express himself freely, move freely throughout the territory of India, assemble peaceably and without arms, practise any profession subject to conditions uniformly applicable to all equally placed, reside and settle in any part of the territory of India, and to form associations as prescribed by law are individual human rights that need to be protected. What we have seen over the last six years is the State seeking freedom to curtail such rights instead of ensuring their free exercise subject to constitutional limitations. Posts on social media platforms critical of key personalities as well as actions and policies of the establishment are used as opportunities to diminish these freedoms. Till August 2019, of the 139 persons arrested in Uttar Pradesh, 76 had been detained under the National Security Act on alleged acts of cow slaughter. Cases of 11 more persons accused of cow slaughter were recommended for invocation of NSA in October. These detentions are premised on the claim that such acts may endanger State security. We have witnessed curtailment of free expression by prohibiting the flow of 2G, 3G and 4G networks in certain parts of the country on the assumption that use of such networks by some might endanger national security. On this pretext, entire populations are deprived of these networks. Significant political personalities have also been deprived of their personal liberty by invoking the Jammu and Kashmir Public Safety Act, 1978 after being kept under detention for a year under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 and renewing such orders every three months; the rationale being that if released, their activities might negatively impact public order. We have also witnessed the travails of young students carrying out legitimate protests being prosecuted for sedition. They are accused of being part of a larger conspiracy to spread disaffection within the public, thereby destabilizing the State. Such acts are also perceived to be legitimately prosecutable under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967. Some JNU students also met the same fate for their disagreement with the State and its policies. Our inalienable constitutional freedoms can be restricted only under extreme circumstances since the restrictions themselves are required to be reasonable. That cow slaughter affects the sovereignty and integrity of India and the security of the State can never be justified by any standard of reasonableness. Restrictions can be put in place for maintaining public order. But that can be done only under the procedural law by issuing an order under Section 144 of the CrPC to ensure that no one violates the law and if one does, the consequences provided under the CrPC will follow. But such a consequence cannot include prosecutions based on a threat to the sovereignty and integrity of India and the security of the State. Can a small, peaceful gathering occupying part of a public road and shouting slogans in opposition to certain laws, which are likely to affect their lives and livelihoods, be perceived to be acts endangering the sovereignty and integrity of India, or for that matter, the security of the State? Even more serious is the fact that those charged with the responsibility of maintaining public order let loose their biases, which have been captured on screen, encouraging the perpetrators of violence. However, those who perpetrate such violence and those encouraging them are not considered to be threats to the security of the State. It is the victims, based on their alleged acts of conspiracy, who are deemed, in the eyes of law, to be endangering the security of the State and, therefore, charged with sedition under the Indian Penal Code. Ironically, it is the State which is now seeking the freedom to abuse the law and destroy the individuals’ constitutional protections under Article 19. It is possible to contend under the law that a particular individual has openly violated the law or is indulging in acts that are prosecutable under the UAPA or other penal statutes. But the denial of the right to freedom of expression en masse cannot have any legal basis since not all individuals residing in an area can be deemed to endanger the security of the State. Endangering the security of the State, as reflected in pronouncements of the Supreme Court, firstly requires a conspiracy to do so and, secondly, in furtherance thereof, collection and intended use of arms for the purposes of destabilizing the State. None of these acts is even attributed to individuals sought to be prosecuted under the UAPA or Section 124 of the IPC. None of the individuals detained under NSA can be charged on the presumption or fear that they might endanger the security of the State and, therefore, are required to be preventively detained. Courts, unfortunately, have not come to terms with the desire of the State as evidenced by their mindless application of laws that endanger an individual’s constitutional rights. In fact, the acts of the State itself endanger the constitutional values enshrined under Article 19. Freedoms are meant to be nurtured, not diminished. However, we are also witnessing on our television screens a cacophonous, senseless display of verbal ‘to and fro’ seeking to destroy peace and harmony, with anchors openly targeting communities and attributing motives to create a sense of fear. Such voices, by the same yardstick, are prejudicial to the security of the State. Yet, these voices are tacitly endorsed by the State since they are not proceeded against. It is time for courts to wake up to the State’s silent support of the brewing culture of violence and the brazen misuse of laws. What needs to be curbed is the freedom with which the State seeks to legitimize the misuse of draconian laws that impinge upon the freedom of individuals in exercising their constitutional rights. Giving legitimacy to the State to freely misapply such laws to persecute individuals will only lead to an unfree India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-118
13-11-2020||Opinion|| Forces of nature||The outcome of the presidential election in the United States of America has thrown into sharp relief the fault lines of the US’s federal structure. Federalism and states’ rights have been at the heart of the American journey, from 1776 to the Civil War to the demands for civil rights to positions on abortion and creationism. The build-up and the election itself have also been a history tutorial for the uninitiated — a journey through the tortured history of slavery and race relations and radically different memories of the US Civil War. That all this was in the midst of a pandemic gave to events a distinct quality. Federal tensions are not, of course, the monopoly of America even when they surface in the midst of a black swan event like a pandemic or a natural calamity. Almost exactly 50 years ago to this day in November 1970, Cyclone Bhola unleashed itself on the Bengal delta, with particular intensity on what was then East Pakistan. The meagre relief response of the government of Pakistan was possibly also a tipping point in a chain of events that finally ended on December 16 of the following year with the surrender of the Pakistan military in Dacca to the combined Indian and Bangladesh forces. In this chain, the next link was a general election held within a month of ‘Bhola’ in December 1970: Pakistan’s first nationwide election since its independence. Ultimately it proved to be the only general election of a united Pakistan. The results brought to the surface all the latent contradictions between Pakistan’s eastern and western wings. The former formed the demographic majority and thus had 162 out of the total 300 constituencies in Pakistan. When the Awami League surprisingly won 161 out of the 300 seats it meant that political power had to shift to the east. The military power brokers in Islamabad had banked on a split mandate that would leave them space to be kingmakers. The postponement of the convening of the newly elected National Assembly was followed by a major military crackdown on March 25 — beginning with Dacca, then extending to the rest of the province. A refugee influx into India was the result and by mid-1971, nearly 7-8 million refugees were in India. A major India-Pakistan row was clearly brewing, but for the crisis to mature the regional had to acquire an international dimension. This happened in July 1971 with the secret visit of the US national security adviser, Henry Kissinger, to Beijing from Pakistan, heralding a US-China thaw as also a concert against the Soviet Union. For India, the implications of this US-China-Pakistan compact were even more direct. The India-USSR Treaty of Peace, Friendship and Cooperation followed on August 9, 1971. The rest as they say is history — both on the ground and finally in the United Nations security council chamber. Did Cyclone Bhola lead to the Awami League’s clean sweep to be able to form a government in Pakistan on its own? Possibly, because for many in East Bengal, the State’s tepid response to the cyclone’s devastation exemplified the systemic negligence, exploitation and cultural arrogance they had been subjected to since 1947. What is clearer is that Pakistan’s ruling elite could not, and would not, accommodate the electoral result and that made its break-up likely. A demographic majority without political power and the underdog in all economic and social indicators summed up the pre-1971 East-West contrast in Pakistan, quite apart from cultural, linguistic and ethnic divides. When we look at Bangladesh and Pakistan today, we get a measure of how much things change. From being the demographic minority in a united Pakistan, by the late 1980s (West) Pakistan’s population had surpassed that of Bangladesh. Today Pakistan has roughly some 20 per cent more people than Bangladesh. The past, in this perspective, was very obviously a different country, but the contrasts extend across the full spectrum of economic and social change and the different indicators used to measure these. For instance, take the different trajectories of the Bangladeshi taka and Pakistani rupee. The taka was introduced as legal tender in Bangladesh in 1972 and replaced the Pakistani rupee at par. Today one Bangladeshi taka equals 1.8 Pakistani rupees and the movement of both currencies in the past 50 years sums up two different histories. If East Bengal had still formed part of a united Pakistan today it may still have had good reason to have chartered an independent course. But the reasons for doing so would be different since West Pakistan would have a demographic majority and the eastern wing would have been the economic sprinter. Pakistan’s polity has also changed in its federal character. The numerical majority of East Pakistan had consumed much of Pakistan’s constitutional attention almost from the time of its creation. The improvisation resorted to was the ‘One Unit Scheme’ whereby Punjab, Sindh, the North West Frontier Province and Balochistan were merged into a single province in 1955. In part this was a bureaucratic and military response to prevent the smaller provinces — the North West Frontier Province in particular — from siding with Bengal on federal issues. It also created a superficial unity by papering over West Pakistan’s own considerable ethnic and linguistic diversity. The end of the One Unit polity was also part of the endgame of a united Pakistan and the scheme was dissolved in the run-up to the historic 1970 election. While the old provinces came back in the new Pakistan post 1972, what remained unchanged was the domination of what was now the largest province in the country — Punjab. The next major change in Pakistan’s federal structure took place some four decades later with the 18th amendment to the Pakistan Constitution devolving substantial powers to the provincial governments. This was a principal achievement of a brief period of political assertion in Pakistan post Pervez Musharraf. That period has now ended and sniping has begun against the devolution of power to provinces. In some influential quarters the tardy implementation of some China-Pakistan Economic Corridor projects is also ascribed to the structural problems created by more powerful provinces. In brief, an older, less federal Pakistan is seeking to assert itself. The outcome is unclear but a contest is certainly underway. The author is a retired diplomat and a Director General of the Indian Council of World Affairs||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-118
13-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad florists demand resumption of trains to Calcutta||The florists of Dhanbad, who are dependent on the flowers of Calcutta, are facing a lot of difficulties bringing flowers from Calcutta due to disruption of train services from Calcutta to Dhanbad during the lockdown and non-resumption of the services of popular trains like Coalfield Express (12340) and Black diamond Express (22388/22389) till date. The biggest difficulty was experienced by the florists during Diwali as they were required to bring a huge quantity of flowers, garlands, bouquet, etc. from Calcutta for supply in the local market to Dhanbad. Talking to the Telegraph Online on Friday, Lallu Malakar, a florist of Court More locality of Dhanbad said, “We are now required to bring the flowers in reserved mini trucks having a fare of Rs 11,500 per trip due to the various restrictions and the reserved vehicle fare for Calcutta has also been increased from Rs 7,500 to Rs 11,500 during the Covid-19 time.” “Though the demand for flowers this Diwali is like every year but due to apprehensions regarding the lack of liquidity in the market, a slightly lesser quantity of flowers have been brought by the florists and this may lead to a crisis on Saturday during the day as the response of customers is better than our expectations,” said Malakar. Echoing sentiments, Ramesh Malakar, another florist of station road locality of Dhanbad said, “Though it is not possible for every one of us to visit Calcutta and bring their consignment in separated reserved vehicles we have devised the system of hiring of pool vehicles for bringing flowers,” and added that instead of dealing with contractors for procuring flower they are now directly visiting the villages like Kolaghat, Ranaghat, Krishnanagar, etc. to purchase the flower from flower growers. “The situation was not so difficult during the pre-lockdown period when a majority of our consignment used to come through trains like Coalfield Express, Black Diamond Express through which a large number of daily passengers of Dhanbad also used to visit Calcutta to bring a wide range of products from there for sale in the local market,” said Ramesh. “We demand the state government and district administration to ensure early resumption of train services between the Dhanbad and Calcutta so that small traders like us dependent to Calcutta market do not have to face difficulty,” said Ramesh and added that though interstate bus service has started from Jharkhand but the bus operators are charging an increased fare and instead of regular fare of Rs 450 they are charging Rs 600 per person as fare.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-237
13-11-2020||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur-based adventure team scales three peaks||A team from Jamshedpur’s Tata Steel Adventure Foundation (TSAF), including Everester and Padma Bhushan awardee Bachendri Pal, reached three peaks successfully in an arduous journey from Uttarakhand to Himachal Pradesh, making the trek the country’s first. Apart from Pal, the team comprised 11 thrill-seekers as well as a group from the steel city-based adventure outfit. The members hail from Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Indore and Jaipur. Named as the Triple Pass Challenge, the adventure kicked off on October 9, and ended on October 29 spanning across three peaks and the same number of weeks. In normal cases, trekkers stick to reach just one pass, but for the first time the expedition was organised to cover three high-altitude passes in a go. The team wrested Darwa Pass (13,500 ft), Bali Pass (16,200 ft) and Borasu Pass (17,300 ft) -- all in Uttarakhand. Besides Pal, other Everesters included Hemant Gupta, R.S. Pal and Poonam Rawat as well as highly experienced instructors Mohan Rawat, Dharmendra and Randev. A TSAF official said that the trek was well-planned keeping adjustments and difficulty levels in mind. “Covid-related safety measures were adopted. All the participants were tested before joining the journey and all standard government guidelines were followed during the expedition,” he said. The team started from Sangamchatti in Uttarkashi on October 12, then crossed dense forest of pine and rhododendron and the mystique Dodital lake. It crossed Darwa Pass on October 14 before starting  the downhill climb till Hanuman Chatti. However, this did not keep the members from starting to prepare for the next challenge to climb the  Bali Pass on October 17. With several exposed sections on the way, the journey was not easy. But with help from the TSAF team, every member successfully passed the sections and finally reached the Bali Pass on October 20, after navigating through steep, rocky areas. The team also crossed a glacier and trekked through an exposed ridge till Odari, which is situated at an altitude of 14,000 feet. The morning at Odari on October 21 was one of the coldest nights in the expedition. The journey to Borasu Pass started on October 23. A rarely visited location, much information about the pass was not available to the trekkers beforehand. However, walking through some difficult  crevasse and rocky terrain, the team finally reached the pass on October 27. Shortly,  the team started the arduous downhill journey which proved to be difficult, especially crossing the never-ending moraine field . The team walked even after sunset. Finally, the members  camped in an abandoned ITBP camp near Chitkul in Himachal. On October 28, the members reached Chitkul – the destination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-237
13-11-2020||Jharkhand||Baby elephant falls in farm well, rescued||A baby elephant, which fell into a farm well at a village in Ramgarh district on Friday morning, was rescued after a mammoth, hour-long effort of the forest department with the help of local villagers. "A herd of six elephants including two baby elephants were passing by from the nearby forest. Suddenly a baby elephant fell into the farm well. Our team reached there and rescued the elephant from the well. The elephant has no injuries and was reunited with the herd," said Ramgarh DFO Vaid Prakash Kamboj. When the baby elephant drowned, there were five other elephants present near the well at the Rakuwa village under the Gola block of Ramgarh district. There was panic in the entire area till the rescue of the baby elephant was completed. "The herd of elephant is a resident of the Gola area and we have alerted the forest department team following the incident," Kamboj added. The Gola block in Ramgarh district is the most affected area of Jharkhand by wild elephants. Regularly herds of elephant come from the forest and destroy standing crops, mud-built houses, and they have even killed men, women, and children of the village. Local social worker Sudhir Manglesh said, “Elephant attack is quite common in our villages. We have lost property and lives for the last several years. Department has no proper plan to control the attack of elephants. The life of the local villagers is always at stake. The herds of elephant are fearless. They don't fear by the bursting of firecrackers, dragon torches, or any other local means."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-237
13-11-2020||Jharkhand||Bedia tola snake charmers receive special Diwali gifts||With Diwali round the corner, more than 100 residents at Bedia tola village of Pradhankhanta locality of Dhanbad got a surprise when they received exquisite dresses ahead of the festival. Not only this, the residents, majority of whom are snake charmers by profession, received homemade food as Diwali gift from Prity Pathak, the special guest at the village. Pathak, a fashion designer of Jagjivan Nagar area in Dhanbad, made the designer kurtas for the village men, sarees for the women and lehengas for the girls. She distributed the clothes among the residents on Friday. Talking to The Telegraph Online, the 23-year-old  said, “I came to know about the village about a month ago through one of my father’s contacts Bengu Thakur, a resident of a nearby locality who is also a language-right activist. I was surprised to know that people here are so far from development and still making a living with the traditional profession of snake charming.” “I decided to help these people during Diwali and prepared the dresses on my own for over a month. I invested my savings of around Rs 30,000, and gathered Rs 20,000 from crowdfunding through an online platform called Milap. Other than this, I gathered around Rs 10,000 more from friends and other family  members,” Pathak, the daughter of a BCCL employee and a homemaker, said. The fashion designer completed her course from International School of Fashion Designing in Calcutta this year, and has been engaging in social activities since her days at Calcutta. “All the dresses designed by me are premium quality ethnic wear,” said Pathak, adding that she wanted to celebrate Diwali this year by bringing a smile on the faces of those who are economically deprived. Pathak also revealed that during her Calcutta days, she prepared sanitary pads and provided them to more than 2,000 women. She has also provided masks made by her to the poorer sections of the society. Jitendra Bedia, a construction worker and one of the first persons in Bedia tola to complete matriculation, said, “Due to extreme poverty, majority of the children here are deprived of education as they are compelled to work along with adults to financially support the family. All of them were very happy receiving special dresses  during Diwali from a special guest.” “Many of the children and women were very curious about the job and the  lifestyle of Prity and wanted to know what kind of study is required to become a fashion designer,” said Sapan Bedia, another villager of Bedia tola.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-237
13-11-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city police to crack down on gambling during Diwali||The district police have elaborate arrangements to see that steel city is free from gambling which is an age-old practice during Diwali here. Significantly, intensive raids have been planned to be conducted at various places infamous for organizing gambling during the Diwali night and it has also been declared by the superintendent of police (City) Subhash Chandra Jat, those police officers will be taken to task if their involvement is established behind organizing it. "We have decided to prevent gambling from being organized at places during Diwali. For making our drive a success, we need the help of the common men who may pass on information on my number that is 9471190203 without fear. The help expected from the people will be in addition to the special teams that we have set up to check the gambling across the city," said Jat while talking to The Telegraph Online. The City SP said they have instructed OCs of all the police stations to give utmost importance to any tip-off given the people regarding the gambling. He made it clear that patrolling parties have also been instructed to carry out surprise raids at the places wherever they suspect the gamblers are assembled. "If any police officer is found indulged in providing tacit support in organizing the gambling, then the officer will be taken to task," the senior police officer pointed out. Jat said that he will monitor the policing against gambling during Diwali while monitoring the general law and order situation in the steel city. He pointed out the district police and mobile cops have also been instructed to keep an eye on the gambling. Gambling is organized on a large scale at localities like Sonari, Kadma, Jugsalai, Sitaramdera and Sakchi on the occasion of Diwali. At Sonari and Kadma, people tend to try their luck by participating in gambling at open places, while at Sakchi, Sitaramdera and Jugsalai, it is held in closed doors.  Gambling is also organized in the most clandestine way at the posh Circuit House area in Bistupur. A police officer on the condition of anonymity revealed that gambling arrangements cannot be held without the support of the local police. "This is the reason that the superintendent of police (city) has given a word of caution against the OCs to remain extra vigilant against gambling during the festival of light," said the cop. A source that has links with the underworld activities in the steel city said that the gambling is organized in a professional way at such hotels which are not known for running well. "The one who organizes the gambling pays lucrative rent for using the rooms of the hotels that are not run properly. Gambling is also held in vacant company quarters and also closed industrial units," said the source while talking to this website. Incidentally, a Diwali reveler, Mohan Lal who does indulge in gambling during Diwali said, "It is a common practice for us. There is a belief that if anyone plays gambling during Diwali and wins it, Goddess Laxmi gets pleased and money flows the whole year."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-237
13-11-2020||Jharkhand||Mayor meets chief secy over delay in Chhath guidelines||Ranchi mayor Asha Lakra has demanded that the state government issue guidelines for Chhath immediately and end the uncertainty among people since the festival is a week away. Lakra met with chief secretary Sukhdev Singh on Friday to highlight problems being faced by the public and civic bodies across the state to complete the groundwork required for the festival. Singh is understood to have assured the mayor that the administration would issue dos and don’ts for Chhath in the next couple of days. Lakra, who is the constitutional head of Ranchi Municipal Corporation, said, “After Durga puja, we worked on a war footing to clean all water bodies in the city. We have also finished preparations for immersion of Kali idols. However, there are several other works that have to be done at Chhath ghats, namely, arrange lights, set up toilets, lay pathways, to ensure devotees don’t face any problems. But without proper guidelines, we aren’t able to proceed.” Chhath, an important festival for Biharis, is widely celebrated in Jharkhand. This year, it is scheduled to be held on November 20 and 21 when devotees offer arghya (prayer) to the sun God at dusk and dawn. Lakhs of devotees turn up at water bodies for a holy dip and prayers. But amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, allowing such religious congregations could well prove risky, and may aid the spread of the virus. Lakra demanded that the state government clear its stand without further delay. “It’s true that the pandemic is still looming, but one has to balance rituals and religious practices. Let the government say if Chhath will be allowed in public or whether it has to be observed indoors. Delaying guidelines is only adding to the uncertainty,” she said. The state government has been extremely cautious about issuing public advisories ahead of key festivals, because of which guidelines have been notified late. Durga Puja guidelines were issued at the 11th hour, upsetting organisers. For Diwali too, the government came up with guidelines only four days before the festival, announcing a ban on crackers in public places. On Thursday, it issued a two-hour window for bursting crackers at homes and residential complexes, annoying health experts who advocate a total ban on firecrackers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-237
13-11-2020||Jharkhand||Cyclists to promote fitness at steel city||Steel city’s Marine Drive is set to witness an assembly of former national and international pedal stars on Saturday as they participate in a cycling expedition. Inderjeet Singh, an ex-international cyclist and a national champion, is the main person behind the organisation of this event. Singh, through this occasion, wishes to tell people that cycling was one of the finest ways of maintaining fitness level. “The 60-km cycling expedition will be of two rounds commencing from Domuhani river side along the Marine drive to Adityapur toll bridge  and back. In fact, November 14 also happens to be my 60th birthday and I wish people to participate in the event,” Singh, former president of Central Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee and current vice-president of Takht Harimandir Patna Sahib, said. He will be one of the participants in Friday’s event and will exhibit his zeal to set out the message that age is not a barrier in the path of maintaining fitness. Former international cyclist Satbir Singh Sahota, who is overseeing the affair, said they were expecting around 30 participants. “Some former national and international cyclists have confirmed their participation and an appeal has also been made to the general people to support us in spreading the message for fitness,” he said. According to Sahota, the former secretary of Jharkhand Cycling Association, the participants will assemble near the Domuhani river at 8.15 am and the expedition will be held from 8.30 am to 10.30 am. It will be followed by a simple cake-cutting ceremony.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-237
13-11-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city shopkeepers do brisk business on Dhanteras||Hundreds of shoppers thronged the local markets, malls, and retail outlets since Friday morning for buying jewellery, utensils, coins (gold and silver) on the auspicious occasion of Dhanteras. Dhanteras marks the beginning of Diwali. It is a time when people loosen their purse strings and go on a buying spree. This year Dhanteras is being celebrated for two days. The auspicious time for buying began at 9.30 pm last night which will continue till Friday evening. The crowd flouted Covid-19 safety protocols by evading social distancing norms and avoided wearing face masks. The jewellery stores in the city were happy with the customers’ positive response despite the pandemic. Sunil Verma, proprietor of Bistupur-based Kuldip Sons Jewellers, a leading jewellery store of Jamshedpur said that many people had made advance bookings. “The response of customers has been quite good despite the pandemic situation. Many customers who had booked their jewellery in advance got them delivered today on Dhanteras. We followed the Covid-19 safety protocols. Entry to our store was restricted for those without face masks,” said Verma while talking to The Telegraph Online. A salesman of a store at Sakchi echoed similar views. “Covid-19 has failed to dampen the spirit of Dhanteras because jewellery, coins, and utensils were in huge demand,” he said. Even small shops in areas like Sonari, Kadma, Baridih, Golmuri, and Telco attracted a large number of customers. Rakesh Agarwal, owner of a utensils store at Dalda Line in Sakchi said, “We did brisk business as the market remained crowded throughout the day.” People also purchased kitchen appliances, electronic goods, apparel, and footwear on the occasion. Aman Kumar, who sells decorative items and utensils at a shop inside the Bistupur market, said, “The sale picked up pace in the afternoon when several customers bought decorative pieces and utensils from me.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-237
13-11-2020||Jharkhand||Covid recoveries on the rise, fresh cases dip in Jharkhand||Jharkhand on Thursday reported over twice as many recoveries compared to fresh cases of Covid-19, but could not put a check on the growing number of casualties, four of which occurred from Wednesday midnight to Thursday evening, government data highlighted. At least 606 Covid-19 patients recovered from the infection in 24 hours against 269 fresh cases surfacing across the state, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. Ranchi on Thursday reported 65 fresh cases of infection against 108 recoveries, while East Singhbhum reported 265 recoveries against only 49 fresh cases. As per latest government data, at least 18 districts in Jharkhand had less than 100 active cases of Covid-19 infection on Thursday evening. However, despite the fall in the number of active cases and a rise in the recovery rate, number of Covid-19 casualties in the tribal state is on the rise. The four deaths reported on Thursday took the Covid-19 toll in the state to 917. Latehar, Ranchi, Chatra and Palamu reported one Covid casualty each on the day, the NHM bulletin stated. The government on Thursday tested swab samples of 22,126 people and around 1 per cent of them were found infected. Health workers in Jharkhand have so far collected swab samples of 37.56 lakh people and tested 37.38 lakh of them. At least 16 of the 24 districts in the state reported a single-digit-spike in Covid-19 cases, while two districts, Jamtara and Dumka, did not report even a single case of infection on Thursday. The number of active cases in East Singhbhum as well as in Ranchi dropped close to 1000 after Thursday’s findings. Of the over 37 lakh people tested so far, as many as 1,05,493 were found to be Covid positive. However, at least 1,00,908 Covid patients have recovered from the infection in Jharkhand so far, bringing the number of active cases down at 3,668 and the recovery rate up at 95.65 per cent. Jharkhand’s Covid-19 recovery rate was higher than the national average of 92.90 per cent, highlighted government data. As per government data, the growth rate of the viral infection in Jharkhand was 0.22 per cent against the national average of 0.45 per cent. The doubling rate of Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand was 318.68 days against the national average of 152.74 days. The mortality rate in Jharkhand, however, increased marginally on Thursday and reached 0.86 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-237
13-11-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand lines up universal pension scheme ||The Jharkhand government is planning to launch a universal pension scheme for elderly, widows and disabled people. Sources in the chief minister’s office said chief minister Hemant Soren is keen on announcing the universal pension scheme for elderly, widows and disabled on statehood day (November 15). “There are over 2 million people in the state who are either disabled, widows or senior citizens. The chief minister wants all of them to get pension irrespective of their financial, family or caste status. The formal announcement would be done by the chief minister during statehood day which would make Jharkhand the only state in eastern India to have a universal pension scheme for the disabled, widows and elderly,” said a senior official at the CMO in Ranchi. In June 2019, Bihar became the first state to launch a universal old-age pension scheme in which any person aged 60 years and above will get a sum of Rs 400 per month directly transferred to their bank accounts irrespective of their financial, family or caste status. In other states, pension is provided to elderly, widows and physically challenged people only if they are living below poverty line or belong to Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes. “The state social welfare department is working on the scheme. There will be a mechanism wherein beneficiaries, if they are not getting any other pension either from the state or the central government, will be entitled to get an amount between Rs 200 and Rs 300 per month. Monitoring would be done at the district level to avoid duplicity with the existing central government scheme,” the source said. Under the National Social Assistance Programme (NSAP), a BPL person aged between 60 and 80 years and above gets a pension of Rs 1,000 per month, after adding shares of both the central and state governments. Disabled BPL people aged between 18 and 79 years get a monthly pension of Rs 1,000, while BPL widows aged between 40 and 79 years also get a monthly pension of Rs 1,000. “Once the universal pension scheme is launched, the criteria would not have restrictions based on income and age and would be applicable to all,” said a close aide of the chief minister. Principal secretary, social welfare department, Avinash Kumar, confirmed the plan but refused to elaborate. “Yes there are plans on these lines but I would not like to speak much on it at the moment,” he said. The Jharkhand Viklang Manch, an organisation espousing the cause of disabled people in the state, has started a campaign to tweet to chief minister Soren on his official Twitter handle reminding him about providing a monthly pension of Rs 2,500 to the disabled which was mentioned in the JMM election manifesto. “The JMM had assured in its manifesto during 2019 Assembly polls that it will provide a pension of Rs 2,500 to all disabled people. We would like the chief minister to fulfil the promise on November 15,” said Arun Kumar, a founder member of the Manch.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-238
