14-11-2020||Calcutta|| Soumitra Chatterjee recites ‘Abol Tabol’ in YouTube rendition||A YouTube channel on the occasion of Children’s Day released the first episode of an animated series of ‘Abol Tabol’ on Saturday, which was recited by Soumitra Chatterjee before he was admitted to the hospital. A timeless creation of filmmaker and Oscar recipient Satyajit Ray and his father Sukumar Ray, the collection of 53 rhymes was first published in 1923. To date, the lines appeal to a huge spectrum of Bengali readers, regardless of their age. "Soumitra Chattopadhyay had agreed to be part of the project once we approached him with our proposal during the nationwide lockdown,” the director of the YouTube channel said. "We had goosebumps during the recording session, which was completed in two consecutive days. Watching Soumitra babu recite the rhymes with great enthusiasm was an amazing experience," Shiladitya Chaudhury, who released the first of the four episodes on the channel, added. Rhymes including 'Gnof Churi', 'Kath Buro', 'Khichudi', 'Sawt-Patro' and 'Ganer Gnuto' feature in the debut episode. “The remaining three episodes will be released in the subsequent weeks,” Chaudhury said. Speaking about the launch, Satyajit Ray’s son Sandip Ray, who is also a filmmaker, said, “It is an interesting project to bring the literary works of Sukumar Ray to the present generation through virtual media. I recall how much I loved the characters depicted by my late grandfather in 'Abol Tabol' in my childhood."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-239
14-11-2020||Calcutta||Lights, legal & lovely ||With firecrackers out of the fray, many residents are preferring to spend on lights this year. And despite the general lull in the market, some shops have stocked up on new and innovative items. "The rush has not reduced,” assures Rishiraj Ghosh of Sri Guru Bhandar in IA Market. “This I realised during Lakshmi puja when we nearly ran out of stock of puja materials and I had to call for more in the last minute. This year people want to pray more than ever. If anything, they have started shopping days ahead instead of on the eve of Diwali hoping to avoid crowds.” Sankar Cosmetics in CK Market has a wide range of candles - from the tealight variety mounted on miniature chariots (Rs 70-100) to the gel variety shaped like rosebuds (Rs 100). Indrapuri in BJ Market has earthen diyas (within Rs 100) as well as battery-operated candle replicas where a “flame” lights up and dances in the wind (Rs 20-80). “These are the best sellers this year as they are attractive and don’t need to be refilled with oil or ghee halfway through the evening,” says the salesgirl, Jhuma Naskar. IA Market has candles set in beads and stones as well as blocks with “Happy Diwali” painted on them. Another eye-catching candle comes in attractive little bottles resembling those of face cream. “These scented candles cost about Rs 90 and are being lapped up by customers. We also have star-shaped wooden stands with pompoms at the edges which one wouldn’t find elsewhere,” says Rahul Sahni of Parampara in CB Block. The elephant in the room, of course, is the state of the economy and despite how beautifully shops are decorated, Nitai Chandra Debnath of Needs in Baisakhi is worried that footfall is low. Manika Biswas of New Town’s Action Area 1A Market has got electric string bulbs punctuated with metallic geometric designs as well as those shaped like ghots, “but it’s no good if I get one customer an hour,” sighs the lady from Biswas Enterprise. “Budgets of Diwali gift hampers are down to 30 or 40 per cent and the number of hampers being distributed has down to just as much. But diyas and candles are still being gifted as they are small and relatively inexpensive items,” says Ekta Agarwal of CB Block’s Namotsav. The doshokorma bhandar at GD Market is cocksure sales will be low and hasn’t invested in any fancy lights at all. “We are selling traditional diyas and that’s it,” says the vendor. Sree Guru stores usually sells fire crackers on a table outside BD Market this season, “but diyas and candles will never arouse equal excitement. So we’re displaying these outside the store itself,” says Swapan Saha. Babloo Mistri usually gets two pushcarts of Diwali items worth Rs 15 to 20,000 but this year even his single cart with Rs 5,000 worth products aren’t selling. “People are looking for the cheapest possible items but below a price I’ll suffer losses,” says the man who is keeping his cart near Eden Shop. Archies Gallery in City Centre usually has an enviable collection of candle stands this time of the year, “but the lockdown has hit supply and we only have one model now,” says salesgirl Shukla Biswas. The model in question looks like a dessert bowl and costs Rs 699. Legend, an art store at the mall, makes its own items. “But this time artisan are unable to commute to the workshop and it has hit supply. We don’t have as much variety as before,” says the salesgirl, Kakali Sarkar.  Many customers have been enquiring the origin of products this year before buying and vendors are on the defensive. "Yes, we are selling Chinese candles but these are leftovers from last year. We won’t buy them afresh,” says Pinky Sahoo of Ma Mahamaya Paan Bhandar in BJ Market. Shivam Saha of CA Market has diyas from Kumartuli but sky lanterns that are Chinese. “I would get made-in-India fanushes if I found any but there’s no such product in the market. I know the public is against Chinese products now so I haven’t kept the fanushes on display. If someone asks I’ll bring them out and if they don’t sell at all I’ll release them in the air myself,” says Saha, from behind the Chandrabani counter. At New Town Gift Gallery in Eden Shop, Nasirul Islam says customers are weighing sentiment against prices. “Indian rangoli colour, for instance, costs Rs 120 a pack whereas the Chinese one costs Rs 70. People are tempted and we have run out of the Chinese packets now,” he says. But Rishiraj of IA Market points at a new ploy. “Some Chinese products are now being labelled ‘Made in PRC’ and that shopkeepers are feigning ignorance when asked what that means (People’s Republic of China). Others are sending parts from China and getting the products assembled in India and so they no longer have ‘Made in China’ printed on them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-239
14-11-2020||Calcutta||Film society to host open-air festival at EZCC||A film festival will be screened at Eastern Zonal Cultural Centre from November 19 to 22. Organised by the Bidhannagar Film Society (BFS), the festival will screen 85 short films at the two open air theatres at the venue — Ranga Mancha and Mukta Mancha — and the shows will be free of cost. The festival will be inaugurated by EZCC director, Gouri Basu, mayoral council member Devashis Jana and Biplab K. Ghosh, regional secretary of the Federation of Film Societies of India (FFSI) at 5.30pm on November 19. All the screenings will be held between 4.30pm and 8.30pm and the prize distribution ceremony will be held on November 22 at 5pm. The jury consists of directors Abhijit Guha and Subrata Sen, film critic Rwita Dutta, and actor Tapas Chakraborty. Both venues are open air and occupancy has been brought down from 300 to 125 people. Seats will be spaced out at a distance of 6ft from one other. No food will be allowed inside but a couple of tea stalls will be lined up outside the entry gates. “We hope this will provide a welcome break from the daily grind that people have been facing during pandemic,” said Ritesh Basak, assistant secretary, BFS, and regional treasurer, FFSI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-239
14-11-2020||Calcutta||Movie halls await viewers in Diwali weekend||Diwali has always meant big business for movie theatres, with film buffs looking forward to blockbusters with stellar star casts. However, this year theatre owners are looking for new ways to beat business blues. Ever since cinemas reopened post lockdown, occupancy across halls in Salt Lake and New Town has been extremely low. The person manning the ticket counter at Nazrul Tirtha said: “Footfall is abysmal. Our smallest theatre has 350 seats, of which only five were occupied last Saturday. Before the pandemic, we used to be houseful on weekends.” While the more tech-savvy film buffs have tuned into OTT platforms like Netflix, Amazon Prime and Disney+Hotstar, big screen fans are waiting it out till the next big release hits the theatres. “The last film I saw was in February at a multiplex in Salt Lake. I really miss going to the theatres but I know it is not safe yet. A second wave of the coronavirus is on the way and I am not confident enough to go out,” said Paulami Sarkar, a resident of FD Block. New releases like Manoj Bajpayee’s Suraj Pe Mangal Bhari (Hindi), Switzerland (Bengali), Biskoth (Tamil) and Irandam Kuththu (Tamil) will see the light of day over the Diwali weekend. Inox (City Centre I & II) and Swabhumi will also hold a Yash Raj Film Festival over the weekend. “This year marks 50 years of Yash Raj Films so we’ve tied up with the production house to screen classics like Silsila, Kabhi Kabhie, Dilwale Dulhaniya Le Jayenge, Dil To Pagal Hain, Veer Zara, Bunty Aur Babli and Ek Tha Tiger over the Diwali weekend. Tickets to the film festival will cost Rs 50,” said sources at Inox. As for safety measures, auditorium occupancies have been brought down to half, adjacent seats on either sides will be left vacant, floor markers will be placed at box office and food counters, PPE kit will be on sale, seats will be disinfected and sanitised after every show and guests will be encouraged to maintain a 6ft distance from other families and groups at all times. There are also contactless sanitiser dispensers at the entrance and in the lobbies along with enhanced air-filtration systems and designated bins for masks, gloves etc. “I went to Inox to watch a film last week and there were just two other people in the auditorium. It was eerie,” said Stuti Hasan, a resident of AE Block. “The food stalls were shut and just a handful of staff were present. But safety measures were in place so I may go back. I hope to see more releases in the coming weeks. Maybe then the crowd will slowly trickle back to the theatres.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-239
14-11-2020||Calcutta||Regulator slams RMO, nurse roles||An alert resident medical officer and nurse would have recognised deteriorating health signals, the state health regulatory commission said on Friday while hearing a complaint against CMRI where a woman died in February hours after her delivery. The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission has asked the hospital to deposit Rs 1 lakh in a fixed deposit account in the child’s name, retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the commission chairperson, said. The matter came to the fore when TV news channels showed her husband slapping her gynaecologist when he told him of his wife’s death. “The woman gave birth to the child at 10am. The family left the hospital after checking on the woman at 6.30pm. The gynaecologist examined her around the same time and said she was doing fine,” Banerjee said. “At 3am the next day, the hospital called the family to say the woman’s condition had deteriorated rapidly. She passed away at 5.30am. Doctor members of the commission said this couldn’t have happened suddenly. The woman died from shock, the onset of which would have given signals. “The doctors felt either the nurse or the resident medical officer (RMO) did not notice the signals of her deteriorating health or they did not take the signals seriously.” Banerjee said the hospital’s response was “superficial and cryptic”. “We have asked the hospital to file an affidavit and give their version. We have asked the woman’s husband to file an affidavit, too,” he said. “Prima facie we felt there was some negligence and asked the hospital to deposit Rs 1 lakh in a fixed deposit account in the child’s name. The money will remain deposited till the final decision is taken.” The commission will go through the woman’s post-mortem report for further investigation into the matter, he said. On Friday, the woman’s husband apologised to the gynaecologist, Banerjee said. “He regretted his action and said he was not in the right frame of mind after his wife’s death. He will give in writing his apology. The gynaecologist, too, did not want to pursue the police complaint against the man.” The commission asked BM Birla Heart Research Centre to compensate a person with Rs 50,000. Aditya Apurba, the complainant, had alleged that the hospital gave him two estimates, a higher one the second time, when his father needed an angioplasty. “The first estimate for angioplasty was Rs 1,35,000 and the second Rs 1,75,000,” Banerjee said. The estimates were only for the angioplasty and the total cost was more. The hospital said the first estimate was an error. “The total bill came to Rs 3,65,000. The insurance company gave Rs 3,15,00. The patient had to pay Rs 50,000,” Banerjee said. “We have asked the hospital to return Rs 50,000 to the patient.” The commission asked Belle Vue Clinic to return Rs 23,142 to a patient as it found some irregularities in the bill. IQ City hospital Durgapur has been asked to offer a patient a discount of Rs 25,000. “The hospital kept the woman in a bed that costs Rs 6,000. Even after her Covid negative test, the hospital did not shift her to a general bed that would have cost her Rs 1,800 a day,” Banerjee said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-239
14-11-2020||Calcutta||Villagers save Russell’s viper||A group of villagers in Rajarhat’s Matiagacha near Kamduni stood guard around a 5ft-long snake for a couple of hours against a group trying to kill it. The snake caught the attention of the villagers while it was trying to cross the road in front of Atiar Sapui’s house. A group of six to seven men, armed with sticks, wanted to kill the snake, which was later identified as a Russell’s viper. The species is notorious for causing the maximum number of deaths from snake bites. Hearing the commotion, Sapui came out of his house and started requesting the other villagers not to kill the snake. In the meantime, a few of Sapui’s neighbours joined and asked the other men not to kill the snake with sticks. Snakes are protected under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. Sapui said he first saw the snake dart out of his backyard and he thought it would disappear into the bushes nearby. “I stepped out of my home after hearing a commotion and found the snake headed towards the road that leads to the market,” he said. While most people in the neighbourhood and passers-by started gathering with sticks and stones in their hands, Sapui and some of his neighbours requested everyone not to kill the snake. Around the same time another group of villagers, led by Zabid Ali, 62, put a wicker basket on top of the snake. At one point, both Ali and Sapui told the others that they would call police if needed. The others then went back a few steps and stood at a distance. The Wildlife rescue centre in Salt Lake rescued the snake and brought it back to the centre in a vehicle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-239
14-11-2020||Calcutta||Xavier’s adds light to children’s Diwali||Diwali is brighter than usual for hundreds of children this year because of a campaign by former students of St Xavier’s College. Around 800 children from three NGOs and a primary school in a South 24-Parganas village got new clothes, chocolates and other gifts on the college campus on Park Street on Thursday. The children got dry ration and toiletries as well. Diwali is on November 14 this year, coinciding with Children’s Day. But such occasions mean little to the children who got the gifts on Thursday. The recipients included differently abled children and children with cognitive challenges. Most of them hail from underprivileged families struggling to earn two square meals a day. That festivities are a distant dream for the children was not lost on the organisers. “The feeling of love, care and share, especially to those who require them more, is the true spirit of any festival. This embodies true human values in oneself. We try to inculcate these Jesuit values among our present and past students,” said Father Dominic Savio, the principal of St Xavier’s College, who helmed the distribution of the gifts on Thursday. Around 200 children came from Paikhala village in South 24-Parganas where St Xavier’s College (Calcutta) Alumni Association runs a primary school. Paikhala Primary School started its journey in 1999 on a plot of land donated by a resident. Twenty-one years later, around 250 children — from Classes I to V — are enrolled in the school. Most of them are first-generation learners. Their parents are mostly daily wagers, construction and farm labourers. The pandemic has robbed many of their livelihoods. The distribution drive was the first leg of a special initiative called “Share to Care” that aims to stand by the marginalised children. The former students’ association has organised a series of relief distribution camps in the wake of the lockdown. “The children were very happy. Their faces were beaming after receiving the gifts,” said an official of Bodhana, an NGO that had brought its kids to the college on Thursday. The 28-year-old institute is home to close to 100 differently abled children. “We, in St Xavier’s, do not see any barrier of caste, creed and religion in celebration of a festival. We particularly come forward to bring a smile among the marginalised children, so that they feel good, at least during this festive time, and this makes the celebration more meaningful,” Father Savio said. “The association has been taking up only philanthropic activities regularly during the last eight months for the needy people troubled by the Covid-19 pandemic and Cyclone Amphan. The efforts included bringing back helpless labourers from Dubai and supporting cyclone victims in Kakdwip and helping in the construction of houses in the Raghabpur area of South 24-Parganas,” said Sanjib Koner, secretary of the association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-239
14-11-2020||Calcutta||Cops hit for trying to enforce cracker ban||Policemen who went to a highrise in Belur in response to a firecracker complaint on Thursday night were assaulted for trying to stop residents from bursting firecrackers, police said. Two of the cops in the Howrah police team were injured and had to be admitted to hospital. Five men of a family have been booked for attempt to murder and under sections of the disaster management act. The assault occurred in a five-storey building, Ashoka Vihar, in Belur in the jurisdiction of Bally police station. An officer said cops had gone to the building to implement the high court ban on all forms of firecrackers. Around 11pm, when a team reached Ashoka Vihar, cops found 20 people on the rooftop bursting crackers, the police alleged. Some of the women and children fled at the sight of cops. Some, though, stayed back and started justifying their act, an officer said. “There were old firecrackers from last year. Children wanted to burst them; so, we thought of finishing them,” the officer quoted one of the accused residents as saying. As cops started seizing the firecrackers and asked the men to accompany them to the police station, some other residents, possibly from the third floor, attacked the men in uniform, the officer said. The team had to seek reinforcement from the Howrah city police headquarters. A team of officers reached the spot to rescue their colleagues and arrest the accused, the officer said. The police have started a suo motu case on the assault on cops with bamboo and hockey sticks. At least 11 cops, including sub-inspectors, assistant sub-inspectors, constables and home guards, had been attacked, an officer said. Five people, identified as Binod Gonda, Pawan Gonda, Kisan Gonda, Shivam Gonda, and Rajkumar Gonda, were arrested on the spot. They have been booked for attempt to murder, rioting, deterring a public servant from performing his/her duty, defiance of promulgation by a government servant, unlawfully or negligent act which is likely to spread infection of any disease dangerous to life, and common intention. The charges carry a maximum punishment of 10 years in jail. A Howrah court on Friday sent the five to police custody. An officer termed the attack “an alarming trend”. “On the one hand, we have strict directions from the court to implement the ban at any cost and on the other we are getting assaulted for trying to do our duty,” a Howrah police officer said. “This is very insensitive on behalf of citizens.” Over 200kg of fireworks were seized from Rajarhat and Hatiara on Friday. One person has been arrested in Rajarhat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-239
14-11-2020||Calcutta||Bhog ruled out across Kali temples||Kali Puja will be without the customary bhog for devotees visiting Dakshineswar, Kalighat and other temples across Calcutta and in the adjoining areas this year. Almost all temple committees have decided against distributing bhog to prevent devotees from coming in close proximity during the pandemic. “This will be a break from tradition…. I don’t recall when bhog was not distributed in the temple,” Kushal Chowdhury, secretary of the Dakshineswar Kali Temple Trust, said. “We have no option. The situation is such that all devotees will have to accept the new normal.” This year, the temple authorities have decided that devotees will have to leave immediately after offering puja. At Kalighat, the authorities have decided to scale down the volume of bhog that is usually prepared on the day of Kali Puja day because there will be no distribution. “If we used to arrange around 100kg of rice to prepare bhog on the day of Kali Puja, this year it will be one-fifth of that… we will not distribute bhog to our devotees visiting the temple on Saturday,” Bidyut Halder of the Kalighat Temple Committee said. “This will be an exceptional year for all of us at the temple.” Several Kali temples across Calcutta will not carry out the ritual of bhog distribution because of the pandemic and the high court order. The high court has said police have to ensure Covid protocol is maintained at all temples. “The local administration and the police will ensure there is no overcrowding within the temple precincts or outside,” the court has said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-239
14-11-2020||Calcutta||Stay off crackers and enjoy Diwali||Possession, sale and bursting firecrackers of any kind have been banned by Calcutta High Court. The state should ensure that there is no use or display or bursting of firecrackers at all during Kali Puja and Diwali celebrations, the court said in its order. “For this purpose, only wax or oil-based diyas would have to suffice for the greater good of the citizens and in the larger public interest. “This direction as to firecrackers will be effective all over the state and will cover not only Kali Puja and Diwali celebrations, but also Chhath Puja, Jagadhatri Puja and Guru Nanak’s birthday celebrations thereafter.” The Telegraph gives the low-down on how to go about this Diwali: Sparklers are not allowed. The court order clearly mentioned that no firecrackers would be allowed. “The compendious word ‘firecrackers’ is used in this order to include all types of sparklers and the like, whether or not the use or burning thereof involves any sound or light being generated,” the order read. The court has ordered the police to maintain strict vigil and ensure there is no sale or purchase of firecrackers of any kind in the state between now and the end of the month. The cold and dry winds from north India have been somewhat stalled by a slight rise in the moisture content in the atmosphere. The Met office has ruled out rain on Diwali. But the minimum temperature is likely to be above 21 degrees Celsius, a couple of notches above normal, a Met official said. Metro Railway will run 152 trains son Saturday instead of the scheduled 190. The first and last trains will start from Kavi Subhash and Dum Dum at 8am and 9pm. The first and last trains from Noapara will start at 8.09am and 8.55pm. Diwali is not a dry day. There is no restriction on bars, pubs, off shops, and clubs — they can serve liquor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-239
14-11-2020||Business||Indiabulls Real Estate shares gain more than 9 per cent||Shares of Indiabulls Real Estate gained more than 9 per cent on Friday after ace investor Rakesh Jhunjhunwala’s Rare Enterprises acquired its shares through an open market transaction. His purchase saw the counter zooming 15.68 per cent to an intra-day high of Rs 63.80 on the BSE. It finally settled at Rs 60.15, a gain of 9.07 per cent. It rose 9.35 per cent to settle at Rs 60.25 on the NSE. Bulk deals data of the NSE showed on Thursday that Rare Enterprises bought 50 lakh scrips of the company at an average price of Rs 57.73 per share. This took the total deal value to Rs 28.86 crore. His purchase comes at a time observers are optimistic about the real estate sector even as the government has also announced incentives to boost the sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-235
14-11-2020||Business||Stocks wrap up Samvat 2076 on a positive note||Stocks wrapped up Samvat 2076 on a positive note, with the benchmark Sensex ending 85.81 points, or 0.20 per cent, higher at 43443. The broader NSE Nifty gained 29.15 points, or 0.23 per cent, to close at 12719.95. Both the key indices closed the Hindu calendar year with double-digit gains. While the Sensex rallied 4384.94 points or 11.22 per cent, the Nifty rose 1136.05 points or 9.80 per cent. The stock exchanges will hold a special one hour Muhurat session on Saturday to ring in Samvat 2077. Analysts and brokerages are optimistic about how the next year would pan out for equities. They feel a vaccine, a turnaround in global economic growth and better corporate performance along with reduced trade hostilities between the US and China are some of the key factors which would keep stocks on a firm ground. While some experts feel that the Sensex could test the 47000-mark, Goldman Sachs has placed a target of 14100 for the Nifty by the end of 2021. Investors were confronted by several headwinds during Samvat 2076 — a slowdown in the economy, troubled trade ties between the US and China, lacklustre corporate performance and then the Covid-19 pandemic which resulted in a strict and long lockdown severely affecting economic activity. Investors saw the Sensex hitting multi-year lows of 25639 in March. Since then it has rebounded in a spectacular fashion as lockdown rules were relaxed and there were positive developments about the Covid-19 vaccine, generating hopes of a sharp turnaround in economic growth. During this period, pharmaceuticals, IT, chemicals and telecom were some of the sectors that delivered positive returns while those in the banking and finance sector and consumer discretionary stocks lost value.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-235
14-11-2020||Business||Eveready Industries posts highest ever operating profit in a quarter||Dry cell battery maker Eveready Industries has posted the highest ever operating profit in a quarter, backed by a strong demand for premium batteries, flashlights and benign commodity prices. Profit jumped 216 per cent to Rs 58.02 crore from Rs 18.38 crore a year ago, while the operating EBIDTA margin stood at 20.3 per cent in the reporting quarter, even as operating income inched up 7 per cent to Rs 372.63 crore from Rs 348.28 crore. The company, led by Amritanshu Khaitan, managed to cut expenses on various heads such as employee and distribution cost and promotional spends. “This is the best operational result Eveready has ever delivered in a quarter. I am confident that we can maintain the performance in the second half of the year as well,” Khaitan said. A healthy demand coupled with a sharp reduction in cheap Chinese imports helped the company do well in the core segments of battery and flashlights.  In addition, Eveready increased prices of batteries and flashlights to mitigate the negative impact of the rupee depreciation. Consequently, while batteries sales were higher by 7.4 per cent, turnover grew 14.1 per cent in this segment. Torch and flashlight volumes were flat but turnover went up 8.6 per cent. The lighting segment also returned to profit during the second quarter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-235
14-11-2020||Business||ONGC’s net profit falls 55 per cent to Rs 2,878 crore||ONGC’s net profit fell 55 per cent to Rs 2,878 crore in the second quarter of 2020 from Rs 6,336 crore, a company statement said on Friday. Total income fell to Rs 19,152 crore from Rs 27,152 crore in the corresponding quarter a year ago. OIL discovery Oil India on Friday said it has made a natural gas discovery at a well drilled in Tinsukia, Assam. “The discovery will open up new areas for exploration in Assam and would help in enhancing the gas production,” the company said. Oil India said well Dinjan-1 in Tinsukia petroleum mining lease in the upper Assam basin struck hydrocarbons. The well encountered about 10 metres of hydrocarbon-bearing sands, it said. On testing, it produced gas at the rate of 115,000 standard cubic metres per day. Oil India, whose majority of operations are concentrated in the north-east, did not indicate the reserves the discovery may hold. The country’s oil and natural gas sector is likely to receive fresh investment of over $300 billion by 2030 for developing natural supply and distribution infrastructure to meet rising demand. Gas accounts for a little over 6 per cent energy consumption mix, which is far below the global average and the country has set a target to raise this to 15 per cent by 2030. The demand is expected to be driven by the fertiliser, power, household cooking and steel sectors. Promoting compressed natural gas is aimed at reducing the overwhelming dependence on imported petrol and diesel in the auto sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-236
14-11-2020||Business||Centre asks public sector units to pay higher dividends on a quarterly basis||The cash-strapped Modi government has sent out an advisory to public sector units asking them to pay higher dividends and on a quarterly basis. The move is seen as an attempt to shore up its finances. The government has told state-owned firms not to go by the rule book and pay only the bare minimum dividend, but to work on increasing payouts. The letter, sent by the department of investment and public asset management (DIPAM) to the chief executives of all CPSEs, said the move would help the government get predictable and periodic payouts before the budget estimates are firmed up. “The CPSEs, especially companies that pay relatively higher dividends, may consider paying interim dividends every quarter after their quarterly results. Other CPSEs may pay interim dividends on a half-yearly basis,” the advisory said. “Many CPSEs usually only pay a minimum dividend as set in the guidelines. They are advised to pay higher dividends taking into account relevant factors such as profitability, capex requirements with due leveraging, cash or reserves and net worth,” the advisory said. DIPAM secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey told a television channel: “30 per cent should not be treated as a maximum kind of a thing, it is minimum so they should strive to give more dividends. Frequency of the interim dividend could be higher and 90 per cent of the projected dividend should be paid as an interim dividend. This will ensure that the shareholders can keep the money as dividend as they go.” Most PSUs pay interim dividend in February or March. He added “dividend should be taken into consideration all factors including capex requirements, including the requirements of profitability, etc. whatever it is, it should be actually well distributed over the year.” DIPAM advised that only CPSEs without any “possibility” of dividend payout, according to the minimum prescribed norms, can pay interim dividend annually during October or November each year based on projected profit after tax, with the declaration of second quarterly results. “A consistent dividend policy would also help revive investor interest and improve market sentiment for CPSE stocks, as practicability in regular or quarterly dividend payment would attract quality investors to CPSE stocks and retain them in the hope of a future dividend,” the DIPAM’s fresh advisory said. Most state-owned firms pay interim dividend in February or March of a year at present. “Such bunching of interim dividend payouts by CPSEs in February-March may compete with their cash availability for year-end payments to suppliers as well as towards advance tax,” the DIPAM explained the rationale behind the move in the advisory. In the budget 2020, the government had estimated receipts from dividends and profits at Rs 1.55 lakh crore against the revised estimates for the past year of Rs 1.99 lakh crore. Clearly, the centre is stepping on the management to cough up sorely-needed cash.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-236
14-11-2020||Business||Infosys co-founder S.D. Shibulal receives a little over four lakh shares as gift||Infosys co-founder S.D. Shibulal has received a little over four lakh shares of the company as a gift. This will take the total number of shares owned by him to more than 21.6 lakh shares. The country’s second-largest IT services firm informed the stock exchanges that “4,01,000 equity shares (representing 0.01 per cent) of Infosys by way of gift as off market transaction on November 12’’ were given to Shibulal. The value of these shares, according to the closing price of the Infosys scrip on Thursday, stood at Rs 44.82 crore. Though the filing did not mention who gifted these shares, it is understood to be from his wife. This is because a separate regulatory filing stated that his wife Kumari had gifted 4.01 lakh shares on the same day. However, the name of the recipient was not disclosed. As on September 30, 2020, she held 92,97,930 shares of Infosys. Following the transaction, Kumari’s shareholding in the Bangalore-based firm has now come down to 0.21 per cent, while that of Shibulal increased to 0.05 per cent. In terms of absolute number of shares, that held by Kumari Shibulal and Shibulal stood at 88,96,930 and 21,66,768, respectively. Shares of Infosys on Friday closed marginally higher at Rs 1,123.90, a gain of 0.55 per cent, on the BSE. While the reasons behind the gift to Shibulal could not be ascertained, such inter-se transfers are not new in the family. For instance, in 2018, Shibulal and his daughter Shruti Shibulal had gifted shares worth Rs 2,327 crore to family members. These were gifted to son-in-law Gaurav Manchanda, daughter in-law Bhairavi Madhusudan Shibulal and grandson Milan Shibulal Manchanda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-236
14-11-2020||Business||Bengal govt partially agrees to Centre's latest GST shortfall formula||The Bengal government has partially agreed to the latest formula proposed by the Centre to clear the shortfall in GST compensation to the states. While it has decided to go along with the Modi government’s proposal to borrow Rs 1.10 lakh crore, which constitutes two thirds of the outstanding dues, and pass it on to the states, it has refused to accept an accompanying proposition that the states must borrow the remaining amount. After three rounds of protracted meetings of the GST Council, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman wrote to the chief ministers of all the states, stating that it accepted the demand raised by various states, including Bengal, to borrow a sum of Rs 1.10 crore and pass it on to the states. She also proposed that the rest — around Rs 72,000 crore constituting about one-third of the total estimated shortfall of GST compensation cess — would have to be borrowed by the states. Accordingly, the Centre relaxed limits by permitting states to borrow an additional 0.5 per cent of state’s gross state domestic product (GSDP). In a letter written to Sitharaman on Friday, Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra argued that borrowing by the states would result in higher borrowing costs and a bigger debt servicing burden than if the Centre borrowed the sum on their behalf. While the central formula proposes to apportion the borrowing requirement between the states and the Centre, the burden of meeting the shortfall will fall on the common people. In either case, both the principal and the interest of the loan will be met by extending the period of collecting the compensation cess beyond 2022. The cess is largely imposed on luxury products and demerit goods such as cigarettes. Mitra has called for another meeting of the GST Council to discuss the proposal that the Centre ought to borrow the additional sum of Rs 72,000 crore. “May I also point out that the GoI (Government of India) has been able to borrow the initial compensation funds from the special window of the RBI at a low rate of 5 per cent, approximately, whereas the interest rates paid by the states for competitively borrowing from the RBI auction is as high as 6.8 per cent,” Mitra said in his letter. “In other words, by asking the states to borrow one-third of the potential compensation funds from the competitive auction market of the RBI, a lot more debt servicing burden will be generated for the states, to be paid from the cess collection. This huge differential in interest rates between the GoI’s special window rate and the market borrowing rate of the state, provide a cogent reason for the GoI to borrow the whole amount from the special window,” Mitra added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-236
14-11-2020||Business||Tata Steel in talks with SSAB to sell business in the Netherlands||Tata Steel has opened talks with Swedish steel maker SSAB to sell the business in the Netherlands, making another attempt to trim its loss-making European operations. The Indian steel maker confirmed on Friday that it had started talks with SSAB even as it has begun consultations with the management of Tata Steel Netherlands and its supervisory board. The potential transaction will not include steel-making operations in the UK which the Tatas will continue to own and operate while pinning hopes that the British government will agree to back a financial rescue package. The Ijmuiden operation, which produces about 7 million tonnes of  steel in the Netherlands, is considered to be a more modern and profitable asset than the UK business which centres around Port Talbot in Wales. “Based on the discussions, initiated by SSAB Sweden, regarding a potential acquisition of Tata Steel’s Netherlands business, we will undertake a due process and move to the next stages, including consultation and due diligence,” Koushik Chatterjee, executive director and CFO of Tata Steel, said in a statement. Earlier, the company had planned to merge the entire European operation with Thyssenkrupp of Germany. However, the deal could not go through as it was not approved by the European Commission. The steel operations in the Netherlands have historically been profitable but have started to slip lately. The company faced a backlash from the unions over proposed reorganisation plans that provided for job cuts. The European business posted an EBIDTA loss of Rs 462 crore in the second quarter compared with Rs 165 crore in the first quarter. Restructuring in India Tata Steel also unveiled a plan to restructure the Indian business by proposing to merge Tata Metaliks and Indian Steel and Wire Products with Tata Steel Long Products. Tata Metaliks, which produces pig iron and ductile iron pipe at Kharagpur, has its registered office in Bengal. ISWP is an unlisted entity. The reorganisation is part of efforts to create four verticals: mining and utilities, long products, downstream and infrastructure businesses. Tata Metaliks’ shareholders will get 12 shares of Tata Steel Long Products for every 10 shares held. In the past, Tata Steel had proposed to merge Tata Metaliks with Tata Steel India but the plan was aborted. T.V. Narendran, CEO & MD of Tata Steel, said: “We are now embarking on re-organising our Indian subsidiaries into four verticals to drive scale, synergies and simplification which we are confident will create value for our stakeholders.” Results The company reported second-quarter standalone profits after tax of Rs 2,205 crore against a Rs 3,838 crore a year ago. Tata Steel Group recorded a PAT of Rs 1635 crore against 4,043 crore a year ago. The company reduced its net debt by Rs 8,197 crore in the first half.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-236
14-11-2020||India||India summons Pak Embassy’s charge-D over LoC violation||India summoned Pakistan High Commission’s Charge d'Affaires on Saturday, lodging a heavy protest over several unprovoked violations in ceasefire by the Pakistani troops along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir on Friday. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), in a statement, also condemned the "deliberate targeting" of civilians by the neighbouring country’s forces. The statement also called out Pakistan’s act of choosing an Indian festive occasion to perpetrate violence thereby disrupting peace in Jammu and Kashmir with its coordinated attacks along the LoC. "The Charge d'Affaires of the High Commission of Pakistan was summoned by the Ministry of External Affairs today and a strong protest was lodged over unprovoked ceasefire violations by Pakistani forces, on multiple sectors along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir on November 13, resulting in the death of four innocent civilians and serious injuries to 19 others," the MEA said. Five security personnels were killed in the attacks along with civilians. “Indian forces retaliated strongly to the Pakistani shelling in which killing eight Pakistani soldiers and injuring 12 others”, official sources informed. "India also strongly protested Pakistan's continued support to cross border terrorist infiltration into India, including through supporting cover fire provided by Pakistan forces," the MEA said in its statement. "Pakistan was once again reminded of its bilateral commitment to not allow any territory under its control to be used for terrorism against India in any manner," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-558
14-11-2020||India||Air quality in Delhi reaches ‘severe’ zone on Diwali||Delhi’s air quality turned ‘severe’ on Saturday as stubble burning accounted for 32 per cent of the city state’s PM2.5 pollution, which was further aided by calm winds that resulted in the accumulation of pollutants, said weather officials. "Even a small increase in local additional emissions is likely to have a significant deterioration impact on Sunday and Monday,'' said SAFAR, the Ministry of Earth Sciences’ air quality watchdog. PM10 and PM2.5 levels are expected to peak from 1am to 6am in case of added internal emissions. Earlier, it had said with no use of firecrackers, Delhi’s PM2.5 concentrations on Diwali are likely to be the lowest in the last four years. Falling under the ‘severe’ category, the city recorded an overall AQI of 414, compared to 339 on Friday and 314 on Thursday. Last year on Diwali, which fell on October 27, Delhi recorded a 24-hour average AQI of 337, followed by 368 and 400, after which the pollution levels remained ‘severe’ for three days straight. However, this year, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had said that increased wind speed as a result of western disturbances is likely to improve the air quality in Delhi-NCR post Diwali. Under its influence, light rain may occur in the area on Sunday, the MET department had said. Whether the rain would be enough to wash away the pollutants is still a matter of speculation, Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre said. "However, Delhi-NCR's air quality is likely to improve post Diwali due to an expected increase in the wind speed on Sunday," he said. Head of IMD’s environment research centre VK Soni said calm winds, smoke from farm fires and firecrackers emissions may worsen the air quality and push it to the ‘severe’ zone on Diwali night. “The wind speed is expected to pick up thereafter and the wind direction will be east-southeasterly”, he said. “There will be a significant improvement in air quality by November 16”, Soni added. On Sunday, the situation is likely to improve, said the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi. "Under the influence of a Western Disturbance, isolated rainfall over plains of northwest India and adjoining central India is likely on Sunday. The predominant surface wind is likely to be coming from East-Southeast direction of Delhi with wind speed up to 20 kmph," the central agency said. "Generally cloudy sky, light rain, thundershowers accompanied with gusty winds (speed 30-40 kmph) is likely towards afternoon-evening on Sunday," it added. On Friday, the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) asked the CPCB and the states concerned to make sure that there is no gap in implementing the National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) order regarding the air quality issue during the Diwali days. "In pursuance of NGT order dated November 9 and considering the concerns of air quality scenario in the NCR and its adverse health impact, the Commission directed CPCB, state governments and authorities concerned for strict compliance of the directions of NGT, with zero tolerance on violation," it directed. Asserting that "celebration by crackers is for happiness and not to celebrate deaths and diseases", the NGT on Monday had imposed a total ban on the use and sale of firecrackers in the NCR region from November 9 midnight to November 30 midnight. NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel while heading a bench ruled that this order will apply to all cities and towns where the average ambient air quality during the Diwali period was in “poor” or above categories. "At other places, restrictions are optional for the authorities but if there are more stringent measures under orders of the authorities, the same will prevail," the NGT had directed. The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) had earlier ordered the closure of stone crushers and  hot mix plants till November 17, keeping in mind the surge in pollution levels during the festive season. It also ordered the Punjab and Haryana government to take strict measures immediately to cut stubble burning and Delhi-NCR authorities to curb biomass burning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-558
14-11-2020||India||Delhi Police arrest 10, registers 12 cases for sale of firecrackers||On Diwali, the Delhi Police arrested 10 people and registered 12 cases for alleged sale of firecrackers in the national capital, officials said on Saturday. Ahead of Diwali, the Delhi government had imposed a total ban on firecrackers, including the environmentally safer green crackers, from November 7 to 30 to combat rising air pollution amid an increasing number of COVID-19 cases in the city. "Among the 12 cases, one was registered in northeast district, four in southeast, two in outer-north, one in outer, three in Dwarka and one in the southwest," Additional PRO (Delhi Police) Anil Mittal said. "Ten people were arrested on Saturday – one in northeast district, three in southeast, two in outer-north, one in outer, two in Dwarka and one in the southwest," he said, adding that 638.32 kg firecrackers were also recovered. Police also registered 14 cases for bursting firecrackers – four in east, seven in northeast, and three in northwest districts – during the day and 12 people were arrested, he said. Till Saturday, 54 cases were registered and 55 people arrested for allegedly selling fireworks in the city. A total of 3,407.852 kg of firecrackers were recovered from their possession, the police said. Thirty-two cases were registered and 21 people arrested for allegedly bursting firecrackers, they said. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Monday imposed a total ban on the sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in the National Capital Region (NCR) from November 9 midnight to November 30 midnight, saying "celebration by crackers is for happiness and not to celebrate deaths and diseases". All the DCPs have been asked to ensure that steps are taken against violators under appropriate sections of the law, and strict action is initiated against the staff for any non-compliance with the order, the Delhi Police had earlier said. The DCPs of all the 15 police districts will constitute police station-wise teams to supervise the implementation of the NGT order. Each staff would be properly briefed by SHOs concerned to enforce the direction in letter and spirit, it had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-558
14-11-2020||India||Akhilesh hints at tie-up with estranged uncle for UP polls||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday hinted at a possible electoral tie-up with his estranged uncle's Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, saying Shivpal Yadav will be given a cabinet berth if his party forms the government in the state. However, he made it clear that the Samajwadi Party (SP) will not enter into any electoral alliance with the Mayawati-led Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP). "Adjustment will be done with smaller parties, but there will be no alliance with larger parties," Akhilesh Yadav told reporters here. To a question whether the SP will form an electoral alliance with his uncle Shivpal Yadav's Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party, he said, "We will adjust that party too. Jaswantnagar is his (Shivpal Yadav's) seat and the Samajwadi Party vacated the seat for him. In the coming times, we will make their leader a cabinet minister, and what other adjustment is needed? Legislative Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh are scheduled in February-March 2022. Shivpal Yadav, the estranged uncle of Akhilesh Yadav, was elected from the Jaswantnagar assembly constituency in the 2017 state elections. He later floated a new political party, Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (Lohia), and contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections on its symbol from Firozabad. Accusing the BJP of using deceit for defeating the Mahagathbandhan' (led by the Rashtriya Janata Dal) in the recently concluded Bihar assembly elections, Akhilesh Yadav said, "The maximum public support was seen at the Mahagathbandhan rallies and all the surveys hinted towards a historic victory for it. But, when the EVMs were opened for the counting of votes, the results were stopped midway and the victory certificates were handed to someone else." When asked about the performance of the SP in the recently held bypolls to seven assembly seats in UP, Akhilesh Yadav said, "When the elections are contested by the election officers, superintendents of police, additional district magistrates, SHOs and police jawans, who will win then. The BJP was not contesting the bypolls but the officials of its government," he added. The SP chief hit out at the BJP government, saying corruption and injustice have become rampant in the state. If someone is insulting people and giving them problems, they will overthrow that government as and when they will get an opportunity," he said. A number of leaders and workers from the Congress and the BSP joined the SP in the presence of Akhilesh Yadav on the occasion. The joining of the leaders from other parties will strengthen the SP, Akhilesh Yadav said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-559
14-11-2020||India||On Diwali, Narendra Modi warns of India’s ‘prachand jawab’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday, like every other Diwali, spent the day with Indian soldiers, addressing troops at Rajasthan’s Longewala post, where he said that if proved, India will give its enemies ‘prachand jawab’. Without taking name, but clearly indicating China, Modi said that ‘expansionist’ forces are bothering the entire world at the moment, describing their approach as a “distorted mindset” that belongs to the 18th century. "India today believes in the policy of understanding others and making them understand but if an attempt to test it is made, then the country will give a fierce reply," he said. “The country has the capability and political will to give a befitting response to those who challenge it”, the PM added. “India has become a forceful voice against forces of expansionism,” he said, while also taking a dig at Pakistan. Referring to the air and surgical strikes carried out by Indian soldiers against terror camps in the Imran Khan-led country, Modi said that the army has taken down “sponsors of terrorism” in their home. “No force in the world can prevent our soldiers from protecting our borders”, he said, adding that “India has shown that it has strength and the political will to give a befitting reply to those challenging it,” Modi asserted. The PM’s strong message came at a time when Indian troops are engaged in a month-long conflict with their Chinese counterparts at Eastern Ladakh. Modi also stressed on the significance of having a strong capability and said that despite advanced international equations, vigilance is the path to security. “Alertness leads to happiness and peace is the prize of having strength.” The Prime Minister also assured that 130 crore Indians support the country’s soldiers and pay respect to their sacrifices. "History of the world tells us that only those nations have remained safe and advanced who had the ability to take on invaders," he said, adding that their valour has got better of all adversities, in every sector. Making reference to the government’s efforts to restart the economy completely amid its efforts of battling the coronavirus pandemic, Modi said, “Your sacrifices teach the country discipline and sense of service.” "The world now knows that India will not compromise with its interests even one bit," he added. Modi said, while referring to his act of spending Diwali with soldiers ever since he assumed office, that being with the troops strengthens his purpose of protecting the country even more. He recalled the time when the Longewala post had witnessed the fierce 1971 battle with Pakistan and paid tributes to a hero of the battle, Brig Kuldeep Singh Chandpuri. The PM said that in his endeavour, the soldier has become a “rashtra deep”. "Pakistan opened the front on western border to divert the global attention but our forces gave them a befitting reply," he said. “The war was also an example of exemplary coordination among Army, Navy and Air Force”, Modi said. Pakistan was defeated by India in the war, which led to the freedom of Bangladesh. Narendra Modi has been visiting Army posts every Diwali ever since he became Prime Minister in 2014. Last year, he visited Rajouri, and before that, Uttarakhand and Gurez in 2018 and 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-559
14-11-2020||India||Active Covid cases below 5 lakh with almost 45,000 patients testing positive in 24 hours||India's COVID-19 tally climbed to 87.73 lakh with 44,684 new cases in a day, while 81,63,572 people have recuperated from the disease so far, bringing the national recovery rate to 93.04 per cent on Saturday, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The fresh cases pushed the number of novel coronavirus cases to 87,73,479. The death toll mounted to 1,29,188 with the pandemic claiming 520 more lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed. The COVID-19 case fatality rate has further declined to 1.47 per cent. There are 4,80,719 active cases of the coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 5.48 per cent of the national caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and surpassed 80 lakh on October 29. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 12,40,31,230 samples have been tested for COVID-19 up to November 13 with 9,29,491 samples being tested on Friday. The 520 new fatalities include 127 from Maharashtra, 91 from Delhi, 51 from West Bengal, 27 from Haryana, 26 from Kerala, 25 from Uttar Pradesh, 18 from Chhattisgarh, 17 from Karnataka, 16 from Punjab and 14 from Tamil Nadu. A total of 1,29,188 deaths linked to the novel coronavirus have been reported so far in the country, including 45,809 from Maharashtra, followed by 11,491 from Karnataka, 11,454 from Tamil Nadu, 7557 from West Bengal, 7,423 from Delhi, 7,327 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,847 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,428 from Punjab and 3,791 from Gujarat. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the COVID-19 deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-559
14-11-2020||India||Delhi's air quality very poor, likely to become 'severe' by night||Delhi's air quality remained very poor on Saturday morning and emission from firecrackers and calm winds may push it to the severe zone, according to government agencies and weather experts. The Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR, said the PM2.5 concentration in Delhi on Diwali is likely to be the lowest in the last four years if no firecrackers are burnt. Pollution levels in Delhi during the Diwali period are likely to remain in the higher end of the very poor category in the absence of emissions due to fireworks, it said. But two factors smoke from farm fires and stagnant surface winds will keep the air quality in the higher end of the very poor category to the lower end of the severe on Diwali night, it said. Transport-level winds have become northwesterly and the stubble burning-induced impact on air quality index (AQI) is expected to increase, the central government agency said. A spike in PM2.5 levels in the early hours Sunday is likely if fire crackers are burnt, it said. The city recorded an AQI of 369 at 9 am on Saturday. The 24-hour average AQI was 339 on Friday and 314 on Thursday. The neighbouring cities of Faridabad (323), Ghaziabad (412), Noida (362), Greater Noida (350), and Gurgaon (338), which fall in the National Capital Region (NCR), also recorded their AQI is the "very poor" and severe categories. Delhi recorded a 24-hour average AQI of 337 on Diwali last year (October 27), and 368 and 400 the next day. Thereafter, pollution levels remained in the severe category for three days on the trot. In 2018, the 24-hour average AQI (281) on Diwali was recorded in the poor category. It deteriorated to 390 the next day and remained in the severe category on three consecutive days thereafter. In 2017, Delhi's 24-hour average AQI on Diwali (October 19) stood at 319. It, however, slipped into the severe zone the next day. This time, the India Meteorological Department has said that a fresh western disturbance is likely to increase the wind speed and improve the air quality in Delhi-NCR post Diwali. Light rain is likely on Sunday under the influence of a western disturbance. It is still to be seen if it is enough to wash away pollutants, Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said. However, Delhi-NCR's air quality is likely to improve post Diwali due to an increase in the wind speed. On Sunday, the maximum wind speed is expected to be around 12 to 15 kilometre per hour, he said. V K Soni, the head of the IMD's environment research centre, said calm winds and firecrackers emissions may push the air quality to the severe zone on Diwali night. The wind speed is expected to pick up thereafter and the wind direction will be east-southeasterly, he said. There will be a significant improvement in air quality by November 16, Soni said. The Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) on Friday directed the CPCB and states concerned to ensure there is no lapse in the implementation of the National Green Tribunal's directions in view of the air quality scenario during the Diwali period. In pursuance of NGT order dated November 9 and considering the concerns of air quality scenario in the NCR and its adverse health impact, the Commission directed CPCB, state governments and authorities concerned for strict compliance of the directions of NGT, with zero tolerance on violation, it said. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) had on Monday imposed a total ban on sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in the National Capital Region (NCR) from November 9 midnight to November 30 midnight, saying "celebration by crackers is for happiness and not to celebrate deaths and diseases". A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel clarified that the direction will apply to all cities and towns in the country where the average of ambient air quality during November 2019 was in "poor" and above categories. "At other places, restrictions are optional for the authorities but if there are more stringent measures under orders of the authorities, the same will prevail," the NGT had said. The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) had on Wednesday ordered closure of hot mix plants and stone crushers in Delhi-NCR till November 17 in view of a likely increase in pollution levels during the festive season. It also asked the governments of Punjab and Haryana to take immediate stringent actions to curb stubble burning and authorities in Delhi-NCR to strictly check biomass burning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-559
14-11-2020||India||Will not retract tweets or apologise for them: Kunal Kamra||Stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra has said he intends to neither retract his tweets linked to the Supreme Court nor apologise for them, saying the silence of the court on the personal liberty of many cannot go “uncriticised”. In a statement issued on social media on Friday, Kamra suggested that the highest court of the land devote its precious time and attention to “countless” more pressing issues such as the petition on demonetisation, revocation of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir and the legality of electoral bonds. On Thursday, attorney-general K.K. Venugopal had granted consent for Kamra’s prosecution for criminal contempt on the basis of multiple petitions against his tweets about the Supreme Court and the grant of interim bail to Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami on Wednesday. Venugopal had referred to two tweets in which Kamra had said that “honour has left the building (Supreme Court) long back” and “the Supreme Court of this country is the most Supreme joke of this country”, and to a morphed picture depicting the apex court adorned in the saffron colour. He said the posts were “not only in bad taste but clearly cross the line between humour and contempt of the court”. On Friday, Kamra began his statement thus: “No lawyers, No apology, No fine, No waste of space.” The statement, uploaded on social media platforms, is being reproduced with an annotation added by this newspaper in brackets: “Dear Judges, Mr K.K. Venugopal, "The tweets I recently put out have been found in contempt of court. All that I tweeted was from my view of the Supreme Court of India giving a partial decision in favour of a Prime Time Loudspeaker. “I believe I must confess I very much love holding court and enjoying a platform with a captive audience. An audience of Supreme Court judges and the nation’s topmost law officer is perhaps as VIP an audience as it gets. But I realise that more than any entertainment venue I would perform in, a time slot before the Supreme Court is a scarce commodity. “My view hasn’t changed because the silence of the Supreme Court of India on matters of other’s personal liberty cannot go uncriticised. I don’t intend to retract my tweets or apologise for them. I believe they speak for themselves. “I wish to volunteer having the time that would be allotted to the hearing of my contempt petition (20 hours at the very least, if Prashant Bhushan’s hearing is anything to go by), to other matters and parties who have not been as lucky and privileged as I am to jump the queue. May I suggest the demonetisation petition, the petition challenging the revocation of J&K’s special status, the matter of the legality of electoral bonds or countless other matters that are more deserving of time and attention. “To slightly misquote Senior Advocate Harish Salve (while seeking bail for Goswami) ‘Will the heavens fall if more salient matters are allotted my time?’ “The Supreme Court of India hasn’t yet declared my tweets anything as of now but if and when they do I hope they can have a small laugh before declaring them Contempt of Court. Also in one of my tweets I had asked for replacement of the photo of Mahatma Gandhi at the Supreme Court of India with that of Harish Salve. I would like to add that Pandit Nehru’s photo should also be replaced with Mahesh Jethmalani’s.” Senior lawyer Mahesh Jethmalani had called Kamra a “lowly worm”, following which a Twitter brawl had erupted. On Friday, asked for a response, Jethmalani told The Telegraph: “First of all, I don’t want to comment on the issue. I don’t want to influence the future course of proceedings that might take place after the attorney-general has given the consent. Second, I don’t want to give Mr Kamra the attention that he so desperately craves. Third, I don’t believe there is any photograph of Jawaharlal Nehru in the Supreme Court.” An official spokesperson for the Supreme Court said there was no photograph or statue of Jawaharlal Nehru in the court. Efforts to contact Salve, who is now in London, did not succeed. It is now up to Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde to constitute a bench to deal with the multiple contempt petitions against the comedian. The matter is expected to come up for hearing next week. If the proceedings are pursued and he is convicted, Kamra faces a maximum jail term of six months, besides a fine. Bhushan, the senior advocate mentioned in Kamra’s statement, had in August been convicted of criminal contempt of court for tweets on the judiciary and the CJI, after he had refused to apologise. He was let off with a token fine of Re 1. Bhushan retweeted a tweet that had tagged Kamra and uploaded a 1990s video of VHP leader Ashok Singhal and the purported voice of L.K. Advani seeking to defy court orders in the Ayodhya case. Within five hours, Kamra’s statement had garnered close to 60,000 likes on Twitter and over 15,000 retweets. Many lauded the comedian for showing spine and pointed to the denial of bail to the elderly and ailing revolutionary poet Varavara Rao. Music director Vishal Dadlani tweeted: “Say what you like about @kunalkamra88, but he’s a vertebrate in a swarm of jellyfish. Hardly wrong to say it behoves the Supreme Court to give time to ‘more salient matters’ than 1. Urgently letting a villainous joker off the hook & 2. Prosecuting a Comic who points that out.” Kannan Gopinathan, who quit the IAS, shared Kamra’s tweets on the Supreme Court verdict and wrote: “It will be great if someone can send a letter to AG asking consent for contempt proceedings against all of us. Let it be a mass-contempt. If the Supreme Court doesn’t know how to protect freedom of expression of citizens, let them learn that fellow citizens do know how to do it.” Status report Where do the three cases mentioned by Kamra stand? Demonetisation: The Supreme Court referred the issue to a five-judge constitution bench on December 16, 2016. The bench is yet to be constituted J&K status: Case in progress since August 28, 2019 Electoral bonds: Case in progress since September 4, 2017||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-559
14-11-2020||India||Saffron flowers debut on Sikkim soil as varsity project||Sikkim University, in collaboration with the North East Centre for Technology Application and Reach (NECTAR) and an NGO in Ranchi, Jharkhand, Swami Satyananda Ashram, has successfully cultivated saffron (kesar) in Sikkim for the first time. Saffron, the world’s costliest spice by weight, costs between Rs 2.5 lakh and Rs 3 lakh a kilogram. Derived from the flower of Crocus sativus, it is used mainly as seasoning, flavouring and colouring agent in food. It is also used in skincare. In India, saffron crop is currently grown in pockets of Kashmir. In Sikkim, as part of the pilot project, 100 kilograms of saffron bulbs were brought from Kashmir and planted in the horticulture garden of the varsity’s under-construction permanent campus at Yangang, south Sikkim, in early October. “Fortunately, the bulbs sprouted and flowered on time. So far we are satisfied that the cultivation has been successful,” said Shanti S. Sharma, a professor of botany, who headed the team of staff from the varsity’s botany and horticulture departments. Sharma added that further work and detailed scientific evaluation of diverse parameters for commercial and societal applications and outreach were needed before Sikkim could be declared a place suitable for saffron cultivation. “The next step should be to try cultivating in multiple locations of the state because (climatic and soil) conditions are not uniform throughout the state,” said Sharma. Pradip Singh, a farmer from Kashmir hired to monitor the day-to-day progress of the cultivation, said initially he had doubts about the success of the project because of the high volume of rain the area receives. “We could not sow the seeds as originally planned from September 15 because of the rain. We sowed the seeds on October 1. We saw regular progress in growth. Finally, when they began flowering, we knew it was a success,” he said. Singh, whose family is into saffron cultivation, said saffron grows best in cold and dry climate. In the Sikkim trial project, he said the climate matched Kashmir and 25 to 30 flowers were blooming every day in a scattered manner on the earmarked area. “We want more flowers to bloom next year,” Singh said. If Sikkim can grow saffron commercially, it can yield handsome results for farmers. According to the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research’s Institute of Himalayan Bioresource Technology, the yearly demand of saffron in India is 100 tonnes, but average production a year only 6-7 tonnes. To meet the huge shortfall, India imports saffron mainly from Iran and Afghanistan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-559
14-11-2020||India||Deadly flare-up on Pakistan border||Four Indian soldiers, a BSF sub-inspector and four civilians were killed in Kashmir on Friday in the year’s deadliest exchange of cross-border shelling. The Indian Army said “substantial damage” was inflicted on the “Pakistan army’s infrastructure and causalities”. PTI quoted Indian officials and sources as saying eight Pakistan soldiers, including two commandos, were killed. Pakistani media reported four civilian deaths in PoK. Civilian areas bore the brunt of the Pakistani shelling. Videos and pictures showed women and children running for cover, houses going up in flames, and the injured lying unattended with the dead. A man lay with a leg broken and his head smashed. An Uri resident said the shelling was the worst in two decades. “We have seen enough of it but it was like hell today. We don’t know what will happen during the night,” he said. Sources said a war-like situation prevailed, and many border residents were mulling migration. Police sources said Friday’s escalation was the worst after last year’s air strikes on militant camps in Balakot, Pakistan. “Pakistan deliberately targeted civilian areas,” defence spokesperson Col Rajesh Kalia said in Srinagar. The army released videos purportedly showing retaliatory Indian artillery fire destroying Pakistani bunkers, and claimed to have smashed Pakistani ammunition dumps, “forward operating location” dumps and militant launch pads. Kalia said that after the troops had foiled a “suspected infiltration bid” in the Keran sector, Pakistan resorted to “unprovoked” firing from mortars and other weapons in the Dawar, Keran, Uri and Naugam sectors in Bandipora and Baramulla. Uri in Baramulla witnessed seven deaths while two soldiers died at Gurez, Bandipora. The BSF identified the dead sub-inspector as Rakesh Doval and said a constable was injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-559
14-11-2020||India||Ram temple trust hit by unholy ripples||A mahant from Ayodhya has claimed to have written to the Union home ministry threatening to petition the Supreme Court unless more sadhus from the town are made members of the trust set up to build the Ram temple. Dharam Das, mahant of the Nirvani Ani Akhara, has alleged embezzlement of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust’s funds by some of its 15 members and claimed that local monks were kept out of the body to facilitate such corruption. “I have sent the notice to the home ministry, which had formed the trust (in late February) on the Supreme Court’s directions,” Das told reporters in Ayodhya on Friday. “They are keeping us away because they want to embezzle the funds. I shall approach the Supreme Court if the home ministry doesn’t give a satisfactory reply within two months.” Only one sadhu from Ayodhya — VHP leader and Maniram Chhaoni mahant Nrityagopal Das, who headed the now-defunct Ramjanmabhoomi Nyas — is part of the trust. The other 14 members include RSS and VHP leaders, bureaucrats and two outstation sadhus. “Many senior Union ministers had said that Ayodhya’s sadhus would find a place in the trust, but after eight months we are still waiting,” Dharam Das, who was one of the Hindu litigants in the Ayodhya title suit, said. It could not be confirmed from the Union home ministry whether it had received Das’s letter. A trust member said on the condition of anonymity: “We haven’t seen the notice and cannot comment on it officially. But Dharam Das must know that the trust is managed and monitored by the Centre, with auditors reviewing its spending every day.” Das alleged that Vaishnavs had been “mischievously” kept away from the trust. “They have also ignored the descendants of the saint who had placed the idol of infant Ram on the disputed premise,” he said. Das claims his late predecessor Baba Abhiram Das alias Abhinandan Mishra, mahant of the Hanumangarhi temple, had surreptitiously installed the idol on the night of December 22, 1949, setting off far-reaching events. However, a Hindu Mahasabha leader and monk, Ramchandra Paramahansa, had at the time publicly claimed responsibility for the act. It’s his claim that received wider publicity during the BJP-VHP temple movement although the FIR at Ayodhya police station names Abhiram. Abhiram had never publicly claimed to have installed the statue. He had told an Ayodhya court that the temple didn’t belong to any sect, math, akhara, mahant or any other organisation or individual and that the plot should be handed over to Hindus collectively. Continuing with the theme of embezzlement, Das said: “The title suit was between Ram Lalla Virajman and the Sunni Central Waqf Board, besides other parties. The court verdict was in favour of Ram Lalla. So why aren’t all the trusts’ assets in the name of Ram Lalla?” Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday announced several projects for Ayodhya including a Rs 3.47-crore Ramlila centre, Rs 7.59-crore Ram Katha centre and a Rs 19.02-crore bhajan hall. He also announced a Rs 21.92-crore memorial to Huh Wang-Ock, said to be a princess of Ayodhya who had travelled to Korea in AD 48 and married the Korean king.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-559
14-11-2020||India||Suspicion of ideological filtering at IIT helm||The appointment process for two IIT directors has been cancelled 10 months after a committee headed by education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal held interviews and shortlisted the candidates, suggesting a higher authority is overriding the education ministry in the selection of academic leaders. “The cancellation of the process to appoint directors to IIT Indore and IIT Mandi after the committee had shortlisted the candidates shows that the selections are done outside the education ministry. This is dangerous for academic institutions,” an IIT professor said. Commenting on the long delay after the interviews, a former education ministry official had in September told this newspaper that the files of candidates shortlisted for IIT director or central university vice-chancellor are sent, “unofficially”, to the Prime Minister’s Office. The delays, he said, were mainly a result of the PMO busying itself in examining the candidates’ ideological leanings. Pokhriyal’s committee had held the interviews on December 26 last year after the vacancies had been advertised in September. The committee, made up of the chairpersons of the two IITs and other technology experts, had drawn up a panel of two candidates each for the two institutions. Under the rules, the government has to forward the selection panels’ shortlists to the President — the Visitor of all the IITs — who makes the final choice. This usually takes a week or two. However, the shortlists for IIT Mandi and IIT Indore were never sent to the President, two government officials said. After sitting over the shortlists for over 10 months, the education ministry this week cancelled the appointment process and advertised the vacancies again. “It’s rare for the process to be cancelled after the selection committee has interviewed and shortlisted the candidates,” the IIT professor said. He said the time lag of 10 months was very unusual too. A former education ministry official too said that the appointment process may sometimes be cancelled if no suitable candidate is found, but such decisions are usually taken shortly after the interviews and not after shortlisting candidates. In June 2019, the education ministry had cancelled the appointment process for the IIT Kharagpur director eight months after it had begun. However, the selection committee — headed by then HRD minister Prakash Javadekar — had not prepared a panel of shortlisted candidates. IIT Mandi and IIT Indore have been running without regular directors for months. Since Pradeep Mathur’s tenure ended as IIT Indore director on December 31 last year, the senior-most professor, Neelesh Kumar Jain, has been officiating as director. IIT Roorkee director Ajay Kumar Chaturvedi was given additional charge as director of IIT Mandi from July 1 after T.A. Gonsalves completed his tenure. Another three IITs — Patna, Bhubaneswar and Ropar — too have lacked regular directors for several months. The incumbent directors’ tenures have been extended at Bhubaneswar and Ropar while IIT BHU director Pramod Kumar Jain has held additional charge of IIT Patna since Pushpak Bhattacharyya left the institute on June 25. Another committee headed by Pokhriyal had interviewed candidates for directors of these three IITs on July 14. The appointments are awaited. Several central universities too have been waiting for regular vice-chancellors. An expert committee interviewed applicants for the vice-chancellor’s post at Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri National Sanskrit University, Delhi, on August 20, and another committee did so for the Central Sanskrit University on August 23. No appointment has been made, and the incumbent vice-chancellors have been given tenure extensions. “The delays in appointments even after the interviews betray government indecision and opacity in the appointment process,” a former HRD ministry official said. An email sent on Thursday to the education ministry seeking the reasons for the late cancellation of the appointment process for the two IIT directors brought no response.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-559
14-11-2020||India||Treatment of true and ‘tamasha’ journalists ||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said true journalists were being “strangled” in BJP-ruled Assam, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh while those indulging in “tamasha” were getting protection. “Assamese journalist Parag Bhuyan, who exposed corruption of BJP leaders, died under mysterious circumstances. My condolences to his family. Those doing true journalism are being strangled in Assam, Madhya Pradesh or Uttar Pradesh while those doing tamasha are getting protection,” Rahul tweeted. The Congress leader appeared to be referring to the interim bail granted to Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami by the Supreme Court while many other journalists and social activists are languishing in jail. On Wednesday, when Goswami was granted bail and the Supreme Court spoke about upholding personal liberty, Rahul had tweeted: “Uttar Pradesh journalist Vinay Tewari has been beaten up brutally by BJP goons. As rights are being discussed, I thought let us ask whether rights will be remembered only in case of select journalists or also for victims like Vinay Tewari.” Tewari was assaulted for highlighting irregularities in the MGNREGA scheme. The body of another journalist, Suraj Pandey, was found on Thursday in Uttar Pradesh’s Unnao. There have been several instances of journalists being arrested in Uttar Pradesh for reporting facts or posting unpalatable tweets. Journalist Pawan Jaiswal had been booked last year for reporting on children being served salt and chappatis in their midday meal in Uttar Pradesh. The Supreme Court’s swift intervention in Goswami’s case evoked widespread criticism for what many saw as selective outrage. Several politicians and activists felt that the court had not intervened when bail had been denied in more important cases. Asked for comment, Congress veteran and former finance minister P. Chidambaram said on Thursday: “Hundreds of people have been denied liberty by the high courts. They don’t seem to be on the same wavelength with the Supreme Court on the issue of granting bail. Even the Supreme Court faltered in some cases. A few judgments of the Supreme Court and the high courts have been very disappointing.” Chidambaram, who has not only been a top politician who held several cabinet portfolios but is also a senior member of the Bar, was denied bail several times and spent over 100 days in jail last year in the INX Media case. Senior lawyer and Congress leader Kapil Sibal welcomed what Justice D.Y. Chandrachud said about liberty during Goswami’s bail hearing but raised critical questions. “A judge speaks for the Supreme Court. The question is whether the other judges speak in one voice on the question of freedom of citizens. A Kerala journalist going to Hathras for coverage was denied bail by the Supreme Court as well as the high court,” Sibal said, referring to Siddique Kappan who has been in custody for 40 days now. Sibal went on: “What about the liberty of anti-CAA protesters who were put in jail? What about the liberty of JNU and Jamia students who are languishing in jail after being charged under the UAPA? What about activists Varavara Rao, Stan Swamy and others?” While the activists charged in the Bhima-Koregaon case are in jail for the last two years, both Rao and Swamy are over 80 years old and seriously ill, but their bail petitions have been repeatedly rejected. Senior lawyer Indira Jaising tweeted: “Is there more than one Supreme Court? Kapil Sibal says the journalist who went to cover Hathras did not get bail, why doesn’t the Supreme Court have a policy on bail for all? Why was P. Chidambaram’s anticipatory bail application not listed for two days?” The president of the Supreme Court Bar Association, Dushyant Dave, had in a letter to the secretary-general of the Supreme Court pointed to the perceived selective listing of matters “for the last eight months during the Covid pandemic”. Dave had said: “While thousands of citizens remain in jails, languishing for long periods while their matters filed before the Supreme Court are not getting listed for weeks and months, it is, to say the least, deeply disturbing as to how and why every time Goswami approaches the Supreme Court, his matter gets listed instantly.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-559
14-11-2020||India||JNU students complain to Modi about VC ||The JNU students’ union on Thursday told Narendra Modi that the vice-chancellor chosen by his government had damaged the institution’s pro-poor and liberal character, voicing grievances that underlined the students’ rejection of the ideology the Prime Minister represents. Office-bearers of the Left-dominated students’ union aired the charges in an open letter issued just before Modi unveiled a Swami Vivekananda statue on the campus. Apart from listing alleged wrongdoings by vice-chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar since his appointment in January 2016, the letter highlighted the targeting of JNU students by the political establishment and questioned the Modi government’s record in higher education. It said the students had little hope of redress but wrote the letter anyway because they wanted to protest every act “detrimental to the interest of the university and the country” and because being “Prime Minister requires one to listen to the critics”. “We note that you always criticise politicians from other political organisations, particularly our first Prime Minister, after whom the university was named. It is, however, ironic that you choose to address that same university — because the record of your party in government on opening new universities has been dismal,” the letter said. The students stressed how, since its inception in 1970, JNU had striven to facilitate research by women and poor students, and not just by keeping the fees low. It was till two years ago the only university in the country that, while selecting students for admission, awarded “deprivation points” to them based on their gender and the backwardness of the district they came from. One of the complaints against the VC the students voiced was that he had abolished this affirmative measure for research programmes in 2018, switching to University Grants Commission-prescribed admission rules. Then, in late 2019, the VC tried to impose a threefold fee hike, triggering massive protests that culminated in masked men entering the campus “in complicity with the administration and the security company” and attacking students and teachers with iron rods in January 2020. “However, till date the police ha(ve) failed to apprehend the culprits,” the letter said. It stressed that JNU had produced some of the finest researchers in the social sciences, humanities and the natural sciences, and taught some of Modi’s ministerial colleagues (such as finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and external affairs minister S. Jaishankar). Yet, it suggested, the authorities kept targeting it. “Why are students of JNU criminalised and called anti-national while those praising Nathuram Godse find a high place in Parliament?” the letter asked. It cited how doctored videos were used to bring sedition charges against JNU students for allegedly shouting “anti-national” slogans on campus in February 2016. In October 2016, student Najeeb Ahmed disappeared after a scuffle with ABVP students but the VC took no action against those accused of assaulting him, the letter said. Among the students’ other grievances was the university’s discontinuation of subscriptions to a host of journals and its severe funding cut for the library. “This is a long letter and we are doubtful regarding any agreement from your behalf pertaining to our concerns. But we believe that the Prime Minister of the country requires one to listen to the critics as well,” the letter said. “You have many a time stated that criticism is like a treasure which you would cherish. Hence, we would like to apprise you of the situation in JNU, caused majorly by the actions of your government and the vice-chancellor who has been placed by it.” The students argued that Modi’s acceptance of the university’s invite to Thursday’s event signalled his support for the VC’s actions. “But we shall continue to oppose every act that we feel is detrimental to the interest of the university and the country at large, because we believe that education must not be confined to the privileged few. The poison of hatred only seeks to deny people such rights as accessible education,” the letter said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-560
14-11-2020||India||BJP eyes Bihar ministry pie||The BJP and Nitish Kumar’s JDU are said to be bargaining hard with each other over a power-sharing deal in Bihar. The power scales have tipped with the JDU becoming the junior partner with 43 seats and the BJP emerging the biggest NDA player with 74. However, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced that Nitish would remain chief minister. The NDA’s tally of 125 includes four seats each of Jitan Ram Manjhi’s HAMS and Bollywood set designer Mukesh Sahni’s VIP. They will also have to be accommodated. The most important issue is the division of cabinet berths and government departments. The Bihar cabinet can have 36 ministers, including the chief minister. The JDU and the BJP have been following a formula of one minister for every four MLAs. The outgoing cabinet had 33 ministers — 19 from the JDU, including Nitish, and 14 from the BJP, including deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi. “This situation is going to turn around this time. Our party will have 18 or 19 ministers, while the JDU will have 13 or 14 ministers. One each from HAMS and VIP will be incorporated,” a senior BJP leader told The Telegraph. BJP leader and road construction minister Nand Kishore Yadav said: “Only a few people will be sworn in at the beginning. The expansion of the cabinet and the redistribution of government departments will happen in due course.” The BJP is said to be eyeing home and education, now with the JDU. “We would definitely want the education department. Our party, the RSS and the ABVP have always resented not being able to run education in the state as per our policies…. The education department is coming to us. We are trying to get the home department also,” a BJP leader said. Sources in the BJP said that the party also wanted the health and urban development departments, whose work directly affects the public. The BJP is also keen on having the Assembly Speaker from the party. But Nitish is said to be keen on retaining Vijay Kumar Choudhary. The BJP is also gunning for important positions in the government boards, corporations, commissions and 20-point programme implementation and monitoring, the sources said. Senior NDA leaders met Nitish at his 1 Aney Marg residence on Friday to chalk out the government formation schedule. BJP state president Sanjay Jaiswal, Sushil, Manjhi and Sahni were present. “We decided that the NDA legislature party would meet on Sunday afternoon. Members of all the four constituent parties will attend it. Everything related to staking claim to form the government and other issues will be decided there,” Nitish told journalists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-560
14-11-2020||India||Chidambaram seeks clarity on China standoff||Former Union minister and Congress leader P. Chidambaram on Friday sought clarity from the government on the border situation with China, arguing that claims and counter-claims had turned the debate into a “tragi-comedy.” Chidambaram said in a series of tweets, “The Government must explain what is going on in these never-ending talks with China. Every time India claims that there has been ‘agreement’ on disengagement, China repudiates the claim.” He added, “The latest is what India claimed in a statement yesterday and China’s statement today flatly denying any agreement on disengagement. The reality is that China has entrenched itself in the territory it has encroached upon. There is a bitterly cold winter ahead of us. If there is agreement on anything, India must insist on a joint statement so that we put an end to this tragi-comedy of claim and repudiation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-560
14-11-2020||India||Study fuels polio vaccine hope on Covid||Scientists at India’s National Institute of Immunology have detected similarities in structural proteins of poliovirus and the novel coronavirus that they say buttress existing proposals to deploy oral polio vaccines (OPV) against the coronavirus disease. Immunologist Tanmay Mazumdar and his colleagues at the New Delhi-based NII have found that two protein fragments on SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, are 80 per cent and 87 per cent similar to protein fragments of viruses used in the OPV. “The similarities in protein fragments strengthen arguments in favour of testing OPV against Covid,” said Mazumdar. The oral vaccines based on live, weakened poliovirus are routinely given to infants in India and many other countries to prevent polio. Infectious disease specialists have asserted that there is no evidence yet that OPV protects people from SARS-CoV-2, but experimental signals from multiple studies over the years have indicated that OPV has certain “non-specific” effects on the immune system. Clinical studies of OPV in the 1960s and 1970s in Russia had suggested that OPV is effective against the influenza virus and appeared to reduce influenza illness three-fold. Other studies had found that OPV could accelerate healing from herpes simplex virus and even reduce respiratory infections. Mazumdar said the protein similarities between SARS-CoV-2 and poliovirus raise the possibility that OPV can protect people from Covid-19 through a mechanism called “cross-protection”. They have published their findings in the journal Viruses. “This is for now only a hypothesis — this will need to be followed up through more detailed research on the 3D structures of proteins and human trials,” said Debi Sarkar, a senior biologist at the University of Delhi’s South Campus, who is not associated with the NII work. American biologist Robert Gallo, the co-discoverer of the HIV virus, is among proponents of assessing OPV against Covid-19. “We propose the use of OPV to ameliorate or prevent Covid-19,” Gallo and four other researchers had advocated in a report in the US journal Science in June. Gallo and his colleagues also pointed to the multiple advantages of OPV. The vaccines have a strong safety record, they are inexpensive and easy to administer and over a billion doses of OPV are produced and used in more than 140 countries. An international research team has already planned a clinical trial. Ane Fisker at the University of Southern Denmark and her colleagues plan a clinical trial in Guinea-Bissau in western Africa in which they will test the effect of OPV versus no vaccine in 3,400 people above 50 years of age at risk of Covid-19. The trial is aimed at finding out whether OPV can reduce the combined risk of hospital admission or death from Covid-19 in the six months after the vaccinations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-560
14-11-2020||India||Krishna temple plea in Allahabad High Court||A Supreme Court lawyer has moved Allahabad High Court seeking the handover to Hindus of the Shahi Idgah in Mathura, which many Hindus believe to be the birthplace of Lord Krishna. Mehek Maheshwari, the petitioner, has told the court that a temple should be built at the place where the idgah now stands. A similar petition is pending before the Mathura district court at a time a “Krishna Janmabhoomi movement”, similar to the Ram Janmabhoomi movement in Ayodhya, is crystallising. Maheshwari has claimed that Lord Krishna was born in a prison that was located at the same spot in the Dwapar Yuga where the idgah now stands. The lawyer has pleaded that a temple be allowed to be built there and Hindus be permitted to worship there during Krishna Janmashtami and one or two days every week. Maheshwari has also demanded an excavation at the site where the idgah is located so that it can be proved that it is the birthplace of Lord Krishna. The petitioner has challenged the Places of Worship Act, 1991, which advocates that status quo as in 1947 be maintained at places of worship. The management committees of the idgah and an adjoining Krishna temple have said that they have been coexisting amicably and have nothing to do with the petitioners. Earlier, the Mathura district court had rejected a similar plea on October 1. Ranjana Agnihotri, a lawyer in Lucknow who is considered close to the Vishwa Hindu Parishad, and six others had claimed that a Krishna temple existed at the birthplace of the Lord before it was destroyed several times by Muslim invaders and Mughal forces. Claiming that they were friends of “Lord Krishna Virajman”, the petitioners had stated that the place where the Shahi Idgah stands, besides the adjoining Sri Krishna Temple, was the prison of Kansa where his nephew, Lord Krishna, was born. Rejecting the petition, the Mathura court had said that being devotees of a god was not reason enough to claim ownership of His sacred place. Later, Agnihotri had moved the court of the district judge against the order of the civil judge, senior division, and the hearing is scheduled to be held on November 18.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-560
14-11-2020||India||Amid storm, Kerala CPM chief on leave||The CPM state secretary in Kerala has gone on leave for medical treatment, close on the heels of his son being arrested over a financial deal linked to a drug scandal and in the run-up to civic elections. The decision by Kodiyeri Balakrishnan immediately triggered speculation that the state party chief, who had succeeded current chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan as the state secretary in February 2015, wanted to stay away from the party as part of a damage-control effort. The change at the helm comes just weeks before the local body polls in Kerala, which is being seen as a litmus test before the Assembly elections likely in May. It is not the first time that Balakrishnan has gone on leave. He had last year travelled to the US to seek treatment for a health condition, but returned to resume his party work. The CPM has appointed Left Democratic Front convener A. Vijayaraghavan as the interim state secretary. Vijayaraghavan told reporters that medical treatment was the sole reason for Balakrishnan’s long leave. “The state CPM secretariat has very clearly explained the reason for the long leave. There is nothing more to add,” he said. Asked about the Opposition parties linking the move to the arrest of Bineesh, the son of Balakrishnan, Vijayaraghavan said he was not surprised by such interpretations. “The Opposition will not say anything to help us. They are just misinterpreting everything and I don’t need to comment on that,” he added. Leader of the Opposition and Congress veteran Ramesh Chennithala noted that Balakrishnan had not relinquished his position when he went on a long leave last time. “What this shows is the serious internal differences within their party. They had all along maintained the secretary’s son had nothing to do with the party. But now the secretary has been replaced,” Chennithala said, taking a swipe at the CPM that had shielded Balakrishnan after his son’s arrest. The Opposition parties were gunning for Balakrishan after the arrest of Bineesh. After two weeks of custodial interrogation by the Enforcement Directorate, Bineesh was remanded in judicial custody on Thursday. State CPI secretary and ruling coalition partner Kanam Rajendran said it was the CPM’s decision to grant leave to Balakrishnan. “Shouldn’t a leader take leave when he is not well?” he asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-560
14-11-2020||India||SC eases Telangana blanket cracker ban for 2 hours||The Supreme Court has allowed celebrations with fireworks in Telangana for two hours on Diwali on Saturday and other festivals like Chaath Puja. The court, which passed the order without hearing the respondent in view of the urgency of the matter, modified the directive for a blanket ban on crackers imposed by Telangana High Court. An apex court bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Sanjiv Khanna held a special hearing to pass the orders on a special leave petition filed by the Telangana Fireworks Dealers Association challenging the high court’s directive on the ground that it would adversely affect the livelihood of hundreds of dealers and mar the festive atmosphere in the state. The association had pointed out that the high court order had been passed without proper appraisal of the factual conditions in the state. The Supreme Court held a special hearing as it is on a week-long Diwali recess. The association, represented by senior advocate Salman Khurshid, submitted that Telangana High Court had passed the direction for a total ban on the use of crackers despite the National Green Tribunal (NGT) imposing graded restrictions on different states depending on the local pollution levels. For the Delhi-NCR region, the NGT had said in the November 9 order that there would be a total ban on the use of firecrackers in view of the rising pollution levels due to stubble burning and other factors. However, in other cities and towns where pollution levels are not alarming, the NGT has permitted the sale and use of crackers for two hours in keeping with a 2019 Supreme Court judgment. Agreeing with the petitioner’s contention, the apex court said: “List this matter on 16th November, 2020, before an appropriate bench. In the meantime, the impugned judgment and order of the high court stands modified and is brought in line with the directions issued by the National Green Tribunal… which applies even to the state of Telangana…. “For, no reason, much less special reason, is noted in the impugned order for departing there from. All concerned in the state of Telangana must comply with the stated directions of the Tribunal in its letter and spirit….” The court added: “We are conscious of the fact that the respondent(s) (Indira Prakash and others on whose petition the high court had banned crackers) are not represented today, nor have they been served (notice), but in the peculiar situation and urgency involved, as aforesaid, the impugned order stands modified to bring in line with the stated directions issued by the National Green Tribunal.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-560
14-11-2020||India||Odisha cabinet nod for farm ordinance ||The Odisha cabinet on Thursday gave its approval to the Ordinance on Agricultural Produce and Livestock Marketing (Promotion and Facilitation) that promises immediate benefits to farmers. The Ordinance has, in fact, been repromulgated after it lapsed after remaining in force for six months. The cabinet also approved around 17 other proposals. The Ordinance aims at warding off the fragmentation of the market for agriculture produce and livestock by removing the concept of the notified market areas and ensuring proper enforcement of regulations by the Agricultural Produce and Livestock Market Committee. It will also boost etrading and integration of markets and also create provisions for single point levy of market fee across the state and statewide single trading licence to realise cost effective transactions. The agriculture department will try to create a conducive market for setting up and operating private market yards and farmer consumer market yards (Kaushak Bazar), sub market yard and market yard so as to enhance competition among different market players for the farmer’s produce, to the advantage of the farmers. It will work for providing better market linkages to farmers and introduce provisions for single point levy of market fee across the state, statewide single trading licence to realise cost effective transitions. The state will also work to remove geographical restrictions on the sale of agricultural produce and allow producers to sell their produce anywhere within the state. The state will create modern infrastructure for value addition and primary processing including sorting, grading, packing, scientific storage, preservation and warehousing. The cabinet chaired by chief minister Naveen Patnaik also approved Rs 11,200 crore supplementary budget. The budget will be placed before the state legislative Assembly scheduled to begin from November 20. The state song of Odisha “Bande Utkal Janani” will now be a part of the school curriculum in the Classes IX and X. A notification to this effect was issued on Friday. The poem was penned by noted poet Laxmikanta Mohapatra during the freedom struggle. Additional reporting by our correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-560
14-11-2020||India||Odisha man returns after 20 years in Pakistan jail||A tribal man from Odisha’s Sundergarh, who had disappeared from his home 25 years ago and ended up in Pakistan where he spent nearly 20 years in jail, was reunited with his family on Friday. Birju Kullu, who is 50 now, was received by his younger sister, the only surviving member of his family, at their paternal house in Jangarpada village under Kutra block of Sundergarh, around 500km from here. While the entire village rejoiced and gave him a rousing welcome, Birju appeared to be ill at ease, having forgotten almost everything about his village and home. He hardly talked with anyone and kept patting the back of his sister who leaned on his shoulder. Tears of joy flowed from both their eyes but they hardly talked. “I am happy to be back home,” said Birju, who is believed to be mentally unstable. “I still remember how my parents had tried their best to trace him. They even went to Puri in search of him. We had taken him to be dead. I am happy to see my brother alive and back home,” said his sister Berena Bed Kullu, who is married. The only son of Kamlis Kullu, who died long back, Birju had run away from home 25 years ago. But how he landed up in Pakistan remains a mystery. He was arrested by Pakistan police on the suspicion of being a RAW agent and awarded a 20-year jail sentence. He was freed on October 26 and brought to Amritsar in Punjab where he was quarantined in a hospital. The ministry of external affairs informed the Sundergarh district administration about Birju’s release from a jail in Lahore and requested it to identify his village. Sundergarh superintendent of police Sagarika Nath said, “Birju left home 25 years ago. During repatriation of prisoners from Pakistan, his identity was confirmed.” Birju’s release was part of the normal exchange of prisoners between the two countries. Following his release, Birju was admitted in a Covid hospital at Amritsar where he was put in an isolation ward for 14 days on the suspicion that he might be infected with the coronavirus. After receiving his information, the Sundergarh district administration alerted all the blocks and police stations and circulated his pictures to facilitate his identification. Kutra block development officer Manas Ranjan Ray told The Telegraph, “We identified him. Birju had left home 25 years back. He then worked for almost five years in a hotel at Ranchi, which is 200km from here. From there he moved to Delhi and then to Amritsar. He might have crossed the border in Amritsar and got arrested by the Pakistan security personnel.” A team was sent by the Sundergarh district administration on November 6 to bring Birju back. As soon as he reached Kutra block on Friday around 11am, local people gathered in large numbers to welcome the son of the soil. The district administration has assured to provide Birju a ration card and a house under the Indira Awas Yojana. “We will try to ensure that he has some means of livelihood. For now, he will be staying with his relatives,” said Ray.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-560
14-11-2020||West Bengal||Soumitra Chatterjee critical, put on life support||Actor Soumitra Chatterjee was put on life support on Saturday as his condition remained critical on Saturday, officials said. The actor, who was admitted there over a month ago, remained in the same condition for the last 24 hours, a doctor attending him said. "He is on different life support systems ... It seems that our almost 40 days' fight is not enough to make him well," he said. "Let's all pray he gets better, but it seems unlikely he will have a favourable outcome. We have informed all the family members and with a saddened heart they have accepted that nothing less than miracle can get him out of this situation," a bulletin released by the doctor says. "His situation is really grave and critical,” the doctor informed, adding that the 85-year-old has seemingly not responded to ongoing therapies. An EEG has shown that there is very little activity in the brain, the doctor said on Friday. He had added that the thespian’s oxygenation level had gone up and his kidneys were not functioning well. Chatterjee had received plasmapheresis on Thursday and tracheostomy on Wednesday. The legendary actor, who debuted in Satyajit Ray's masterpiece "Apur Sansar", has been under treatment in the hospital since October 6 after testing positive for COVID-19. He later tested negative for the infection but Covid- 19 encephalopathy set in and various other complications surfaced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-310
14-11-2020||West Bengal||TMC busy keeping flock united in Nandigram and Singur||The ruling party is trying to keep its flock together in Nandigram and Singur, two of the most emotive and politically significant landmarks of Mamata Banerjee’s political career. Although trouble on both fronts had been brewing for some time, Trinamul started damage control over the past couple of days. “These past couple of days has seen hectic parleys behind the scenes so that the BJP is unable to take advantage of the opportunities arising out of the situation...in Singur and Nandigram,” said a Trinamul Rajya Sabha member. The niggling pain in Nandigram is because of transport minister Suvendu Adhikari and his influential clan, Trinamul sources say. On Thursday in Nandigram, Suvendu — who is widely speculated to defect to the BJP or start a party of his own — referred respectfully to Mamata and the party. He returned to the belligerence that has come to characterise his political statements, deemed critical of Trinamul, on Friday. On Tuesday, at a martyrs’ day tribute in Nandigram, Suvendu had not mentioned Mamata at all at a parallel event, skipping the party event later that afternoon. “After the devastation of Cyclone Amphan, nobody came to Nandigram. But I was by your side,” said the 51-year-old leader, allegedly negotiating terms with the BJP. “We will keep marching forward. Without looking back. Nobody will be able to stop us,” said Suvendu, a day after poll strategist Prashant Kishor handling Trinamul in Bengal spent a couple of hours at his Contai home speaking to his father, MP Sisir Adhikari. Speculation over the minister’s possible defection to the BJP or forming a separate political party that joins the NDA has often emerged since 2013. Sources close to him have attributed his displeasure to the elevation by Mamata of nephew Abhishek as her political successor, which Adhikari had aspired to be. Trinamul sources said Mamata spoke to Suvendu over the phone, after which Kishor travelled from Calcutta to meet him at his home. Kishor spoke to 79-year-old Sisir, who has been a lot more amenable. “Both sides are more keen to negotiate now. Among the offers being made are for Suvendu to replace Subrata Bakshi as the state president of the party. But a deal is yet to be sealed,” said a source, who pointed out that Suvendu had, in the past, not taken kindly to Kishor and his methods. But after Trinamul’s Serampore MP Kalyan Banerjee issued a public criticism of Suvendu, some of the progress was laid to waste. “Kalyan has been cautioned. Talks with Team Adhikari are still underway,” said a minister, before adding that he was expecting a repeat of the Singur truce that leadership struck with Haripal MLA Becharam Manna, at the forefront of the anti-land acquisition movement in Singur. Manna submitted his resignation to Speaker Biman Banerjee on Thursday from the membership of the Assembly, but withdrew it later in the day after Mamata and Bakshi intervened. Manna and Singur MLA Rabindranath Bhattacharjee – known for testy ties over the years -- have been sparring over the posts of the party’s Singur and Haripal block presidents, both wanting their favourites to occupy them. "Becharam resigned as he was upset with Rabindranath-babu... But it has been settled at least for the time being. The factional fights in Hooghly are proving costly for us," said a source. Trinamul won 16 of the 18 Assembly seats in Hooghly in 2016, while the BJP had none. But in the Lok Sabha polls, the BJP secured leads in eight of them, including Singur, which Mamata had expressed intense displeasure over in internal meetings. After the state leadership’s emissary, Uttarpara MLA Prabir Ghosal, met Manna at his residence on Friday, the Haripal MLA issued a statement denying the resignation drama, reaffirmed his allegiance to the chief minister and played down his differences with Bhattacharjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-310
14-11-2020||West Bengal||Covid: Post-Puja, active cases dip by 5,689 in Bengal||Bengal, backed by 4,468 new recoveries on Friday, continued with its longest spell of uninterrupted drop in its total active Covid-19 cases. The state reported a total drop of 5,689 active cases in 18 days since the end of Durga Puja. “On Vijaya Dashami, total active cases was 37,190. Today, it is 31,501, back to the level of October 14,” said a minister. Bengal also logged 3,835 new infections and 51 deaths, 10 from Calcutta. The state has a caseload of 4.24 lakh, including over 3.85 lakh recoveries and 7,557 deaths. The state’s recovery rate rose to a new high of 90.8, inching closer to the national rate of 92.99 per cent. The state’s Covid-19 mortality rate improved to 1.77, but remained less than the national rate of 1.47 per cent. In the 18 days since the end of Puja, Bengal reported 75,531 recoveries and 70,853 new infections, undoing much of the damage from a major spike in infections for six weeks before the festival. “We are now fifth on the list of states with highest mortality rates, after Punjab, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Sikkim. We aim to drop out of the top 10 in a fortnight,” said the minister. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja. The numbers of infections from the Puja days, largely available by now, has shown that the intervention was effective. The high court has issued a similar set of instructions for Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. With 44,312 tests on Friday, the state’s total test count went past 51.36 lakh, at 57,067 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.27 per cent now. The state reported 32.53 per cent occupancy in the 13,508 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 101 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 4.43 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-310
14-11-2020||West Bengal||December meet on tea pay hike||The Mamata Banerjee government will look into the demand for pay hike of the staff and sub-staff in the tea industry of Bengal. A meeting will be held in Calcutta on December 3 and 4, Md Rizwan, additional labour commissioner of north Bengal zone stated in writing. In his letter to the tea planters’ associations and tea trade unions, he said that the two-day meeting would look into the demands of the staff and sub-staff. These employees play an important role in tea gardens by acting as the bridge between the managerial staff and workers in the gardens. There are around 10,000 such employees in the brew belt seeking the government’s intervention as their salaries have not been revised since 2014. During the past few months, these set of employees in tea gardens have time and again raised the demand for pay revision. “It will be a tripartite meeting where discussions would be held on their demands, one of which is revision of their salaries,” said a source in the state labour department. On September 14 this year, these employees had reiterated their demand and had abstained from joining their duties. Their absence had affected regular activities in the garden. As they had threatened to intensify their movement, state labour minister Moloy Ghatak had a meeting with a delegation last month and he had assured that their issue would be dealt soon. “We welcome the initiative taken by the state labour department. It seems that finally, our demand would be met. Our representatives will be at the meeting,” said Partha Lahiri, a representative of the joint committee of staff and sub-staff. He said that usually their salaries are revised after every three years. “As there has been no revision in six years, we are earning much less than what should be our current salaries. A sub-staff is earning around Rs 3,000 less a month while a staff is losing at least Rs 8,000 a month,” added Lahiri. In the tea belt, the salary of a sub-staff ranges from Rs 5,000 to Rs 7,000 while a staff earns between Rs 17,000 and Rs 25,000. The move, tea trade union leaders said, indicates that the Trinamul intends to resolve all possible issues pertaining to the workforce serving in the tea sector to draw support from them in the Assembly elections scheduled next year. In north Bengal, there are at least 15 Assembly seats where votes of the tea population swing the polls. “On one hand, the state is working on the free housing scheme announced for tea workers while on the other hand it has picked up the pay revision issue of the staff and sub-staff. It is evident that Trinamul is desperate to secure support of the tea population,” said a senior trade union leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-310
14-11-2020||West Bengal||Key role for BJP IT cell chief in Bengal||BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya was appointed the party’s minder for Bengal for the third time, with national secretary Arvind Menon retained as his deputy. The party’s national IT chief Amit Malviya was appointed as a second co-minder to assist them. On Friday evening, BJP announced many changes in the list of minders who look after the party’s affairs in various states. Several state BJP leaders said Malviya’s appointment was significant as it hinted that social media would be a prime tool that the saffron camp would use in its mission Bengal for the crucial state in the first half of 2021. Many BJP leaders said that the reappointment of Vijayvargiya, who is close to Trinamul turncoat Mukul Roy, will strengthen the latter’s position in the party. “Things will get a bit more difficult for state party president Dilip Ghosh, who has already lost his key associate Subrata Chatterjee from the position of general-secretary (organisation),” said an insider. In the faction-ridden BJP Bengal unit, Ghosh and Vijayvargiya-Roy belong to different camps. “The party will now be under direct scrutiny of the central leadership,” this person added. On Vijayvargiya, a BJP leader said: “Kailashji has worked hard for our party in the state and we have got positive results...His reappointment proves that the central leadership has faith in his ability to steer the party’s affairs in Bengal till Assembly polls.” Balurghat MP Sukanta Majumdar became observer for Sikkim. Party national secretary Anupam Hazra, also a Trinamul turncoat, and Bankura MP Subhas Sarkar were appointed co-observers for Bihar and Jharkhand, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-311
14-11-2020||West Bengal||Malda migrant shot dead in Manipur||A migrant worker from a Malda village was gunned down earlier this week in Manipur capital Imphal, prompting his coworkers to hurry back home on Thursday evening in fear. Sabir Sheikh, the victim, who was from Baidyanathpur village under Baishnabnagar police station, had migrated to Imphal for work at a construction site with other residents some time ago. He was reportedly gunned down by an unidentified attacker on November 9. Their friend’s murder, returnee migrants said, reminded them of the horrific killing of another Malda migrant worker Afrazul Sheikh in Rajasthan in December 2017.  Sabir’s friends said they did not want to go back again. “Last Monday (November 9), Sabir went out in the morning. As he did not return after a long time, we started searching for him all over town (Manipur capital Imphal). Some local people advised us to contact the police station. There, we came to know that Sabir was shot by some unidentified attacker and had instantly died,” said Sabir’s friend and co-worker Abdul Alim. Local Trinamul leaders met Sabir’s bereaved family, and accused the BJP of failing to uphold law and order in states where it was in power. Amirul Islam, Sabir’s uncle, has demanded a CBI probe into the death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-311
14-11-2020||West Bengal||Mason shot in South Dinajpur||A 17-year-old mason was shot by unidentified assailants when he was returning home from work at Hathkhola in South Dinajpur district on Thursday night. Sources said Tinku Burman, who hailed from Ashrampara in the Nayabazar area, had left his studies and worked as a mason to make earnings for his family. “He was shot near a local club by some unknown attackers. Hearing gun shots, we came out and found Tinku lying on the ground. The attackers had fled by then. We soon informed police,” said Gopal Sarkar, a local resident. Paresh, the deceased’s father, said he had no idea as what has led to the murder. “Tinku did not have problems with anybody.” Police suspect that the murder was a fallout of old rivalry or dispute. Debarshi Dutta, South Dinajpur police chief, said a probe was on. “We are in search of the attackers and have detained two friends of the victim to obtain information.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-311
14-11-2020||West Bengal||Four beaten to death in rage||A man in West Burdwan’s Jamuria thrashed to death four persons early on Friday allegedly to take revenge on three of them for filing a complaint of theft and assault against him with the police a few days ago. Sadhu Hembram, 35, who the police called “mentally unstable”, was arrested from the spot after the incident. The deceased were Subodh Bauri, 62, Amoj Mandal, 45, and Prashanta Saha, 57, all residents of Bankura and workers of a country liquor shop in Jamuria’s Poniati village, and Kaliya Bhuniya, 64, of Kulti, who had come to Jamuria to visit a relative. On Tuesday, Sadhu, a habitual drinker, assaulted the employees of the liquor shop that he used to frequent. In a drunken state, he ransacked the shop. Later, he was arrested by the police based on complaints filed by shop manager Dhiman Mandal, but granted bail by the court on Thursday. Just around midnight, Sadhu scaled the boundary wall of the country spirit shop and entered the room where the three employees were sleeping. “First, he hit them with a boulder and then repeatedly with a stick. I was also sleeping in the room but managed to escape,” said Dhiman. “I came out of the shop and started yelling for help. People, including Kaliya rushed out hearing my shouts. The police were informed. Sadhu, armed with the stick, came out of the shop and started chasing people. Kaliya came in Sadhu’s way and was badly beaten up with the stick. He did not survive,” added Dhiman. He mentioned that he, as the shop’s manager who often refused Sadhu liquor on credit, was perhaps the prime target. “I woke up in time and fled or else I also could have been killed.” The police arrested Sadhu but residents were angry with them. “Kaliya was thrashed in presence of the cops but they did nothing to stop the killer,” said a resident. The police refuted the charge and said they acted swiftly and arrested Sadhu, stopping his rampage. “The police had reached the spot immediately after getting information and arrested accused Sadhu Hembram. He had beaten four persons to death. We are now investigating the incident,” said Tathagata Pandey, assistant commissioner of police (central 1). The police have sent bodies to Asansol district hospital for autopsy. Bereaved kin demanded Rs 10 lakh each from liquor shop owner Paresh Mandal as compensation. Mandal said he did not have that kind of money. “If they want, I can engage one member from each of the family in my shop,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-311
14-11-2020||West Bengal||Nadia’s soldier killed on LoC||Subodh Ghosh, 24, an Indian soldier from Tehatta’s Raghunathpur, posted on the India-Pakistan border was killed on Friday during shelling by Pakistan’s army. Subodh, two other soldiers and a BSF jawan were among the 10 killed during Pakistan’s multiple ceasefire violations along the Line of Control between Gurez and Uri sectors. Subodh, who joined the army in 2016, returned to the border in July after a vacation. A few days later, his wife Anindita gave birth to their daughter. An inconsolable Anindita said that less than five hours before his death, Subodh had called her up and advised her to buy woollens for their baby girl and planned her annaprasan next month. A neighbour of Subodh said: “It was the failure of the Centre that led to deaths of soldiers in Pulwama. What happened on Friday is almost a repetition of Pulwama.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-311
14-11-2020||West Bengal||One held with deer horns||The Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) in association with the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB) have seized a pair of horns and skull of a sambar (a species of deer) from Bagdogra on the outskirts of Siliguri on Friday. A resident of a nearby tea estate has been arrested in this connection. “We had information that a person, who is from a nearby tea estate, has a deer’s horn and that he is looking for a buyer for it. He was roaming around in Bagdogra forest area. We conducted a joint raid with the SSB and apprehended him with the horn,” said a WCCB officer. The arrested person identified as Shankar Sabar hails from Tirrihannah tea estate. The horn weighs around 3.5kg, said sources. Later, WCCB officials handed over Sabar and the horn to foresters of Bagdogra forest range that functions under the Kurseong forest division. Charges under Wildlife (Protection) Act would be brought against Sabar. Amal Roy, 35, a resident of Maynaguri, died when a truck carrying boulders along NH27, flipped sideways and fell on a roadside tea stall near the local BDO office on Friday morning. Local residents blocked the road alleging absence of policemen to control traffic in the area. The roadblock was lifted when police promised all necessary help. Excavators were engaged to remove the truck. The victim, found under the truck, was pronounced dead after being taken to the local rural hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-311
14-11-2020||West Bengal||Centre’s Amphan aid, tranche two||The Centre on Friday allotted Rs 2,707.77 crore to Bengal for taking up development and restoration work in Amphan-hit areas amid questions from the state administration on whether the fund was “too little, too late”. “The high-level committee under the chairmanship of the Union home minister, Shri Amit Shah, has approved additional Central assistance under the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) to six states... For cyclone Amphan, Rs 2,707.77 crore has been approved for West Bengal,” read the news release issued by the Press Information Bureau on Friday. The Centre released a sum of Rs 1,000 crore to help the state meet immediate needs in the aftermath of Amphan on May 20, after Prime Minister Narendra Modi aerially surveyed devastated areas. The Bengal state government has spent Rs 7,000 crore on Amphan relief and restoration, a source said to put central and state funds in perspective. Cyclone Amphan hit Bengal’s three coastal districts — South and North 24-Parganas and East Midnapore — on May 20 and ripped apart homes, trees, large stretches of river embankments and farmlands. Sources in Delhi said that the inter-ministerial central team had visited the cyclone-hit areas in the first week of June and submitted its report on the damage. “The report was tabled before the high-level committee that takes decisions on the release of additional central assistance to states that suffer natural calamities. The committee met after several months because of the ongoing pandemic and took the decision to give funds to Bengal on Friday,” said a source. While senior officials in Nabanna welcomed the decision, some bureaucrats wondered if the aid was “too little and too late”. “The central funds should have come much earlier as the money was meant for people who lost everything in the cyclone,” said a source. Another official said Rs 2,707.77 crore was too meagre. A senior state government minister said that the central allotment announced through a release seemed to be a political move as state BJP leaders were getting embarrassed amid questions on why the BJP-led Centre was not extending financial assistance to the state even after such a devastating natural calamity. With this announcement, the Bengal BJP leadership could claim that the Centre had also done its bit, without going into questions like why the quantum of money was so little and why it took almost six months for the Centre to announce it. “Besides, the state is yet to receive any communication about the central allotment. It has to be seen if the Centre sets any precondition to the state before releasing the fund,” he said. Ruling Trinamul has accused the Centre of not been being forthcoming in helping Bengal after major natural calamities. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee publicly said that the Centre did not release funds even though the state submitted a claim of Rs 23,000 crore after cyclone Bulbul in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-311
14-11-2020||West Bengal||Dwindling numbers of Indian Gorkha in army||Indian Army veterans in Darjeeling hills have blamed changes in recruitment criteria and socio-economic factors for the recent trend of vacant Indian Gorkha berths in the country’s seven Gorkha regiments. A career in the armed forces had traditionally been a matter of pride for Indian Gorkhas. India has seven Gorkha regiments with around 40,000 Gorkhas. For these regiments, 60 per cent vacancies are reserved for citizens of Nepal while the rest 40 per cent for Indian Gorkhas. Lt. Colonel (retd) Keshab Rai, who recently flagged off this issue of vacancies to defence minister Rajnath Singh, pointed out the change in minimum qualification that the Indian Army was a major drawback for Indian Gorkhas. “In 2001, while fellow Indians needed to be Class X pass with a minimum aggregate of 45 per cent, Gorkhas needed to be Class VIII pass,” said Lt. Col (retd) Rai. In 2019, the criteria for Gorkhas was that they had to be Class X (matric) pass with 45 per cent marks aggregate and 33 per cent in each subject. Lt Col (retd) Rai feels that the “environment” from where the Gorkhas come must be emphasised. He, however, admitted that young Gorkhas, even from rural areas, are not as hardy as in the past. The decline in Indian Gorkha recruits in the Indian Army has come as a matter of concern for defence analysts as the contribution of Gorkhas in the armed forces is unmatched. The association of Gorkhas with the army in India dates back to over 200 years. The issue of few takers for army jobs among Indian Gorkhas came to the fore following media reports that the Indian Army is considering recruiting youths from Uttarkhand in Gorkha regiments. The reports drew sharp criticism from politicians like Gaurav Gogoi, deputy leader of Congress in Lok Sabha, who felt that such a move “will be a departure from the guiding philosophy of the Gorkha Rifles.” Shanta Chhetri, TMC Rajya Sabha member, Darjeeling leaders like Anit Thapa and veterans like Rai have opposed the reported move.  Lt. Gen (retd) Gurung, a Gorkha to occupy one of the highest positions in the India army, listed many reasons for the declining interest of Indian Gorkhas in the army. “This is because the physical fitness has gone down and they are also not being able to clear medical and written tests,” he said. “The first test is a one-mile race and one has to complete in 5.40 minutes. One has to run like a horse and even if you jog for 10 paces you are finished,” the veteran armyman said. “But physical fitness (among Gorkha youths) has gone down.” During recruitment, Gorkhas get physical relaxation in terms of height and weight but other tests stay the same. Another reason is greater awareness of other careers, Lt. Gen (retd) Gurung said. “Our children are now increasingly looking at engineering, IT, civil services and other sectors. Becoming a soldier is no longer a career option high on the list,” he said. He made some suggestions to the Centre through The Telegraph: But the numbers of Indian Gorkhas taking up army careers are dwindling. Lt Gen (retd) Shakti Gurung, a former director general (recruiting) of the Indian Army, while speaking to The Telegraph over phone from Dehradun recounted an anecdote to substantiate this. “I once got a complaint from Uttarakhand that Gorkhas are not being recruited adequately. I was requested for a special rally only for Gorkhas,” he said. He decided to provide 40 vacancies for Gorkhas, but only 600 to 700 youths turned up, he said, out of which only 15 got selected.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-311
14-11-2020||North East||Assam dead scribe’s last report: BJP leader attack||The last report of senior Assam journalist Parag Bhuyan, who died under disputed circumstances on Wednesday night, had been on a BJP leader’s alleged assault on a policeman and her flaunting her “proximity” to the chief minister. There have been protests over Bhuyan’s death and the demand for a CBI inquiry. The state government has already ordered a CID probe into the death of Bhuyan in a road mishap after his family, acquaintances and employers suspected foul play since he used to “fearlessly” report against “illegalities and corruption”. TV journalist Bhuyan’s last report had been on Assam BJP executive member Dipanjali Kakoty for allegedly assaulting Kakopathar police sub-inspector Apurba Das and forcibly freeing her driver Srikant Phukan who had been called to the police station for questioning in connection with an assault case filed by a woman. In the FIR against Kakoty on November 8, Das had alleged that the BJP leader had “flaunted her proximity” to chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal, threatened to get the officer sacked and “assaulted” him, matters that Bhuyan had reported. Kakoty is on the run. Kakopathar OC Biraj Kumar Das told The Telegraph that the police had registered a case against Kakoty for abusive behaviour, physical assault and obstructing a public servant from carrying out his duty. Bhuyan’s cremation took place around 6am on Friday. The driver and handyman of the vehicle that hit him were arrested from Namsai in Arunachal Pradesh on Thursday and remanded in police custody for eight days on Friday. Dipen Lahkar, a journalist from Kakopathar and an acquaintance of Bhuyan, said: “He was uncompromising and fearless in his reporting. His reports used to affect people involved in illegal activities. His last report was on a woman BJP executive member who is still at large. We want all angles to be thoroughly probed because most here suspect Bhuyan’s death was a planned murder.” Congress leaders and workers staged a protest in Guwahati, demanding a CBI probe into Bhuyan’s death. They were taken into preventive custody. Bhuyan’s colleagues at Pratidin Time too protested, wearing black badges and displaying placards seeking justice for Bhuyan. Asked if action had been initiated against Kakoty, a BJP leader said he would have to check with the state leadership.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-36
14-11-2020||Opinion||Suffer slowly: Varavara Rao's plight||Sir — The aged poet-activist, Varavara Rao, who has been jailed under the draconian Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in the Bhima-Koregaon case, was denied bail by the Bombay High Court even though his health is deteriorating. Rao’s family had approached the court for him to be granted bail urgently on health grounds. The court has directed the Maharashtra government and the National Investigation Agency to arrange a medical consultation over video, and for doctors to visit him if need be. But can critics of the government expect fair treatment in New India? Shyamal Mitra,Calcutta For shame Sir — It was shocking to learn of the gruesome murder in Madurai of a 75-year-old woman by her sons and grandsons because she wanted her daughters to have a share in her property. It is difficult to fathom the ruthlessness and heartlessness of the woman’s male descendants, that too over a property dispute. The woman, M. Pappa, owned 2.75 acres of land, which she wanted to divide equally among her five surviving children. The sons and grandsons, however, wanted all the land to themselves. They objected to their mother’s decision and, in a fit of rage, attacked the old woman with a weapon, killing her instantly. They even assaulted Pappa’s husband — their father and grandfather — when he tried to stop the attack. The culprits of this heinous crime, which is symbolic of so many things that are wrong with our society, should be brought to justice at the earliest. They must not be allowed to take over their mother’s property. Ibne Giasuddin,Mumbai Sir — The murder of an old woman by her own sons and grandsons just because she wanted her daughters to have a share of her property drives home the fact that Indian men will stop at nothing to deprive women of their rights, even those women who are closely related to them. It is hard to believe that such a brutal crime can be committed in a major Indian district over such deeply regressive beliefs. In India, Hindu women are legally entitled to their parents’ parental property; these are rights that they have managed to win only after many years of struggle and suffering. But legal victories rarely translate into social change unless the mindset of the people also evolves. Even though the deceased woman’s daughters are as entitled to her property as her sons are, the prevailing mindset within the family — one which is reflected in the beliefs of society at large as well — is that women are not worthy of the kind of inheritance that sons should get, especially in terms of property. It has been reported that the victim’s sons, Kannan and Ponram, told her that she should only leave her land to them and they would give their sisters some money as a settlement. But why should their sisters only get some money when the brothers get all that land? Are they not equals in a democratic country? It is shameful that the men in the family wanted to deprive their own sisters and aunts of their rightful claims and, worse, murdered the old woman over it. One hopes that justice delivery in this case is expedited and the perpetrators are given the strictest punishment. Adil Hossain,Calcutta Sir — The adage, ‘family is everything’, is propagated with great gusto in our society; and yet, it is often family members who inflict the most damage on their closest relatives and are the source of deep injustice. This is borne out regularly in the form of honour killings and the sexual and physical abuse of women and girls by their own fathers, brothers and husbands. Hatred for women, coupled with greed and a sense of entitlement, is an even more potent mix for such violence; it can cause sons to murder their mother, which is what happened in Madurai recently when two men and their sons murdered their aged mother because she wanted to divide her land equally among her five children, three of whom are daughters. Will the accused be brought to justice swiftly and, more important, will the old woman’s wishes be honoured? Anita Kundu,Chennai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-117
14-11-2020||Opinion||Lockdown: The year in a word||The realm of language need not be democratic. Thousands of new words are added to, say, English each year: as many as 1,100 were incorporated by the Oxford English Dictionary two years ago. But there is a pecking order among words. Some words and phrases occupy a higher perch in language and in the dictionary — a textual alignment of truth in the alphabetical order — because they are mirrors of the times. The hierarchy, even though it seems anti-democratic, is thus a necessity. Collins Dictionary has adjudged ‘Lockdown’ to be its Word of the Year. Very few would contest the wisdom behind its choice. Countries around the world locked themselves up in a bid to gain protection from the dreaded coronavirus pandemic, lending the word immediacy, context, even poignancy. It has been estimated that by April this year, citizens of more than 90 countries — around half the population of the world — had been ordered by their governments to stay indoors. Little wonder then that lexicographers found a corresponding, exponential rise in the use of the word, lockdown: there were over 250,000 registered instances of usage of ‘lockdown’ this year, up from 4,000 in 2019. ‘Lockdown’, more than any other word in a list that also includes such words as ‘furlough’, ‘social distancing’ and ‘self-isolate’, has bound the global community in a shared embrace. But then language is also a bit of a trickster. Linguists may insist that language and words are the proverbial measuring rods of reality. This proposition has some truth in it. But while pointing to the universality of a phenomenon — lockdown is one notable example — language may not always be mindful of the variations — creases — within a shared experience. Consider the experience of India’s lockdown — the most stringent and, arguably, the most chaotic — from the perspective of the country’s informal workforce. The lockdown coincided with unprecedented disruptions in their lives and livelihoods. The economic distress brought about by the loss of jobs was compounded by the horror of physical displacement: India’s highways were dotted with migrants undertaking perilous journeys home. Those who managed to make it had to battle the stigma of contagion, competition — welfare initiatives, such as the MGNREGA, were not robust enough to accommodate the sudden surge in hands — as well as renewed unemployment, forcing many to return to their migratory routes. Their sufferings were amplified by an insensitive, parsimonious government that relied on credit-based stimulus instead of cash transfers to assist the needy. Does language’s responsibility then end with merely identifying a word that has acquired currency across cultures? Certainly not. The challenge for language is to communicate, seamlessly and effectively, the layers of experience — lived and imagined — that such a word entails. Only then will words acquire a mnemonic edge, a kind of immortality. At a time when public sensibility is turning drowsy under the spell of false consciousness, words, especially the Word of the Year, need to be read like ciphers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-117
14-11-2020||Opinion||Many insights: Lionel Barber's memoirs||In his just-published memoirs, Lionel Barber, who was editor of the Financial Times from 2005 to 2020, has written about three trips to India and interviews with Narendra Modi, Manmohan Singh (“softly spoken Sikh”), P Chidambaram (“bumptious”), Rahul Gandhi (“Modi is a lot sharper”), the “feuding” Mukesh and Anil Ambani, Raghuram Rajan (“a brilliant academic”) and MK Narayanan (“formerly India’s chief spook”) at Raj Bhavan in Calcutta. In some ways, I find that FT — which Barber is proud of having transformed into a ‘global news organization’ with a million paid subscribers, is the best newspaper in London. Which is why I spent much of Tuesday reading The Powerful and the Damned: Private Diaries in Turbulent Times. Barber has had a lot of lunches with a lot of important people but he told the Foreign Press Association in London on Monday: “Remember when you’re the editor you’re not friends with these people — there has to be some distance. And the reporters would confirm that I never sought to suppress a story or interfere where I knew the people.” His book reveals he set “a new rule for reporters: in future, all FT stories must be based on two independent sources. I want to be first with the news, but it’s more important to be right rather than first.” In the ‘dramatis personae’ in politics, he lists 13 world leaders, including Modi, whom he interviewed first as “the firebrand chief minister of Gujarat” and subsequently as prime minister. “People are afraid, I tell Modi. He smiles grimly. ‘If the sun rises over darkness and people are afraid, it is not the fault of the sun’.” Barber, a cricket fan, ends one trip to India by witnessing “Sachin Tendulkar, India’s greatest ever batsman, in his 200th and final Test match. Everyone... wants the Little Master, now 40, to make a century against the West Indies. Alas, it was not to be. Tendulkar fell at 74 to a sharp slip catch. The groans turned into a standing ovation as he made his way off the pitch — a memorable end to a memorable trip to the subcontinent.” Help the world The late Lieutenant-General Faridoon Noshir Bilimoria (“General Billy”) would have been very proud of his son, Lord Karan Bilimoria, who presided over the annual conference of the Confederation of British Industry last week as the organization’s first Indian head. Afterwards, when we talked of the small but influential Parsi network, Karan mentioned that his close friend, Cyrus S Poonawalla, the founder of the Serum Institute of India, was contracted to manufacture a billion doses of the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Oxford University in conjunction with AstraZeneca. “I am so proud of him,” said Karan, the founder of Cobra Beer and chancellor of Birmingham University. “Cyrus Poonawalla, in many ways, deserves a Nobel Prize because of the tens of millions of lives that he has saved over the decades. He had a stud farm and is producing equine vaccines. And from nothing, he’s built this multi-billion dollar business... and is now the largest vaccine manufacturer in the world. But most importantly, he has produced vaccines at an affordable rate and they have been exported all over the world.”Time together It was sad to read that Robert Fisk, with whom I shared taxis in Tehran, had died, aged 74, at a hospital in Dublin, apparently from a severe stroke, according to The New York Times. I remember he enjoyed sticking his head out of the window and waving traffic out of the way with shouts of, “Press patrol! Press patrol!” On one occasion, an Iranian helicopter took us near Basra during the Iran-Iraq War and dropped us recklessly between the lines. We escaped only because both sides were terrible shots. On another, he accompanied me to see Ayatollah Sadegh Khalkhali, who expected me to ring him daily at 4 pm so that he could say gruffly/amicably: “Why are you bothering me — don’t you know I sign execution orders just now?” At Qasr prison, Khalkhali would not talk to me until we had finished ice cream. Then he offered to hang a prisoner of our choosing “so you can have a good story”. By now I had learnt revolutionary lingo: “Agha, your hospitality knows no bounds... perhaps another day...” In the taxi ride back to our hotel, Fisk appeared to be not entirely happy with me. He was then the star correspondent of The Times, and later moved to The Independent. He made enemies only because he was vehemently opposed to the policy of the United States of America in Iraq, Iran and West Asia generally. Fisk, who was named international journalist of the year a record seven times, once said: “You cannot get near the truth without being there.” Michael D Higgins, the president of Ireland, said in his tribute: “With his passing, the world of journalism and informed commentary on the Middle East has lost one of its finest commentators.”Closer than before Will Donald Trump merit big, fat books many decades from now? John F Kennedy was assassinated in 1963 but the passing decades have not dimmed the lure of ‘Camelot’. I have just started reading the 792-page JFK by the Pulitzer Prize-winning Harvard historian, Fredrik Logevall. This “takes us as close as we have ever been to the real John F Kennedy in this revelatory biography of the iconic, yet still elusive, thirty-fifth president”. And this is only Volume One. Footnote Memo to Flurys on Park Street: Ravneet Gill tells me she is very keen to visit you. Ravneet is the 29-year-old star pastry chef in London who has written The Pastry Chef’s Guide: The Secret to Successful Baking Every Time, and just started as The Daily Telegraph’s new baking columnist with a recipe for “crème fraiche breakfast loaf with jam and pistachio cream”. She says: “I’ve been to India a few times and... was in Mumbai in July last year, teaching how to bake pastry... it was so much fun.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-117
14-11-2020||Opinion||Light in the dark||The symbolism with which Kamala Harris’s election has been invested recalls Jawaharlal Nehru’s bitter analysis of the global pecking order around the time of the 1927 International Congress against Colonial Oppression and Imperialism at Brussels. Placing white Anglo-Saxons at the pinnacle, he worked down the ladder of race and colour to the then unempowered multitude of Negroes at the base. The jubilation over the new vice-president-elect of the United States of America suggests two conclusions. First, an acute awareness of the fact that to be born below the white Anglo-Saxon pinnacle is to start life with a handicap. Second, that millions of Afro-Asians, especially Afro-Asian women, feel that a glass ceiling has at last been shattered. Of course, some have been able through the ages to overcome the twin disadvantages of sex and race; but most have not. The social, political and economic disparity between North and South and the waves of Third World migrants constantly battering the walls of the West testify to that. The powerful personal dimension to the imbalance is evident in the ancient term, varna (colour), for caste, in the equation of pallor with beauty, and the no less revealing phrases that have replaced the supposedly abandoned ‘fair and lovely’ slogan in ads for cosmetics. One problem with all such dissections is that they rest on a simplistic black:white divide. Another is that the author’s immunity from his own findings is often assumed. There is, too, a plethora of overlapping and contradictory claims. Bhagat Singh Thind, the Sikh who entered the US in 1913 and made history by petitioning (unsuccessfully) for citizenship, was not alone in believing he was “a descendant of the Aryans of India, belonging to the Caucasian race (and, therefore) white...” Consciously or not, many Indians see themselves as white, like the “Reds” and “Whites” who are both black in Evelyn Waugh’s hilarious novel, Scoop. No wonder race and colour inspire endless posturing, public protestation and private anguish. The last two are sometimes in conflict. Remembering Rabindranath Tagore’s brush with immigration officials at San Francisco and his angry outburst that Christ himself would be refused admission to the US “because, first of all, He would not have the necessary money and secondly He would be an Asiatic”, I was surprised to read that when on his riverine travels in East Bengal, the poet sent his card across to another barge with an unknown young English officer on board. It was even more surprising that Tagore later complained to his niece about having to entertain the Englishman as a result of his gratuitous overture. National and international relations are often individual interactions writ large. Here in London as no doubt in Thulasendrapuram, Tam-Brams (as they are called) see the Harris triumph as an exclusive achievement. The Tamil Nadu minister who recorded his pride in “a woman from this small village” rising so high ignored 50 per cent of her ethnicity which is Jamaican, in itself a rich mix of indigenous and imported cultures. That sounded clumsy in patriarchal India where fathers determine identity (otherwise Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi would be Italians) and can only reinforce African perceptions of Asian prejudice. However, the euphoria among swathes of African women that their time has come may not be shared by Indian women outside the dwija ranks at home or in the diaspora. Harris’s own tribute to “the generations of women, black women, Asian, white, Latina, native American women who throughout our nation’s history have paved the way for this moment” was wisely sweeping yet tactfully restricted. The Western media carefully call her “black” and “South Asian”, never “black South Asian”. Presumably being from her father’s side, Harris’s niece, Meena, cannot have grasped how profoundly she may have wounded conventional Indian sensibilities by tweeting, “My four-year-old just yelled ‘BLACK GIRLS ARE WELCOME TO BE PRESIDENT’”. Loy Henderson, an early US ambassador to India who rather fancied himself, knew no better than to cable Washington in 1948 warning that Nehru was “constitutionally unhappy” unless he was leading a global union of coloured peoples. A few months later, a conference of American diplomats, held in New Delhi, demonstrated even greater insensitivity by recommending that as many black diplomats as possible should be poured into India. Americans jumped to the opposite extreme when Narasimha Rao visited the US in 1994. Khalistani, rebel Kashmiri and Tamil Tiger terrorists being on the rampage, the prime minister’s security chief asked the hotel management not to allow any South Asian near him. The manager, poor man, being American, didn’t know one non-white from another and ordered, according to The New York Times, that “no African-American could carry his bags, no Asian could clean his room, no Latinos could serve him his food.” Narasimha Rao “had to be served by whites only, American or European.” The paper moralized that “the US government has an interest in knowing whether a foreign head of state has been fostering racial discrimination here” while the chairman of the Massachusetts Commission against Discrimination condemned the episode as “too outrageous to be true” at a time when the US was celebrating the 40th anniversary of the Supreme Court ruling that dismantled segregation. I have recounted that storm in a teacup to show how easily victim can be seen as offender. The slow and sadistic suffocation outside a shop in Minneapolis, Minnesota, of a 46-year-old black man by a white police officer which galvanized the Black Lives Matter movement and contributed to Donald Trump’s downfall was certainly horrendous. But it was no more so than Tamil Nadu’s 1968 Kilvenmani massacre when upper caste landlords burnt alive 44 Harijan men, women and children. The perpetrators got off scot free. If memory serves right, the appeal court held that landlords of their status did not themselves commit such crimes; they engaged agents for the purpose. Many more such atrocities can be described. They add little to our knowledge of human depravity. What lightens the darkness a little in London are small cameos to suggest that even before she acquired a black granddaughter-in-law, Queen Elizabeth was about as colour-blind as her great great grandmother with her Munshi. Badar Azim, the footman who put up the birth notice at Buckingham Palace for Prince George, third in line to the throne, reportedly grew up in a Calcutta slum. Television coverage shows a black courtier in a frock coat receiving the prime minister when he calls on the queen. Another black officer in dress uniform placed her wreath on the tomb of the Unknown Warrior after she had touched it symbolically at last Sunday’s Remembrance Day ceremony in Westminster Abbey. These might be artfully prearranged gestures, but the signal they send to bigots is no less compelling than the ‘Black is Beautiful’ campaign. Also present in Westminster Abbey was the resplendent Colour Sgt Johnson Beharry, born in Grenada and famous as the first living recipient of the Victoria Cross in about 40 years. His second name and ambiguous appearance have long intrigued me. Then, some years ago, I read his autobiography, Barefoot Soldier, and all was clear. “My father’s family are all of Indian descent; my mother is half-Indian, half-Negro,” Beharry explains. Racial admixture can have its pitfalls. The results may not be guaranteed to be aesthetically pleasing or free of other complexes. But it offers a chance of escape from known evils. Like Kamala Harris, Johnson Beharry, too, could be the face of a more inclusive future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-117
14-11-2020||Jharkhand||Youth arrested with drugs in Jamshedpur, brown sugar seized||Acting on a tip-off, police nabbed a 22-year-old youth and recovered three packets of brown sugar from his possession at Kalyan Nagar under the Sitaramdera Thana area on Friday late night. The youth identified as Taranjeet Singh who is a resident of Birsanagar near Telco was returning home after buying the narcotic drug from a woman drug-peddler in Kalyan Nagar at about 10.30 pm when he was nabbed and subsequently arrested. The Sitaramdera Thana OC Anjani Kumar Singh confirmed the confiscation of three packets of brown sugar from a youth late in the night. "After two women were arrested from the adjoining Chhayanagar while selling brown sugar on November 4, we had spread a message among residents living across the Chhayanagar and Kalyan Nagar to remain vigilant against the drug-peddling in the localities. The arrest of the 22-year-old youth with the drug was the result of our initiative. A section of local residents was watchful about the activities of Bharti Devi and as soon as the youth came to her house, some of the residents had given the tip-off. A police team nabbed the accused watching the suspicious movement of the youth at the exit of the slum late last night," said Singh while talking to The Telegraph Online. On being interrogated by the police, the youth pointed out that he bought the brown sugar from the woman identified as Bharti Devi. Soon afterward a police team entered into the densely-populated Kalyan Nagar for raiding the house of Bharti. But as there was a commotion at the sight of the raiding police team, the woman peddler managed to escape the urban slum. The police raided her house, but neither was she found nor any stock of brown sugar was recovered from her house. The OC said they are continuously raiding the house of Bharti Devi who is still absconding. "If the woman peddler continues to remain absconding, then we will start a process of getting her properties attached by putting a petition with the Jamshedpur court," said the OC. The police, however, registered a case under relevant sections against Taranjeet Singh and also against Bharti Devi on the FIR lodged by the OC of Sitaramdera Thana, Anjani Kumar Singh. Taranjeet, on Saturday, was sent to Ghaghidih Central Jail after a Covid-19 test was done on him and he was produced before a judicial magistrate on Saturday afternoon. Of late, Kalyan Nagar and Chhayanagar which fall under Bhuinyadih in Sitaramdera have come up as hubs for drug-peddlers.  A source having knowledge in the drug-peddling activity said that Adityapur Muslim Bustee in the adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district used to be a hub of the drug-peddling where a large number of drug-addicts, including girls, used to visit regularly. But after Dolly, a woman kingpin in the drug-peddling was arrested in July this year, several women residing in the slum areas in Bhuinyadih have taken up the profession, giving the youngsters of the steel city to procure the brown sugar from the city itself. The source pointed out some of the key associates of Dolly had started supplying the drugs active in the Sitaramdera area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-236
14-11-2020||Jharkhand||The Diwali chill has gone, likely to come back during Chhath||The prevailing nip in the air has done the vanishing act in Jharkhand in the last 48-hours and weathermen say it is likely to make a comeback around Chhath, but till then, anti-cyclonic conditions prevailing across the state will keep things relatively warm. Weathermen said an anti-cyclone prevailing over Jharkhand had pushed up the Celsius. "Jharkhand is under the influence of an anti-cyclone which usually results in fair weather and a rise in night temperatures. Today's (Saturday) Met reading suggests that there won't be any significant changes in the weather condition of Jharkhand at least in the next five to six days. Mercury is likely to plummet around November 21 as we are expecting restoration of north westerly wind flow by then," explained Abhishek Anand, deputy director of Ranchi Met Centre talking to The Telegraph Online. The senior Met official said the adverse system had blocked the free flow of the north-westerly wind despite the fact that there has been moderate snowfall in Jammu and Kashmir. “It has also resulted in a rise in minimum temperature by several degrees,” he added. The night reading has also followed an upward curve in Ranchi, Jamshedpur and elsewhere in the last couple of days. IMD's Ranchi weather office recorded a minimum of 16.4°C, three notches above normal, on Saturday. Kanke, on the outskirts of Ranchi, recorded around 15°C. Last week, the minimum readings at Kanke had plummeted to around 11°C while Ranchi had recorded around 12 °C. On Saturday, Jamshedpur was a tad warmer at 19.2°C, four notches above the average normal. Daltonganj, the Palamau headquarters, recorded a minimum temperature of 17.9°C, three notches above normal. Bokaro, Dhanbad, Koderma, Chaibasa in West Singhbhum and several other places recorded minimum readings of over 16 °C. The Ranchi weather office, in its long-term forecast, said minimum temperatures would witness a plunge once again from November 21. Till then, fair weather conditions would prevail in most districts. Whethermen ruled out any possibility of rain in the next one week. “The impact of the anti-cyclone will wane in the next five to six days. This will result in a further dip in temperatures,” said a duty officer at IMD's Regional Met Centre at Alipore in Calcutta. He went on to say that they did not find any trace of western disturbance in Saturday’s satellite readings which usually results in rainfall in winter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-236
14-11-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi, Dhanbad celebrate Kali Puja and Diwali||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-236
14-11-2020||Jharkhand||NTPC achieves major feat at its North Karanpura Project ||The National Thermal Power Corporation  (NTPC) on Saturday announced a major achievement at its North Karanpura Super Thermal Power Project (3x660MW), when it performed the main boiler acid cleaning of Unit-I in a record time frame. Project head Asim Kumar Goswami said that they have achieved all designated parameters as per schedule. With this compulsory process being completed, chances are high that the first unit of the project will get commissioned within the next three months. The plant, situated in Chatra's industrial town Tandwa, is supposed to supply power to several states including Bengal. According to sources, the process is a mandatory requirement at a power plant. They said that in the older method, the process is initiated only after the boiler is lit up, and that too, is done after it reaches a certain temperature. However, in this process, the boiler needs to be shut down for 20 days, during which all operations related to power generation are halted. The NTPC’s idea of cleaning the main boiler before commissioning means that it does not need to be cleaned after it gets a commission. Officers termed this achievement big, and expressed their happiness.They said that with this mandatory process achieved, they believe that its first 660MW unit will hopefully be commissioned in next three months. Speaking to The Telegraph Online, Goswami told that the unique part about this achievement is that the required temperature of 75 to 80 degrees Celsius has been achieved by an Aux Boiler for the first time of BHEL NTPC thermal units. He said the acid cleaning process started on November 9 which concluded on Saturday without any error. Once the first unit gets commissioned, the second process would need another six months to start, officers said.  Third unit will start six months after the commissioning of the second one, they added. The Covid-19 pandemic has delayed the commissioning of the first unit coming up in Tandwa. The Rs14,300crore project will cater to the power needs of Jharkhand, Bihar, Odisha and West Bengal once fully operational. The project was originally proposed in 1996 but got delayed because Coal India Limited objected to the location of the power plant as it was coming up on a site having 6 billion tonnes of coal, and demanded a relocation. The work restarted much later in 2014.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-236
14-11-2020||Jharkhand||Grocery store owner robbed by armed militants in Palamu||Armed militants suspected to be of the Jharkhand Jan Mukti Parishad attacked a house in the Palamu district and robbed cash, jewellery and a motorcycle, police said on Saturday. The incident happened in Getha village in the Lesliganj police station area on Friday, they said. Raju Saw runs a grocery store at his house and the militants knocked on the pretext of buying goods for Diwali, they said. As the shopkeeper opened the door, the militants threatened him with guns and looted Rs 62,000 in cash, jewellery and a motorcycle, police said. It could be that some local criminals robbed the house in the name of a militant organisation, an officer said, adding that an investigation is underway. A 38-year-old man was shot dead and his face crushed in Jharkhand's Dumka district, police said on Saturday. The body of Sunil Das was found on the bank of Motihara river in Machkol village on Friday, Sub-divisional Police Officer (SDPO) Animesh Naithani said. Das, a resident of Barnia in the Taljhari police station area, was shot and also attacked with a sharp weapon to deform the face, police said. Superintendent of Police Ambar Lakra said that the reason behind the killing seems to be enmity with someone. The face was badly injured so that the corpse is not identified, he said. The police are investigating the case, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-236
14-11-2020||Jharkhand||Giridih illegal mica mine collapse kills 4||Four persons were buried alive when the roof of an illegal mica mine caved in on Thursday in Jharkhand’s Giridih district. The incident happened around 5pm on Thursday in a dense forest under Gawan police station area, over 60km from the district headquarters. The deceased have been identified as Sukhu Tuddu, 18, of Gawan and Ravi Kamar, 24, Anil Yadav, 38, and Gopal Manjhi, 35, all from Dhab police station area in Koderma district. However, the bodies were allegedly cremated by the locals without informing police, forcing the police team along with district mining and forest officials to initiate a probe. Giridih deputy commissioner Rahul Kumar Sinha said, “The incident happened in a forest area bordering the two districts of Giridih and Koderma. Three of the deceased were from neighbouring Koderma district while one was from Giridih district. They were engaged in illegally extracting mica from the mine. A police team reached the spot on Friday. On the basis of the report submitted by the district mining unit and the forest department, the police will lodge an FIR against the person carrying out illegal mining activities in that area and unnatural death cases will be registered. A joint team comprising officials from Koderma and Giridih districts will investigate the steps to be taken to stop such illegal mining activities. The forest department will pay adequate compensation to the deceased families as per government norms.” Giridih superintendent of police Amit Renu confirmed the deaths. He said that forest and mining department officials will submit a report soon and they will take action against the operators of such illegal mines. “Extraction of mica in a forest area is illegal and has been banned for more than two decades on environmental grounds. But private operators take advantage of the dense forest and reluctance on the part of the police and forest officials to visit the area due to extremism to operate mica mines without following any safety norms. Even the mandatory requirement of filling up closed mines with sand is not followed. Mine operators lure poor villagers to extract scrap from the abandoned mines in the forest area and this has resulted in several mishaps due to collapse of the mine roof,” said a source in Gawan police station. Mica extracted from such illegal and abandoned mines are sold to intermediaries and then exported to cosmetic manufacturers as it is used to add glitter to natural cosmetics and is a key ingredient in products such as face packs, mascara, eyeliner, lipstick and nail polish. The mines have been closed but people do engage in scrap mining at a risk to their lives with the threat of roof or the mine wall collapse looming on them. “There has been a boom in mica mining in the recent years with soaring demand for natural cosmetics as artificial makeup made of synthetic chemicals have been linked to illness, including cancer. This has made private operators carry out scrap mining in the abandoned mines illegally using poor villagers who have no other source of livelihood,” said social worker P.K. Mrinal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-237
