15-11-2020||Calcutta||Visits to Lake Avenue, books on acting and Chhabi Biswas||Soumitra Chatterjee did as many as 14 films with Satyajit Ray, among the most celebrated of collaborations in the history of cinema. At 5 feet 11.5 inches, he turned out to be a bit too tall for Ray’s Aparajito, and hence his debut was with Apur Sansar, the third and concluding part of the Apu Trilogy based on two Bibhutibhushan Bandopadhyay novels. How did Ray end up choosing Soumitra? Was it the screen test? Was it the actor’s diction? And when did he finally tell him that he was to play Apu? Here’s Soumitra in his own words. Excerpts: Manik da used to live on Lake Avenue those days. He was sitting in the room with the familiar kurta-pyjama. The moment I entered, he said, 'Oh dear, you've turned out to be much too tall.' Restraining himself immediately, he said, 'Please come in, take a seat.' I was shaken. How engrossed he must have been in his work to be able to say something like this. It only meant that he was looking for Apu everywhere, all the time. He had already received international recognition, and even won several awards. I was touched by the fact that he spoke to a nondescript stranger like me for such a long time and on such a variety of subjects. I had noticed all his life that he spoke to everyone freely and with complete sincerity. His baritone and his towering figure inevitably projected the image of a unique personality, but he never tried to create a distance between himself and others. Still, no matter how many funny things he said or light subjects he touched upon, playing the fool with him was unthinkable. And yet, when the time was right, he used to laugh and joke with many of us - just as we do with our friends - including me. I didn't realise it then, but I learnt later that Manik da would size up new actors and actresses for certain specific abilities during the course of his first conversation with them. Qualities such as their manner of speaking, their voice and pronunciation, what their expressions were like, and if they could speak Bangla fluently. I had noticed from the beginning that he put particular emphasis on their ability to speak Bangla – the sort of words they used during their everyday conversation. I have worked with many other film directors afterwards, but none of them usually paid much attention to this aspect. Everyone who's worked with Satyajit Ray knows the importance of dialogue delivery in his films. He had asked me two specific questions in the course of our tête-à-tête that day – whether I really loved acting, whether I was ready to act in films, if necessary. In other words, he wanted to observe just how keen I was on acting. Given my immense fascination for Pather Panchali and the identity of the person asking the questions, my response was exactly as it ought to have been. 'Exactly how tall are you, Soumitra babu?' Manik da asked suddenly as I was about to leave. 'Five feet eleven and a half,' I said. Summoning his production manager Anil Chowdhury, he said, 'Would you please stand next to him for a minute, Anil Babu?' When I left, he repeated, ‘Do come again, keep in touch.’ After that first meeting, I didn't go back very often although he had asked me to. Why disturb such an important man while he was busy with his work? I did take two or three friends of mine to see him in case he found any of them suitable for Apu. He didn't, though. Eventually, he picked Smaran Ghoshal. There was a stir again after the release of Aparajito – all of us loved it; it was indeed an extraordinary film. We discussed the distinctiveness of many of the scenes over and over again- the ghats of the ganga in Kashi, Harihar's death, Apu plucking grey hair off the old man's head and then racing away as soon as he was paid, Apu screaming 'Africa!' dressed as an African child, Apu missing the train deliberately so that he could go home, Apu's first visit to Calcutta and many other scenes which are still preserved carefully in my memory. I used to recollect these scenes every now and then, and do so even more so now. Youth lorded over our lives those days, with endless adda at the Coffee House. Another of Manik da's assistants, Subir Hazra, used to join our Coffee House sessions. He would often tell me, 'He hasn't forgotten you, he's going to send for you soon...' and so on. And I would say, 'Forget it, why should he send for me...' Naturally, I assumed these were just empty promises. I joined All India Radio soon afterwards _ the office was in Garstin lace, the year, 1957. I spent some time in bed with chicken-pox that year. When I had recovered, I was home one day, running my hand over the mementos of my illness, when Subir arrived. 'Come with me, Satyajit Ray has sent for you.' I went a few days later. As soon as I entered he exclaimed, 'There you are, please come in. But everything seems fine, I don't see any marks on your face! Someone was saying you have developed pockmarks. This is nothing, it should be fine.' After a pause, he added with a smile, 'I hope you're still as keen on acting as you once were.' Lowering my eyes, I said, 'yes, of course, I am.’ Anyhow, after we had spoken about some other things, Manik da said that he had decided to make another film taking cue from the second part of Aparajito, and that he might need me for it. Although he was always straightforward in whatever he said, he was also very careful; so he added immediately, ‘I am not giving you my word at the moment, but I want you to be prepared.’ A natural reserve prevented me from telling him at once that I had been waiting impatiently for one opportunity to work with a film-director like Satyajit Ray. ‘I’ll take a screen test soon,’ he continued. ‘A very simple affair.’ Then we talked about other things for quite some time, after which he said, ‘Why don’t you come over to the studio when I’m shooting?’ He was shooting two films virtually simultaneously – Parashpathar (The Philosopher’s Stone) and Jalsaghar (The Music Room). Even today, after all these years, I’m astonished when I consider the energy and the genius needed to make two films of that quality at the same time. Parashpathar was the first to be completed, followed by Jalsaghar. He had somehow found out that I was in regular contact with Sisir Kumar Bhaduri. He had even come to know that I visited Sisir Kumar frequently, borrowing books from his collection and getting him books to read. He would ask after Sisir Kumar during our conversations – what kind of books he read, what kind of books he enjoyed reading, what kind of discussions we had about acting – and so on. When he learnt that I was a student of literature, Manik da would sometimes discuss books with me. Such discussions with a new actor – and that too about literature – were unthinkable in the environment of Bengali cinema. Besides two or three cultured, well-educated film-directors, I have never met another person like him ever again. On the appointed day I went to the studio to watch Parashpathar being shot. I was dazzled by Bansi Chandragupta’s sets. Was it humanly possible to create such sets? I couldn’t even imagine such a thing at the time. I should mention that we had become instant fans of Satyajit Ray’s cameraman Subrata Mitra and art director Bansi Chandragupta after watching his very first film. We used to discuss them intensely, for both of them were like demigods for us. They’re just the kind of people a great director’s unit should have, we’d say. The sets hadn’t been completed yet, with the finishing touches still being put. I went up close and began to watch, practically open-mouthed. Manik da was preparing for the shoot. He caught sight of me devouring the scene with my eyes. Later I realised that Manik da had arranged all this for my convenience, opening all the windows to the special world of cinema to me so that I could get familiar and comfortable with it. The famous party scene of Parashpathar was to be shot that day. Virtually every famous actor of Bengali cinema was present for the shoot. Manik da gave me the opportunity to watch how renowned actors perform in front of the camera, how natural their behaviour is. In short, he was preparing me not to get nervous when it was my turn. Manik da still used the formal ‘apni’ with me at the time and hadn’t yet told me that I was to act as Apu. I had expected to be asked to play a minor character. Or perhaps he had hinted at something that I had not grasped. The practical aspects of shooting a film gradually became clear to me during my visits to the studio. I worked at the radio station and went off to watch Manik da shoot whenever I could. One day, I was there to watch a scene from Jalsaghar being shot, with Manik da giving me a vantage point as usual. After the shooting had ended for the day, I had to go off for my radio job. So I went up to him and said, ‘I have to go now Manik babu.’ Even if it was without any awkwardness, the words ‘apni’ and ‘babu’ did exist between us till that time of 1957. But both words vanished forever soon afterwards. The ‘apni’ that I did use with him till recently was just like ‘tumi’ in nature and in terms of intimacy. As I was about to leave, he said, ‘Let me introduce you to Chhabi Biswas, you haven’t met him, have you?’ I shook my head. But why did he suddenly want to introduce me to the legendary actor Chhabi Biswas? I was astonished as I was pleased. Going up to Chhabi Biswas, he said in his customary baritone, ‘Chhabi da! This is Soumitra Chattopadhyay, he is playing Apu in my next film, Apur Sansar.’ The penny had dropped! The chandelier on the sets of Jalsaghar began to sway in front of my eyes; my feet left the ground – I was flying, holding hands with the stars. That was when I realised for the first time that he had always thought of me as Apu. On the bus to the office, I wandered why it wasn’t speeding like a meteor – it was a feeling of pure, irresistible joy. The days that followed went by in a blur, flying past like the pages of an open book put down by the window. The affectionate relationship that developed between us right then led Manik da to protect me all his life with the love of a father. Visiting him at his Lake Avenue house was no longer a special effort on my part. He had personally taken several photographs of me in his room – stills which he spread out in front of his wife, whom I addressed as Boudi, and other members of his unit for discussions. He discussed my photographs with me too. He advised me to read Aparajito carefully once more in order to transform myself into Apu, and discussed all the books about acting that I had read. He also told me to read certain books I hadn’t read. I had already read Stanislavsky’s My Life in Art and Building a Character. One day he asked me during a conversation, ‘Have you read Stanislavsky’s An Actor Prepares, Soumitra?’ ‘No, I couldn’t get my hands on it,’ I said. He immediately gave me his copy of the book to read. I never saw Manik da being pedantic in his life, although there was no scope for doubt that he could have given classroom lectures on a number of subjects if he had wanted to. He always said what he needed to succinctly. Handing the book to me, he said, ‘When you read this you will realise how useful it is for beginners.’ He lent me other books of the same kind afterwards. Someone who had read so much, possessed such a superb collection of books, and was so immensely intelligent still exercised extraordinary restraint when speaking, never saying anything more than the essential – this too was a real sign of greatness. Every experienced connoisseur of the arts knows just how many people in India were capable of speaking or writing both Bangla and English the way Satyajit Ray did – my endorsement is unnecessary. He hated displays of erudition and the pretence of punditry. Excerpted with permission from translator Arunava Sinha Book: The Master and I, Soumitra on Satyajit Author: Soumitra Chatterjee (translated by Arunava Sinha) Publisher: Supernova Publishers Price: Rs 395||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-237
15-11-2020||Calcutta||A tree that never stopped growing||The craft of Soumitra Chatterjee, a screen actor of unmatched timbre, hinged on two distinct poles. At one end was his personality that radiated charm and gravitas, at the other was his magical ability to dissolve into a role so completely as to become one with the fictional character he played. That apart, he straddled the two streams of Bengali cinema – artistic and commercial – with equal ease. No wonder Soumitra Chatterjee had an extraordinarily varied film career. He was a thinking man’s screen performer who combined deep thought and awe-inspiring creative dexterity with deceptive ease to flesh out many a memorable character that will live on as long as cinema exists. His worldwide reputation — few Indian actors can match it because it isn’t mere movie stardom that we are talking here — is obviously intertwined with that of the trailblazing Satyajit Ray. If Ray was an imposing banyan, Soumitra was one of its sturdiest branches, which eventually spread out and grew its own roots to itself become a flowering tree that never stopped growing and blooming. In the late 1990s, French filmmaker Catherine Berge made a documentary in tribute to Soumitra and titled the work Gaach (Tree). We have lost the tree; the flowers and fruits it bore will stay with us forever. In India, outside of Bengal, Soumitra’s name might ring at best a faint bell except in informed circles. This has as much to do with the distance he kept from the pan-Indian Hindi cinema – into which his great contemporary Uttam Kumar forayed with a fair amount of success – as with the kind of films he generally championed. Soumitra had no peer in India. He worked with Ray until the very end of the latter’s life, from 1959’s epochal Apur Sansar (the actor’s screen debut) to the maestro’s second last film, Shakha Prosakha (1990), building a 14-title body of work that would have ensured him immortality even if he hadn’t done anything else in life. But as things panned out, he did an immense amount of work not only in the movies, but also in theatre, poetry, publishing and art. Soumitra was in his early 20s when Ray decided to cast him in Apur Sansar. He was a visitor to the set of Jalsaghar, Ray’s fourth film, when the director introduced the youngster to Chhabi Biswas as “the lead actor of my next film”. Soumitra was taken by surprise. In fact, even after filming of the last part of Ray’s fabled Apu Trilogy began, the actor wasn’t sure he had chosen the right calling. He spent the first ten years of his life in Krishnnagar. He was a diffident boy. The stage – to begin with, his mother’s bed was the arena around which he used her saris and bedcovers as wings and curtains – was his big refuge. It allowed him to hide behind assumed personas and express himself. For one, Krishnangar, poet, playwright and musician Dwijendra Lal Ray’s hometown, had a flourishing theatre culture. Two, his father, a practising advocate in Calcutta High Court, was an amateur actor. His grandfather, too, had links with the performing arts. The shift to Calcutta for a post-graduate degree in Bengali literature exposed the young man to the city’s professional theatre, then dominated by Sisir Kumar Bhaduri. Soumitra learnt acting under the tutelage of another doyen of Bengali stage, Ahindra Choudhury. Ray, on his part, was quick to recognise the actor’s potential. He gave Chatterjee the first draft of the Apur Sansar script well ahead of filming. Ray had already made four films but never had he given any actor the entire script to read and well before the shoot had begun at that. The director also gave the debutant two sheets of paper that spelled out the profile of the film’s titular character down to the minutest detail. Another first! Ray’s faith paid off in a way that quickly became the stuff of legend. The Ray-Soumitra partnership was, in terms of output and impact, on par with the iconic director-actor combinations that Akira Kurosawa and Toshiro Mifune, Ingmar Bergman and Max von Sydow, Federico Fellini and Marcello Mastroianni and Yasuziro Ozu and Chishu Ryu forged. The films that Ray and Soumitra made together put Bengali and Indian cinema on the world map like nothing else ever has before or since. But Ray was only one chapter of the eventful career of the Dadasaheb Phalke Award-winning actor who was in the business for well over six decades and died literally with his boots on. Only late last year, he had two new films, Barun Babur Bondhu and Sanjhbati, out in the multiplexes. It is easy to forgive those that believe that Soumitra’s reputation rests solely on the work he did with Ray. But nothing could be further from the truth. The iconic thespian held his own under many other directors and in several other strains of Bengali cinema. He also collaborated felicitously with Tarun Majumdar (Sansar Simantey, Ganadevata), Ajoy Kar (Saat Paanke Bandha, Parineeta) and Dinen Gupta (Basanta Bilap, Sangini), among many others. Soumitra’s association with Sharmila Tagore began in Apur Sansar, which was the latter’s debut too. Ray subsequently cast the two enduring Bengali stars together in two films made ten years apart – Devi (1960) and Aranyer Din Ratri (1970). The Soumitra-Sharmila screen pairing, thanks to the sheer collective critical acclaim the three Ray films garnered, remains unparalleled in the history of Indian cinema. Soumitra forged a hugely successful screen pairing with Aparna Sen, who debuted opposite him in the third segment of Ray’s Teen Kanya (1961) – Samapti. Soumitra and Aparna were also cast as a pair by Mrinal Sen in Akash Kusum (1965), by Dinen Gupta in the 1973 romantic comedy Basanta Bilap, and by Ray’s assistant Nityananda Dutta in Baksha Badal (1965). The last-named film had music by Satyajit Ray. With Tanuja, who had an active stint in Bengali cinema in the late 1960s and early 1970s, Soumitra featured in three major films – Protham Kadam Phool, Teen Bhubaner Paare (both 1969) and Aparna (1972). Teen Bhubaner Paare, in which he played a drifter who falls in love with a woman way out of his league, had him jiving to the timeless hit “Jibone ki paabona bhulechi shey bhabona”, sung by Manna Dey. The song led into the interlude “Ke tumi Nandini aage toh dekhini”, which quickly passed into film music folklore. The number ranks alongside Ei poth jodi na shesh hoye, the Uttam Kumar-Suchitra Sen duet from Saptapadi (1961), as the most unforgettable musical set piece ever mounted in a Bengali film. Rarely, if ever, was Soumitra not on song as an actor. The range of roles he played was nothing if not phenomenal. Two films come instantly to mind – Goutam Ghose’s Dekha (2000), in which a he played an ageing glaucoma-stricken poet who goes nearly blind, Suman Ghosh’s Podokkhep (2006), for which the veteran actor won a long overdue National Award for the best male lead performance of the year, and the more recent Mayurakshi, directed by Atanu Ghosh, who cast the seasoned actor as a dementia-afflicted retired professor of history. Soumitra’s early triumphs were primarily in films made outside of the Bengali cinema mainstream – besides Ray, he worked with Mrinal Sen (Akash Kusum, 1965) and Tapan Sinha (Kshudita Pashan, 1960). But he eventually established himself as a major commercial movie star, starting with the success of Sinha’s Jhinder Bondi (adapted from Anthony Hope’s The Prisoner of Zenda), in which he shared screen space for the first time with Bengal’s reigning matinee idol Uttam Kumar. Soumitra’s life did not begin and end with cinema. He remained active in theatre, co-edited a literary journal for 18 years (Ekkhon, 1961-1979, with Nirmalya Acharya), authored a dozen books of poetry and also produced paintings of no mean quality. Do we know any other film actor who can boast such a range of creative pursuits? Soumitra’s acting technique was a fine blend of minimalism and meticulousness. As a result, his histrionic sleights were often invisible to the naked eye. At their best, they could only be felt. It was the subtlety of his art that made it possible for the incredibly versatile Soumitra to internalise Apu, Amulya (Samapti) and Narsingh (Abhijan), three dissimilar characters he played for Ray in a span of four years, without the effort showing. For another Ray classic, Charulata, Soumitra changed his Bengali handwriting for good. He spent six months practising the letters and strokes of a pre-Tagore era and emerged, at age 27, with an all-new running hand. Didn’t we mention his ability to merge himself with a screen character? It bordered on the miraculous. Saibal Chatterjee is a cinephile who has been writing on films for over three decades.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-238
15-11-2020||West Bengal||Soumitra Chatterjee passes away after over a month in hospital||Thousands of people walked behind a flower-bedecked hearse carrying the body of actor Soumitra Chatterjee to Keoratala Mahasashan where his mortal remains were consigned to flames with full state honours on Sunday evening. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, along with her ministerial colleagues and a host of film personalities, walked in the procession with others singing Tagore's "Aguner parashmoni chhoao praane". Hundreds of people also stood along both sides of the road and crowded rooftops in nearby houses to have a last look at their favourite actor. As the last journey ended at the crematorium, Chatterjee was given a gun salute in presence of the chief minister and other dignitaries. Chatterjee, known for his career-spanning collaborations with celebrated director Satyajit Ray who cast him in 14 of his films, passed away at a city hospital on Sunday afternoon after a prolonged illness aggravated by a bout of Covid-19. He was 85. ​He is survived by his wife, Dipa Chatterjee, daughter Poulami Bose and son Sougata Chatterjee. ABP Ananda, quoting Belle Vue Clinic sources, said the end came at 12.25pm. "We declare with heavy heart that Shri Soumitra Chattopadhyay breathed his last at 12-15 pm at Belle Vue Clinic today (15 November 2020). We pay our homage to his soul," an official statement read, reported NDTV. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who reached the hospital after the news broke, declared that the actor would be accorded a state funeral. His mortal remains were taken to his house at Golf Green at 2pm and then to the Technicians’ Studio in Tollygunge where he spent most of his five-decade-long career shooting. Chatterjee's body was kept at Rabindra Sadan in the afternoon to enable his fans and admirers to pay their last respects. The funeral cortege then left for the burning ghat in a procession. Chief minister Banerjee had said the procession would proceed amid strict adherence to Covid-19 safety measures. The actor, who was admitted at Belle Vue here for over a month ago, remained in a “very, very critical” condition for the last 48 hours, a hospital update issued at on Saturday night said. His physiological system is not responding” despite all efforts, the hospital said. “He is still on different life supports and holding on. But it is almost a point of no return… from where he can come back and survive,” Arindam Kar, one of the doctors treating Chatterjee, said. Chatterjee, 85, was admitted to Belle Vue on October 6 after he tested positive for Covid-19. He recovered from Covid-19 but could not overcome Covid encephalopathy, a post-Covid complication that can trigger coma, drowsiness, disorientation and multiple other complications, and lead to multi-organ failure. “We have done everything possible in the past 40 days, but it is the encephalopathy that has undone every effort of ours,” said Kar, who is among a huge team of neurologists, nephrologists, cardiologists, critical care specialists, and infectious diseases specialists from both private and government hospitals that had been put together for Chatterjee’s treatment. Sharmila Tagore, who debuted in films along with Soumitra in 1958 in Apur Sansar, describes him as a treasured friend. In the foreword to The Master and I, the actor’s memoirs about his time with Ray, she talks of how like Ray, Soumitra wasn’t propelled by commerce. “Eternally childlike and hopelessly romantic at heart, like Ray, he is also a multifaceted talent,” she writes. Chatterjee and Ray enjoyed a partnership of over three decades, leaving the world of cinema with timeless gems _ Apur Sansar, Devi, Charulata, Aranyer Din Ratri and Ghare Baire have all been, and continue to be, admired and rediscovered by generations. “We were, to a great extent, Apus of our time,” Soumitra once said, about his joining the cast of Apur Sansar after Ray found him to be “too old” to play the role in Aparajito. Many critics rate his performance as Amal in Charulata as one of his best in the 14 films by Ray he appears in. The scene where he is lip-syncing to “Ogo Bideshini”, sung by Kishore Kumar, while playing the piano is one of cinema’s most cherished moments. Soumitra immortalized the role of Feluda, Ray’s famous detective, who like Sherlock Homes had a Watson too _ in the form of his young nephew Topshe, whom children growing up in the Calcutta of the ’60s and ’70s identified with. Ray started writing these Feluda novels circa 1965, and long before Sonar Kella was conceived of as a film, the look and demeanor of this tall, strapping handsome man was revealed to readers in the form of illustrations that many said were modelled on Soumitra. While discussing Gantokey Gondogol (Trouble in Gangtok) with Ray, the actor had pointed out how the illustrations in the book resembled the filmmaker. But a smiling Ray replied. “Really? Several people have told me that I’ve drawn him with you in mind.” Later, Soumitra talked about it with many others all of whom agreed that the line drawings looked more like him! Yet, personally, Soumitra writes in The Master and I, that he always felt the resemblance was closer to Ray.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-238
15-11-2020||Calcutta||Munia Mania||Zitting Cisticola. Most people would find it difficult to put a face to that name. Frankly, so did I. The lockdown had got me hooked to social media and I joined various WhatsApp groups, mostly on wildlife and birding. In one such group, I, along with 563 others, happened to like a particular picture. I remember the picture well. Not because it was exceptionally good, but it got me hooked to what I call ‘munia mania’. One good picture posted and the city and its surroundings are abuzz with the typical questions: Where? When? How many? Munias are small birds, typically around 10cm long. There are several types like the Scaly-breasted, Chestnut, White-rumped, Black-headed and the Indian Silverbill. But the most sought-after has to be the male Red Munia. It’s a photographer’s delight and aptly considered strikingly pretty. Another term that is often used to describe these birds is gregarious. These little, sparrow-sized birds are fond of company, sociable and seen in flocks. They are typically found in areas with tall grass and shrubs in well-watered areas. Well, I must admit I’m technologically challenged. My kids, on the other hand, seem to be relatively comfortable handling gadgets. So, armed with a Canon EOS1300D and a 70-300mm lens, I gathered enough courage to set off on my own to try and find these elusive birds. But where? I asked a friend, a fellow birder, for directions. Bang opposite the Mishti Hub. Owl More. Go straight. You’ll reach a dead end. That’s it. Actually, when I think back to the first visit, the dead end proved to be the beginning. Over a period of time I’ve got hooked. And if I was to believe my son, it has turned into an obsession. I’ve also learnt that for birding, the 70-300mm is good but the 150-600mm Tamron magically takes you into a whole new world. Not only is the quality of the images much better, but you can comfortably sit at a distance and truly observe the birds. I almost forgot about the Zitting Cisticola. During my first visit to this hot spot, I was rather frustrated. The shorter lens could barely capture the images of the munias as they settled on the tall grass in the distance. The swampy nature of the place and the possibility of snakes meant I was restricted and had to observe the birds from a distance. The heat and humidity weren’t helping either. Suddenly a sharp, continuous zit-zit call got my attention. I found a tiny bird, smaller than a sparrow, soaring erratically in the air, falling and rising, in a short, jerky flight only to dive into the grass and disappear. I was intrigued, fascinated actually. And then from behind me the same zit-zit call. This time I managed to get a decent shot. A lovely rufous brown bird with prominent darker streaks, also referred to as the streaked fantail warbler. Don’t be fooled by the many wonderful pictures that you see online. It could be very misleading. Birding is a game of patience and persistence. And, of course, acquired knowledge. There are many books and sites to learn from, but nothing compares to a field trip. Which highlights the second question, that is ‘When?’. I’ve learnt the hard way that birding during midday in the summer months is not such a good idea. But then again the heat keeps the others indoors and allows you the freedom and solitude — something I’ve begun to enjoy. My visits to these reedy marshes and grasslands filled with tall, feathery grass has, over a period of time, surely helped me climb the learning curve and most certainly improved my patience levels. I’ve learnt not only to spot birds and distinguish the various species, but, more importantly, to observe them. Observation leads to better understanding and, eventually, better photographs. I’ve understood the value of a good cap, a bottle of water or two, and a packet of biscuits — invaluable while you wait almost endlessly for the birds. A friend also suggested observing insects in the surroundings — dragonflies, damselflies, Banded Blister Beetles, jewel beetles and, of course, butterflies. There has never been a dull moment since. A bird I found to be the most active in these grasslands is the Plain Prinia. I don’t find them plain in any way. In fact, I find them quite beautiful. They have been called skulkers, but if you sit still you’d find they are always up to something. I’ve grown fond of their rather insect-like, wheezy song and their distinctive call that includes various buzzing and clinking noises. The hot summer months transform certain grass and plant species to shades of brown and pale yellow. Most of the birds, unfortunately, are similarly coloured. Hence, I carried my specs on the next trip. Unfortunately, specs and a mask are not compatible in photography. You can’t see much through fogged glasses. Thank God I was alone and could get rid of the mask. Armed with better vision, thanks to my spectacles and the 150-600mm lens, I was better equipped to spot more birds. The Paddy Field Pipit is a common bird seen foraging in open scrub and grassland and will willingly pose for photographs. While following a pair I accidentally stumbled upon a flock of busy Ashy Crowned Sparrow Larks. Thank God the male is well-marked with a contrasting black-and-white pattern on its face. Their ability to freeze and blend into the surroundings makes it almost impossible to photograph. Almost. Remember, I had brought my specs! I even managed to spot and photograph an elusive Bengal Bushlark. On a particular visit, I decided to sit near a large waterbody. The sky was overcast with dark, ominous rain clouds accompanied with the occasional ear-splitting roll of thunder. The edge of the waterbody was covered in tall grass and reeds. Water hyacinth and lily spread over most of the remaining water surface. Without warning it started to pour. Luckily my car was parked very close to where I was standing and I quickly got in, ruing my luck. The downpour was brief. I had started the engine and was about to leave when I gave one last, wishful glance. Sometimes you get lucky. Period. The cool breeze following the rains had transformed everything. A pair of Bronzed-winged Jacanas chose to display their courtship ritual while a busy Little Grebe repeatedly dived to find food. Nearby, perched on a dead branch, a Cormorant suddenly became vocal. The happiness all around was very visible and apparent. I decided to try birding early in the morning and set off around 5.30am one day. The Swedes have a word for it, gokotta (pronounced zho-kot-tah) — the rejuvenating act of rising at dawn to listen to birds sing, to immerse oneself in nature. The early morning light created a magical glow all around. The birdsongs and calls filled the air. I made my way towards the tall grass. I could hear them. Somewhere close by. I froze. Almost immediately a flock of Tricoloured Munias descended and perched nearby. Slowly I raised the camera and tried to focus. There was a problem of plenty. I initially took a  picture of a group of six and then proceeded to take pictures of individuals. Four of them flew off to a small waterbody and proceeded to drink. I couldn’t believe my eyes. I kept clicking. Suddenly I felt something slithering over my shoe. I glanced down to see a huge snake had just crawled over my foot and was moving into the nearby bushes. Fear. Excitement. Opportunity. Click it fast said a tiny little voice from inside. I gathered my wits and got a few decent shots. Added to the list of essentials along with cap, water bottle, biscuits would now be adult diapers! I found out later that, thankfully, it was a non-poisonous rat snake. I got back to the car and thanked my lucky stars. I was overjoyed. Never had I seen so many munias from so close. Or had the opportunity to photograph them. But a part of me was still unhappy. I was yet to see the male Red Munia. The magnificence of the picture I had seen on social media still haunts me. Some day. I switched on the music and ironically the U2 song — Still Haven’t Found What I’m Looking For — started playing. I couldn’t help but laugh. I will find it, I promised myself.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-238
15-11-2020||Calcutta||Early sign: Festival of prudence in Calcutta||Calcuttans made the Calcutta High Court ban on crackers successful in the early hours of the Diwali evening. The city had an unusually quiet Diwali — the occasional beat of the dhak and the flickering fairy lights on parapets the only reminders of a festival evening. Police said no significant violation had been reported till around 8pm in the usual problem areas. A Ballygunge resident said this had been the best Diwali not just for her but for her pet Alsatian too. New Delhi witnessed several violations, PTI reported.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-238
15-11-2020||Calcutta||Xavier’s varsity offers campus exam option||St Xavier’s University will allow students who don’t have computers or sound Net connectivity in their homes to write their semester exams on the campus using the university’s computer facilities. The online second and fourth semester exams for undergraduate students and second semester for postgraduate students will be held from December 7 to 11. Since some students don’t have computers at home or access to proper Net connectivity because of financial constraints or any other reason, they will be allowed to take the online exams on the campus, Father Felix Raj, the university vice-chancellor, said. “We cannot expect all students to have computers at their homes. Somemay lack robust connectivity and that can come in the way of writing tests online. They will be allowed to write the test on the campus. In any university, students come first,” he said. “They are the primary stakeholders. The university should be at their service.” A notification signed by the acting controller of examination said those who wanted to take the exams on the campus needed to send a mail to students@sxuk.edu.in, mentioning their name, course, roll number and registration number. The subject will be “Request for giving examinations on the university campus”. The applications will be verified and approved with certain conditions by the competent authority, according to the notice. All provisions are applicable as a one-time measure and cannot be cited as a precedent in future. The university will send its buses to pick up students from their homes and bring them to the campus as they don’t want students to use public transport during the pandemic, the vice-chancellor said. A university official said the university had surveyed students and found some had Net connectivity problems. This prompted the university to allow students to take the exams on the campus. A similar survey at the India Institute of Engineering Science and Technology, Shibpur, had shown 15.5 per cent of 1,830 students could not attend online classes in the last semester and that 18.3 per cent faced Net connectivity problems at home, an institute official said. St Xavier’s has always thought about disadvantaged students whose condition have worsened during the pandemic and in July had decided to offer a 20 per cent concession on semester fees to all undergraduate and postgraduate students for the next six months, a university official said. Last month, some undergraduate students of Acharya Jagadish Chandra Bose College in Calcutta had dropped the plan of uploading their final-year answer scripts from their homes because of Net connectivity problems and had opted for a pen-and-paper test on the campus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-238
15-11-2020||Calcutta||NGO to help rebuild homes lost to fire||An NGO has reached out to 100-odd families to help them rebuild their lives after their homes got gutted in a fire on Tuesday. Many of these families have children and pregnant women who had to rush out of their shanties leaving behind their belongings and documents, an official of the NGO, Ek Tara, said. The fire had broken out around 3.30pm on Tuesday and it had taken 22 fire engines to bring it under control by 6pm. Those in the locality said the fire had spread from one shanty to another. The NGO had earlier conducted mobile school projects in the slum for the children to teach them numbers and letters and held empowerment programmes for women. A team from the NGO visited the locality on Wednesday to speak to people and assess losses they have suffered. A woman in her third trimester had run out of her home with her younger brother when the fire broke out. “I thought of carrying some of our belongings with me… but it was not possible,” she said. “We found out more than 300 people had been affected… most had lost everything,” Manjusmita Bagchi, the associate director of Ek Tara, said. “They need clothes and utensils… most of their documents and identity proofs have been damaged. We are arranging clothes, blankets, mosquito nets, utensils, ration and solar lamps for these families. The area has poor families and our priority is to reach out to those who have lost everything.” The area is commonly referred to as Mazdoor para and most men in the area are involved in garbage segregation or are daily labourers, Bagchi said. The women work has domestic helps. The pandemic has hit their income and the fire has taken away whatever they had, she said. At least two other NGOs are working in the area to help these people rebuild their lives. Ek Tara has appealed on social media, too: “The massive fire has completely destroyed one of our slums in Topsia. Over 300 people have been displaced. Children are without food and clean water. We urge everyone to help us rebuild the lives of those affected by the fire.” “We have made a list of requirements… we are sending that to our connections. We could see the fire from the roof (the NGO office is nearby),” Vinita Saraf, founder and trustee of Ek Tara, said. The NGO mostly works in the Tiljala-Topsia area. “The pandemic had affected their lives and earnings. Now, with the fire they have to deal with a double blow,” Saraf said. In approximately two days, Ek Tara has been able to raise close to Rs 80,000. The NGO has received donations in kind as well — blankets, saris, clothes and milk for children. The team members who have conducted outreach programmes in the locality in the past have been moved by the sight of helpless men and women. “Some appeared completely blank and they did not know where to start from,” Anupriya Bhattacharya, the NGO’s executive programme manager who has worked in the locality for the past seven years, said. “As it is they have tiny houses and now even those are gone. But there are resilient… it perhaps comes from the fact they have seen so much hardship,” Bhattacharya said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-238
15-11-2020||Calcutta||Soumitra ‘very, very critical’||Actor Soumitra Chatterjee is “very, very critical”; the situation is “grim”, a doctor at Belle Vue Clinic said on Saturday. “His physiological system is not responding” despite all efforts, the hospital said in an update issued at 9pm. “He is still on different life supports and holding on. But it is almost a point of no return… from where he can come back and survive,” Arindam Kar, one of the doctors treating Chatterjee, said. “It seems that even a miracle will be short of getting him out of the situation as of now. We have explained the situation to his family members. They are in grief. Everyone has seen the effort that has been put. We are trying our last effort,” Kar said. Chatterjee, 85, was admitted to Belle Vue on October 6 after he tested positive for Covid-19. He recovered from Covid-19 but could not overcome Covid encephalopathy. “We have done everything possible in the past 40 days, but it is the encephalopathy that has undone every effort of ours,” Kar said. Encephalopathy is a post-Covid complication that can trigger coma, drowsiness, disorientation and multiple other complications, and lead to multi-organ failure, a doctor treating Covid patients at another hospital said. The update from Belle Vue said a huge team of neurologists, nephrologists, cardiologists, critical care specialists, and infectious diseases specialists from both private and government hospitals came together for Chatterjee’s treatment. “At the end it is not working. We are very sorry to say that he has not been responding at all in the past 24 to 30 hours,” Kar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-238
15-11-2020||Calcutta||Good sense lights up Diwali||A large part of the city celebrated a noiseless Diwali, following in letter and spirit the Calcutta High Court ban on firecrackers. Till around 9pm, smaller pockets and fringe areas received more complaints of violations compared to the heart of the city and the traditional hotspots that are usually known for a noisy Diwali. Till 9.30pm, only 15 persons were arrested for violating the ban relating to firecrackers in the city. According to statistics shared by the pollution control board and Sabuj Mancha, they had received 25 and 33 complaints till around 9.15pm on Saturday. A few instances of bursting chocolate bombs were reported in the Cossipore neighbourhoods around 9pm. According to feedback from police, pollution control board and Calcuttans Metro spoke to, traditional noise-making pockets like Lake Town, VIP Road, Behala, Burrabazar and Bowbazar were more or less silent till on Saturday evening compared to previous years while complaints had poured in from fringe areas in the south like Sonarpur and Baruipur. What was different this Diwali: Court order:  Calcutta High Court had banned sale, possession and bursting of any form of firecrackers this year and instructed the state to execute a complete ban at any cost because of the pandemic. This means violators could be prosecuted and arrested under strict sections which could lead to an imprisonment of a few years. “Who will take the risk of being arrested? Last year one of my friends had to spend a night at Thakurpukur police station. This year none of us is taking any chance,” said Priyank Sinha, a resident of New Alipore. Amplified health concerns because of the changes brought about by Covid-19 could also have made people want to act responsibly by paying heed to the ban. Police vigil:  The police had posted personnel at high-rise buildings in Park Street, Shakespeare Sarani, Alipore and New Alipore area from where multiple cases are reported every year. Police patrol in auto rickshaws and radio flying squads apart from 5000-odd cops on the roads were a deterrent to bursting crackers, a section of the police felt. Diwali in Ballygunge and Gariahat were “peaceful” till 10pm, compared to last year. “I made three rounds of a highrise in my area which is famous for violating the cracker norms. This year there is complete silence,” said an officer of Ballygunge police station. Citizen activism: Many police stations, such as that in Behala and Thakurpukur, said they were receiving petty complaints that did not merit to be reported. “People are panicking. A young boy had fired a cap in his toy gun. Hearing that, one of his neighbours dialled the police station to report. On enquiry, it was found to be a trivial matter. Neighbours were a little overcautious,” said a police officer in the Parnasree area. In several cases, it was found that the actual incident of bursting crackers had happened in the adjoining police station area that falls under South 24-Parganas, but residents of Calcutta were reporting it. A Behala resident said as of 8.30pm, he could hear only a few firecrackers, compared to the incessant noise that buffets him every Diwali for hours. Cracker crunch: As there was almost negligible sale of firecrackers this year, even those who wanted could not get their hands on their share of firecrakers.  “We are retiring early tonight. My children are upset,” said a resident of Beleghata. The  police in Calcutta, Bidhannagar, Howrah and Barrackpore had been conducting raids and searches for illegal stockpiles of firecrakers. More than 270kg of firecrackers, including chocolate bombs and shells, had been seized by Bidhannagar police in the past few days. The squeeze on availability of firecrakers and awareness campaigns against their sale, possession or use helped the police to a large extent, till Saturday evening, several police officers said. Pet-friendly:  Calcuttans who have pets and dread the noisy Diwali nights said they had not had a more peaceful Diwali in the past few years. “I feel petrified for my pets (dogs) who literally stop eating during this period. They become so miserable that every year I have to keep on complaining against the bursting of firecrackers from the adjoining area. But this Diwali is so silent, till now. I am grateful that good sense has prevailed,” said Mandira Ghosh, a resident of a high-rise building off the Bypass at Kalikapur. More than 80 children who enjoyed a tram ride on three routes — Shyambazar, Nonapukur and Gariahat — at Esplanade, where the rides culminated, on Saturday morning.  The tram ride on the occasion of Children’s Day marks the beginning of the observation of child rights week by the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights. The underprivileged children are from NGO homes and Saturday’s ride ended with all of them getting goody bags from the commission. “Saturday marked the beginning of the child rights week to stand up for the rights of the child that the commission organises every year. The difference this year was handing over masks and hand sanitisers to the children and maintaining social distancing. Not just Calcutta, child rights awareness campaigns are organised in the districts, too,” said Mahuya Santra, consultant at the state child rights commission||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-238
15-11-2020||Calcutta||Lorry runs over woman||A 30-year-old woman was killed and a 45-year-old man was seriously injured in two accidents on Saturday. A lorry ran over Susmita Mallick who was crossing the road near the Judges Court Road-Diamond Harbour Road intersection around 9.30am, police said. Mallick was lying on the road for some time before cops arrived and took her to SSKM Hospital where she died. Eyewitnesses told the police she had been flung a distance away and that the rear wheels of the lorry ran over her head. Passers-by stopped the lorry before alerting the cops. The driver has been arrested. In the evening, a dumper hit Arindam Pandit who was on a bike near Sakherbazar on Diamond Harbour Road, leaving him with head and leg injuries. He is “in a critical state” in Vidyasagar State General Hospital. The driver of the dumper has been arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-238
15-11-2020||Calcutta||Corporate Diwali gifts take a hit||The pandemic has forced corporate entities to abort or scale down on Diwali gifts this year. The gifts used to come in various forms: from the ubiquitous dry fruit boxes to elegant packs with fountain pens and card holders. Companies used to hire creative agencies to think of innovative gifts. But with the economy in a tailspin, corporate gifts have been going south for the past few years. This year, the segment has hit rock bottom, according to givers and takers. The dry fruits' market in Burrabazar has been busy for the past few days. But bulk orders from companies were missing, traders said. “Bulk orders are a fifth of last year,” Paresh Modi, a dry fruits’ trader, said. Many companies opt for personalised gifts during Diwali. A premium fountain pen and an accompanying notepad or card holder used to be a popular choice with many companies till this year. “Corporate gift orders are 15 to 20 per cent of previous years,” Gautam Jatia, the CEO of Starmark, said. “Premium pens are the most popular gifts. In previous years, there have been instances of a client ordering around 30-40 Kindles as Diwali gift. But things have come to a standstill this year,” Jatia said. An online trading firm spent “around Rs 5 lakh” on Diwali gifts last year for premium clients. This year, the budget is one-fifth. “Staying afloat is a challenge now. Gifts have taken a back seat,” a senior official of the firm said. Many companies used to hire advertising agencies to come up with innovative and insightful corporate gifts, both during Diwali and New Year. “Corporate gifts have seen a significant drop in the past few years. This year, there is nothing at all,” a Calcutta-based advertiser said. He usually starts working on New Year gifts from October. “But there are hardly any orders so far this year.” Till 2016, a private bank in BBD Bagh used to order “around 200” boxes of dry fruits during Diwali for premium depositors. The number has been going down for the past few years. But this year, the bank has ordered nothing. “We are just sending e-cards to customers,” an official said. An official of an FMCG company is flooded with gift hampers during Diwali every year. But this year, the number has been just “a couple of dry fruit boxes”. A Calcutta-headquartered FMCG company has bucked the trend and continued with personalised corporate gifts this Diwali as well. “We wanted to celebrate the spirit of Diwali... and not let our spirit be dampened by the muted environment,” a spokesperson said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-238
15-11-2020||Business||Mixed bag for car dealers during festive season||Dealers feel car sales have been muted this festive season even as manufacturers claimed there has been a recovery this Diwali and Dhanteras. Some manufacturers, particularly those with diesel portfolio, were stocked out. While the actual festive numbers will emerge only after a week or so, sales were good in some states while they remained muted in others in this pandemic market. Vinkesh Gulati, president of the Federation of Automobile Dealers Association, said: “It’s been a mixed bag, while some states did good, others did not fare well. The bookings are happening but the conversion rates are not good. Customers are either deferring  their decision to buy or can’t make up their mind.” There is an issue with a major supplier, added Gulati, the reason why diesel cars are out of stock. “A major component supplier of BSVI diesel engines is faltering,” he said. Many of the original equipment manufacturers (OEM)s were caught in the middle of the transition from BSIV to BSVI when the lockdown happened. As a result, they had zero inventory both at the plant and at the dealers. Whatever is being produced is getting sold out, said a company source. Toyota Kirloskar Motors reported a 1013 per cent in¬crease in orders this year on Dhanteras over the same peri¬od last year. “Dhanteras in 2020 has been celebrated over two days in various parts of the country and, hence, in terms of retail sales (dealer’s sale to customer) also, we have witnessed a 12 per cent growth compared with Dhanteras in 2019,” said Naveen Soni, senior vicepresident, sales and marketing, TKM. Mercedes MD and CEO Martin Schwenk said: “This year’s festive season has con¬tributed actively to the recov¬ery in sales witnessed since the third quarter.” “We are witnessing a gradual but steady recovery over the last few months and this can be attributed to a few factors, including, pentup demand from the last few months, festive demand that has contributed to overall sales in the month of October and November, consolidation of the market at the lower end due to personal mobility issues and finally, the kind of offers and schemes that OEMs have been offering to customers to push demand,” Soni said. “The first two factors being topical are bound to gradually taper down, beginning next month. We have already witnessed a decrease in demand created due to pent up demand from 36 per cent in the earlier months to around 20 per cent last month. Similarly, festive demand will also last till about the end of this month. Therefore, what is more prone to sustain are factors like consolidation of the market at the lower end due to personal mobility issues and the variety of schemes and offers that OEMs can come up with,” he added. Luxury car maker Mercedes Benz India has had similar levels of Dhanteras sales as last year. Mercedes MD and CEO Martin Schwenk said: “This year’s festive season has contributed actively to the recovery in sales which we have been witnessing since Quarter 3. The Dhanteras demand this year has been at similar levels to last year with over 300 cars delivered. This is a very encouraging development for us as this achievement becomes more pronounced in the backdrop of the pandemic induced market challenges that resulted in sales loss for a quarter and also resulting in the nonavailability of some of our volume drivers.” Tata Motors has witnessed strong growth for their “New Forever” range of products during the festive season. “Our bookings have increased by nearly 95 per cent and retails have increased by nearly 90 per cent compared to FY20 festive season. Our car and UVs have seen equal traction from the market. Harrier retails has seen the highest growth at 141 per cent,” said a company spokesperson.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-235
15-11-2020||Business||Move to plug gaps in policies sold digitally||The insurance regulator has brought in checks to curb potential misselling of marketlinked life insurance policies by agents and intermediaries through the digital mode. Earlier in August, IRDAI had allowed the sale of policies by obtaining consent of customers through electronic means. In a circular to all life insurers, the regulator has set limits on the amount the agents can solicit on market linked life insurance policies. “The insurance agents shall not solicit nonsingle premium unitlinked insurance policies for annualised premium exceeding Rs 50,000 or single premium unitlinked insurance policies exceeding Rs 1,00,000,” the regulator said in the circular. Further IRDAI has also put the onus of verification and due diligence on life insurance companies for sale of policies without requiring wet signa¬tures on the proposal form. A customer, if he or she agrees to a product offered by an agent or an intermediary on behalf of a life insurance company, can affix their digital signa¬ture or validate through a one time password. This facility is available on polices sold till March 31, 2021 and the initiative was taken on account of difficulties faced by the industry because of the Covid19 pandemic. “The insurer shall verify at least 3 per cent of sales to make sure they comply with these provisions. The record of verification calls shall be preserved for a period of not less than three years. The insurer shall also maintain verifiable, legally valid evidence of the proposer’s consent in an unalterable and easily retrievable form for a period of six months beyond the term of the policy or until satisfactory settle¬ment of claims, whichever is later,” the regulator said. Life insurers saw a 31.87 per cent growth in first year premium in October, signifying a pickup in business. IRDAI has also come out with an exposure draft seeking industry comments for a standard health insurance policy covering vector borne diseases such as Dengue, Malaria, Filaria, KalaAzar, Chikungunya, Japanese En¬cephalitis and Zika Virus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-235
15-11-2020||Business||Samvat 2077 sizzles as key indices hit fresh highs ||Investors ushered in Samvat 2077 into the record books as key indices hit fresh highs on continued optimism over earnings recovery as the economy slowly emerges out of the morass induced by the Covid19 pandemic. Positive global cues amid news of the coronavirus vaccine also supported investor sentiment in the first session where brokers open their books to mark the beginning of the Hindu new year. The 30 share Sensex opened in the green at 43815.45 and hit a new intraday high of 43830.93 — a rise of 387.93 points. It, however, came off these highs to end 194.98 points higher at 43637.98,  which was a new closing high too. On the NSE, the broader Nifty settled at 12770.60, a rise of 50.65 points. In the Sensex pack, 26 stocks ended in the green and the gainers list was led by Bharti Airtel, whose shares rose 1.17 per cent. It was followed by Tata Steel, Sun Pharma, Bajaj Finserv, ITC and Infosys, which rose up to 1.15 per cent. The good start to Samvat 2077 in the special onehour Muhurat trading came after an eventful but volatile year where the markets and global economy were hit by the pandemic.  However, stocks staged a strong rebound (Sensex gained 11.22 per cent in Samvat 2076) on various factors that included abundant liquidity as central banks continued with their accommodative stance and betterthanexpected corporate perform¬ance in the quarter ended September 30. Hoping for doubledigit gains Experts feel that this year too, the key indices are likely to see double digit gains. However, the focus will be on sectors that could benefit as the economy regains its mojo. Yet, the view is that the recovery will be uneven with some segments witnessing quick turnaround while others languish. Brokerages aver that cyclicals (whose fortunes are linked to the economy), finance & banking stocks apart from auto and ancillaries will flourish. They are, however, divided on the pharmaceuticals and IT sec¬tors that have notched up strong gains over the past few months. Observers feel the factors that could be a drag on stocks are a second Covid19 wave and a stubborn rate of inflation. “We expect the economic recovery to continue from here on led by the services sector. While we see continued momentum in cyclical sectors like auto and cement, we also expect sectors with strong revenue visibility like agrochemicals, IT and pharmaceuticals will continue to do well,’’ Angel Broking said. Passenger vehicles and lowticket consumer durables are like¬ly to rebound even as aviation and retail will be slow to pick up. “We advise investors to use equities as an asset class for long term wealth creation by investing in companies with strong earnings growth and visibility, stable cash flows, return on equity and return on capital employed,’’ analysts at ICICI Direct said. “With news of an effective vaccine against Covid19, we ap¬pear closer to the end of a difficult period for society at large... we can expect earnings growth in the coming couple of years to be robust,’’ said S. Hariharan, headsales trading, Emkay Global Financial Services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-235
15-11-2020||Business||Fuel demand up in October||The country’s fuel demand posted its first year-on-year increase since February as a spurt in diesel demand ahead of the festival season pushed consumption to pre Covid-19 levels. Total demand for petroleum products rose 2.5 per cent in October to reach 17.77 million tonnes compared with 17.34 million tonnes a year back, according to provisional data published by the oil ministry’s Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell. The fuel demand, however, defied the belief of a struggling economy and widespread job losses. Relaxations in the country’s lockdown measures along with the current festival season have helped revive fuel demand. The spurt in demand comes at a time the country is likely to have fallen into an economic recession for the first time in its history after GDP shrank by an estimated 8.6 per cent during July-September, the RBI said. Industry officials said Indian Oil Corp has been operating at 100 per cent capacity since early November as fuel demand has recovered. IOC has been gradually raising crude runs at its plants, which plunged to about 39 per cent at the beginning of April when a nationwide coronavirus lockdown hit fuel demand. Diesel demand soared 7.4 per cent year-on-year to 6.5 million tonnes. Fuel demand had snipped 49 per cent in April after the nationwide lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-235
15-11-2020||India||Pak allegation of India-aided terrorism is fabricated: MEA||India on Sunday countered Pakistan for accusing it of being involved in some terror strikes there. The former observed that the proof' cited by Pakistan is a figment of imagination with no credibility. External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said Pakistan's "desperate attempt" will find few takers as the international community is aware of its tactics and that "concocting" documents and peddling false narratives will not absolve Islamabad of its "sponsorship" of terrorism. This came a day after Pakistan's Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi addressed a press conference alongside Army spokesman Maj Gen Babar Iftikhar to claim that India was behind some of the terror attacks in that country. "This is yet another futile anti-India propaganda exercise. The so-called claims of 'proof' against India enjoy no credibility, are fabricated and represent figments of imagination," Srivastava said in response to media queries on the allegations. "This desperate attempt will find few takers as the international community is aware of Pakistan's tactics and proof of its terror sponsorship has been admitted by none other than its own leadership," he said. Srivastava described the press conference as an attempt on the part of the Pakistani establishment to shift focus from its internal political and economic failures and to justify cross-border terrorism, including ceasefire violations and infiltration along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir. "The face of global terror, Osama Bin Laden, was found in Pakistan. Pakistan's PM glorified him as a 'martyr' from the floor of Parliament, he admitted the presence of 40,000 terrorists in Pakistan. "Their science and technology minister proudly claimed involvement and success of Pakistan, led by its prime minister, in the Pulwama terror attack in the Pulwama terror attack in which 40 Indian soldiers were martyred," Srivastava said. Last month, Pakistan's Science and Technology Minister Fawad Chaudhry admitted his country's role in the Pulwama attack during a debate in their National Assembly. Srivastava said even distant parts of the world have seen the terror trail lead back to Pakistan. "We call upon Pakistan to end its support to cross border terrorism. Pakistani leaders have never hidden the fact that it has become a factory for producing terrorists. India is not the only neighbour to be targeted as underlined by the statements of countries similarly targeted," he said. "Distant parts of the world have seen the terror trail lead back to Pakistan. Concocting documents and peddling false narratives will not absolve Pakistan of such actions. We are confident the world will hold it to account," the MEA spokesperson added. Srivastava said Pakistani forces continue to engage in providing supporting cover fire to infiltrators despite repeated calls for restraint and adherence to the ceasefire understanding of 2003 for maintaining peace and tranquillity along the Line of Control. "The incessant infiltration of terrorists and induction of weapons to fuel terror activities continues unabated. Such activities are not possible without the support of Pakistani forces deployed along the LoC," he said. India had on Saturday summoned the Charge d'Affaires of the Pakistan High Commission and lodged a strong protest with him over the unprovoked ceasefire violations by Pakistani forces in multiple sectors along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir targeting innocent civilians on Friday. Triggering a major flare-up along the LoC on Friday, Pakistan resorted to heavy shelling in several areas along the LoC in north Kashmir killing five security personnel apart from at least four civilians following which the Indian Army mounted a major retaliation pounding several Pakistani positions with anti-tank guided missiles and artillery guns. Indian military sources said at least eight Pakistani soldiers were killed and 12 others injured in the retaliation. Notwithstanding the coronavirus pandemic in the region, Pakistan has been resorting to unprovoked ceasefire violations along the LoC and making concerted efforts to push militants into Kashmir. Pakistani hostilities increased after India announced its decision to withdraw the special status of Jammu and Kashmir and divide the state into two union territories in August last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-557
15-11-2020||India||Sputnik V’s second and third phase human trials to be done in a week||The first batch of Sputnik V, Russia’s Covid-19 vaccine, is likely to reach next week Kanpur's Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Medical College after which, the second and third phase of human clinical trials will be conducted. According to an official, the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) had approved of this, following which, Dr. Reddy's Laboratories took the decision to conduct the trials. "As many as 180 volunteers have registered for the trials. Head of the research Saurabh Agarwal will determine the dosage of the vaccine to be administered. One dose will be administered and the condition of volunteers will be monitored to determine whether they need further doses or not," the college principal R.B. Kamal said. The condition of the volunteers will be checked from time to time and the data will be then analysed to determine the ability of the vaccine, he added. The effect of the vaccine will be studied periodically for seven months after it is administered on the volunteers once, twice and thrice over 21 days. The effects will be monitored and the results will be reported to the authorities after which a decision will be made. “The Ethics Committee of the college has also given permission for the trails:, he said. The vaccine has to be kept at cold temperatures ranging between -20 degrees to -70 degrees Celsius. The lab entered into a partnership for the conduction of clinical trials and the Indian distribution of 100 million doses of  Sputnik V with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) in September.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-557
15-11-2020||India||Covid: More ICU beds, testing in Delhi, says Amit Shah after Delhi spike review||To deal with the recent spike in coronavirus cases in Delhi, the Centre on Sunday said it will soon make available 300 additional ICU beds and double the number of daily RTPCR tests in the national capital. Union home minister Amit Shah also said some of the hospitals under the municipal corporations of Delhi will be converted into dedicated Covid hospitals and doctors and paramedics of paramilitary forces will be deployed in the national capital to deal with the shortage of manpower. Shah said to save more lives, the Centre will also provide oxygen, high flow nasal cannula and other health equipments to Delhi. The decisions were taken at a high level meeting chaired by Shah and attended by Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, union health minister Harsh Vardhan among others. In a series of tweets in Hindi, Shah said daily RTPCR tests in Delhi will be doubled, the capacity of the testing laboratories will be enhanced and mobile testing vans of the Union Health Ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will be deployed in the areas where the Covid-19 threat is high. He said the meeting resolved to enhance the capacity of Delhi's hospitals and in this direction, 300 ICU beds will be made available at the DRDO Covid hospital (Dhaula Kuan) in addition to the existing 250 ICU beds. The home minister said to increase the number of oxygen beds, the 10,000-bedded Chhatarpur Covid care centre will be strengthened and some of the hospitals of the municipal corporations of Delhi will be converted into dedicated Covid hospitals. The home minister reviewed the situation arising due to the spike in Covid-19 cases in Delhi and discussed ways to deal with it, a home ministry official said. Delhi recorded 3,235 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the infection tally to over 4.85 lakh on Sunday, while ninety-five more fatalities pushed the death toll to 7,614. The meeting was convened to devise a strategy to contain the spread of the virus in Delhi, especially in view of the festive season and decreasing temperatures accompanied by rising pollution, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-557
15-11-2020||India||Nitish Kumar declared leader of NDA in Bihar; to return as CM||The NDA in Bihar on Sunday unanimously elected Nitish Kumar as its leader in the state legislature, paving the way for his return as Chief Minister for the fourth consecutive term. According to sources in the ruling coalition, an announcement to the effect was made at 1, Anney Marr, the chief ministers' official residence, by senior BJP leader and defence minister Rajnath Singh who had flown down for the occasion. The sources also said that senior BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi has been chosen as the leader of the legislature party and is likely to return as Deputy CM while Tarkishore Prasad, the MLA from Katihar, has been elected as the party’s leader in the state assembly. Kumar is expected to meet Governor Phagu Chauhan staking claim for the formation of the new government and is likely to take oath on Monday. Suspense on deputy CM, other ministers in Bihar With the election of Nitish Kumar as the leader of the ruling NDA in Bihar, all eyes are now set on who will be his deputy and other ministerial colleagues in his government. There is some suspense whether Sushil Kumar Modi will continue as deputy chief minister or if the saffron party would choose a new face. Names of eight-term MLA from Gaya town Prem Kumar and that of Kameshwar Choupal, a Dalit MLC who had laid the foundation stone for the temple at Ayodhya in the 1990s, are also doing the rounds for the post in the political circles. However, Prem Kumar said, "I have not been staking any claim. We are all committed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's dream of making Bihar Atmanirbhar. NDA leaders will amicably decide who should be the leader and the deputy leader. There are strong indications that Sushil Modi, who has been deputy chief minister since 2005 and is known to share an excellent rapport with Kumar, may be retained. Sushil Modi accompanied Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, who is in Bihar to oversee the NDA meeting in the run-up to the government formation, from the state guesthouse to the chief minister's residence giving credence to the speculations about the deputy CM's post. Also, it will be interesting to see who all from the four NDA constituents -- the BJP, JD(U), Hindustani Awam Morcha and Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) form the state cabinet. The outgoing Bihar government had a total of 30 ministers, including Nitish Kumar and Sushil Modi. Among them 18 were from the JD(U) and the rest 12 from the BJP. With the BJP emerging as the largest party in the NDA with 74 MLAs and the JD(U)'s tally going down to 43 from 71, it would be interesting to see if the saffron party, which has sacrificed the post of the chief minister in honor of its pre-poll promise, will insist on having a larger share in the cabinet. A total of 24 ministers of the previous cabinet had contested the polls and 10 of them, both from both the JD(U) and the BJP, lost. Kumar, Sushil Modi and four others are members of the state's Legislative Council and did not contest the polls. Among the losing ministers from the JD(U) are Shailesh Kumar, Santosh Kumar Nirala, Jay Kumar Singh, Krishnandan Verma, Ram Sevak Singh, Ramewsh Rishideo, Khursid alias Firoz Ahmed and Lakshmeshwar Rai. From the BJP, Suresh Kumar Sharma and Brij Kumar Bind are the two ministers who lost. Since, two pre-poll constituents HAM and VIP have won four seats each, pushing the NDA's tally past the magic figure of 122, there will be representation from them in the cabinet this time. Jitan Ram Manjhi, who heads the HAM has made it clear that since he has already served as chief minister he won't take up any ministerial assignment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-557
15-11-2020||India||Kashmir journalist’s plight bares paradox||Journalist Aasif Sultan lives hardly 4km from his only child, Areeba. But he has been unable to see her learn to walk, hear her first intelligible words, or watch her blossom into a 30-month-old sweetheart. Aasif and Areeba, who lives in the family home in Srinagar’s Batamaloo locality, are separated by a handful of neighbourhoods and the impregnable walls of the Valley’s biggest central jail. Aasif, a reporter with the news magazine Kashmir Narrator and the first Valley journalist booked under the anti-terror Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), completed two years in jail in August. The police claim he was arrested for links to militants but his family and various journalists’ associations vouch for his innocence and insist he was victimised for his journalism. Aasif’s continued detention has shot back to limelight amid the debate over central BJP leaders’ selective outrage at the arrest of Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami in a suicide-abetment case. Goswami was granted interim bail by the Supreme Court on Wednesday after he spent eight days in custody. Aasif, who has not been convicted so far, has spent more than 800 days behind bars. The Supreme Court cited the importance of personal liberty while hearing Goswami’s plea soon after it was filed although his bail petition was pending with a sessions court in Maharashtra. In Aasif’s case, the first hearing since the August 5, 2019, amendment of Article 370 was held last Monday — after a gap of more than 15 months, his father Sultan said. “My husband paid for it (freedom). 806 days and counting. His family paid for it. His old parents paid for it. His small child paid for it,” Aasif’s wife Umm Areeba tweeted on Monday. “He must be freed now. To Allah we raise our hands for succour!” Aasif’s father, Mohammad Sultan, said he was not surprised at BJP leaders’ differing reactions to the arrests of different journalists. “He is a Kashmiri. They (the government) can do anything with us. We never had any freedom of speech here, from the very beginning,” Sultan, a retired government official, told The Telegraph. Sultan’s other son, a doctor, lives abroad; it was Aasif who took care of the family. Sultan said: “I’m a heart patient and have to undergo surgery in the next few days. If my son were around I would have had no worries. Thank God, my nephews will accompany me to hospital. “It hurts me to see my grandchild grow up in her father’s absence. She was just a few months old when Aasif was arrested. A couple of times we took her along to see her father. Areeba is too young to understand all this but she cries ‘Baba’ when she sees the picture of her father.” The picture shows Aasif in chain-fitted handcuffs, wearing a shirt carrying the slogan “Journalism is not a crime”. Condemnation of Aasif's arrest has been stronger outside the country than within, perhaps because he has been accused of being a militant sympathiser. In October last year, the American National Press Club chose Aasif for the Foreign Press Freedom Award. The New York-based Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ), a non-profit, non-government organisation, ran a full-page ad in The Washington Post in August this year to express solidarity with Aasif. Days earlier, the CPJ had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the second anniversary of Aasif’s arrest, seeking his release. The letter was signed by 397 journalists and civil society members, including N. Ram, Karan Thapar and Harsh Mander. On August 28, the police tweeted: “Aasif Sultan not booked for his journalism but in FIR no 173/2018 PS Batamaloo pertaining to hatching criminal conspiracy, harbouring & supporting terrorists who martyred a police constable on 12-08-2018 at #Batamaloo.” Showkat Motta, Aasif’s editor at the magazine, said the police tweet had been a reaction to the Post ad. He insisted that Aasif had been arrested for his professional work, saying his ordeal had begun after he wrote an article, “The Rise of Burhan”, for the magazine. Hizbul Muzahideen commander Burhan Wani had been killed by the security forces in July 2016. The article was written two years after his death. Motta said the police had accused Aasif of glorifying the militancy in his writings, and that this was proof he had been arrested for his journalism. He said police officers had on record accused Aasif of “writing against the uniformed forces”. Ahead of his arrest in 2018, Motta said, Aasif had received an email from “media cell/ CID J&K” that sought a clarification whether his articles were not “attempting to influence young impressionable minds” and “romanticise the terrorist”. “But when the chargesheet was filed, such things found no mention and he was straightaway framed in a militancy case,” Motta said. He said Aasif was being “framed”, and that not one of the “witnesses” the police had brought before the court had so far endorsed the prosecution’s allegations. “The police claim a Hizbul Mujahideen letterhead was recovered from Aasif’s home. But when a police constable, a so-called witness, was asked by the lawyer in front of a judge whether the recovery was made in his presence, he said he was not present there,” Motta said. “Even members of the family (at whose home) the militants had reportedly taken shelter (before carrying out the Batamaloo attack) have denied that Aasif had links with those militants.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-557
15-11-2020||India||In jail, humanity is bubbling: Stan Swamy ||The ailing and 83-year-old Father Stan Swamy, arrested over alleged Maoist links, has in a letter described how his co-accused and cellmates have been helping him in jail and added: “Despite all odds, humanity is bubbling in Taloja prison.” Excerpts from the letter by the Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist from Ranchi, whose full name is Stanislaus Lourduswamy, have been widely circulated on Facebook this Diwali. The letter, written from Navi Mumbai’s Taloja Central Prison, was received by a fellow priest on November 4, a colleague of Father Swamy confirmed. The prison was in the news recently when Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami, who picks on those he describes as “urban Naxals”, spent a few days there before being granted interim bail by the Supreme Court. The excerpts from Swamy’s letter circulated on Facebook say: “Dear friends: “Peace! Though I do not have many details, from what I have heard, I am grateful to all of you for expressing your solidarity support. I am in a cell approximately 13 feet x 8 feet, along with two more inmates. It has a small bathroom and a toilet with Indian commode. Fortunately, I am given a western commode chair. “Varavara Rao, Vernon Gonsalves and Arun Ferreira are in another cell. During the day, when cells and barracks are opened, we meet with each other. From 5.30pm to 06.00am and 12 noon to 03.00pm, I am locked up in my cell, with two inmates. “Arun assists me to have my breakfast and lunch. Vernon helps me with bath. My two inmates help out during supper, in washing my clothes and give massage to my knee joints. They are from very poor families. “Please remember my inmates and my colleagues in your prayers. Despite all odds, humanity is bubbling in Taloja prison.” Rao is an 80-year-old Telugu litterateur, Gonsalves a 63-year-old former Mumbai University professor, and Ferreira a cartoonist and lawyer in his late 40s. They and Father Swamy are among 16 authors, academics, lawyers and rights activists arrested for alleged links with the banned CPI Maoist and their purported role in the Elgar Parishad Ambedkarite event in Pune on December 31, 2017, that was followed by caste violence. Sources said Swamy had dictated the letter to Ferreira. Jesuit priest Father David Solomon, director of the Ranchi NGO Bagaicha — a workspace for activists where Swamy lived and worked — confirmed the authenticity of the excerpt. He said the rest of the letter’s contents were not being disclosed as they included personal information. Nor has the identity of the recipient been revealed for fear of harassment of priests and institutions run by them. Another Jesuit priest close to Swamy told this newspaper: “This is a very Fr Stan thing to do. He always remembers people he loves during festivals. Even in the worst circumstances, it’s his nature to see the positive side of things.” Jawaharlal Nehru University linguistics professor Ayesha Kidwai shared the excerpts on Facebook and said: “I can’t do any Diwali greetings after reading this heartbreaking note. Humanity is to be celebrated but it is no antidote to injustice. “Just as in Rama’s story, there is happiness only when the people can celebrate a return home, it will only be Diwali for me when all the jailed human rights defenders come home.” Swamy, who suffers from Parkinson’s Disease, recently petitioned a court to be given his straw and sipper. These were in the possession of the National Investigation Agency, which had arrested him last month. The priest cannot hold any open liquid container, like a cup or a mug, without spilling its contents. On November 6, the court gave the agency 20 days to reply to his plea. Maharashtra junior home minister Satej D. Patil tweeted on November 7 that a straw had been given to Swamy. The NIA reports to the BJP-led central government while the prison is run by the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government. The NIA has chargesheeted Swamy for allegedly channelling funds to Maoists through the Persecuted Prisoners Solidarity Committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-557
15-11-2020||India||PM thunders ‘prachand jawab’ but won’t utter China’s name||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday asserted that India will give a “prachand jawab” (fierce reply) if provoked, as he flew to Longewala Post to celebrate Diwali with soldiers, a tradition he has been following since assuming office in 2014. Modi took a swipe at China without naming it, saying the world is troubled by “expansionist forces” and expansionism shows a “distorted mindset” that belongs to the 18th century. The Prime Minister was addressing soldiers at the forward post, which has become a part of military legend after troops here successfully thwarted numerically higher Pakistani forces in the 1971 war. India has become a forceful voice against forces of expansionism, Modi said and took aim at Pakistan, adding that Indian soldiers have hit “sponsors of terrorism” in their home, a reference to air and surgical strikes against terror camps in the neighbouring country. “No force in the world can prevent our brave soldiers from defending our borders. The world today knows that we will not compromise with our interests even one bit at any cost,” he said amid a standoff with China in eastern Ladakh. He said India today believes in the policy of understanding others and making them understand but if it is tested, it will give a fierce reply. The country has the capability and political will to give a befitting response to those who challenge it, Modi added. He also underlined the importance of having strong capability, saying despite advanced international cooperation and equations, vigilance is the path to security, alertness leads to happiness and peace is the prize of having strength. “History of the world tells us that only those nations have remained safe and advanced who had the ability to take on invaders,” he said, adding that 130 crore Indians stand with the country’s soldiers and bow to their bravery. “They are proud of your valour,” he told the soldiers, saying their bravery has got the better of all adversities, be it in deserts, forests or deep oceans. Modi said his Diwali is complete only after he comes among the soldiers, adding he cannot stay away from his own on this festival. He said the more time he spends with the soldiers, the stronger his resolve to serve and protect the country gets. “Your sacrifices teach the country discipline and sense of service,” the Prime Minister told soldiers, referring to his government’s efforts to combat the coronavirus and also to restart the economic activity fully. Urging soldiers to make innovation and yoga a part of their daily lives, he also asked them to learn one language other than Hindi, English and their mother tongue, saying it will enrich their lives. The Prime Minister referred to his government’s stress on self-reliance and “vocal for local” campaign, and complimented the armed forces for the decision to bar imports of over 100 weapons and defence equipment. Recalling the glorious battle of Longewala, Modi said it will always be remembered in the annals of strategic planning and military valour. He said this was the time when the ugly face of Pakistan was exposed as its army was terrorising innocent citizens of Bangladesh and committing atrocities against women. “Pakistan opened the front on western border to divert the global attention but our forces gave them a befitting reply,” he said. On the occasion, he recalled the fierce fight the post had witnessed in the 1971 war against Pakistan and paid tributes to Brigadier Kuldeep Singh Chandpuri, a hero of the battle who was then a Major, saying he became “rashtra deep” with his feat of bravery. Modi noted that the battle will mark 50 years in 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-557
15-11-2020||India||Enforcement Directorate chief tenure extended||The Centre has extended by a year the tenure of Enforcement Directorate chief Sanjay Kumar Mishra, believed to be close to the political leadership. The government has modified his appointment order on completion of two years of his tenure at a time the agency is probing a large number of sensitive cases including against political opponents. Mishra’s tenure was to end next week as the ED director’s post comes with a fixed term of two years. A government order on November 13 said the previous order dated November 19, 2018, through which Mishra had been appointed ED director had been modified with the President’s approval. It will now be read as Mishra’s appointment as the director of ED for a period of three years. Mishra, who is said to be close to Nripendra Misra, former principal secretary to the Prime Minister, is supervising probes into high-profile cases including that of the National Herald newspaper that involves members of the Gandhi family. The agency is also investigating a money-laundering angle to Jammu and Kashmir terror-funding cases linked to FIRs registered by the National Investigation Agency. The ED has attached and seized assets in the case. After the Narendra Modi government came to power in 2014, it had ordered reopening of the National Herald case. Besides, the ED is probing alleged money-laundering cases against several Opposition leaders. The ED is also investigating the AgustaWestland chopper deal, the INX Media and Aircel-Maxis cases in which senior Congress leader P. Chidambaram and his son Karti are accused, and the Nirav Modi and Vijay Mallya money-laundering cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-557
15-11-2020||India||Delhi air turns fouler on Diwali||Delhi’s air quality turned “severe” on Diwali with stubble burning accounting for 32 per cent of the city’s PM2.5 pollution and calm winds worsening the situation as they allowed accumulation of pollutants, weather officials said. The ministry of earth sciences’ air quality monitor, SAFAR, said, “Even a small increase in local additional emissions is likely to have significant deterioration impact on Sunday and Monday.” It said peak levels of PM10 and PM2.5 are expected between 1am and 6am in case of additional internal emissions. Earlier, it had said the PM2.5 concentration in Delhi on Diwali is likely to be the “lowest” in the past four years if no firecrackers are burnt. The city recorded an overall AQI (air quality index) of 414 on Saturday, which falls in the “severe” category. The 24-hour average AQI was 339 on Friday and 314 on Thursday. Delhi recorded a 24-hour average AQI of 337 on Diwali last year (October 27), and 368 and 400 in the next two days. Thereafter, pollution levels remained in the “severe” category for three days on the trot. In 2018, the 24-hour average AQI (281) on Diwali was recorded in the “poor” category. It deteriorated to 390 the next day and remained in the “severe” category on three consecutive days thereafter. In 2017, Delhi’s 24-hour average AQI on Diwali (October 19) stood at 319. It, however, slipped into the “severe” zone the next day. This time, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said that a fresh western disturbance is likely to increase the wind speed and improve the air quality in Delhi-NCR post Diwali. Light rain is likely on Sunday under the influence of a western disturbance. It is still to be seen if it is enough to wash away pollutants, Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the IMD’s regional forecasting centre, said. “However, Delhi-NCR’s air quality is likely to improve post Diwali due to an expected increase in the wind speed on Sunday,” he said. V.K. Soni, head of the IMD’s environment research centre, said calm winds, smoke from farm fires and firecrackers emissions may push the air quality to the “severe” zone on Diwali night. The wind speed is expected to pick up thereafter and the wind direction will be east-southeasterly, he said. There will be a significant improvement in air quality by November 16, Soni said. The Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi also said the situation is likely to “improve significantly” on Sunday. “Under the influence of a western disturbance, isolated rainfall over plains of northwest India and adjoining central India is likely on Sunday. The predominant surface wind is likely to be coming from East-Southeast direction of Delhi with wind speed up to 20kmph,” it said. “Generally cloudy sky, light rain, thundershowers accompanied with gusty winds (speed 30-40kmph) is likely towards afternoon-evening on Sunday,” the central agency said. The Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) on Friday directed the CPCB and states concerned to ensure there is no lapse in the implementation of the National Green Tribunal’s directions in view of the air quality scenario during the Diwali period. “In pursuance of NGT order dated November 9 and considering the concerns of air quality scenario in the NCR and its adverse health impact, the commission directed CPCB, state governments and authorities concerned for strict compliance of the directions of NGT, with zero tolerance on violation,” it said. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) had on Monday imposed a total ban on sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in the National Capital Region from November 9 midnight to November 30 midnight, saying “celebration by crackers is for happiness and not to celebrate deaths and diseases”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-558
15-11-2020||India||LoC: Caught between shells and hardening winter||An uneasy calm prevailed along the Line of Control (LoC) in Kashmir on Saturday, a day after the deadliest flare-up of the year left five soldiers and four civilians dead on the Indian side, but the ordeal for the victims on both sides appears to have just begun as winter sets in. The exchange of fire also claimed the lives of five, including a two-year-old boy and an unspecified number of soldiers, in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. Dozens have been injured on both sides. Social media was flooded with videos and pictures revealing the extent of the damage. There are houses up in flames, injured children writhing in pain and animal carcasses lying scattered. Officials said there were no reports of fresh shelling in any of the sectors along the LoC on Saturday. The Uri area of north Kashmir bore the brunt of Friday’s day-long shelling. All the four civilians who died in the Pakistani shelling were from the area. Two died in Kamalkote village, one in Guhalan village and one in Balkoot village of the Hajipeer sector. The four deceased persons include seven-year-old boy Afrar and a woman identified as Farooq Begum, 36. Balkoot resident Abdul Samad Parrey, whose wife Saibi Begum is the local sarpanch, said the shelling had claimed the life of Farooqa Begum, the mother of four young children. “She was in an upper storey of her house when it was hit by a shell. She died immediately. Other family members, including her children, were on the ground floor and survived,” Parrey told The Telegraph over phone. “The woman’s youngest daughter is only 18 months old. They are all crying and God knows what is in store for them in the future.” Parrey said the area was rained with shells and four houses in his village caught fire. “The woman died around noon but for the next five hours nobody could go to her home as shells continued to land on our village. We had seen such firing in the late 1990s and early 2000s. Most residents stayed awake through the night but thankfully there was no more shelling,” he said. The cross-border shelling on Friday started in the Kiren sector of Kupwara district after a group of militants tried to infiltrate. The firing soon spread to border areas of Baramulla and Bandipore districts in Kashmir and Poonch in Jammu. Churanda resident Lal Din Khatana said dozens of houses were damaged in Uri in Friday’s shelling and the winter would worsen their woes. “It rained today in Uri and amidst this several families have been rendered homeless. The families who have lost their homes have shifted to the houses of relatives or neighbours. Some are staying in their partially damaged houses,” he said. The fierce exchange of fire has left four soldiers and a BSF sub-inspector, Rakesh Doval, dead. The defence spokesman in Srinagar on Saturday identified the four slain soldiers as Havaldar Hardhan Chandra Roy and Naik S.B. Rameshrao from the Maratha Light Infantry who died in Gurez, and Gunner Subodh Ghosh and Sepoy J. Rushikesh Ramchandra from an artillery regiment based in Uri. The death and destruction have triggered outrage in the Valley, with politicians calling for calm. Former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti said it was high time for India and Pakistan to begin talks. “Sad to see mounting casualties on both sides of the LOC. If only the Indian & Pakistani leadership could rise above their political compulsions & initiate dialogue. Restoring the ceasefire agreed upon & implemented by Vajpayee ji & Musharraf sahab is a good place to start,” Mehbooba tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-558
15-11-2020||India||Officer who caught killer Raman Raghav dead||Retired assistant commissioner of police Alex Fialho, credited for the arrest of dreaded serial killer Raman Raghav in Mumbai in 1968, died at his residence here on Friday, a police official said on Saturday. He was 92. Fialho is survived by his wife, sons, daughter and grandchildren. His last rites were performed at St Andrews Church in Bandra, he said. Fialho had detected several cases, but he is best remembered for the arrest of Raghav, for which he was awarded the President’s Police Medal. Fialho, who was a police sub-inspector posted at Dongri police station at that time, had apprehended Raghav from Bhendi Bazar area of South Mumbai in 1968. After the arrest, Raghav had confessed to committing at least 41 murders. Most of his victims were pavement and hut dwellers. Raghav terrorised Mumbai between 1966 and 1968, during which he bludgeoned to death several poor men and women with a hard and blunt object like an iron rod while they were asleep, police said. Fialho had apprehended Raghav in September 1968 merely on the basis of suspicion, a police official said. “The police had launched a nationwide hunt for Raghav. PSI Fialho had studied the serial killing case and he used to carry the photo of Raghav along with him,” he said. “When Fialho spotted Raghav in Mumbai, the latter was in blue shirt, khaki pant and canvas shoes. Raghav was carrying an umbrella. As Fialho wanted to see his reaction on spotting a police officer in uniform, he went close to Raghav. But on seeing him, Raghav crossed him and walked calmly,” the official said. “Fialho then turned around and started following him. After walking some distance, he tapped Raghav on his back and asked him to come with him. As the umbrella that Raghav was carrying was wet although it was not raining in that area, Fialho verified and found out that it was raining in Malad suburb,” he added. “He was informed that the man with that description was last spotted in Malad area. He then took Raghav to police quarters in Dongri for interrogation, where he identified himself as Sindhi Dalvai. On verification, it came to light that this was one of Raghav’s assumed name and fingerprints experts also confirmed his identity,” the officer said. “Fialho was a very professional, knowledgeable and skilful police officer. He had the responsibility of handling cases of political importance at that time,” said retired ACP Suresh Walishetty, who worked under Fialho in 1980-82, when the latter was a senior police inspector in the crime branch. After that, Fialho got promoted as ACP in Colaba division, he said, adding that he will always be remembered for the arrest of Raghav. “The then Mumbai police commissioner E.S. Modak, who was happy with the arrest of Raghav, had even announced a cash reward of Rs 1,000 for Fialho,” he said. Raghav died in 1995 due to kidney failure at Sassoon General Hospital in Pune.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-558
15-11-2020||India||Polypill ‘reduces’ stroke risk by 30 per cent||A four-in-one “polypill” containing a statin and three blood pressure lowering drugs taken with aspirin can reduce deaths from heart attacks and strokes by 30 per cent, doctors from nine countries, including India, reported on Saturday. While earlier research has shown that polypills can lower risk factors such as high blood pressure and cholesterol, the new study with 39 participating hospitals across India is the first to demonstrate that those benefits help save lives. The doctors have observed about 30 per cent lower incidence of deaths from heart attacks, strokes, heart failure or other cardiovascular events among people who took the polypill along with aspirin compared with people who received placebo pills. “Our new results tell us that the polypill can prevent deaths,” Denis Xavier, professor of pharmacology at the St John’s Medical College, Bangalore, one of the study’s principal investigators, told The Telegraph. The polypill contains the statin simvastatin with three blood pressure lowering drugs — atenolol, hydrochlorothiazide and ramipril. In their study, the doctors distributed over 5,700 people with moderate risk of cardiovascular disease into different groups — some received a polypill alone, some received aspirin alone, while others received placebos for the aspirin, for the polypill, or for both. The combination of polypills with aspirin had the greatest benefit measured through reduction in mortality from cardiovascular events. About 4.1 per cent of the participants who took the polypill with aspirin experienced a serious cardiovascular event compared with 5.8 per cent of those who received the double placebo. “These results are very encouraging — the polypill needs to be considered for widespread use,” said Balram Bhargava, a senior cardiologist and director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research, who was not associated with the study but is familiar with its findings. Doctors say the findings suggest that people at moderate risk of cardiovascular events — those who have not been able to control high blood pressure, high cholesterol levels or obesity through lifestyle changes — could significantly benefit from the polypill. “The results indicate that the polypill is effective in primary prevention of heart attacks or strokes or other serious cardiovascular events in people at intermediate risk,” said Prem Pais, professor of medicine and co-principal investigator at St John’s. Doctors say multiple versions of polypills are in the market. The formulation used in this study contained 40mg simvastatin, 100mg atenolol, 25mg hydrochlorothiazide and 10mg ramipril that was combined with 75mg aspirin a day. The daily cost of a polypill with aspirin could range from Rs 30 a day to Rs 60 a day, depending on the brand, Xavier said. “We could save millions of people from experiencing serious heart disease or stroke each year with effective use of the polypill and aspirin,” Salim Yusuf, a co-principal investigator and a professor of medicine at McMaster University in Canada, said in a statement. The researchers followed-up 5,733 people for an average of four-and-a-half years to observe how the various combinations of medications or placebo would influence the incidence of cardiovascular events. The participants were men aged above 50 years and women aged above 55 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-558
15-11-2020||India||Musician alleges Kerala temple caste bias||A renowned Kerala temple that refused entry to then President Giani Zail Singh and celebrated singer K.J. Yesudas because they were non-Hindus is now embroiled in controversy over its ban on musicians from outside certain approved castes from performing within its perimeter. “Temple percussionist” Kalamandalam Chandran Peringode has castigated the famous Guruvayur Sri Krishna Temple near Kozhikode for refusing to let him perform on its premises. Chandran, a professional player of the traditional temple instrument thimila who regularly performs at Hindu shrines during festivals and rituals, happens to be a Dalit. The controversy comes two years after a bitter legal and political battle over the centuries-old ban on women of childbearing age at another famous Kerala temple, the hilltop Sabarimala shrine 180km south of Guruvayur. “Only musicians from castes that come under the ‘ambalavasi’ category are allowed to perform inside the perimeter of the Guruvayur temple,” Chandran told The Telegraph on Saturday. The designation “ambalavasi” — literally “those who reside within temples” — covers certain non-Brahmin higher castes that traditionally engage in non-priestly activities, such as playing music, at temples. “I have performed several times at the Guruvayur temple but always outside the boundary walls. My question is, if I’m capable enough as a temple percussionist, why not allow me to play inside?” Chandran said. Chandran had been the leader of a 301-member panchayavadyam — a percussion ensemble with five kinds of instruments — that made it to the Limca Book of Records in 2012 by playing non-stop for 3 hours and 45 minutes. He said he had written several complaints to the temple administration “but they never even acknowledged my complaints, let alone act on them”. The “ambalavasi” rule is not widely known, nor has it historically triggered much controversy — unlike the temple’s ban on non-Hindus or other shrines’ discriminatory practices against the lower castes or women. While Chandran first raised the subject in 2018, he was unable to garner much support. This time he is backed by an NGO, Anadhija. “Neither the LDF (Left Democratic Front) nor the UDF (Congress-led United Democratic Front) did anything to remove this injustice,” Chandran said. The temple, where a strategically placed signboard reads “No entry for non-Hindus”, has often attracted controversy. In the 1980s, it had denied permission for a visit by President Zail Singh because he was not a Hindu. Yesudas, a Christian, was refused entry multiple times despite several of his devotional songs to Krishna having been embraced without reserve by temples and devotees. In January 2008, the temple had conducted a “purification” after a Briton entered its premises. The priests went ahead with the ritual despite the visitor producing a certificate that said he had converted to Hinduism at the Arya Samaj in Thiruvananthapuram. The priests argued that they accepted conversion certificates only from the Arya Samaj in neighbouring Kozhikode. During the “temple entry agitation” by lower caste Hindus in the early 1930s, devotees had thrashed communist leader P. Krishna Pillai and left him bleeding from the head for daring to ring the Guruvayur temple’s bell — a preserve of Brahmins. K.B. Mohandas, chairperson of the temple’s government-appointed management panel — the Guruvayur Devaswom Board — denied receiving any complaints from Chandran. “Ideally, he should have come to us with his complaint rather than go to the media,” Mohandas, a lawyer, said. He claimed ignorance about any caste discrimination against musicians at the temple. “I’m not certain about such a practice. But I need to point out how the high priests are always Namboothiri Brahmins from a few families,” he said, apparently playing down Chandran’s complaint. “I’m not for creating any friction between caste groups. But I assure them that the administration will allow individual rights as enshrined in the Constitution.” Anadhija president V.A. Krishnan said the group was “planning to go to court as this is a denial of a citizen’s constitutional right”. He said his group’s research showed that there was no scriptural basis to the ban imposed by the temple, but added that such discrimination was rampant in the state. Mohiniyattam dancer R.L.V. Ramakrishnan, a Dalit, had attempted suicide in October alleging caste discrimination by the Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Akademi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-558
15-11-2020||India||Congress adrift, Group-23 resigned to fate||The Congress’s disastrous performance in Bihar has not only allowed the BJP-JDU to retain power in the state but has also given a fresh lease of life to the forces within the party that lament that nothing was done to revitalise the organisation after the humiliating defeat in the 2019 parliamentary elections. “It is obvious we are adrift,” was the terse reply of a senior leader who painted gloomy prospects for the Congress despite what he described as a “pathetic performance” by the Narendra Modi government over the past year. “Modi dragged India into economic recession for the first time in post-Independence history but we are in political recession for too long now,” he added, conceding that leadership crisis was one of the critical factors behind the Congress’s slide. While the restructuring of the organisational machinery hasn’t triggered any positive change, the dominant opinion is that the revival process cannot be initiated without a full-fledged party president. The process has been set in motion and a new president is expected within the next two-three months but the Bihar performance has swivelled the focus on the wasted year-and-a-half after the Lok Sabha polls in May 2019. The unpleasant Bihar election outcome has given credence to the stand taken by “Group-23” — comprising leaders who wrote to party chief Sonia Gandhi about the state of affairs in the Congress and were sidelined after that. These leaders are now asking if demanding sincere efforts to strengthen the party was wrong and insisting that heightened social media activity wasn’t a substitute for political action. Asked about the Bihar elections, one of these 23 leaders said: “We were not consulted. We were not told to campaign or give inputs. We know only what we read in the media.” While Sonia’s long-time aide Ahmed Patel used to act as a bridge, talking to these leaders in his efforts to unite the party, the communication has completely halted because of his illness. Patel came down with Covid-19 and later developed complications, prolonging his stay in hospital. None of these 23 leaders are now even asked to brief the media. Sources said those close to Ghulam Nabi Azad were not even given tickets in the Jammu and Kashmir panchayat elections. These leaders haven’t met recently as Azad is also not keeping well but appear to have lost interest in carrying on the fight. Demonstrating a sense of resignation, one leader said: “If they want to destroy the party, how can we help? The quest for unity can’t be one-sided. There has to be a unity of purpose before you attempt to forge unity. Despite Sonia Gandhi promising no discrimination, we see a clear attempt to humiliate those who raised questions.” Another senior leader who was not part of Group-23 said: “We are witness to a sad spectacle — a new clique has taken over and there is no attempt to forge solidarity despite this grave crisis. The sentiment is negative, it appears the new group is determined to push the entrenched forces out. “I can tell you this is a destructive path. Sonia Gandhi should intervene and take everybody along. There is no denying the fact that the BJP is still the dominant force in the country because of our weaknesses.” The leader added: “Look at Tejashwi (Prasad Yadav), he gave a massive jolt to them because the BJP-JDU combine was so vulnerable. Anybody rising in any state will be able to rattle the BJP. The Congress alone can do this at the national level and we don’t even have a leader.” Referring to former US President Barack Obama’s unpalatable observations on Rahul in his memoir, the leader said: “Rahul Gandhi has done irreparable harm to his own leadership. You just can’t leave the driver’s seat and continue to drive from the back seat. If Barack Obama today says something, all these vacillations might have contributed to such impressions.” Many leaders are pointing to the absence of a membership drive before the election of the new president. “Ten crore new voters have been added since our last organisational election. The focus is on changing the membership list to enhance their (existing players’) dominance instead of enrolling new members. Organisations aren’t strengthened by fraud,” a former general secretary said, arguing that the present state of affairs doesn’t inspire confidence for a revival.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-558
15-11-2020||India||Box Office Home||Just as this story was being wrapped up, a cryptic gazette notification by the Government of India brought all content streaming on OTT platforms under the purview of the ministry of information and broadcasting and, therefore, subject to review and refereeing. The move could have far-reaching implications for OTT platforms and content creators. It could curb creativity, prompt self-censorship, and bring biased value judgement to what is henceforth permissible and what is not, and curb viewer choice. The high-stakes industry has, unsurprisingly, been cautious to react, and will probably take time to come to grips with what it means to be swept under a governmental regime. When the lockdown began in March, Prankur Johri, a data analytics professional based in Delhi, had a lone Netflix subscription. He shared it with three other friends. At Rs 799 per month, it was the most expensive plan for an OTT platform in India, but he barely managed to watch the complete season of even a single Web series in a month. Eight months on, much has changed. Johri, who has been working from home all through, has shifted to the family home in Allahabad to save on rent. A pay cut has necessitated the trimming of personal expenses. But one tab that has kept growing is the one marked “OTT subscription”. An over-the-top or OTT media service is the streaming media service offered to viewers via the Internet. First, Johri purchased an Amazon Fire Stick. Plugged in, it transforms a television into a smart TV with access to a bouquet of OTT platforms — Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Disney+Hotstar, Zee5... While there is no monthly cost incurred, many of the apps and channels available on the Fire Stick require subscriptions. At the moment Johri has subscriptions to six platforms in all. The 29-year-old talks about how his father watches Kaun Banega Crorepati and The Kapil Sharma Show every night using the Fire Stick. His mother, who had never been aware of Pakistani serials, is now hooked to them. And the father-son duo watched the IPL matches on Hotstar every evening the last two months. Since March, Johri has spent more than Rs 11,000 on OTT subscriptions and subscription-related purchases. For the longest time in India, movie-going was the grandest form of entertainment. But the last five to six years things started to change. Walks, stand-up comedy acts, live gigs, travelling ballets, cook-offs, paintball. The movie experience was of course even more elaborate and multiplexified — tubs of popcorn in 10 flavours, nachos with dips, luxury recliners, silver and gold tickets… Then came the pandemic, and poof — overnight all of it disappeared. In good old Hindi film style, the hero —  in this case entertainment — was reborn. And this time in an OTT parivar. Movies — Serious Men, Shakuntala Devi, The Old Guard, Enola Holmes, the Amitabh Bachchan-starrer Gulabo Sitabo and even Sushant Singh Rajput’s last film Dil Bechara — were released on OTT platforms. There were OTT originals too such as Holidate (American rom-com), Denting Kematian (Indonesian horror), The SpongeBob Movie (for kids), Raat Akeli Hai (Hindi thriller). Then there is more than one Web series — The Man In The High Castle (historical), The Queen’s Gambit (drama), Fleabag (tragi-comedy), Scam 1992: The Harshad Mehta Story (biopic), Too Hot To Handle (reality show). Audio OTT platforms — Jio Saavn, YouTube Music, Spotify, etc. — also witnessed a 42 per cent increase in time spent on them in the first week of lockdown. “On Hungama Music (audio OTT platform), we launched the virtual version of our original property, Hungama Music Room, which features renowned musicians delivering acoustic performances while talking about their lives and careers,” says Siddhartha Roy, COO, Hungama Digital Media. Since March, Shaan, Udit and Aditya Narayan, Salim-Sulaiman and many more have appeared on the show. Hungama also launched Hungama Artist Aloud, which features a popular artiste performing live every day and there was a digital concert too featuring Akshay Kumar, Kapil Sharma, Shaan, Swanand Kirkire and so on. When OTT platforms debuted in India in 2008 with BigFlix, it was a limited experience. It was free but the library was small. In 2010, came nexGTv, India’s first OTT mobile app. It provided access to live TV and downloaded content. In 2011, BigFlix announced a monthly subscription of Rs 250, but there were not enough takers. In 2013, nexGTv gained popularity; IPL matches were live-streamed on it. SonyLIV entered the competition the same year. A lot of people downloaded the app to catch up with episodes of TV serials they had missed on the Sony channels. And then it became the official mobile and Internet broadcaster for all Fifa World Cup matches. It was only in 2020 that the platform started offering original content. Sometime in 2016, Netflix entered India and Amazon Prime Video was also launched. Also came along Balaji Telefilms-owned ALTBalaji, Viacom 18-owned Voot, Eros Now, Disney+ Hotstar, TVF, Arre, MX Player. Post-2017 there was a rise in players specialising in regional content — Hoichoi (Bengali), Manorama Max (Malayalam), Aha Video (Telugu) and Simply South (Tamil, Telugu, Malayalam). Planet Marathi is to be launched soon. Netflix and Amazon Prime Video, both American companies, started investing heavily in local original content. In 2019, Hotstar, which is owned by Star India, invested Rs 120 crore in generating original content. No matter what the platform, originals became the flavour of the season. Part of the distinctiveness of the indigenous OTT content is that it ventures into areas mainstream barely ever acknowledged. So there is a Panchayat that looks in on rural India, streaming as it were through the consciousness of a city boy posted there. Then there is Chaman Bahar, Rasbhari and Selection Day that depict small-town lives. There are gory, gritty crime thrillers such as Mirzapur, The Family Man, Aarya and sheer nostalgia in the form of Taj Mahal 1989 and Yeh Meri Family. From the scamsters in Jamtara to the wedding planners in Made In Heaven, there is something for everybody. Apratim Chatterjee, who acted in the steaming series on Hoichoi, Dupur Thakurpo, makes the point that many new talents like himself arrived on these platforms to a rousing reception such as would have been unlikely on traditional ones. Even though the three members of the Johri household prefer watching different things, something like Fauda (an Israeli series on the their defence forces) or Special Ops (an Indian spy thriller) keeps them glued to the screen together. Apart from the content, audiences across ages are exulting in freedom from the tyranny of television time slots. Add to this the novelty of the intuitive navigation — the previews, the trending-nows, the recently-addeds. The mails in the inbox with subject lines such as “Top suggestions for...” or “We’ve just added a film you might like” or simply “Enjoying My Christmas Inn”. Says Johri, “It’s a democracy in there.” Add to that dialogue, and free choice, and engagement. Once it became clear which way the audience was headed, electronics companies tweaked associated gadgetry — HD monitors, TV sets with USB ports, remote controls with Netflix and YouTube buttons. No more stuttering Internet, telecom companies offered silken connections tied up with OTT platforms. Free subscriptions to the streaming services with postpaid and broadband plans followed. Soon users started to opt for OTT plus telecom bundled services. All this was happening when the coronavirus appeared. Nachiket Pantvaidya, who is CEO of ALTBalaji, agrees that “the lockdown has acted as a catalyst in transforming the content consumption habits of the audience, converting fence-sitters to subscribers and making existing subscribers interact more frequently with the platform”. He says, “One of the major trends we’ve seen is that 60 per cent of our consumers would come from the tier 1 cities, and 40 per cent from tier 2 and 3 cities in the months preceding the lockdown. Today statistics show that 65 per cent of the consumers are from tier 2 and tier 3 towns and cities.” Anindo Banerjee, content head at Hoichoi, tells The Telegraph, “The time it would have normally taken us to get here — which would have been another four to five years — has come down to now.” Just like every OTT platform, Hoichoi too had problems producing new content at first. But then they started to innovate. Banerjee talks about the series Case Jaundice, a farcical take on the coronavirus, with ten 10-minute episodes. “The actors shot it on their smartphones. We kept the script ready. We definitely had to compromise a little on the quality but as fresh content it wasn’t too bad,” says Banerjee. Wakaalat From Home on Amazon Prime follows a similar template. The story of a divorce case happening over Zoom during the lockdown has actors come together for a 10-episode show shot entirely indoors. Of course, the backend had to be tweaked to take on the added load. Manish Kanojia, CCO of Iridium Interactive, a New Delhi-based digital marketing agency, explains, “When you are watching a video, it catches the bandwidth of the user and streams it. It can be 480p, 2,160p, 4,000p, etc. (p stands for pixel). When Covid happened, the OTT platforms downgraded all their streams to 1,080p... if everyone would stream at 4,000p it would be difficult.” Netflix India added 10.1 million paid memberships in its second quarter this year as compared to 2.7 million same time last year. Indians are among the highest downloaders and viewers of content on Netflix. After English and local language content, Spanish, Korean and Japanese titles drive the highest viewing here. In August, Netflix also launched its user interface in Hindi to reach out to more people. Hoichoi witnessed a spike in membership in and around March. Banerjee says, “I know that when television resumes full-fledged, a lot of people will go back but a lot of them will stay back too and a lot of them will watch both.” By September 2020, Hoichoi had reached 13 million viewers worldwide. Amazon Prime Video witnessed a 67 per cent surge in subscriptions, while ALTBalaji witnessed an average of 17,000 new subscribers each day of the lockdown. Pantvaidya holds forth on how streaming services are now trying to ensure that subscribers are retained for the long term, through “a pool of immersive content”. This year’s Diwali releases went off with a bang on OTT platforms. Johri, in the meantime, is waiting for the release of Uncle Frank, a comedy drama; his father is waiting for Varun Dhawan’s Coolie No. 1 remake; and his mother is happy to repeat-view episodes of Zindagi Gulzar Hai and Humsafar in between household chores. Popcorn is now a permanent item on their monthly grocery list.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-558
15-11-2020||West Bengal||Filmmakers, co-actors friends mourn the demise of Soumitra ||The film fraternity paid tribute to legendary actor Soumitra Chatterjee, who passed away on Sunday at a Calcutta hospital after over a month-long battle against multiple ailments, including Covid-19 encephalopathy. Remembering him as a great cultural icon and a loyal friend, actors, politicians and close ones paid home to the icon. The demise of Chatterjee is being seen as a loss of an era amid the film fraternity. Veteran actor Sharmila Tagore said, “ We thought he would win the fight. It’s a really sad day. We have lost a close, loyal friend. But he will live among us.” “Can't accept his death, veteran actor Shabitri Chatterjee, who worked with the 85-year-old in several films, said. Filmmaker and the son of Satyajit Ray, Sandip Ray, said, “My father loved working with him. I have lost a family.” Soumitra was the hero of my first film. He was a family friend. I have lost a parent today. We cannot accept his death at all,” said filmmaker Aparna Sen. “He will live among people for years”, said veteran actor Sabitri Chatterjee. “I first met Soumitra Kaku 45 years ago, during my first film ‘Sonar Kella’.Then on, we had an association for years. He had never let anyone feel that he was a person of such stature. He was the torchbearer of an era,” said Bengali actor Kushal Chakraborty, who played Mukul in Sonar Kella when he was 6 years old. Ranjit Mallick, a Bengali actor, mourned Chatterjee’s death. “Have worked in many movies with him and learned a lot. I feel really sad today,” he said. Actor Parambrata Chatterjee called him a “dear, dear friend”. “In the last one and-a half years we had grown fond of each other, not as if there weren't minor disagreements now and then, like the way it happens between friends. but respect and love only grew abundantly. A big piece tears away from my existence today, a precious tie severed. Impossible to articulate how it feels to lose a friend who also is a teacher," he wrote. Political leaders, too, paid homage to the actor. Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled his death in a Twitter post. "Shri Soumitra Chatterjee's death is a colossal loss to the world of cinema, cultural life of West Bengal and India. Through his works, he came to embody Bengali sensibilities, emotions and ethos. Anguished by his demise. Condolences to his family and admirers. Om Shanti." "Deeply pained to learn about the demise of legendary Soumitra Chatterjee ji. An iconic actor, who took Bengali cinema to new heights. In Soumitra Da, Indian silver screen has lost a gem. My thoughts and prayers are with his family and countless followers. Om Shanti Shanti Shanti," Home Minister Amit Shah tweeted. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said that the state will give the actor a 21 gun salute on Sunday, adding that he will live among people through his work and love. "I had spoken to him (Soumitra Chatterjee) over phone when he was admitted on October 6 after testing positive for COVID-19. He was very confident. Although he has passed away COVID-19 could not defeat him as he had already recovered from the deadly disease,” she told reporters. Starting his career in acting with Satyajit Ray’s Apur Sansar, the thespian’s career spanned over 50 years. Thereafter, the actor and the director continued to collaborate for several other films, including Charulata , Ghare Baire , Devi and Aranyer Din Ratri. He  was admitted to the hospital after testing positive for Covid-19 on October 6. Chaterjee’s body will be taken to Calcutta’s rabindra Sadan for two hours, following which the last rites will be performed at 5:30 pm. Soumitra Chatterjee is survived by his wife, daughter and son.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-309
15-11-2020||West Bengal||Kali Pujas unite hearts ||Social harmony pervades two popular Kali Pujas celebrated in two villages of Malda. Every year, unlike the pujas held in most places, Hindus and Muslims join hands to celebrate these two Kali Pujas. In Habibpur block, a Kali Puja initiated by a Muslim woman is joined by thousands of Hindus. In Manikchak, members of the Muslim community outnumber Hindus in a Kali Puja committee, the venue being a temple near a mosque. The Kali Puja at Madhyam Kendua in Habibpur block, some 20km from Malda town, is extremely popular, with “going to see Shephali Kali (Puja)” being a byword among residents. Shephali Bibi, who started this Kali Puja 34 years ago, did not care for resentments articulated by various dogmatic members of both the Hindu and Muslim communities. Eventually, the determination of Shephali Bibi won over orthodoxy, and over three decades on, Hindus and Muslims join hands to organise the puja and maintain a gigantic crowd. Many residents recount a tale that they have heard for decades now on Shephali Bibi started the Kali Puja. She was only 21 when she suddenly fell very ill, recounted a resident. No medicine worked. Then, apparently she shared a dream with villagers, claiming she was directed by goddess Kali to worship her to get cured. Initially, her claim was denounced by both communities. Brahmins refused to worship the idol. But an undaunted Shephali, then a young girl, went ahead with the preparations. Eventually, a priest appeared claiming he received orders from the goddess in his dream to worship the idol. This is how the Kali Puja had started. “Call it a miracle or whatever, Shephali got cured then,” Siddhartha Sarkar, a resident of Habibpur, said. Shephali Bibi, in her late fifties now, still heads the Kali Puja with people’s support. The idol is huge, so are the crowds. This year, the pandemic pared down celebrations, but otherwise this continues to be one of most popular Kali Puja celebrations in the region. Another Kali Puja held in the vicinity of Manikchak police station, some 30km from town, is also special. Around 120 years back, this Kali Puja was started by Fudina Singh, then head constable, in a temple facing a mosque. “Mutual respect is the key factor here,” said Sagar Singh, Manikchak resident. “At the time of the Namaz, the temple’s microphone is turned off. Mosque authorities ask people of the Muslim community to refrain from noise during Puja,” he said. Not just that, most members in this puja committee are Muslims. The committee has 11 Hindus and 13 Muslims working together every year to host the Kali Puja. So if Gour Mandal, the sabhadhipati of Malda Zilla Parishad happens to be the president of the puja committee, Jamal Khan is the secretary. “We have perceived the basics of every religion. All religions preach tolerance, peace and respect for other religions. Those who try to divide us in the name of religion, do so for their vested interest,” said Khan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-309
15-11-2020||West Bengal||Dark Diwali for Binnaguri tea estate workers||Diwali came with gloom for Binnaguri tea estate in the western Dooars under Jalpaiguri district as its management announced suspension of operations in the garden on Saturday in the wake of sustained demonstrations by some workers over a series of demands. The decision left around 1,400 workers jobless during Diwali celebrations. On Saturday, as workers assembled near the factory to join work, they found the work suspension notice issued by the manager. “For past few days, a section of workers, under the banner of a couple of tea trade unions, have been organising protests in the garden on certain demands. Such activities were affecting regular activities. Also, there were indications that even after the Kali Puja and Diwali, they will continue such protests. The management was apprehensive that law and order can deteriorate in the garden any time. That is why this decision was made,” said a source in the management. Trade union leaders are not ready to buy the theory. They said workers demanded non-cash facilities such as housing that the management is supposed to give workers under the Plantations Labour Act. “The management has closed down the garden under some flimsy pretexts. We want the state labour department to intervene and facilitate the garden’s reopening,” said Mani Kumar Darnal, the joint general-secretary of Intuc-backed National Union of Plantation Workers. Niren Mitra, the manager, said he had been working here for the past 23 years, and “there had been no problem”. “In recent times, some leaders of a union are trying to mislead workers,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-309
15-11-2020||West Bengal||Fire from oven razes 23 homes||Around 23 mud and brick houses of marginal farmers were destroyed in a fire that started from a clay oven at Kailashpur village in East Burdwan’s Kalna on Saturday morning. A villager said Kachinoor Biwi, a homemaker, was cooking rice in a clay oven when a burning jute stick she had used to light the fire flew and set her thatched roof on fire. He said a strong northern wind was blowing at that time and it helped the fire spread fast. “The fire spread so fast to the adjoining houses that the residents could not take out their essentials, including cash and gold ornaments,” another villager said. The fire services department was alerted but by the time the fire brigade arrived the villagers had put off the blaze. Twenty-three houses were razed to the ground. Khurshed Sheikh, an onion farmer, said he had kept Rs 40,000 at his hut to buy seeds but the entire cash had been burnt. “The flames spread so fast that I couldn’t run out with the money,” said an inconsolable Khurshed. A villager claimed many of them had lost thousands of rupees in cash in the fire. The BDO of Kalna-I, Sebanti Biswas, rushed to the spot and arranged tarpaulins and other relief materials for the affected families. “All the affected households belonged to marginal farmers. We have supplied tarpaulins, rice and other relief packages from our relief fund. The local panchayat is also taking care of the 23 families and have set up tents for livestock,” said Biswas. The chief of Kakuria gram panchayat, Reshma Begum, under which Kailashpur falls, said they were serving cooked food to the affected family members. “The families need to be rehabilitated. I have already got in touch with the local administration and the MLA,” Begum said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-310
15-11-2020||West Bengal||North Bengal seeks local trains||Resumption of local train services on suburban routes of Calcutta and south Bengal spurred commuters of north Bengal to demand local train services to restart in the region. The Bengal government and the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) — almost the entire north Bengal, the northeast and nearby areas of Bihar come under this railway zone — have been requested to resume local train services by trade bodies and leaders like Siliguri MLA Asok Bhattacharya. “A large number of people in north Bengal and adjoining areas of Bihar and Assam are largely dependent on local trains. Among these are vegetable vendors, daily commuters and others...They have been facing huge problems for months...I have written to the general manager of NFR, seeking necessary initiatives from their end (to resume the service),” said Bhattacharya. The Federation of Chamber of Commerce and Industries, North Bengal (Focin), one of north Bengal’s largest trade bodies, also wrote to the state government. “We wrote to the additional chief secretary of home and hill affairs department last week, urging him to talk to NFR officials to restart the services,” said Biswajit Das, Focin secretary. An NFR official said the state government would have to take the call. “We can start services only after the state approaches us. We need to plan for the new normal and maintain health protocols,” said an official. Under the NFR, over 80 pairs of passenger trains and another 60 pairs of DEMU rakes ran across the region before the pandemic’s outbreak. Nearly 2.5 lakh passengers used these trains daily.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-310
15-11-2020||West Bengal||Active cases in Bengal slide to 30,792 ||Bengal’s recovery rate in the Covid-19 pandemic on Saturday crossed 91 per cent, its rise unbroken since October 22 as the state hit yet another peak in daily recoveries with 4,479, aiding the 19th consecutive day of drop in total active cases. “Our recovery rate was 87.44 on October 22. This is now a 23-day spell of surge (in recovery rates). Today, it is 91.04. We are only slightly behind the national rate (93.03 per cent) now,” said a minister. The minister added that total active cases dropped by 6,398 since Vijaya Dashami, to 30,792 on Saturday. “It (the figure) has gone back to the October 12 level. This ongoing 19-day spell of drop in total active cases is the best so far (in the state) in this pandemic. Right after Puja, it could not have come at a better time. The record for daily recoveries has been reset 25 times in 26 days,” he said. The state on Saturday reported 3,823 new Covid-19 cases, less than 4,000 for the 19th consecutive day since the end of Durga Puja. Bengal reported 53 deaths, 13 each from Calcutta and North 24-Parganas. Bengal now has a total of 4.28 lakh Covid-19 cases, including over 3.9 lakh recoveries and 7,610 deaths. In the 19 days since Dashami on October 26, Bengal reported 80,010 recoveries and 74,676 new infections, undoing much of the damage from a major spike in infections — and relatively fewer recoveries — for six weeks prior to the festival. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja. Infection data from Puja days, largely available by now, showed the intervention was effective. The high court issued similar instructions for Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. With 44,127 tests on Saturday, the state’s total test count went past 51.8 lakh, at 57,557 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.27 per cent. Of the total death toll, 6,370, or 83.7 per cent, were attributed to comorbidities. The state’s mortality is 1.77, still less than the national rate of 1.47 per cent. The state reported 31.19 per cent occupancy in the 13,508 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 101 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 4.46 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-310
15-11-2020||West Bengal||East Midnapore tightens screws on child marriage ||The East Midnapore district administration, in a written directive to all block-level officials, has mandated  that persons involved in the marriages of underage girls must be reported to police without delay. This marks a departure from the longstanding practice of the district administration accepting written undertakings from parents of girls pledging they would not get their daughters married before they turned 18. The new and more stringent directive — where FIRs must be slapped on the groom’s family and the Hindu priest or imam involved in the marriage — is being seen as a big step by this district administration towards curbing child marriage. Written deputations are commonly accepted by other Bengal districts, including Birbhum and West Midnapore. East Midnapore district sources said the decision was taken in the wake of a spike in child marriages during the lockdown in East Midnapore, and reports that out of 37 halted marriages in which written undertakings were accepted, nine marriages did take place a few days later. Sources said that the order empowered BDOs, joint BDOs, block welfare officers, deputy magistrates and social welfare officers to file the FIRs. “Through experience, we have seen that written undertakings are an eyewash and are not honoured. In many cases, the hands of the girl’s family are tied for social and economic reasons, and these marriages are eventually solemnised in secret,” said East Midnapore social welfare officer Purnendu Pouranik. “So from now, the very first step against the culpable persons will be an FIR,” he added. According to the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006, the bride and her parents are not culpable for the offence of child marriage. The law dictates that the groom is liable to be imprisoned for two years or fined Rs 1 lakh or both. Last week’s directive by the East Midnapore DM made clear that priests and imams would also be liable to the same penalties dictated by that law. “The offences are cognisable and non-bailable,” said legal provision officer Alok Bera. Sources said block and social welfare officials had been asked, starting this week, to conduct awareness events at religious places where marriages are held to make clear that age verification would be introduced in the process. A meeting of panchayat pradhans was held in Tamluk earlier this week on the ways to implement the directive. “If a potential bride’s age is ever in doubt, priests or marriage officials are compelled from now to do an Aadhaar check for age,” said a source. Bids by desperate parents to get their underage daughters married off continue, especially in rural areas. Last month in Howrah, the marriage of a 16-year-old girl from Tamluk was stopped by social welfare officials who took a written statement from the parents. Two weeks later, they got a tip-off that her wedding reception was taking place in the town. They took custody of the girl, who’s now at a Tamluk welfare home, and arrested the groom’s parents. “The onus should be on the groom’s family to not take such a step,” said a source. In late August, families of two sisters in Moyna were asked to submit the same undertaking. A month later, their neighbours reported them both missing. Both the girls were rescued from underage marriages and are currently at a safe home. “These incidents were the final straw in determining that legal action must be a part of the campaign against child marriage," said an officer. The secretary of a Nandakumar NGO, Naba Kishore Sangha, which operates a safe home, welcomed the step. “The district’s initiative in light of child marriage is long overdue. Strong legal action is the only way. It’s a good wake-up call,” said NGO secretary Amal Manna.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-310
15-11-2020||West Bengal||Graft finger at Bhutia board||A section of Bhut­ias in the Darjeeling hills has alleged corruption in the wo­rks executed by the development board formed by the Mamata Banerjee government for the community in 2015. Palden Bhutia, the chairman of the Bhutia Development Board, denied the charge and issued an open invitation to check documents and verify the works through field visits. The government had for­med 16 development boards for various hill communities since 2013 as part of its outreach to different sections of the society. Allegations of corruption have been levied aga­inst some other boards, too, in the past. Recently, the chief minister announced that a monitoring committee would be constituted under the GTA to look after the development boards. Dawangla Bhutia, the working president of the West Bengal Bhutia Joint Action Committee, alleged that each beneficiary of a housing sch­eme — implemented by the board for the community — was supplying materials wo­rth just Rs 96,450 while the actual allocation was Rs 2 lakh. “After obtaining the signatures of beneficiaries on blank papers, house building materials worth Rs 96,450 are supplied and the documents are forged to show that the entire Rs 2 lakh has been provided to them,” said Dawangla. The committee also issued a detailed list of materials purportedly provided by the board and its cost. The committee alleged that there was corruption in a Rs 21 lakh drainage work executed by the Bhutia board in the Jorebunglow-Sukhiapokhri area. “In Mirik, Rs 24 lakh was sanctioned for a community hall but the board only constructed a small community hall measuring 20 X 20 feet,” said Dawangla. Allegations of corruption in a development work worth Rs 17 lakh in Sonada were also levied against the board. “There has also been corruption in a work undertaken at the Singsha Bhutia centre situated on Ghoom Monastery Road. The three-storied building had been constructed through funds sanctioned by then Rajya Sabha member Dawa Lama and contributions made by community members in 2004-05. Some minor works were undertaken at this building and funds have been misappropriated,” said Dawangla. Palden Bhutia swatted away the charges and said the board had constructed 2700-odd houses in Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts till date. “The list they have issued is wrong. They have mentio­ned that we only supply 15 it­ems but we provide 23 materials. We supply materials worth Rs 1.65 lakh and provide Rs 25,000 as labour costs. The remaining Rs 10,000 is spent on transporting materials,” said Palden. The chairman said he “was ready for any inspection, including on-the-spot verification of the works” undertaken by the board. “The projects are also supervised by government departments. We have photographs of projects before and after the construction. Let there be an independent verification. Once this is done, we will take appropriate action,” said Palden. The chairman alleged that Dawangla was raising the graft charges as he was eyeing the development board. “Every allegation levelled by them is baseless and wrong. Dawangla’s credentials are also questionable,” said Palden.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-310
15-11-2020||West Bengal||Mandatory Covid tests at rural hospital||The district health department has made itmandatory for patients and those accompanying them to the Maynaguri rural hospitalto undergo Covid-19 tests in the wake of a surge in the infections after Durga Puja celebrations. Sources said swab samples were being collected from patients visiting the outpatient departments (OPDs) at the hospital and those who went with them in the past few weeks. Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty deputed by thestate health department for Covid management in north Bengal, said the novel coronavirus had spread during Puja and there had been a surge inthe Covid cases in most districts of north Bengal, including Jalpaiguri. “We are also apprehensive that during Diwali and Chhath Puja celebrations, the number of cases will go up again. That is why all hospitals have been asked to increase the number of tests and this has prompted the authorities of Maynaguri block health administration to make the test mandatory for all the patients visiting the hospital and also those accompanying them. It would help us keep a tab on the Covid situation in the block,” said Roy. The move, however, has not gone down well with the residents and many of them have pointed out that even though they had been to the hospital with some other ailment, their Covid tests had been conducted. “My wife was having a pain in the abdomen. I took her to the hospital where both of us had to go for rapid antigen tests. It is surprising that though none of us had any other symptom, the paramedics insisted on the Covid tests,” said Prashanta Biswas,a local resident. Semanti Neogi, another Maynaguri resident, had a similar experience. “I took my aged mother to the OPD for a check-up as she had pain in the waist and knee.The staff collected our samples and said we had to undergo Covid tests. If it is made mandatory, I think people will fear visiting the hospital,” said Neogi. Hospital sources hinted that the number of patients had come down at the OPDs in the past few days. “Usually, 600 to 700 patients visit the OPDs at the block hospital a day. But the number declined to 120 or so in the past few days,” said a source. A health department official said it was evident that a  section of patients was avoiding the hospital because of the mandatory Covid test. “There are reports that some of them are visiting Jalpaiguri hospital or consulting private medical practitioners. They should get out of this fear and help the department keep a watch over the Covid situation. The tests are made compulsory to curb the infection in the block,” said a health official. Lucky Dewan, the Maynaguri block medical officer, said the health department was conducting Covid tests at six other primary health centres in the block as well. “Till November 3, 11,437 people had been tested in the block and 1,158 of them were detected with Covid. So far, 14people have died in the block because of Covid. We will continue to conduct tests and it would help us keep things under control,” said Dewan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-310
15-11-2020||North East||Sombre Diwali in Assam jawan’s village||On Saturday, 14 revenue villages in lower Assam’s Dhubri district did not celebrate Diwali. Instead every household in these villages lit a diya in memory of 39-year-old jawan Hardhan Chandra Roy, who was among the five soldiers killed in Kashmir on Friday due to heavy shelling by Pakistan. A condolence meeting was also organised in the evening by a student union in front of Roy’s home at his native village Futkibari-Medhipara, around 230km west of Guwahati. Villagers and acquaintances said Roy, a havildar in the army, was “socially” very active and was always thinking about the “development” of his village when he was at home on leave. He came home for three months during the coronavirus-induced lockdown. He left in June for Punjab where he was posted. After serving his quarantine period, Roy was sent to Jammu and Kashmir, a posting which turned out to be his last. “We are shattered. He was liked by all since he used to mingle with everyone when home. The Futkibari panchayat decided this morning there will be no Diwali celebrations, no bursting of crackers. Instead all households in the 14 revenue villages with about 10,000 population will light a diya in his memory. Everybody was informed through the public announcement system around 10am. That is the least we can do for his supreme sacrifice,” Jashawanta Barman, a school teacher and Roy’s cousin, told The Telegraph. Mourners made a beeline to Roy’s Assam-type residence since morning to offer their condolences. Roy’s body will reach his village on Sunday. He leaves behind his wife, son, his parents and sisters. Barman had last spoken to Roy during Durga Puja but he used to call his family every day. “He used to video call every day, sometimes two-three times, and talk to us and his son who is not even two. He had called on Thursday but there was no call on Friday. And there will be no more calls from him now. He was everything to us,” Gitika, his youngest sister, a graduate, said. The family got a call around 3pm on Friday from a major saying Roy passed away at 12.20pm. He was the pillar of his family who are completely shattered, said Barman. He married three years ago but only after getting two of his sisters married. He also built a four-room house. The All Koch Rajbongshi Students’ Union (AKRSU) not only organised a condolence meeting in front of his home on Saturday evening but also appealed to the government to provide jobs to his wife and sister as Roy was the principal bread-earner of the family. “Apart from the financial assistance he will be receiving, we request the authorities to properly rehabilitate the family and give him a fitting farewell,” AKRSU general secretary Jibesh Roy told this newspaper. There are about 100 households in Roy’s village which is dependent on farming. There are two more men from the village in the army and the Sashastra Seema Bal, while three are in Assam police, Barman said. In a condolence message, chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal said Roy, who died in the Uri sector of Jammu and Kashmir due to heavy shelling by Pakistan army in violation of the ceasefire, “left behind a glowing example of patriotism and valour”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-36
15-11-2020||North East||Gauhati High Court orders smooth traffic flow on NH-306||The Gauhati High Court has directed the Centre, Assam and Mizoram governments to take necessary steps for smooth movement of traffic and essential items on National Highway 306 and inter-state highway connecting the two states. On Thursday, a bench of Chief Justice N. Kotiswar Singh and Justice Manish Choudhury had passed the order acting on a petition filed by the Mizoram Bar Association on Monday to ensure there was no disruption in supply of essentials from the Assam side. The division bench also directed the railways to ensure movement of trains from Silchar in Assam to Bhairabi in Mizoram for ferrying of goods and traffic for which the Centre and the two states will render necessary assistance to the railway authorities. Movement of trucks were disrupted on the inter-state border since October 28 following unrest over territorial issues but was restored on Wednesday evening, after 13 days. The court has given the Centre, Assam and Mizoram to file their responses within three weeks. The case is listed for December 4. The Vairengte (Mizoram)-Cachar (Assam) border has been on the edge since October 17. Movement of trucks was disrupted because of protests by people of Lailapur in Cachar district against non-withdrawal of Mizoram security personnel deployed in the area since October 8 following border skirmishes. Assam residents have alleged that their Mizoram counterparts have entered about 3km inside Cachar district and 7km inside Hailakandi district in while Mizoram claims they are in their own territory.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-36
15-11-2020||Opinion||Power and Play||The US presidential elections had the world riveted last week. And then came Bihar and by-polls in a dozen states across India. In a seamless world proven by the coronavirus to be linked more closely together than imagined, these were not the only elections of the year. The African nation of Burundi went to polls in May. The governing party candidate was declared victorious amidst allegations of fraud and the outgoing president, Pierre Nkurunziza retired after 15 years in power with the title Supreme Guide, a luxury villa and a settlement of over USD 5,00,000. Foreign observers were reportedly not allowed citing Covid-19 norms. There were echoes and there were echoes. Resonances and resonances. Guinea in West Africa had its elections too. Despite a two-term limit, the incumbent president, octogenarian Alpha Conde, won a third term in office this October. It was a bitter and bloody poll and the results have been contested by the Opposition. Soon after, Tanzania went to polls and here too the incumbent John Magufuli won. A devout Christian, Magufuli kept churches open even as the coronavirus raged. He said, “Coronavirus, which is a devil, cannot survive in the body of Christ... It will burn instantly.” Not long ago, Tanzanian comedian Idris Sultan was arrested for cyber-bullying the President --- in a video he was seen laughing at the Magufuli’s photograph. And last week, Tundu Lissu, the head of Tanzania's largest Opposition party, Chadema, fled the country amidst reports of the government crackdown on politicians of opposition parties.) There are patterns in there, if you care to look. In Central Asia’s Tajikistan, President Emomali Rahmon was re-elected for the fifth term. (A single presidential term lasts seven years.) In South Asia, months after Gotabaya Rajapaksa won Sri Lanka’s presidential elections, his Sri Lanka People’s Front and allies won the general elections. Mr President named big brother Mahinda Rajapaksa the prime minister. The press called it a “landslide victory”. Myanmar too witnessed a “landslide victory” for the ruling National League for Democracy and second term for Nobel Peace Prize winner Aung San Suu Kyi. Rohingyas couldn’t contest. Rogingyas couldn’t vote. There were mass cancellations of votes in Rakhine, Shan and Kachin. But it is a landslide and the party has since announced that it will invite ethnic minority parties to work with it. Greece elected the country’s first female president, Katerina Sakellaropoulou. Leftist leader Luis Arce won in Bolivia. And though buzz is that Jacinda Ardern’s policies are not so red anymore, the New Zealand Parliament blushed a deep Red post last month’s Labour win. In Seychelles, where a single party has been in power since 1977, Anglican priest Wavel Ramkalawan defeated incumbent Danny Faure in the presidential elections. It seems the new Indian-origin president’s grandfather emigrated to Seychelles from Bihar many years ago. It is one seamless world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-116
15-11-2020||Opinion||Future of history||In 1992, a provocative thesis was put forward by the Japanese-American political scientist, Yoshihiro Francis Fukuyama. The book in which it was published had an enigmatic title: The End of History and the Last Man. It argued that having won the struggle for a liberal democratic State, humans may not want to go further. They may end up just producing banality rather than ideas to transform civilizations in the future. This was one part of Fukuyama’s argument. The other part was that atavistic tendencies may resurface and negate the gains made. The heroic struggles for claiming equality and freedom may no longer interest the world. The two together may make the 21st-century world come to the very end of a unidimensional progression of history. Fukuyama’s grand curiosity about the future of civilizations led him to speculate whether the progression from barbarism to liberal democracy leaves humans marooned in banality, instability, atavism and a modern-primitivism. In the same year as Fukuyama’s phenomenal work was published in the United States of America, I was working on a book on literary history in India. My objective was to examine how India has conceptualized its history over the last two millennia. The material collected over a decade towards this book made it amply clear to me that in Indian intellectual traditions — Sanskrit, Tamil, Pali, Prakrit and modern Indian languages — there had not been any one way of recollecting the past, which is the appointed business of history. The diversity of perspectives was so striking that I felt compelled to title my work, Of Many Heroes. This I had partially drawn from the 10th-century theorist, Rajasekhara. He considered the Ramayana as a work with a single hero and the Mahabharata as the work with many heroes, a distinction that was used by him for classifying histories. Moreover, determining any single beginning for Indian civilization is too difficult a task. I had forgotten these intense debates within my mind about the exact origin. I was reminded of them recently when the Central government’s ministry of culture announced that a committee had been set up to reconstruct the history of India over the last twelve thousand years. The committee was appointed during the last tenure of the National Democratic Alliance government by the minister, Mahesh Sharma. Its details were presented in Parliament in response to a question this year. A sharp reaction to this disclosure came from the Janata Dal (Secular)’s H.D. Kumaraswamy and the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s Kanimozhi Karunanidhi; but whatever criticism came in response was about the committee being entirely made up of men and mainly from the north. The basic premise leading to instituting the committee has, however, not received due attention. The premise that leads to the formation of such a committee is at the heart of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh’s view of India as a nation, which holds the sanatan Vedic tradition of knowledge as non-negotiable. Every tradition of knowledge has some profound wisdom and tenable theories. But everything in a given knowledge tradition cannot be said to have eternal validity. Concepts and theories forming a knowledge tradition need to be modified, supplemented, and even discarded by future generations in the light of fresh evidence and new discoveries. But the advocates of sanatan knowledge do not like questions being asked of ancient Indian texts in the light of modern knowledge. They do not accept the fact that during medieval times, many significant saint-poets and thinkers had already gone past the Vedic texts and started modifying the ‘sacred knowledge’ by locating it within the human sphere, which the English language describes as ‘secular’. Such questioning is dismissed by equating it with ‘colonialism and Western’ and, therefore, a defilement of the ancient wisdom. Since the Vedas were composed in an early variety of the Sanskrit language, this perspective tends to propose an ancestry for the Sanskrit language, which is difficult to sustain in the light of the known linguistic evidence. The source of the misconception is in one esoteric strand of 19th-century European Linguistics. Initially, Sir William Jones had put forward a hypothesis, going by the known similarities between some of the ancient languages, about their origin in a ‘proto’ Indo-European language. In Jones’s hypothesis, ‘Indo-Aryan’ was used as the name for a language precisely because he wanted to mark it out as distinct from the later day ‘classical’ Sanskrit. In an esoteric strand of 19th-century European Linguistics, the term, arya, was interpreted as the name-tag for a people, which it never was. That term, arya — ‘gentleman’ or a ‘respected man’ — used in Sanskrit was picked up as the slender thread by some Indian scholars inclined towards the Hindu-nation idea. Upon this coincidence was built the idea that Sanskrit-speaking ancient Indian people traversed the north and went up to Europe in some prehistoric times. None of the studies based on the scientific study of ancient migrations, archaeology, ancient metallurgy, literary texts, comparative mythology and folklore provides grounds to validate this theory. However, in order to establish the prehistoric and widespread presence of the Sanskrit language, particularly during the third millennium before the Christian era, it becomes necessary to sort out the unresolved mysteries surrounding the Indus Valley civilization. Its advanced phase is dated with a fair degree of precision as belonging to the period 2600 BC to 1900 BC. And the date of the composition of the Vedas is widely accepted among serious scholars to be between 1400 BC and 900 BC. These dates established through elaborate research and a careful examination of evidence are not acceptable to Hindutva nationalists. There is a mythological genealogy, a long chain of names of mythical kings, given in the Mahabharata which the nationalist view of the past accepts as factual ‘history’. This leads them to hold that the imagined ‘history’ of the last 10 or more millennia is the factual history of India. Given the ideological moorings of the present government and how keen it is to translate its ideas of what India is as a nation, it would not be far off the mark to expect that the committee on Indian history has a predetermined mission at hand. For several millennia, Indians have learnt to live with the idea that there is no single point of origin for the vast diversity of peoples in this subcontinent. We can conceptualize the history of the Indian peoples properly only if we accept the idea of many origins. Let us hope that the government committee on history and culture is not designed to merely endorse what the RSS projects as an incontrovertible historical truth. But if this turns out to be the case, the future of the history of India may, alas, prove Fukuyama’s atavism thesis right. The author is a literary scholar and cultural activist ganesh_devy@yahoo.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-117
15-11-2020||Opinion||Oh Duck! We thought you to be chicken||Oh, Donald! Was it you? The duck? That got roasted? Rest a bit. In peace. We do ducks, but not the way you think. What the duck, don’t get us wrong, come to the party. We do chickens, we do t do ducks. But chickens, even roasted, are winners. The chicken, however deeply broiled, is a winner. It needs a roasting. And once the roasting is done, you may sing paeans to what the chicken was before it got roasted. Lovely chicken. Clucking chicken. Roosting chicken, queen of the coop. Everything that happened, the chicken did. Even all the shit it shat. It was the shit that the chicken shat, you see. So what if it has gotten a bit roasted now? And even so, look how tasty it is. Call my chicken chicken? Oh, how could you? It was my chicken, I loved it, and therefore don’t say poor things of my chicken. No, that’s not on. It wandered? Yes, it did. But perhaps. It strayed? Yes, it did. But perhaps. It laid dodgy eggs? Yes, it did. But perhaps. And so? It was my chicken. Mine. I wouldn’t hear a thing about it, not a poor word, you don’t know, I do, and of course I do, it was my chicken. That chicken was a chicken, no more. It pecked beyond its need, it clucked beyond its worth, it fluttered beyond its wings. Came a day, it got caught. A fringe of its feather, a part of its wing. It got caught. While it preened, while it clucked and paraded. A chicken, an entitled one, spreading a bit beyond its allowance. Lo! Caught! Now? Duck! Look for ducks. Where are the ducks? Are there any ducks? Is there a duck I can duck into? Not easy. Oh no! Do not misunderstand. It cannot be easy. Turning ducks to chickens. BlondieDucks to chickens, no less. But it happens. Trust me. Flock. Flock. My eggs, my beloved eggs, don’t poach me now, or boil me. I am your chicken. Remember? You are mine, more than I could ever be yours. The thing about chickens is, you have them, or they have you. They make you slave to what they lay. What you love to boil, or poach, or fry, or beat and make an omelette of. You had the eggs? Really? The chicken had you. And it is going to keep on having you. Teasing you around the barn, luring it to what it lays in the hay, stuffing you with the gifts of what it can only reject and clucking away around the place, laughing at you. Look at you! You filled out fool, you thought you had me? You only had what I no longer had any use for, what I needed desperately to eject. Eggs, you stupid egghead! You don’t know what l’m talking about? Well, cluck-cluck, why am I not surprised? You’ve been looking, I know. You’ve been gobbling my eggs and you’ve been looking. At my legs. At my stride. At my pride. At my thighs. At my breasts. You have been, haven’t you? You’ve been eyeing my neck as well, my long neck, my neck that turns this way and that, my neck that swivels all the degrees that you can count, this way and that and all the way round. You have been, haven’t you? You’ve been lusting after me, your appetite fed by my eggs. What the duck! The truth is, I am an imitation of who you think I am. I am not what you believe me to be, hah-haaaah, cluckettty-cluck. Don’t get me? Even having got me? My eggs and my every part other than my feathers that are soaked in my blood because they were used to wipe it? Well, well, cluck-cluck, what the duck, and just as well. I am not chicken, I am flesh and bone and tendon and feather. When I become what I am to you, I am no longer chicken. Do look for a word. I am the sum of my parts to you, measured, weighed and paid for. But I am forever more; I am the imagination of your appetite, I am the one whose appetite will not end. In you. Get that? My chicken, mine.  Mine to gobble, yours to admire and lust after, chicken all the same. Skewered. Or baked. Or roasted. Or strung and quartered and had, any which way. What’s a chicken, even mine, to say or do? What the duck? Oh my diddledee hen Here I come and my men I’ll count from one to ten To have you, do tell me when.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-117
15-11-2020||Opinion||Code of discontent||A nanny State simply cannot get enough of treating its citizens like children. It does not want them to grow up and learn to make adult choices. The Narendra Modi government is at grave risk of turning into one and the latest evidence of this became apparent when it amended its allocation of business rules and decided almost overnight to bring digital and online media — films and other audio visual programmes as well as news and current affairs — within the ambit of the information and broadcasting ministry instead of the ministry of electronics and information technology where it originally resided. The move has already sparked howls of protest from free speech advocates amid fears that this marks the first step towards an oppressive regulation of the digital space. There are, of course, a number people who believe that some sort of regulation is necessary. They contend that if print and television media are subject to oversight, then there ought to be similar restrictions on digital content providers as well. The internet has evolved in a different era from the two traditional forms of media that have been subject to regulations distilled from colonial-era legislation. The internet was conceived in an almost utopian dream and its early evangelists had passionately hoped that it would stay outside the scope of governmental oversight. The original dream has long since evaporated but the fight against regulation of any kind continues with varying degrees of success depending on the level of personal freedoms that the authorities in different jurisdictions are willing to concede. The big worry is that India is getting ready to regulate the internet in a tyrannical fashion, mimicking countries like China as well as the Arab world by devising regulations founded on an adamantine code of morality and a desire to muzzle free speech on the basis of elastic definitions of national security and public interest and a whimsical determination of what is considered odious. Barely two months ago, the telecom regulator, which comes under the MeITY, had recommended that OTT services ought not to be regulated after a five-year long debate on the subject. Some countries like Singapore, for instance, have developed a digital content code that requires programmes to be secular and specifies a six-rating classification for films on the web with an age verification mechanism for content deemed to be appropriate for those above 21. No one will argue against the spirit of such a code if India were to adopt it. But one suspects it will go beyond movies and creative expression and enter the realm of news and commentary. News in the digital world is seen very differently from the structured framework of traditional news publications and the regulations, if and when they are framed, will need to define it. It is not clear whether these rules will cover influencers, bloggers and anyone ranting on Twitter and Facebook. The Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, and the Information Technology Act, 2004 have sufficient provisions to ensure that OTT providers do not step out of line. The latest move also signals that Mr Modi’s government has no faith in the code of self regulation that 15 OTT platforms had agreed to sign in September. There is a lack of trust on both sides — and this will raise deeper questions about the intent behind any regulatory code that the government devises.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-117
15-11-2020||Opinion||BJP's win in Bihar, Nadda's moment of glory||The Bharatiya Janata Party president, JP Nadda, finally got to savour his moment of glory. Although the National Democratic Alliance just about managed to scrape past the halfway mark, the emergence of the BJP as a dominant force in the Bihar polls was cause for a big celebration. This was the first significant achievement since Nadda took charge of the party from Amit Shah earlier this year. Nadda drove to the party headquarters in an open vehicle and rose petals were showered on him. It was a replay of the kind of welcome Shah used to get when the BJP won election after election. Even the prime minister, Narendra Modi, hailed the leadership of Nadda in his victory speech. Modi even raised the slogan, “Naddaji aap aage badho, hum aapke saath hai”. All this may have appeared to be too much for the otherwise low-profile leader, but whispers in the party corridors suggest that Shah’s gesture held more significance for Nadda than Modi’s pat. Much before Modi’s speech in the evening, Shah had reached Nadda’s residence to greet him with a bouquet for the party’s performance in Bihar. The big question on the minds of many people now is whether Naddaji, as the BJP chief is fondly addressed, can finally emerge from the shadow of the Modi-Shah duopoly. The BJP-led government in Assam has been facing flak for its inability to contain the prices of essential commodities. Prasanta Phukan, a BJP member of the legislative assembly, who was a vocal critic of price rise when he was in the Opposition, added to the discomfiture of the government in the poll-bound state with his ‘solution’ to cope with price rise. “You can go to any shop and exchange your free rice for onions. You can also use paanchphoron in place of onions,” he said. His suggestion of barter sparked anger against him and the government. Television channels started futile visits to the markets to look for shops/vendors who were giving onions in exchange for free rice. Buyers gave vent to their anger by reminding Phukan how he used to hit the street with a garland of onions to protest against price rise when he was in the Opposition. But then times have changed for Phukan, if not for the common person. So far, the BJP has fallen under the ‘also-ran’ category in Kerala. The party has always been plagued by factionalism in the southern state. To make things worse for the party — it is desperate to put up a decent show in the upcoming assembly polls — a senior leader, Shobha Surendran, who was ‘demoted’ from the national executive to the state unit as one of the vice presidents, has started rebelling. The stage is now set for a bigger drama with Shobha threatening to go public with how old-timers were being sidelined. The myth that Chirag Paswan’s gamble to go it alone hurt the Janata Dal (United) and helped the BJP can be busted. The devil is in the detail. In reality, the Lok Janshakti Party’s solitary foray helped the Rashtriya Janata Dal the most and the BJP the least. While data show that the BJP got barely one extra seat because of LJP, it helped the RJD wrest at least 22 seats that the latter would not have otherwise won. Even the Congress has won at least six seats more than it would have because the LJP cut into the JD(U)’s and the BJP’s votes. The Congress tally would have been 13, not 19, had the LJP contested together with the BJP-JD(U). Although statistics alone do not decide the fate of the elections, the LJP helped the RJD-Congress more even in terms of atmospherics. So the Congress managers should thank Chirag Paswan for salvaging its prestige as 19 looks better than 13 or even less. This shows the pitiable state of affairs for the Congress. Insiders believe that the Congress would have been whittled down to three-four seats if it were not for the support of the RJD. What the party did in five years is known to the gods alone. The Aam Aadmi Party has roped in the former Tamil Nadu chief secretary, PC Cyriac, who hails from Kochi, to steer the party’s foray in the upcoming local body polls in Kerala. In 2014, the AAP made headlines in the state when it fielded eminent candidates like the author, Sara Joseph, the journalist, Anita Pratap, and the former IPS officer, Ajit Joy — all of whom lost but garnered a large chunk of votes. However, the party sacked its convener, CR Neelakandan — a Gandhian activist — for declaring his support for select candidates of the Congress-led United Democratic Front, and the Communist Party of India (Marxist)-led Left Democratic Front in last year’s Lok Sabha polls. The AAP declared its support for the LDF after its alliance talks with the Congress failed in Delhi. The septuagenarian Cyriac, who unsuccessfully contested the municipal polls in 2019 and assembly polls in 2016 as an independent, will lead a corporate style selection of professionals as candidates in the upcoming polls. Luck and BS Yediyurappa have always been housemates. Just when BJP hardliners were mobilizing to unseat the 77-year-old leader, who is considered ‘too soft’ by some, came the twin successes in the bypolls. The fact that his younger son, BY Vijayendra, helmed the campaign in the Sira constituency to give a debut win for the BJP has strengthened Yediyurappa’s hands. For now, at least, even the hardliners have begun singing hosannas to the chief minister who has otherwise crossed the age after which one is consigned to the dreaded margdarshak mandal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-117
15-11-2020||Opinion||Taxing work: Deutsche Bank's proposal for ‘privilege tax’ for employees||Sir — As if the stress of working from home were not enough, Deutsche Bank has proposed a ‘privilege tax’ for employees who can earn a living without being physically present in office. Why, one must ask, do employees have to bear the burden of taxation? Are not the companies saving establishment costs with people working from home? Moreover, at a time when working from home can mean the difference between life and death for not just oneself but also others, how can it be called a ‘privilege’? Work from home involves longer hours; an added tax will break the employees’ morale. Ravi Marik, Pune Sir — In a democratic country, no institution, no public office and no person can be above scrutiny, or even criticism. People have the right to express displeasure even if it is against the Supreme Court. This cannot be tantamount to contempt of court. The attorney-general, K.K. Venugopal, has initiated contempt of court proceedings against the stand-up comedian, Kunal Kamra, for his criticism of the Supreme Court in the promptness shown in granting bail to the Republic TV journalist, Arnab Goswami (“AG’s consent against Kamra”, Nov 13). This is ironical when one considers what the judge, D.Y. Chandrachud, said while granting bail to Goswami: “If we as a constitutional court do not lay down law and protect personal liberty, then who will?” Does this tenet then hold true only for a handful of individuals? One hopes that the Supreme Court will in its astuteness reject the petition against Kamra. If it does not, it will only be giving more ground to the allegations of bias that are being levelled against it. More important, steps must be taken to reconsider the matter of contempt of court. The concept is centuries out of time. In England, it is a common law principle that seeks to protect the judicial power of the monarch, initially exercised by the monarch, and later by a panel of judges who acted in his or her name. Violation of the judges’ orders was considered an affront to the monarch. Over time, any kind of disobedience to judges, or obstruction to the implementation of their directives, or comments and actions that showed disrespect towards them came to be punishable. Making allegations against the judiciary or individual judges, attributing motives to judgments and judicial functioning and any scurrilous attack on the conduct of judges are normally considered matters that scandalize the judiciary. The rationale for this provision is that courts must be protected from tendentious attacks that lower its authority, defame its public image and make the people lose faith in its impartiality. But, in effect, this law has been turned into a weapon to silence doubts against the judiciary. This is an unhealthy practice. Airing and addressing of grievances is how a democracy functions. Suppressing discontent will only make matters worse. Pradipta Sen, Calcutta Sir — The Supreme Court should set a precedent by refusing to entertain contempt of court proceedings against Kunal Kamra. This will be the best response to Kamra’s allegations against the top court of the country. A recent chain of events has led many to question the motivations behind some of the apex court’s judgments. Contempt of court is meant to keep the judiciary and its judgments above doubt. But in present times it has served quite the opposite function. The judges must ask themselves whether punishing Kamra will eradicate the seeds of doubt in the minds of people or only help them gain root. J. Akshobhya,Hyderabad Sir — It was encouraging to learn that villagers in Matiagacha stood guard around a 5 feet-long Russell’s viper for hours to protect it from people who wanted to kill it (“Villagers save Russell’s viper”, Nov 14). Although it is a crime, killing snakes is, unfortunately, common in our country. Mostly, people kill snakes out of fear. Regular awareness programmes about snakes by the forest department could decrease the number of such incidents. Sourish Misra, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-117
15-11-2020||Jharkhand||Saathi Foundation provides free education to 45 children in Wasseypur||A group of self-motivated youths is providing free of cost education to around 45 children in Wasseypur and the adjoining localities. Sabauddin Nishat (45), a foreign returned teacher of Wasseypur locality of Dhanbad, who along with an event manager of his locality, Irfan Alam (25), are working to shape the future of the children of Wasseypur locality by providing free of cost evening tuitions to them for the last five years. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Sunday, Sabauddin who earlier worked in Qatar and returned to his hometown said, “We have two centres of our organization, Saathi Foundation, including one at my house near Ara More in Wasseypur and another one near Bhatta locality of Wasseypur, where free of cost educational classes to children of 6 years to 20 years is provided.” These children are from the economically weaker section of the society. Echoing sentiments, Irfan Alam said, "Majority of our students are wards of daily wage-earners, auto drivers or rickshaw pullers of the nearby locality. Besides imparting education to them, we also teach communication skills and hygienic way of living." "We have completed all preparations for imparting free of cost spoken English tutorials for the girl students of our locality which will be launched next week. We have invested our own money in the initiative. We also get some occasional contribution to our philanthropism from some people of Wasseypur locality," said Alam. Razia Parween, coordinator of Saathi Foundation who also imparts education to the children at Saathi foundation Centre said, "We carry out education of children of the junior section from 3 pm to 4.30 pm and the senior students of 15 to 20 years of age are taught from 7 pm." "We also contribute to the free of cost services at the centre," added Parween. Sadhni Devi, a resident of Kharkabad locality, said, “My husband Rajesh Bauri works as a construction site laborer and could hardly earn enough to manage the tuition expense of my daughter Neha (10). I am thankful from the core of my heart to Saathi Foundation who helped her with the free of cost education." Rehan (9), another student of Azadnagar locality, said, "My father Maqsood Alam is an auto driver and could not afford to pay for private tuitions but I clarified my doubts in Maths and Science by attending the regular tuition classes at Saathi Foundation Centre."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-235
15-11-2020||Jharkhand||Three fires break out at Jamshedpur on Diwali night||Three fires broke out at Jugsalai, Sonari and Mango localities on Diwali (Sunday) night, partially gutting two shops, and severely damaging a flat in a residential apartment. While a paint-cum-hardware shop that caught fire at Sonari market was put out by locals, the fires at Jugsalai and the apartment were extinguished by the fire brigade. A dia or lamp lit during a Laxmi Puja triggered the fire at the paint-cum-hardware shop in Sonari around 9 PM. Shop owner Sitaram Agarwal said that he suddenly noticed the flames in the paint section of the shop while he and his family members were busy with the puja. "Paints are highly flammable; the fire suddenly spread and engulfed the shelve where the paint containers were kept. The puja was disrupted, causing a commotion.  Soon neighbours rushed in and started throwing water at the fire, which prevented it from spreading further. It was finally doused when someone from the neighbourhood used a handy fire-extinguisher," Agrawal told The Telegraph Online. "A fire broke out at a paint-cum-hardware shop in the densely populated Sonari market area.  Had the neighbours not acted in time, this could have become a major mishap.  When we reached the spot, the fire had already been brought under control," Renu Gupta, OC, Sonari Thana, informed. The Jugalsai fire broke out at a plastic shop on Station Road around 10.30 PM. A number of young people engaged in bursting fireworks on the road noticed the flames. “A few of them broke open the shop's door and made others throw water at the flames. Some of them dared to enter the shop and dragged out the shelves which were on fire. A fire-tender reached the spot soon after and extinguished the fire," Nityanand Mahto, OC, Jugsalai Thana, said. According to Mahto, a short circuit resulted in the fire. The shop owner shut up the shop following Laxmi Puja without switching off the lights. The third fire broke out at Mango at around 11 PM, on the fourth floor of one Tarun Apartment on Dimna Road. The flat was unoccupied as owner Puja Sardar was out of station. A local alerted other residents after he saw smoke coming out of the flat, prompting them to inform the fire brigade and police. Firefighters rushed to the area and brought the situation under control. It took two hours for the fire brigade to extinguish the flames completely," Vinay Kumar, OC, Mango Thana informed The Telegraph Online. Kumar said initial reports suggest the accident was caused due to a short circuit, and that the owner of the flat has been informed about the mishap.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-236
15-11-2020||Jharkhand||Achinto Pramanik nominated as secretary of Masters Athletics Association||Veteran runner and national medalist Achinto Pramanik has been nominated as the secretary of the newly-formed Masters Athletics Association, Jharkhand. He was unanimously nominated to the post by representatives from different districts at a meeting held on the Ramchandrapur football ground in Seraikela-Kharsawan district on Sunday. The 67-year-old resident of Gamharia, who has won medals in national masters athletics championships, said he would try work towards promotion and betterment of athletics in the state by involving veteran athletes. “I have competed in masters athletic championships and am aware of the problems faced by athletes. They have to arrange funds on their own to compete in national competitions. It’s a big problem,” he remarked. Pramanik, who stills maintains his fitness by running daily on the Tata-Kandra road, said the new outfit would try to find sponsors and would also generate funds on its own. Others who were nominated to different posts of the association include - Avinash Soren as president (Seraikela-Kharsawan), Laxman Upadhyay (Ranchi) and Jagan Babu (East Singhbhum) as vice-presidents, Nishanand Mahto (West Singhbhum), Rayel Bakhla (Ranchi) and Ashok Nayak (Seraikela-Kharsawan) as assistant secretaries, Chinand Rakhal Das as treasurer, with Bhairav Pramanik and Tapas Pramanik as joint treasurers (Seraikela-Kharsawan). Lalmohan Mandal, Rakesh Singh, Mithun Pramanik, Manoj Choudhury, and Shivansh Dey have been made committee members.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-236
15-11-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant felicitates 80 policemen on Statehood Day||Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Sunday felicitated at least 80 police personnel with medals at Jharkhand Armed Police (JAP) 1 Ground for exemplary work and lauded the police department for not only maintaining law and order in the state but also doing a commendable job in combating the Covid-19 pandemic. Hemant awarded three police personnel with the Governor Police Medal, as many as 47 police personnel with the Chief Minister’s Police Medal for gallantry and 30 cops with police medals for meritorious work. “While the poor and the needy were fed through community kitchens in all police stations of the state, the police, as Corona warriors, carried out their responsibilities well. During this time many policemen were also infected. But they were quick to resume work after recovering from the infection,” said Hemant. The chief minister also felicitated dependents of six martyrs during a march past ceremony on the occasion of the 20th Statehood Day and assured them the government’s complete support. “Many brave sons of Jharkhand have laid down their lives while protecting the people of our state. I salute them today, and I assure their dependents that the government will provide all possible support to them,” Hemant said. Neelamani Devi, widow of Shaheed S. A. Shukra Oraon; Vicky Kumar, son of martyred home guard Jamuna Prasad; Padmini Devi, widow of martyred home guard Satendra Singh; Muni Kumari, widow of Shaheed Shambhu Prasad Singh; Balmuni Gagrai, widow of martyr A. Lakhindra Munda and Sunita Soren, widow of martyr S.D. Chandrai Soren were felicitated and handed over cheques of Rs 25,000. The Inspector General of Police, Operations, Saket Kumar Singh and two others were awarded the Jharkhand Governor Medal for distinguished service. The 47 policemen, who were awarded Chief Minister’s Gallantry medals, included Nathu Singh Meena, Sub-Divisional Police Officer of Chakradharpur. Jharkhand Police Medal was awarded to Deputy Inspector General of Police, Akhilesh Kumar Jha, Senior Superintendent of Police M. Tamil Vanan, along with 30 police officers and policemen for meritorious service. Five other police officers who performed well during basic training were also honoured. Addressing cops from across the state, the chief minister admitted that the Covid-19 pandemic was taking a toll on the world, and Jharkhand was no different. “2020 has been a challenging year for all of us, but I am glad that we all have accepted the challenge and are moving ahead at a steady pace despite the odds,” he said. Hemant asked cops to remember great freedom fighters of Jharkhand on the birth anniversary of tribal hero Birsa Munda. “The land of Jharkhand has given birth to many brave sons of motherland India. And our state continues to produce brave soldiers who have vowed to protect the country and its people irrespective of the circumstances,” he said. The chief minister also inaugurated a 24-room IPS guest house at JAP 1 campus and witnessed a march past by jawans of JAP1, JAP2, JAP10, Indian Reserve Battalions (IRB) and Ranchi Police. “Time changes, circumstances also change. And it is our duty to adapt to the situation and strive for success,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-236
15-11-2020||Jharkhand||CM, Governor remember tribal hero Birsa Munda as Jharkhand turns 20||Chief Minister Hemant Soren and Governor Droupadi Murmu paid floral tributes to freedom fighter and tribal hero Birsa Munda on the occasion of his birth anniversary and the 20th Statehood Day of Jharkhand on Sunday. Recalling the contribution of Birsa Munda and other tribal heroes like Sidho Kanho and Nilamber Pitamber for the uplift of the tribal community and the people of Jharkhand at large, Hemant said that the residents of the state should never forget the sacrifices made by the tribal heroes of Jharkhand. After garlanding a statue of Birsa Munda at Bhagwan Birsa Munda Samadhi Sthal in Kokar, Hemant also spoke about the Jharkhand movement, which led to the formation of Jharkhand, a mineral-rich state with around 27 percent tribal population and over 30 tribe groups, including vulnerable groups. “Jharkhand was given a status of a separate state after years of struggle. We must never forget the sacrifices made to get a state we could call our own,” said Hemant. “We remember our heroes in almost every ceremony, so the younger generation can learn about their contribution and the feeling of patriotism and humanitarian values could be inculcated in them,” the chief minister added. Jharkhand was carved out of erstwhile Bihar on November 15, 2000. Every year, the state celebrates this day with pomp and glory. However, no grand celebrations were organised this year in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. “I congratulate all my fellow Jharkhandis on this auspicious day. We have come a long way since the formation of the state. It has already been 20 years, and I am sure that we will see prosperity, growth and holistic development in the days to come,” Hemant said. Meanwhile, Governor Droupadi Murmu garlanded the statue of Birsa Munda amid the reverberating beats of tribal Mandar. Murmu said that the state was developing at a fast pace, and all the residents of the state should try and make Jharkhand a state that Dharti Aba Birsa Munda had dreamt of. Prime Minister Narendra Modi also extended his wishes to the people of Jharkhand on the Statehood Day. Modi took to microblogging website Twitter and paid tribute to Birsa Munda, who is referred to as Bhagwan (God) in Jharkhand. “He (Birsa Munda) was the true messiah of the poor. He struggled throughout his life for the welfare of the exploited and deprived. His contribution to the freedom movement and his efforts for social harmony will always inspire the countrymen,” Modi tweeted. Born in 1875 in Ulihatu village of Ranchi district, Birsa Munda had challenged the British rule and is credited with mobilising the tribal people against the British empire. The freedom fighter died in British custody at an early age of 25 years and attained a folk hero status. His portrait hangs in the Indian Parliament Museum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-236
15-11-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand MP letter to Kovind for Stan Swamy release||Rajmahal MP and JMM leader Vijay Kumar Hansdak has become the first parliamentarian from Jharkhand to come out in support of octogenarian Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist Father Stan Swamy, who has been arrested and jailed for his alleged involvement in the Bhima Koregaon violence and Maoist links. Fr Swamy was arrested by the National Investigation Agency on October 8 night from his residence near Ranchi. In a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind on November 10, Hansdak, son of former Congress MP Thomas Hansdah, has sought the immediate release of the elderly priest and closure of the “false” case lodged against Fr Swamy. “The 83-year-old Father Swamy is suffering from multiple ailments and is a veteran tribal rights activist and for close to five decades has been working on the forest rights of the tribal community. Through his arrest, NIA is yet again sending a message to the rest of the human rights community that they can stoop to any level to silence and crush dissent,” the letter said. “Father Stan Swamy’s arrest by NIA is malicious and spiteful as he and his associates have been constantly denying any link with Maoists. The allegation against him about his links in the Bhima Koregaon case is also false and fabricated. I on behalf of people of Jharkhand would like to appeal to take immediate concrete action to stop the proceedings of all the false allegations against Father Swamy and release him. I also appeal to release all those innocent social activists and intellectuals who have been arrested on false allegations,” the MP wrote. Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, his Kerala counterpart Pinarai Vijayan, a host of senior Opposition leaders and MPs of the Congress, the DMK, the NCP along with human rights activists from across the country have condemned the arrest and demanded the release of the Jesuit priest. Peaceful protests have been held across the country seeking the release of Fr Swamy. Fr Swamy, who is lodged in Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai, had last week filed an application in court saying that he cannot hold a glass and asked permission to use a straw and a sipper. The court scheduled the hearing of the application on November 28, as the prosecution sought 20 days to respond. The medical plea of Fr Swamy stated that he had almost lost his hearing ability in both ears, fallen in jail multiple times and has been operated on for hernia twice and still has pain in his lower abdomen. On October 23, a special NIA court had denied Fr Swamy’s interim bail petition on health grounds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-236
