16-11-2020||Calcutta||Why we had to pay our last respects ||Thousands from across the city gathered to pay their last respects to Soumitra Chatterjee at his house in Golf Green, Technicians’ Studio in Tollygunge and Rabindra Sadan on Sunday. Here’s what some of the fans told The Telegraph. Madhabi Bhattacharya, 72, Dover Lane (Spotted craning her neck to catch a glimpse of the hearse entering the actor’s house as well as Rabindra Sadan) I have always swooned over him. He had a charm and charisma that no other actor has. His death has come as a shock for me. Throughout all these years I would make it a point to watch his films as soon they were released. I also have a collection of his poems, which is one of my dearest possessions…. I did not go inside to see his body because I am yet to come to terms with the fact that he is no more. Joydip Sur, 37, private company employee I cancelled a Sunday lunch with my family to pay my last respects to this man. His passing has left an eternal void in the world of cinema. For me he was a doyen of Bengali films, who with his talent and charisma mesmerised several generations. I loved all his films and I strongly feel that whether essaying the role of Apu or Feluda, he excelled in his craft. I had to be here today. The hearse drove to Technicians’ Studio in Tollygunge from Golf Green Debashis Chakraborty, 52, eye surgeon, with daughter Aishe Chakraborty, Class V student I make sure that my daughter Aishe watches Feluda films every time they are telecast on TV. I grew up watching Soumitra Chatterjee’s films. So today when we got news of his death, I skipped lunch and came here with my daughter. The feeling is yet to sink in that he is no more…. When I told my wife that I was stepping out, to my surprise my daughter said she would accompany me. Soumen Singha Ray, 62 I used to meet him almost every other day for adda and it always amazed me that he never had any airs around him. Standing here I remember accompanying him to Assam, where he was conferred with a DLitt by Silchar University. Chatterjee’s body was then taken to Rabindra Sadan Soumen Ghosh, 56, private company employee, came with wife Uma Ghosh, 48, and daughter Adrija Ghosh, 26 One of our favourite pastimes every Sunday is to watch Soumitra Chatterjee films. This is a ritual for nearly as long as we are married. When news reached us that he had passed away, we knew we had to come and pay our last respects to him. Adrija Ghosh Although most of my peers swear by younger actors, Soumitra Chatterjee has always been my go-to man whenever I am down. I adore him in all his films. I asked a shopkeeper to open his shop for flowers. When he heard why I needed the rajanigandhas, he did not charge me anything for it. That is the charisma of Soumitra Chatterjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-236
16-11-2020||Calcutta||Planned approach bears fruit||Intensive patrolling across hotspots, calls to families known to splurge on firecrackers, meetings with representatives of housing complexes and an overwhelming majority deciding to abide by the high court order — a combination of factors resulted in Calcutta witnessing one of the most silent Kali Pujas/Diwalis in several decades. There were a few complaints about bursting of firecrackers, in violation of the blanket ban on fireworks imposed by the high court, late on Saturday and on Sunday evening, but by and large it was a noiseless Kali Puja-Diwali this time. Till 9.30pm on Saturday, only 15 people were arrested for bursting firecrackers and lighting sparklers in Calcutta. By dawn, the figure shot up to 290. Last year, police had arrested 400 people on Kali Puja night for bursting banned firecrackers. There were pre-Puja drives across markets where firecrackers are usually sold in Calcutta. Fireworks on sale were seized. On Saturday night, the police seized 1,054kg of firecrackers from different parts of the city. But that alone didn't make the difference, the police said. “A sizeable number of people wanted to adhere to the high court directive and that made the difference. It would not have been possible for the police to visit houses and seize firecrackers,” said an officer at Lalbazar on Sunday. Ahead of the festival day, officers from respective police stations and the detective department had identified areas that required intense patrolling to enforce the ban on firecrackers. “Representatives of housing complexes were told that if there were any complaints about violation of the court order, the president or the secretary of the residents’ association concerned will be arrested,” said an officer of Kasba police station. Families known to splurge on firecrackers were called and asked to abide by the court’s order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-237
16-11-2020||Calcutta||Air pollution drops up to 60%||The maximum air pollution level this Diwali night dropped by 20 to 60 per cent in various parts of the city compared with the previous Diwali, shows an analysis by the Central Pollution Control Board of the data recorded by various pollution measuring stations. “I am happy with the development and would like to thank police and common people for this improvement,” state pollution control board chairman Kalyan Rudra told Metro on Sunday evening. According to the central board, the city’s air quality index (AQI) was moderate on Diwali. The AQI is an indicator of the overall air pollution level. The central board analysed the AQI data generated hourly by seven automatic air quality monitoring stations across the city on Diwali. The study shows the highest air quality index value from 7pm to midnight on Diwali was 398, recorded by the monitoring station on the Rabindra Bharati University campus on BT Road. It was followed by Fort William (326), Ballygunge (316), Jadavpur (283), Victoria Memorial (277), Rabindra Sarobar (236) and Bidhannagar (192). Last year, the highest hourly AQI had reached 500 – the highest value measurable under the National Air Quality Index and considered severe – at all stations on Diwali evening. However, the AQI index this Diwali, though much better compared with last Diwali, was still nearly 50 per cent worse compared with the evening before, vindicating the pollution-triggering role of fireworks, whatever little was burnt on November 14 evening and night. The average hourly AQI between 7pm and midnight on November 14 was 197, compared with the value during the same period on November 13 (133). The data also suggests that the average AQI was worst at midnight – 289 – increasing consistently from 7pm, when it was 120. No such trend could be seen November 13 evening, which negates the possible involvement of meteorological and other factors. On Diwali night, the state pollution control board received 33 complaints of bursting of firecrackers and Sabuj Mancha, an organisation that works for protection of the environment, received 52. “Thirty of those complaints were from Calcutta. The frequency of complaints increased as the night progressed,” said Naba Dutta, the secretary of Sabuj Mancha. According to the organisation, stray complaints came from areas like Kalighat, Dover Place, Entally, Beleghata, Rabindra Sarobar, Lake Town and Thakurpukur. More frequent complaints came from areas like Kasba, Behala, Rajpur-Sonarpur and Tangra. “However, most of the spots known for violations, like the area around BC Roy Children Hospital and Ramkrishna Mission Seva Pratisthan and major parts of north Calcutta, were quiet,” said a member of Sabuj Mancha. "The high court order pushed the administration into action and also people at large cooperated, perhaps because of the Covid pandemic,” said Biswajit Mukherjee, a retired chief law officer of the state board. According to a report of the state pollution control board, the level of the toxic PM2.5 pollutant, which can reach the deepest crevices of the lungs and trigger a range of respiratory diseases, dropped at least four times this Diwali compared with last year’s. The report says that while the maximum PM2.5 value recorded last year was 768.38 micrograms per cubic metre, it was 185.75 microgram this year. The national limit is 60 microgram.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-237
16-11-2020||Calcutta||Producer recalls the perfectionist in Soumitra||A perfectionist at work. The first to come and last to leave at a celebration. Film producer Firdausul Hasan recollects his association with the multiple facets of Soumitra Chatterjee. Hasan, who has worked with Chattopadhyay in two films, is also the president of the Film Federation of India. Like millions of other film enthusiasts, I have also grown up admiring actor Soumitra Chatterjee. My first film, Roopkatha Noy, with the stalwart as the lead, was my tribute to the legend. It was my first film as a producer and I remember that initially, Soumitra-babu had said that no matter what, he would shoot only for four hours each day and we must strictly abide by his schedule. However, a few days into the shoot, the legend started staying back whenever he was not happy with his own shot or even when he realised that a few extra hours would help to wrap up a particular scene, despite me requesting him to return home for rest since the scheduled four hours were over. Such was the human and the film loving perfectionist in him! As a newcomer and a producer, my respect for him deepened. Working with him and watching him work later in my National Award winning production ‘Mayurakshi’ has taught me numerous things about cinema, about discipline and professionalism. I think he sensed my passion for films and that is when our relationship grew. I usually have an Id get together every year. I remember while discussing other work dates, Soumitra-babu used to take out his little diary where he noted important things and say: “Hasan, tomar Id er adda ta ebochor kobe? Likhe rakhi...” The legend was there to grace my get together every year, he used to be the first person to arrive and the last to leave. So many things small and big are now coming to my mind about him. I shall remain grateful to destiny that as a producer and as someone who does films only because he loves films, I got the opportunity to get to know the legend. Needless to say, films will never be the same again...it is a void which will never be filled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-237
16-11-2020||Calcutta|| ‘Fight, Koni, fight’ endures||Every day around 5.30am Khid-da would be at Rabindra Sarobar watching how young swimmers were being trained. Veteran coach Anil Dasgupta would stand on the banks and rotate his hands vigorously in the air to teach learners how to negotiate the waters and surge ahead. Khid-da would watch Dasgupta intently. Soumitra Chatterjee —Khid-da in Koni — started his morning rounds around the south Calcutta water body soon after he was approached to play the role of a swimming coach in the film. “We were amazed and awestruck by his dedication,” recounted Sriparna Banerjee, who played the title role in the 1984 film. Sriparna is now the teacher-in-charge of the nursery section of South Point School. Koni went on to win a national film award and Khid-da’s motivational chant — “Fight, Koni, fight” — became sort of a war cry for generations. Soumitra had said on several occasions how he would chant this phrase to lift his “ageing spirit”. Directed by Saroj Dey, Koni revolves around the story of a coach and his trainee, Koni, who fights all odds to make it to the victory stand. Khid-da, who teaches swimming to underprivileged kids, picks Koni from a slum and grooms her to be part of the state team to compete at the national championship. Sriparna recalled a scene at a swimming pool in Hedua, where Koni tries to run away from practice and Khid-da wants her to carry on for some more time. “Soumitra-babu ran down and jumped over a row of railings sporting a dhoti and threw a stick to stop Koni from leaving the waters. The entire unit was amazed at his level of fitness,” said Sriprana, by then a national record holder for swimming. The bonding between Koni and her Khid-da started with Soumitra turning up at Sriparna’s house for the screen test of the film. “Soumitra-babu drove down in his white Ambassador from Lake Temple Road to my house on Hindustan Road. It was my first introduction to him and I still can't get over that someone like him would drive down to my house,” Sriparna said. “I then practised at Indian Life Saving Society. We sat down for his interpretation of the storyline and the role of Khid-da.” Over the next few years, the film unit would travel to several locations in Calcutta and to Chennai and the bonding between the coach and the disciple would grow stronger. "At times when we would travel by car from one location to another and get caught in a traffic signal, he would suddenly start singing aloud or recite poems," reminisced Sriparna, who represented Bengal in several inter-state swimming competitions. “Over the years every time we would meet, Soumitra-babu would break into a warm smile. ‘Ki rey kemon aachsih (Hey how are you?),’ he would ask. He would enquire about my family,” Sriparna said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-237
16-11-2020||Calcutta||Didi and Left leaders at Soumitra’s cremation||The last journey of Soumitra Chatterjee to the Keoratola crematorium threw up some rare frames in which chief minister Mamata Banerjee was seen along with a clutch of Left leaders, including Left Front chairman Biman Bose. The presence of the bitter rivals at the funeral of the Bengal’s cultural icon shows that he transcended political divides. The fact that Soumitra’s stature and the significance of his legacy to Bengalis — despite his unwavering belief in Marxism — were more important became clear through Sunday as leaders from all hues mourned his death. The chief minister, who took charge of the proceedings shortly after Soumitra’s death was declared, was among the first to reach the south Calcutta hospital where the veteran actor breathed his last. “‘Feluda’ is no more. ‘Apu’ said goodbye. Farewell, Soumitra (Da) Chatterjee. He has been a legend in his lifetime. International, Indian and Bengali cinema has lost a giant. We will miss him dearly. The film world in Bengal has been orphaned,” Mamata, who was the first to mourn his death, tweeted. “Best known for his films with Satyajit Ray, Soumitra Da was conferred with Legion of Honor, Dadasaheb Phalke Award, Banga Bibhushan, Padma Bhushan & several National Awards. A great loss. Saddened. Condolences to his family, the film fraternity & his admirers across the world,” she added. Sources in the Trinamul Congress said Mamata stayed firmly by the side of Soumitra’s family throughout his 40-day stay in the hospital and took command of the last rites with full state honours as soon as the death was announced. The chief minister, a source said, made it clear that she was not going to stay aloof on such an occasion simply because of differences in political ideology. She also instructed information and cultural affairs department officials to ensure the best possible farewell — albeit without compromising on the pandemic protocol — to the thespian. “The message was clear that all were  welcome to pay their last respects to Soumitrada,” said a source. A CPM central committee member said it was decided at Alimuddin Street that the party would be part of the final journey, as Chatterjee was a “ghawreyr chheley”. “It was decided that we won’t stoop to any tug-of-war over Soumitrada’s legacy and be civil with the ruling dispensation through it all,” he said. So, along with Mamata, Left Front chairman Bose, CPM state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra and Left legislature party leader Sujan Chakraborty took part in the 3.5km funeral procession from Rabindra Sadan to the Keoratala crematorium. The Left leaders stayed on till the cremation was over and were seen interacting with Poulami, the actor’s daughter. Throughout Sunday, Mamata was seen talking to Poulami several times and the danseuse publicly thanked the chief minister and her government for their gesture. “I must take this opportunity to express how grateful I am to Didi and the Bengal government. They have taken such great care of my father, with so much love and tremendous respect… our entire family will forever remember,” said the daughter. “He got more than his due… like his own family, they stood by us,” she added. The Trinamul chief, sources said, personally monitored Soumitra’s medical matters and was regularly in touch with Poulami and the doctors treating the actor. “With Soumitrada, we lost today a global icon, a giant of world cinema, a polymath… who also participated in people’s movements as a humanist,” said Mamata. “It is a day of immense sadness and pain…. But he will remain immortal in the heart of Bengal,” she added. Later in the day, former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee condoled the demise. “The death of Soumitra Chatterjee is a deep tragedy. Bengali cinema will forever be indebted to him. I extend my co­ndolences to his family,” wrote Bhattacharjee, known for his proximity to Chatterjee. The actor was among a handful in the civil society who did not switch sides in the post-Nandigram days and reaffirmed his commitment to the Bhattacharjee-led government then. CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury expressed “deep grief” at the loss. “His creativity fleshed out the nuances of complex characters that he depicted on screen, giving them a sense of immortality. Deepest condolences to his family & millions of admirers,” he tweeted. Prime Minister Narendra Modi also condoled the death of Chatterjee. “Shri Soumitra Chatterjee’s death is a colossal loss to the world of cinema, cultural life of West Bengal and India. Through his works, he came to embody Bengali sensibilities, emotions and ethos. Anguished by his demise. Condolences to his family and admirers. Om Shanti,” he tweeted in Bengali, Hindi and English.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-237
16-11-2020||Calcutta||Apu denied job, so was Pulu||When Apu of Apur Sansar applies for the job of a schoolteacher in his first hunt for employment in the city, he is rejected for being overqualified. Just about two years before the release of the film in 1959, a young Soumitra, fresh from the portals of Calcutta University, had applied for the job of a schoolteacher at Beniapukur Vidyapith. He met with rejection almost on identical grounds. The founder headmaster of the school, Manindra Kumar Ghosh, had realised that a school was not the stage that would match the applicant’s calibre. Soumitra Chatterjee needed a bigger stage. Tagore scholar and Manindra Kumar’s son Nityapriya Ghosh, who spent countless hours over endless cups of infusion on College Street with Soumitra, shared memories of his time with “dear Pulu”. “Pulu did not complete MA and had to look for a job. He had applied for the job of a teacher at a school whose founding headmaster was my father Manindra Kumar Ghosh.  Father realised during the interview that Soumitra, given his caliber and versatility, could hardly keep himself confined to a school. He deserved a bigger stage and exactly that is what happened,” Nityapriya told The Telegraph. The Tagore scholar, along with Soumitra, was part of a group at Indian Coffee House on College Street that called itself the “Last Matric”. They called themselves so because they were the last batch to write the Matric examination in 1951. It was replaced the next year by the school final examination. Soumitra was a regular at the adda on Sundays. What did they discuss? “Although we used to meet to pull a prank on each other, at times Soumitra and Nimalya Acharya would discuss about what was going on in the film fraternity, which had been split into two camps – one in awe of Satyajit Ray and the other Mrinal Sen,” recounted Nityapriya, younger brother of poet Sankha Ghosh. “Pulu was thin like me. I remember one day he advised me — take rice and catch a sleep in the afternoon if you want to become fat.” The group met regularly for two years from 1967, a period when Soumitra was at the peak of his career. He always puffed Gold Flake with the infusion. At the Coffee House, people would stare at the star but never did they descend on the table occupied by the “Last Matric” — something unconceivable now. Soumitra’s life did not begin and end with cinema. He remained active in theatre, co-edited a literary journal for 18 years (Ekkhon, 1961-1979, with Nirmalya Acharya), authored a dozen books of poetry and also produced paintings. “But contrary to popular perception, we never discussed literature, theatre, politics. We went there to relax. The lone aberration was discussions on what were churning in Ray’s camp and Sen’s camp. One day I heard Nirmalya telling him (Soumitra) about Bhuvan Shome, a 1969 film by Mrinal Sen,” said the former student of the erstwhile Presidency College. Did he ever discuss films with Soumitra? “Hardly. But I had written the story on Teen Bhubaner Pare in English, as told by director Asutosh Bandopadhyay, so Tanuja could understand it,” said Nityapriya, a former secretary of Autumn Annual, a yearly magazine published by the Presidency Alumni Association. The story of Teen Bhubaner Pare was inspired by a novel by Samaresh Basu. The film, starring Soumitra and Tanuja, was released in 1969. How would he remember his friend he had met at Calcutta University while pursuing MA in 1955? “I am going to remember him as one je khub jomiye adda dite parto,” said Nityapriya. Soumitra had enrolled for MA in Bengali and Nityapriya MA in English.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-237
16-11-2020||Calcutta||At 85, Abol Tabol from memory||A recitation of Sukumar Ray’s Abol Tabol for a four-episode animation series was Soumitra Chatterjee’s last professional assignment. For the project, the thespian re-read the entire collection of 53 rhymes over and over again, till a point where he could recite every line without seeing the book, said his collaborators. Chattopadhyay would also insist on retakes even if he had the slightest hesitation about a line, or even a punctuation. “He used to come to the studio, have a cup of tea, take puffs from his inhaler and ready he was,” said Rajib Mukherjee, the owner of the studio in Golf Green where the series was shot over two days in the third week of September. Since the past four-five years, a bulk of Chattopadhyay’s audio-recordings were done at the studio, very close to his home. “We had a meeting with him on the project in the middle of September. He readily agreed to recite the poems,” said restaurateur and communications consultant Shiladitya Chaudhury, who has directed the series for his YouTube channel. The series has been divided into four episodes. The first episode was released on Saturday, to celebrate Children’s Day. By Sunday afternoon, it had been viewed close to 3,000 times. The first episode sees Chattopadhyay clad in a red kurta, seated on a chair and reading from the book. A table clock and some books on a table make up the props. “He must have read Abol Tabol at least 50 times for the project. By the time of the first recording, he could tell every line without looking at the book. His erudition and his grasp of language are there for everyone to see. But at 85, his detailed approach to and voracious appetite for work were unmatched,” said Chaudhury, who did the music of a Bengali film a few years ago before his new directorial venture. Mukherjee, the sound recordist, echoed Chaudhury. “He would shoot and then see it on the monitor. He would insist on a retake even if he had a niggle about a small pause in between two lines,” said Mukherjee. Chattopadhyay had started re-reading letters of Rabindranath Tagore and wanted to record the readings at his studio, said Mukherjee. Chaudhury, who had known Chattopadhyay for decades, recalled the many “adda sessions” in the run-up to the project. Different facets of Chattopadhyay — like the foodie and wildlife enthusiast in him — came out in the sessions, he said. One of the days, Chaudhuri had got some grilled fish packed for him. “He talked of his love for continental food, of times spent at Sky Room when Calcutta was famous for its nightlife and merriment,” said Chaudhury. Chaudhury and Chattopadhyay also bonded over a common passion — forests and wildlife. Chattopadhyay had written a letter in Bengali to Chaudhury after seeing some of the latter’s wildlife photography. “I have loved forests since I was a kid. But such is the demand of life that forest trips have stopped happening now…. Man is not the sole owner of this planet. If he does not respect the animal kingdom… man will one day be exiled from this world,” reads the letter, dated September 27, little over a week before he was hospitalised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-237
16-11-2020||Calcutta||Bengal’s intellectual hero with Tagorean sensibilities||Apur Sansar (The World of Apu, 1959), the much-awaited last part of Satyajit Ray’s trilogy, opens with a non-graduate Apu (Soumitra Chatterjee) receiving a certificate from his City College professor. A close-up of the certificate cuts to their conversation on his inability to complete a formal education and the professor’s insistence on the continuation and honing of Apu’s literary skills as his paternalistic voice drowns in a cacophony of Left slogans making their way in from the turbulent Calcutta streets, situating the film in the present, marking it different from the other two in the trilogy as they existed in other times. This makes the professor visibly annoyed while Apu’s face betrays signs of a confused discomfort. The actor, throughout his life, will retain his faith in that politics. Soumitra Chatterjee, the newcomer, an amateur theatre actor of that time, himself did his literature degree from City College. It might well be the reason why the cinematic Apu migrates to that institution unlike his literary avatar in Bibhutibhushan Bandyopadhyay’s novel who went to Ripon College as the Ripon College library, as a veritable gold mine full of Nietzsche, Emerson and Turgenev, played an important part in the development of Apu’s literary mindscape. On the other hand, Ray’s Künstlerroman, since its very beginning, follows the trajectory of its new-found hero, whom film historian Sharmistha Gooptu would later address as apparently “non-heroic” and “Tagorean”. Ray’s Apu does not offer much indication of his literary influences except for what the actor reveals through his Tagorean self. Perhaps, as Soumitra Chatterjee himself mentioned, the audience of his time wanted “other kinds of young men” and “other kinds of romances”; the ‘other’ as opposed to the image of Uttam Kumar, the biggest matinee idol. Bengali film industry, with its consistent engagement with Bengali literary traditions in order to construct its region-nation by dissociating itself from the Bombay popular that did not receive aesthetic approval from the Bengali bhadralok, welcomed Chatterjee as its intellectual hero with Tagorean sensibilities. In return, Chatterjee retained his intellectual traits throughout his prolonged career through his support for Left politics, co-editing (with Nirmalya Acharya) of such literary magazines as Ekkhon, recitation, publication of poems and continuation of a thespian life with translation-adaptation of several international dramatic texts. Despite his strong association with the Bengali popular for decades, Chatterjee was able to remain the quintessential Bengali intellectual associated with the Ray canon, with the latter making his entry into the transnational festival circuit. Thus Chatterjee contributed in the perpetuation of the problematic art/popular binary in the Bengali public sphere, with, like many other cine-industrial locations, the art being associated with cultural taste and privilege. With Apur Sansar as debut, Chatterjee went on to have an illustrious career that marked several breaks and turns. Especially in the long 1960s, he reshaped his Tagorean self as the unemployed youth and bhadralok loafer on screen in such remarkable pop-cultural dalliances as Teen Bhubaner Pare (Ashutosh Bandyopadhyay, 1969). The ethos demanded crossing of borders and binaries, the movement of the youth in crisis into other domains as in Aranyer Din Ratri (Days and Nights in the Forest, Satyajit Ray, 1970), where the cursed and forever-unfinished memory game will surely raise problematic names as Mao Tse-tung. Violence, street-politics, unbridled sexuality, the liberated new woman, the educated bekar and the loafer figure found ways of expression through Chatterjee and a few other actors of the time, with Uttam Kumar restructuring himself as the forever misunderstood elder brother of yesteryear who has now fallen from grace, the Turgenev-like father who is unable to understand his Nihilist sons but has all the compassion in the world for them. After Uttam Kumar’s untimely death, Chatterjee continued with the responsibilities of a declining industry and, most notably, a declining class who can no longer exert its privilege in the changing times. His unfaltering political beliefs remained with him till his final days while his state experienced several upheavals the consequences of which are yet to be decided. Notwithstanding the changes, Soumitra Chatterjee, understandably, remained what he was. His image most notably associated with the early films of Ray, the actor remained Ray’s most trusted lieutenants in the latter’s dealings with modernity and the novel form. From his tram-rides, nocturnal escapades and a subtle awakening of sexuality in Apur Sansar to the storming into the 19th century interiority in Charulata (The Lonely Wife, Satyajit Ray, 1964), Chatterjee remained immersed into the novelistic in Ray canon. Perhaps his own cinematic ideas were shaped through these experiences as his disapproving of Ritwik Ghatak and his apparent use of melodrama became well-known through his interviews. There is one image of this specific phase of his career that stays with me as remembered film. The rise and fall of Charulata (Madhabi Mukherjee) on the swing in a garden where Amal (Soumitra Chatterjee) rests and reminisces, as their exchange of ideas leads invariably to the literary. With a glimmering of light and shades on Charulata and the ephemeral experience of the unattainable, the hero decidedly migrates to the literary experience around which the cinematic revolves. This is what will gradually fade into oblivion, taking the actor along with it. Parichay Patra is a film critic who teaches at the Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-237
16-11-2020||Calcutta||Disciplined marchers pay fitting tribute to Soumitra Chatterjee||Soumitra Chatterjee, Bengal’s beloved actor with a global reputation who straddled the worlds of art house and popular films, theatre, recitation and literature, died at the Belle Vue Clinic here at 12.15pm on Sunday. He was 85. The doyen of Bengali cinema, who had fought for life at the hospital for 40 days, received a king’s farewell with thousands joining his cortege, where artistes sang Rabindra Sangeet and sworn political enemies united in mourning. If the size of the funeral procession was unusual for pandemic-hit times, the discipline and solemnity displayed by the marchers was fitting homage for a man who had all his life chosen sobriety and humility over the trappings of celebrity. Tributes poured in from fellow actors, with Nandita Das remembering “an incredibly kind, funny and loving person” and Shabana Azmi highlighting Chatterjee’s serenity. Such acclaim owed mainly to Chatterjee’s being virtually the face of Satyajit Ray’s films — he acted in 14 of them — but he also delivered brilliant performances for other directors, from Mrinal Sen’s Akash Kusum to Tapan Sinha’s Jhinder Bondi to Ajoy Kar’s Saat Paake Bandha. Sharmila Tagore, who had debuted with Chatterjee in Ray’s Apur Sansar in 1959, said Chatterjee’s versatility made him unique. “He was not only an actor. He worked in the theatre, he used to paint and recite poems. He was such a wonderful person with a child’s curiosity and charm. He was so learned. There was so much to learn from him. I’m very sad today,” she said. Chatterjee, admitted to the hospital on October 6 after a positive Covid test, had later tested negative but “died of non-responsive Covid-related encephalopathy”, a doctor who had treated him said. The cortege began from Rabindra Sadan, where his body had lain for nearly two hours for public viewing, at 5.30pm and ended around 6.45pm at the Keoratala crematorium where Chatterjee received a gun salute. Theatre workers read out poems written by the actor. Many ordinary fans held up large portraits of Chatterjee; some carried lighted candles. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee and CPM state secretary Biman Bose joined the procession, prompting many old-timers to wonder if any death had ever before brought Bengal politics’ two warring sides together. Thousands lined up along Harish Mukherjee Road, Kalidas Patitundi Lane, Kalighat Police Station Road, Sadananda Road and Rashbehari Avenue for a last glimpse. A mourner from the procession said there had been no jostling to get near the hearse among the marchers or bystanders who allowed the actor the dignity in death that he had exemplified in life. During the gun salute at the crematorium, everyone stood quietly at a respectful distance except for the actor’s daughter Poulami who stood close to the body, laid on a platform, and wiped her tears as the bugle played the Last Post. Poulami said she had lost not just her father but her best friend. “He will live among us forever. We will celebrate his life. I’m telling everyone not to feel sad. We shall consider his life an ideal one and celebrate it,” she had earlier told reporters, voice choking. Mamata listed some of the honours Chatterjee had won. “Best known for his films with Satyajit Ray, Soumitra Da was conferred with Legion of Honour, Dadasaheb Phalke Award, Banga Bibhushan, Padma Bhushan & several National Awards,” she tweeted. She then struck a more intimate note: “Feluda is no more. ‘Apu’ said goodbye. Farewell, Soumitra (Da) Chatterjee. He has been a legend in his lifetime. International, Indian and Bengali cinema has lost a giant. We will miss him dearly. The film world in Bengal has been orphaned.” “Orphaned” is how many in Bengal’s film industry described themselves in a testimony to Chatterjee’s image as a loving guardian to his juniors, many of whom addressed him as kaku, jethu or dadu. Chatterjee wrote and recited poems, painted, translated literary works, directed plays and acted in the theatre. For years, he also edited a little magazine, Ekkhon. After his body was released from the hospital at 2pm, it was first taken to his home at Golf Green, where neighbours, relatives and close friends had come to pay their respects. The hearse left around 3pm for Technicians’ Studio in Tollygunge, Chatterjee’s workplace for decades, where industry members had turned out in numbers. Among them were filmmaker Aparna Sen and actors Abir Chatterjee, Roopa Ganguly and Ranjit Mullick. The crowd was the largest at the next stop, Rabindra Sadan, where Mamata laid a wreath at Chatterjee’s feet before the final journey to Keoratala. Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted: “Shri Soumitra Chatterjee’s death is a colossal loss to the world of cinema, cultural life of West Bengal and India. Through his works, he came to embody Bengali sensibilities, emotions and ethos. Anguished by his demise. Condolences to his family and admirers. Om Shanti.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-237
16-11-2020||Business||Diesel sales fall 5 per cent in November ||India's diesel sales fell 5 per cent in the first half of November when compared to the previous year, industry data showed on Monday, after rising for the first time in eight months in October. Sale of diesel, the most used fuel in the country, was, however, 7 per cent higher month-on-month. Between November 1 and 15, diesel consumption was 2.86 million tonnes, down from 3.01 million tonnes in the same period a year back. It was, however, higher than the 2.65 million tonnes demand during the first half of October. Petrol sales rose marginally to 1.03 million tonnes from 1.02 million tonnes, while cooking gas (LPG) sales for the first time this year fell by 2 per cent to 1.07 million tonnes. Aviation turbine fuel (ATF) sales fell 53 per cent year-on-year to 155,000 tonnes but were 1.3 per cent higher month-on-month. The total demand for petroleum products rose 2.5 per cent in October to reach 17.77 million tonnes. While petrol had reached pre-COVID levels in September itself, diesel consumption had returned to normal last month. Diesel demand spurted 7.4 per cent year-on-year to 6.5 million tonnes while petrol sales were up 4.5 per cent at 2.54 million tonnes. The growth in diesel consumption was the highest in a year. Industry sources said month-on-month diesel sales has risen in November, which is a good sign. Fuel demand had slumped by 49 per cent in April after a nationwide lockdown, imposed to curb the spread of coronavirus, shut industries and took most vehicles off-road. The 69-day nationwide lockdown was followed by local and state-level restrictions. Restrictions have eased only slowly and in phases, and localised restrictions in containment zones remain. The onset of the festive season has fuelled a rise in consumption but public transport is not back to normal levels yet as schools and educational institutions continue to remain shut in most parts of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-234
16-11-2020||Business||In Samvat 2077, usher in prosperity by sticking to the popular large cap stocks or funds||The premier equity indices have scaled new highs. The trend has already kindled fresh allocations, driven by expectations of a more formidable rally. Investors, enthused by what many perceive are green shoots in the economy, are looking forward to more. A regime change in the world’s most powerful nation, the crawl-back of key indicators to pre-Covid levels, and the possibility of finding a placebo for the disease have compounded the market’s collective anticipation. A scenario like, nevertheless, calls for caution. Today, we will not only introspect but also ascertain whether we need to apply the brakes as well. First up, however, is a bitter pill —the rally is a bit too one-sided. The large caps seem to have cornered all the attention, leaving limited room for fresh exposure to mid-caps. The former are being chased all the time, thanks to bulge-bracket investors who have displayed little patience for the also-rans. The mid-caps, many of which possess great potential, have not participated in the current upside. What should investors do in these circumstances? Which strategy would fetch them decent risk-adjusted returns? Is there scope for allocating resources in a different manner? Vision is all The right place to begin, of course, is one’s own portfolio. Imagine you are an investor who holds a basket of mid-caps. Chances are you feel a bit flustered at the moment, given the fact that the uptrend has largely bypassed you. If you are convinced that your stocks would indeed live up to their promise, do retain them. Else, a serious review in favour of select large-caps would be necessary. Initiation of such a process must be backed by a powerful yet individualistic vision — your very own conviction that Stock X would still deliver superlative performance, its market capitalisation be damned. Now, in case such a vision is missing, the alternative needs to be found by way of another stock. Therefore, Stock Y has to be identified, and purchase transactions would have to be executed over a period of time. Whether Stock Y should be large-cap is a decision worth your time. This takes us back to the original issue — the prevalence of large-caps on marketmen’s radar. If you wish to fall in line, consider this: Tailwinds Tailwinds are everything; they come together to fuel stock prices and take them to greater highs. This is reflected adequately in the indices, especially the two that are tracked by all — Nifty and Sensex. At 12780 points, the 50-share Nifty is the most obvious choice for those who want a basket of super large-caps. An investor can approach it in two ways. One, he can do a bit of stock-picking on his own. Here, he need not abide by the weightages assigned to Nifty constituents. The idea is to outperform the index. Two, he can acquire an index fund based on Nifty. This is done with the purpose of mirroring the returns delivered by the index. There is no question of outperformance. Index funds based on Nifty have a serious advantage: they are an inexpensive way of owning the most eminent stocks. Index funds, especially the exchange traded ones, have emerged globally as a convenient way of holding securities. Large-caps today The large-cap story is being loudly chased by the investment fraternity. A number of stocks that figure in this bracket are near their peaks, while others are believed to be getting closer. Whether the saga would continue unabated is not for us to speculate on. However, getting a fair idea of the actual index statistics is recommended. Once again, I refer to the Nifty. Its three leading contributors are financial services, IT and oil & gas. Together, they account for about 70 per cent of its aggregate weightage. Pharmaceuticals, the current rage, is a single-digit contributor at 3.75 per cent. This is a lop-sided concoction. The powerful counter argument is that the Nifty stocks that are not part of the bulge bracket have enough potential to grow in stature. Any added thrust from them would make the index an even more convincing proxy for the entire market. A similar story is being played on the BSE front, thanks to the antics of the BSE Sensex. The writer is director of Wishlist Capital Advisors||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-234
16-11-2020||Business||Tata Steel growth strategy built around a trio of themes||Focusing on deleveraging the balance sheet, deploying capital for profitable and high growth projects and restructuring Indian and European operations would be some of the key initiatives Tata Steel will work on, Koushik Chatterjee, executive director and chief financial officer of the company, tells in an interview to The Telegraph. Tata Steel has announced a slew of strategic initiatives for the Indian and European business. How would the company look like two years down the line? Very different I think. The India reorganisation into clusters will be completed — which means we will have a much more synergistic portfolio and customer approach on our downstream businesses. The synergy implementation of the consolidation, including Tata Steel BSL, would have been completed and we would have sorted our strategy on the European portfolio. Which means our balance sheet would be much more efficient, de-levered and a strong free cash flow business ready for the next phase of profitable growth. The Netherlands operations were always thought to be cost efficient and competitive, on a par with other similarly situated steel units in Europe. Why is Tata Steel proposing to sell off the business while keeping the perennially loss making UK operation? Our strategy has a few themes on which we are working. First, to find a long-term structural solution to our European portfolio, second to deleverage the balance sheet to the target levels and third, focus and deploy capital for profitable growth in the Indian market. Hence, all our strategic actions that you see are oriented around these themes. How much cash/working capital support will be required to keep Tata Steel Europe a going concern this year? So far we have not given any direct support to Europe during the year. The management has found several self help measures to sustain the business. There has also been support from the Netherlands and the UK governments to businesses impacted by the pandemic which has been availed by Tata Steel Europe. The analyst presentation says that the business will pivot around cash. Does it mean the company’s priority would be to conserve cash rather than expansion or fresh acquisition? Yes as part of our corporate strategy we have put  focus on generating free cash flows and balance sheet management as a very high priority. Hence, the capital allocation framework, especially post the outbreak of the pandemic, has been tightened significantly and de-leveraging is a key theme as we have said we will de-lever the balance sheet by about $1 billion per annum for the next few years. Having said that, we also have very important and attractive growth projects, especially the expansion of Kalinganagar, and we are prioritising capex within that project and identifying facilities that will help us in margin expansion. For example, the pellet plant which has very significant cost synergies and the cold rolling mill complex that will help enrich the product mix and give better realisations. These projects are very important and will get the allocation for completion as India growth is a priority and our capital allocation will reflect that in the future. The company reduced net debt by a billion dollar in the first half. What is the ideal debt-to-equity ratio Tata Steel will be comfortable with and when can it be achieved? For the moment, we will continue to maintain the deleveraging plan and review what would be the sustainable state in the future. A net debt to EBIDTA is a more appropriate metric and a range around 3.25x would be a good steady state in the near term. The company posted a strong operating number for the Indian business. Is it sustainable during this quarter and the next? There are a few reasons for the good performance this quarter in India and among them are many internal enablers and a few external drivers. Primary among them is the ability to drive volumes to record levels during the quarter and our focus on operating costs and mix improvement. The last two factors are clearly ongoing and we will continue to drive value from them in the future.  The improved market prices because of higher global steel prices and the benefit of that on our mix helped in improving the margins.  Without giving any guidance, I can see the current market conditions remaining quite strong and we hope to continue on our internal efforts to sustain the overall level of performance. Tata Steel BSL posted impressive numbers and the focus is on cash flow and deleveraging. Is the merger with Tata Steel off the table? No the process is with the NCLT and we will go through the due process for the merger. There are significant synergies that can be further realised once we merge as we will have the third hub within Tata Steel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-234
16-11-2020||Business||Proposal for tax-free plan for pension for all categories||Pension fund regulator PFRDA will propose to the government to make employers’ contribution of 14 per cent under NPS tax free for all categories of subscribers in the next budget, chairman Supratim Bandyopadhyay said. Employers’ contribution of 14 per cent in pension under the National Pension System (NPS) scheme for the central government employees was made tax-free from April 1, 2019. “We may propose things like 14 per cent contribution by employers to be made tax free to all. At present, it is given only to the central government employers. So we are requesting the government to give it to all the employers, whether it is state governments or other corporate entities, so that subscribers across the board can get this benefit,” Bandyopadhyay said. The PFRDA chairman said states are asking that the 14 per cent tax benefit be given to state government employees also. He said some state governments have written to the authority requesting the same. Besides, the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) will ask the government to extend the benefit of tier-II NPS account as tax-free for all subscribers. Recently, the facility was granted to the central government employees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-234
16-11-2020||Business||Centre plans mines reform before auction||The Centre is planning to come out with the proposed mining reforms in a month or so and the auction of mineral blocks will kickstart two to three months after the amendments take place, coal and mines minister Pralhad Joshi has said. The mines ministry had earlier sought suggestions from the public, mining industry and other stakeholders on the proposed reforms in the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957. “We want to bring these reforms very shortly...In another month or so reforms should come out,” Joshi said. The government, he said, is looking into the feedback it has received on the proposed reforms and stressed that the Centre wishes to auction at least 500 mineral blocks in the coming two to three years. The slew of reform proposals include amending the contentious provisions of 10A(2)(b) and 10A (2)(c) of the MMDR Act, a move that would pave the way for auctioning of around 500 potential leases stuck in legacy issues now. Section 10A(2)(b) deals with leases where reconnaissance permit or prospecting licence were granted while 10A(2)(c) relates to grant of mining leases. Joshi said there is mixed opinion on the acts and stressed that it does not want to go into the details on the same.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-234
16-11-2020||Business||AU Small Bank offers 4-7% rates||Jaipur-based AU Small Finance Bank has worked out a diversification plan to expand in eastern and southern India and step up customer acquisition through a slab-based interest rate structure on savings accounts ranging between 4 per cent and 7 per cent. The expansion will take the network of branches and touch points to around 750 by the first quarter of 2021-22 from 697 at the end of September 2020. The bank began operations in the east through its first branch in Calcutta and plans to add another branch at Bhubaneswar soon. “The first three years after we became a bank from an NBFC, the focus was more on stabilising operations. So, we were not looking to expand in markets where we were not present in the east and south. But we have expanded in Bangalore and more recently in Calcutta. Our immediate plan is to be present in all the state capitals and that should happen by the first quarter of next fiscal,” said Rishi Dhariwal, group head, branch banking, AU Small Finance Bank. “We will have 725-750 touchpoints by the end of the first quarter of next year,” he said. The bank is relying on its relatively high interest rates to shore up customer base in a competitive market. There is currently a slab based interest rate for savings account holders of the bank with a 7 per cent interest rate on incremental balance above Rs 10 lakh. “The peak rate for savings account of our bank is 7 per cent and we are offering monthly interest on savings account, The cost to the bank is slightly higher, but given the segment that we cater to, we are able to manage the incremental cost,” said Dhariwal. With declining interest rates, sustaining high rates on the liability side become a challenge. But Dhariwal said a combination of size of business and the segment of customers allows the bank to maintain a  high interest rate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-234
16-11-2020||Business||Sambhu Nath Mukherjee no more||Sambhu Nath Mukherjee, a prominent name in Calcutta’s advertising agency circle, breathed his last on Wednesday after a prolonged illness. Mukherjee, who was the managing director of Press & Publicity Syndicate Pvt Ltd, was 76. He is survived by his wife and two sons. Born in Calcutta in 1944, he joined the advertising agency that his father Ram Mukherjee founded in 1948, even though he was trained as a lawyer. He took the company to greater heights. During his tenure, PPS expanded operations outside Calcutta to Delhi, Bhubaneswar and Visakhapatnam. All the leading state and central public sector units used to be clients of PPS. The Mukherjees had a strong connection with the then ruling Congress party as Ram Mukherjee was an active member. Sambhu Mukherjee’s elder son, Nilotpal, recalled that his father often visited Pranab Mukherjee’s ancestral home during Durga Puja. Chandra Bhanu Sen, who worked closely with Mukherjee, remembered him as someone who had excellent contacts in the top level of bureaucracy and senior-level management of PSUs. “A charming personality, he had a strong personal rapport with the top bosses of the PSUs,” Sen recalled. Mukherjee, who was a regular at the elite club circuit of the city, became president of Calcutta Club in 2008, having served the committee for 10 years prior to it. Known for his affable nature, Mukherjee never hesitated to help out friends and associates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-234
16-11-2020||Business||Reliance Industries buys Urban Ladder||Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd (RRVL), the retail arm of Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL), has acquired a 96 per cent stake in Urban Ladder for Rs 182.12 crore. The investment represents 96 per cent holding in the equity share capital of the online furniture retailer. “RRVL has acquired equity shares of Urban Ladder Home Decor Solutions Pvt Ltd for a cash consideration of Rs 182.12 crore,’’ RIL said in a late night regulatory filing on Saturday. Urban Ladder was founded by Rajiv Srivatsa and Rajiv Goel in 2012. It had earlier raised over Rs 700 crore from venture capital funds such as Kalaari Capital, Sequoia Capital and SAIF Partners. However, it faced difficulties in raising fresh capital in recent months and the last such exercise was in 2019 where it mobilised Rs 15 crore. Urban Ladder’s valuation has also reportedly come down from a peak of over Rs 1,000 crore. Besides the online space, Urban Ladder has a presence in offline channels and operates a chain of stores in several cities. RRVL is now likely to expand this offline presence. In 2018-19, the audited turnover of Urban Ladder stood at Rs 434 crore and the net profit was Rs 49.41 crore. Analysts said Reliance has acquired the company at a very cheap valuation. The acquisition will enable Reliance Retail to expand its offerings to better compete against not only online giants such as Amazon and Flipkart but also niche players such as Pepperfry and Ikea. This is the second acquisition by Reliance Retail in three months after it bought a majority stake in Netmeds, the Chennai-based online pharmacy, for a cash consideration of around Rs 620 crore. RRVL has so far mobilised Rs 47,265 crore from global investors such as Silver Lake, KKR, General Atlantic, Mubadala, GIC, TPG, Saudi Arabia’s Public Investment Fund (PIF) and ADIA. Over the past few months, Mukesh Ambani has been looking to expand Reliance Retail’s presence across various verticals. While the acquisition of Future group’s retail assets has now run into a rough weather, Reliance Retail has been growing its reach in online grocery, pharmacy and now even in furniture retail. Observers expect fashion to be the next segment where Reliance Retail could make a big splash. "The aforesaid investment will further enable the group’s digital and new commerce initiatives and widen the bouquet of consumer products provided by the group, while enhancing user engagement and experience across its retail offerings,” RIL said. RRVL has a further option to acquire the balance stake, taking its shareholding to 100 per cent of the equity share capital of Urban Ladder. Apart from the Rs 182 crore investment, RRVL has also proposed to make an investment of up to Rs 75 crore inthe company. This investment is expected to be completed by December 2023.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-235
16-11-2020||Business||RCEP pact signed, India on sidelines||Fifteen Asia-Pacific nations, including China, on Sunday signed the world’s biggest trade agreement, the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), sans India, with hopes that it will help recover from the shocks of the Covid-19 pandemic. The RCEP was signed after eight years of negotiations at the conclusion of the annual summit of Southeast Asian leaders and their regional partners, held virtually this year because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The agreement, which covers almost a third of the world economy, will progressively lower tariffs across many areas in the coming years, reported Channel News Asia. After the signing, all countries would have to ratify the RCEP within two years before it becomes effective. India, one of the leading consumer-driven market in the region, pulled out of talks last year, concerned that the elimination of tariffs would open its markets to a flood of imports that could harm local producers. But other nations have said in the past that the door remains open for India’s participation in the RCEP, influenced by China. The RCEP was first proposed in 2012 and loops in 10 Asean economies — Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Brunei, Vietnam, Laos, Myanmar and Cambodia — along with China, Japan, South Korea, New Zealand and Australia. Host country Vietnam’s Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc said the Covid-19 pandemic has harmed global and regional trade and investment flows, including the countries participating in the RCEP talks. Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong said he joins fellow RCEP countries “in hoping that India too, will be able to come on board at some point so that the participation in  the RCEP will fully reflect the emerging patterns of integration and regional cooperation in Asia”. They make up nearly a third of the world’s population and account for 29 per cent of global gross domestic product, he said. Countries that have signed the RCEP agreement can start negotiations with India for joining the pact once New Delhi submits a written request stating its intention for the same, according to a declaration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-235
16-11-2020||Business||Oil price trend key to BPCL selloff||All eyes would be on the bidders of state-owned refiner BPCL where the last date for the submission of expressions of interest is Monday, with the Centre making it clear it would not extend the date any further after pushing the deadline back as many as four times amid disruptions caused by the coronavirus. Analysts, however, are not ruling out surprises: the changes in the US political landscape and positive developments on the Covid-19 vaccine could help to boost future energy prices, which is key to the bidding. The government plans to sell its entire 52.98 per cent stake in BPCL and has extended the deadline four times, with the present one being November 16. “Transaction advisers are in touch with our potential investors, they have not got back to us with a request for an extension,” Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey said. The government has eased the bidding norms by allowing the bidders to submit their EoIs via email with all the requisite documents. Sources said the BPCL disinvestment has received interest from several large global oil and gas companies and a few Indian entities as well. There have been close to 100 enquiries which is a clear signal of investor interest. Analysts said Abu Dhabi National Oil Co (Adnoc) and Exxon Mobil could participate apart from some Indian companies such as Reliance. Reports suggest the world’s largest oil producer Saudi Aramco and Rosneft of Russia may not participate because of soft oil prices and fragile demand conditions. However, with Democrat Jo Biden winning the US presidential elections and the prospects of Pfizer developing a vaccine, the outlook in the energy sector has improved. “Developments such as a change in leadership in the US and positive news related to the Covid-19 vaccine are expected to soon boost global economic recovery. This, in turn, is likely to drive oil demand,” brokerage Motilal Oswal said. The brokerage said the forecast for a rise in oil demand for the next calendar year stands at 6.5 million barrels of oil per day against a projected daily loss of 9.5 million barrels in 2020. Refining margins, which have averaged at $0.3 per barrel in 2020, are also likely to rise with an increase in demand for petroleum products, Motilal Oswal said. The delay has complicated the chances of receiving the divestment proceeds from the sale of the refiner, which is critical to meet the target of Rs 21.1 lakh set by the Centre in the budget for this fiscal. The devastating impact of the coronavirus on the economy has put the strain on the Centre's finances at a time revenues have shrunk, forcing the government department to cut back on spending. After the EoIs, the government will open a data center for the interested bidders to do due diligence of the books of the company and its operations after which financial bids will be called. The bids will have to be evaluated and approved by the cabinet and the transaction will close once the payment is made, sources said. The government has barred PSUs from the bidding. The government has proposed a strategic disinvestment of its entire shareholding in BPCL — comprising 114.91 crore equity shares, or 52.98 per cent of  share capital — along with the transfer of management. BPCL will not sell its 61.65 per cent stake in Numaligarh Refinery to the strategic buyer. The Numaligarh stake will be sold to a state-owned oil and gas company. The Centre has allowed prospective bidders with a minimum net worth of $10 billion. A maximum of four members are permitted in a consortium, with the lead member holding 40 per cent. Other members must have a net worth of $1 billion. The EoI allows changes in the consortium within 45 days, though the lead member cannot be changed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-235
16-11-2020||India||Kapil Sibal's comments have hurt Congress workers' sentiments: Ashok Gehlot||Congress leader Kapil Sibal's comments to the media criticising the leadership after the Bihar elections defeat has "hurt the sentiments" of party workers across the country, senior leader and Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said on Monday. With a few leaders echoing the views expressed by Sibal, Gehlot said in a series of tweets, "There was no need for Mr Kapil Sibal to mentioned (sic) our internal issue in Media, this has hurt the sentiments of party workers across the country." "Congress has seen various crises including (in) 1969, 1977, 1989 and later in the 1996, but every-time we came out stronger due to our ideology, programs, policies and firm belief in party leadership. We have improved with each and every crisis and also formed UPA government in 2004 under the able leadership of Soniaji, we shall overcome this time too," the chief minister said. Sibal, a former union minister, tagged his media interview and tweeted, "We are yet to hear on recent polls... Maybe Congress leadership thinks it should be business as usual." The Congress won 19 out of the 70 seats it contested in Bihar as part of the RJD-led grand alliance. The opposition alliance ended up with 110 seats, while the NDA retained power bagging 125 seats in the 243-member assembly. Sibal was part of a group of 23 senior Congress leaders who had in August written to party chief Sonia Gandhi making suggestions on ways revive the organisation. Countering Sibal, Gehlot said, "There are various reasons for electoral loses. But each time rank and file of the Congress Party has shown undivided and firm belief in the party leadership and that is why we came out of it stronger and united after every crises. Even today, Congress is the only party which can keep this Nation united and take it forward on the path of comprehensive development." Backing Sibal, Congress Rajya Sabha member Vivek Tankha said it is time to act now, else it will be too late. He also said that for democracy to survive, the Congress has to survive. Tankha was also a part of the 23 leaders who had sought overhaul in the party. "Kapil ji is an iconic lawyer and hard core congress personality. Together and individually we have fought countless battles and continue to fight ag BJP shenanigans. For our democracy to survive Congress has to survive. Time to act is now or tomorrow may be too late," Tankha tweeted while tagging Sibal's interview. After the party's poor show in Bihar polls, Karti Chidambaram also pitched for introspection and asked for an internal discussion on the losses. Karti, son of former union minister P Chidambaram, in a tweet said: "It's time we introspect, ideate, consult & act @INCIndia." The Lok Sabha MP from Sivaganga in Tamil Nadu made the cryptic comment while tagging a tweet by Sibal on his interview. Congress leader Sanjay Nirupam demanded that party leaders who were responsible for taking decisions in Bihar polls should be held accountable for the dismal show, but defended Rahul Gandhi. Rahul Gandhi only went to campaign for the party but was not responsible for the decisions taken in Bihar, Nirupam added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-556
16-11-2020||India||Chirag hopes Nitish continues to remain 'NDA's CM'||LJP president Chirag Paswan Monday congratulated Nitish Kumar on becoming the Bihar chief minister once again, saying, tongue-in-cheek, that he hopes the JD(U) leader will "continue to remain the NDA's CM". In an apparent swipe at Kumar becoming the chief minister despite having way too less MLAs than the BJP, he said, "I congratulate you on becoming the chief minister and the BJP for making you one". "Congratulations to respected @NitishKumar ji for becoming the chief minister once again. Hope the government will complete its term and you will continue to be the NDA's chief minister," Paswan, a bitter critic of Kumar, said in a series of tweets in Hindi. Paswan, during the acrimony-filled campaign for the Bihar assembly polls, had claimed Kumar might ditch the BJP after the results were out, join the RJD-led Grand Alliance, and make yet another attempt at posing a challenge to the NDA in the 2024 general elections. Paswan, who had chosen to plough a lonely furrow, had said the LJP was and will remain loyal to the BJP, which was staring at the spectre of yet another "paltimaar" (volte- face) by the JD(U) president. In another tweet on Monday, the LJP chief termed the NDA's victory in the state polls "a big win for Prime Minister Narendra Modi", and took a swipe at Kumar, saying "There are some people who have been in power for 15 years but still have to take help of three friends (to stay there)". The NDA in Bihar includes the JD(U), BJP, Hindustani Awam Morcha of former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi and Vikassheel Insan Party (VIP) of backward class leader Mukesh Sahni.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-556
16-11-2020||India||Nitish Kumar sworn in as Bihar Chief Minister in presence of Shah, Nadda||Nitish Kumar was on Monday sworn in as the Chief Minister of Bihar for the seventh time in two decades, in presence of top leaders of the NDA including Union Home minister Amit Shah and BJP national president Jagat Prakash Nadda. Kumar, who heads the JD(U), was administered the oath of office at Raj Bhavan by Governor Phagu Chauhan, a day after he staked claim for the formation of a new government in the state, armed with unanimous support of all legislators of the NDA despite his party's plummeted tally. The 69-year-old, who has had a continuous run since November, 2005, except for the period in 2014-15 when Jitan Ram Manjhi kept the chair warm for him, is on course to becoming the longest serving Chief Minister of the state, surpassing the record of Shrikrishna Singh who held the top post since before Independence till his death in 1961. Kumar was first sworn in as CM in 2000, for a term that lasted barely a week as he failed to muster a majority and returned as a minister at the Centre in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government. Five years later, he returned with the JD(U)-BJP alliance winning a majority and upon completion of his tenure returned in 2010 when the coalition won a landslide victory in the assembly polls. He stepped down in May, 2014, owning moral responsibility for the JD(U)s debacle in Lok Sabha polls, only to return in February, 2015 when a rebellious Manjhi was elbowed out. In November, 2015, the assembly polls were fought and won by the Grand Alliance which then comprised JD(U), Lalu Prasads RJD and Congress with Kumar back as the Chief Minister. He, however, abruptly exited the alliance in July, 2017, citing irreconcilable differences with the RJD and resigned as Chief Minister only to return in less than 24 hours armed with the support of the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-556
16-11-2020||India||Indian students flocking in numbers to pursue education in US, says study||United States is quickly emerging as the most preferred destination to pursue education among Indian students with nearly two lakh of them choosing the country in the 2019-20 academic year, according to the Open Doors Report released by the US Embassy on Monday. Indian students comprised nearly 20 per cent of the over one million students from around the world, and the US has seen a steady increase in the number of undergraduate students from India, the report stated. "Over the last 10 years, the number of Indians studying in the United States has roughly doubled, and we know why the US is the gold standard for higher education, providing practical application and experience that gives our graduates an advantage in the global economy," said Minister Counsellor for Public Affairs David Kennedy. To assist Indian students, the US Department of State offers advising services to prospective students through seven EducationUSA  advising centres throughout India - in New Delhi, Hyderabad, Chennai, Kolkata, Bangalore, Ahmedabad and Mumbai. "Early next year, a second Education USA Center is opening in Hyderabad hosted by Y-Axis Foundation. All centres are staffed by EducationUSA advisors who offer accurate, comprehensive, and up-to-date information about opportunities to study in the United States, helping Indian students find the best programme and the right fit from among the 4,500 accredited higher-education institutions in the United States," an official statement by the Embassy said. Students seeking additional facts about studying in the US can download the EducationUSA India app, available for free on iOS and Android devices, it said. At the click of a button, the app provides the latest information about the college application process and is a quick and easy first step to planning higher education in the US," the statement said. The Institute of International Education (IIE) publishes the Open Doors report every year. It also compiles the number of international scholars at US universities and international students enrolled in pre-academic Intensive English Programs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-556
16-11-2020||India||Pollution levels down in Delhi courtesy rain, gusty winds||Delhi experienced light rain and favourable wind speed, working as a catalyst to bring the pollution levels down significantly in the national capital and its suburbs on Monday, while weather experts said the air quality is likely to improve further. The city's air quality index (AQI) improved to 300 at 9 am, which falls in the poor category, from 467 around the same time on Sunday. The neighbouring cities of Faridabad (256), Ghaziabad (292), Greater Noida (302), Gurgaon (314) and Noida (312) recorded their AQI in poor and very poor categories after braving severe air quality on Saturday and Sunday. Delhi had recorded the worst pollution levels on Diwali in the last four years due to the combined effect of stubble burning, firecrackers and unfavourable meteorological conditions. The air quality on the day after Diwali was also the poorest since 2016. The city recorded an overall AQI of 414 on Saturday (Diwali). On Sunday, the 24-hour average AQI stood at 435. In a special report, the Central Pollution Control Board said that almost all pollutants reported higher values on Diwali day this year as compared to 2019. It could be attributed to bursting of firecrackers, higher share of stubble burning and unfavourable meteorology during the festival season, the CPCB said. However, rain and high-velocity winds came to Delhi's rescue this year. Winds gusting up to 40 kilometre per hour swept away the pollutants, while light rainfall in the afternoon and evening on Sunday washed everything down. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the India Meteorological Department, said the wind speed will be favourable for dispersion of pollutants on Monday as well. The Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR, had also predicted that pollution levels may recede to the poor category in case of enough rains and washout". The air quality is likely to stay in the very poor category on Tuesday and Wednesday, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-556
16-11-2020||India||Seven Bihar labourers dead in an accident in Himachal Pradesh||Seven labourers were killed when a vehicle in which they were travelling fell into a rivulet in Himachal Pradesh's Mandi district on Monday, police said. One labourer was also injured in the accident that occurred at around 2.30 am near Mandi town, they said. The Mahindra pickup vehicle was on its way to Sundernagar from Mandi when it fell into Suketi Khud (rivulet) at Pulghrat, Mandi Superintendent of Police Shalini Agnihotri said. Six people died on the spot, while two injured were taken to a zonal hospital where one of them succumbed to his injuries, the police said. All the passengers were labourers from Bihar, Agnihotri said. The police have registered a case under IPC sections 279 (rash driving), 338 (causing grievous hurt to any person) and 304 A (causing death by negligence). Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed his grief over the loss of lives in the accident and conveyed his condolences to the bereaved family members.   In a tweet, he said the government is carrying out a rescue and relief work, and wished a quick recovery to the injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-556
16-11-2020||India||Covid caseload close to 90 lakh mark with 30,000 cases in a day||India's Covid-19 caseload mounted to 88,45,127 with 30,548 infections being reported in a day, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 82,49,579, according to data updated by the Union health ministry on Monday. The coronavirus death toll climbed to 1,30,070 with 435 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of active cases remained below 5 lakh for the sixth consecutive day. There are 4,65,478 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country as on date which comprise 5.26 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. The total number of recoveries has surged to 82,49,579, pushing the national recovery rate to 93.27 per cent. The COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.47 per cent. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a total of 12,56,98,525 samples had been tested till November 15 with 8,61,706 being tested on Sunday. The 435 new fatalities include 95 from Delhi, 60 from Maharashtra, 51 from West Bengal, 30 from Punjab, and 21 each from Karnataka and Kerala. The total 1,30,070 deaths reported so far in the country include 45,974 from Maharashtra, followed by 11,529 from Karnataka, 11,478 from Tamil Nadu, 7,661 from West Bengal, 7,614 from Delhi, 7,372 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,868 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,458 from Punjab and 3,803 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-556
16-11-2020||India||Uttarakhand traders' call to open Nepal bridge||Traders in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh district have been holding protests demanding the reopening of a border bridge so that they can resume business in Nepal. The suspension bridge over the Kali river that links Dharchula town in Uttarakhand to Darchula town in Nepal’s Sudurpashchim Pradesh is closed since the coronavirus-induced lockdown began on March 25. Indian traders, who have shops selling garments, jewellery and coffee in the Nepal town, used to take the bridge to travel to and fro every day. Although the lockdown has been lifted, the bridge has not been reopened, halting business and causing mounting losses to the Indian traders. The development comes amid tensions between the two countries over the Nepal government approving a new map that includes several areas in Pithoragarh within Nepalese territory. Over 100 traders in Dharchula held a meeting on Sunday and decided to begin a movement to mount pressure on the government to reopen the bridge. The government now allows the use of the bridge only in emergencies, that too for a short period. On Friday, the traders had organised a dharna near the bridge and prevented the local administration from opening it for an hour in the afternoon for some Nepal students. The traders accused the governments of India and Uttarakhand of “dancing to the tune of Nepal” and “sacrificing the businesses of the traders of Dharchula”. “We came to know on Friday morning that the bridge would be opened for an hour as people from Nepal wanted to cross it. So we sat on a dharna there, demanding that the bridge be either opened permanently or kept closed for everybody,” said Bhupendra Thapa, the president of the traders’ association. The authorities of Pithoragarh and Sudurpashchim Pradesh districts open the bridge occasionally on the request of students and those seeking urgent medical services in India. Indian citizens also have to seek permission and cite emergency reasons to use the bridge. Thapa said: “Our businesses have been destroyed because of the lockdown. We had thought we would try to recover our losses when the unlocking begins. But this bridge has not been reopened to facilitate our business.” V.K. Jogdande, the district magistrate of Pithoragarh, told local reporters: “A decision is to be taken by the government before we open the bridge permanently.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-556
16-11-2020||India||Congress poll tie-up with Article 370 alliance||The Congress on Sunday announced it would contest the upcoming District Development Council elections in Jammu and Kashmir in partnership with the seven-party alliance campaigning for the restoration of Article 370. However, the Congress left for another day the decision whether to formally join the alliance. The seven-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration views the polls, beginning November 28, as a referendum on last year’s amendment of Article 370. Much, however, depends on whether the voters choose to boycott or participate in the elections. Jammu and Kashmir Congress chief Ghulam Ahmad Mir on Sunday met the leaders of the alliance at the home of their chairman, Farooq Abdullah. Mir later told reporters his party had decided to join hands with the alliance for the elections to try and defeat those imposing “black laws” on the Union Territory. “Like-minded parties have decided to go in for seat-sharing. There have been discussions over this for the past two or three days. Farooq sahib had called today’s meeting to give the final touches,” Mir said. “By and large the meeting was satisfactory, although in politics a person is never 100 per cent satisfied.” Mir said a discussion on formally joining the alliance would be held some other time. “These are things to be decided later. First (things) first. It’s true and practical that the crux of all politics is elections,” he said. “If we are joining hands to contest elections with an agenda in mind, I think we should focus on it and other things will naturally follow.” The Congress’s central and Jammu and Kashmir leaderships have been sending conflicting signals about the party’s stand on Article 370. A senior Valley Congress leader, Ghulam Nabi Monga, had on Friday claimed his party was part of the alliance and the battle for the restoration of Articles 370 and 35A. Farooq too had claimed that the Congress was a part of the People’s Alliance. But it now appears that the tie-up is restricted to seat-sharing for the upcoming polls. The alliance recently decided to contest the elections, stressing the need to prevent the BJP winning seats, and to demonstrate to the world that the demand for restoration of Article 370 had popular support. All the parties in the alliance had earlier boycotted elections from 2018 onwards, anticipating the Centre’s plan to scrap the then state’s special status.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-556
16-11-2020||India||Mayawati changes Uttar Pradesh unit chief||Bahujan Samaj Party president Mayawati has replaced Munkad Ali with Bhim Rajbhar as the party’s state unit president after reviewing the results of the bypolls to seven Assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh. The BSP president announced the decision on Twitter on Sunday while emphasising on Bhim’s Rajbhar caste. “Bhim Rajbhar, who belongs to UP’s most backward class (OBC) of Rajbhar community, is a resident of Mau district (Azamgarh division). Associated since long with the party and the movement as a dedicated and disciplined soldier, he has been appointed as new president of the BSP Uttar Pradesh unit. Congratulations and best wishes to him,” Mayawati tweeted in Hindi. Party sources said Ali has got a less important assignment as the BSP coordinator of Uttarakhand. The BSP had contested all seven seats where bypolls were held and lost all. The BJP won six seats and the Samajwadi Party retained one. The BSP was runner-up in one seat and third on four seats. It stood fourth on two seats. The BSP got 23.62 per cent votes in the 2017 Assembly elections. In the bypolls, it got 18.97 per cent of the polled votes. Mayawati had tried to woo the Muslims in the bypolls, held on November 3, by declaring that they would be given their due respect in the party. However, the bypoll results suggested that the Muslims sided with the SP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-557
16-11-2020||India||Nitish Kumar to take oath, suspense on deputy chief minister||Nitish Kumar is to be sworn in as Bihar chief minister on Monday after being unanimously elected leader of the NDA legislature party, but senior BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi appeared to have lost his job as deputy chief minister. Soon after the NDA reposed faith in him on Sunday, Nitish met governor Phagu Chauhan and staked claimed to form the new government. He will become chief minister for the seventh time since 2000, when he held the position for a week. Nitish said he would be sending to Raj Bhavan the names of the cabinet members to be sworn in on Monday. He said Sunday’s NDA meeting had not discussed the new Speaker of the Assembly. Sources in the Janata Dal United said Nitish wanted parity in the number of cabinet berths with the BJP, which was seeking proportional representation. The BJP has won 74 seats to the JDU’s 43. Nitish also wants to retain party colleague Vijay Kumar Choudhary as the Speaker, they said. Defence minister Rajnath Singh flew in to Patna as an observer for the NDA meeting, indicating the BJP was willing to accept Nitish’s demands to ensure smooth government formation. A tweet from Sushil saying he would “discharge whatever responsibility is given to me” and that “nobody can snatch the position of a karyakarta (party worker) from me” fuelled speculation that he would no longer be Nitish’s deputy in the government. Nitish and Rajnath ducked queries about the next deputy chief minister. However, BJP sources suggested the post could go to Tarkishore Prasad, elected as leader of the BJP legislature party — a position Sushil held after the 2005 and 2010 poll victories. Some suggested that Renu Devi, deputy leader of the BJP legislature party, could share the post with Tarkishore. “The governor has nominated me as chief minister. The oath-taking ceremony will be held tomorrow (Monday) afternoon,” Nitish said. “We’ll have to work in a better manner because the people of Bihar have given us another opportunity to bring about further development. We’ll work together and ensure that no area or segment of society suffers from any deficiency.” Sushil congratulated Tarkishore for his unanimous election as leader of the BJP legislature party and tweeted in Hindi: “In the 40 years of my political life, the BJP and the Sangh parivar have perhaps given me more than anyone ever got. I shall discharge whatever responsibility is given to me in future. Nobody can snatch the position of a party worker from me.” The tweet, especially the use of the word “snatch (chheen)”, appeared to buttress the impression that Sushil had been dropped as deputy chief minister. Rajnath, asked who would be deputy chief minister, said: “They all will sit and decide about the deputy chief minister.” To the same question, Nitish said: “You will get to know in some time.” Sources in the BJP said Sushil may have paid for his perceived closeness to Nitish and his lack of qualms about playing second fiddle to him, which allegedly kept the party on the backseat of governance and obstructed its growth. However, a senior BJP leader said Sushil could be given a Rajya Sabha seat and a Union cabinet berth. “Sushil Modi has been an educated, well-read, well-informed and articulate leader. It will be tough to replace him. However, the final decision is always taken by our central leadership,” the leader said. Tarkishore, 64, a four-time MLA from Katihar constituency, studied till Class XII and is close to the RSS. Being from the Baniya (trading) community, he is an OBC like Sushil. Renu, 60, too is a four-time MLA, from the Bettiah seat in West Champaran and studied till Class XII. She belongs to the Nonia (salt makers) community, one of the Extremely Backward Castes, and comes from a family of alleged “bahubalis” (toughs). Tarkishore and Renu denied having been sounded out about any government post.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-557
16-11-2020||West Bengal||Three friends die as car plunges into waterbody||Three friends died when the car they were travelling in apparently veered off the Egra-Beta state highway and fell into a pond on Saturday night. Subrata Jena, 22, Subhadip Burman, 27, both businessmen, and Rajendra Bar, 40, a migrant worker, were returning from a Kali Puja event when the accident occurred at Battala in East Midnapore. The trio lived in and around the Balighai area in Egra, East Midnapore. “They had left home around 8pm for sightseeing and had hired a driver. Prima facie, it seems the car was at a high speed and skidded while trying to avoid an oncoming vehicle. The spot where the crash took place is fringed with waterbodies on either side,” said a police officer. According to the police, the driver is yet to be identified and he fled as soon as the vehicle plunged into the water. The car belonged to Subhadip. “The youths were in the back seat and did not have enough time to escape. It seems the back doors were locked and the youths couldn’t open them because of pressure from water,” said the officer. The bodies were fished out around 1am on Sunday after local people spotted a portion of the floating vehicle. Retired bank official and Subhadip’s father, Bibhuti Bhushan Burman, said: “I began to grow worried when my son did not return home by midnight. Shortly after, we heard of a nearby incident involving a car. I went to the spot only to see that it was my son’s car.” The bodies were taken to the Egra Super Speciality hospital early on Sunday. “We have started an investigation and will trace the driver of the vehicle soon,” said officer-in-charge of Egra police station, Kashinath Chowdhury.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-308
16-11-2020||West Bengal||BSF jawan held in Assam over girl’s kidnap||Police have arrested a 50-year-old BSF constable from his home in Assam for allegedly kidnapping a minor girl from North 24-Parganas last week. The accused is attached to the BSF’s 160-Battalion and posted in Malkangiri, Odisha. Sources in the 15-year-old girl’s family said the jawan had visited her home in North 24-Parganas on November 11 and abducted her. On the basis of a complaint lodged by the Class X girl’s father, police tracked the accused man’s phone to a location in Assam. A police team went to Assam and brought him and the girl to Bengal on transit remand on Sunday morning. After the girl underwent a medical examination, she was  produced in court where she recorded her statement. Later, the girl was handed over to the parents. Local sources said the jawan was an acquaintance of the girl’s family going back to his previous posting in North 24-Parganas. “He used to visit our home during his posting here. So, his visit to our home did not create any suspicion. He said he was taking my daughter to the local market to buy grocery,” said the girl’s father. “When she did not turn up after a considerable amount of time, I sensed trouble and informed police,” he added. The court remanded the constable in judicial custody for 10 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-308
16-11-2020||West Bengal||BJP force-feeds ‘Birsa statue’ on anniversary||BJP MP from Bankura, Subhas Sarkar, on Sunday paid floral tributes at the statue of an unidentified hunter here, claiming it to be that of Birsa Munda on the tribal freedom fighter’s birth anniversary. Born on November 15, 1875, in Uihatu village now located in Ranchi, Jharkhand, Bhagwan Birsa Munda, as he is called, is among the foremost tribal icons. Earlier on November 5, Union home minister Amit Shah, in Bengal for a two-day visit, had in his tribal outreach event in Bankura offered floral tributes to the statue of a tribal hunter with tree branches on the head. BJP sources had claimed the statue was a likeness of Munda. Tribal residents countered the claim, saying it was of an anonymous tribal hunter. The BJP had hurriedly organised Munda’s picture and placed it at the statue’s feet. Tribal organisations and Trinamul had slammed the move. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said this was another example of the BJP’s “outsider” syndrome. Some tribal outfits called it “humiliation”. The BJP stayed adamant. The party’s Bankura MP’s tribute on Sunday came in the wake of comments by state party president Dilip Ghosh two days after Shah’s tribute. Ghosh told journalists that his party considered the statue to be of Munda as Shah paid tributes to it. “We see him (Birsa Munda) as a freedom fighter. The home minister has garlanded the statue. We also kept a portrait of Birsa Munda there and he (Shah) garlanded it too. We considered the statue as that of Birsa Munda and paid our respective tributes. The statue will be of Birsa Munda from today, after the announcement by our home minister, even if they (the state government) do not name it. Everyone has to accept it,” Ghosh said. On Sunday, the district wing of ST Morcha organised an event where MP Sarkar paid tribute to the tribal freedom fighter. Sarkar then said: “It is well known that the statue is of Birsa Munda and Trinamul is still trying to politicise the issue. This programme has been hosted by the tribal community of Mundas...” The chief of the party’s ST Morcha in Bankura, Baidyanath Hansda, confirmed the event was hosted by his wing and claimed the statue was Munda’s. Many tribal leaders pointed out that many had called this move “dirty politics with a hero” on social media posts. “It is dirty politics played by the BJP to establish an untruth. I can’t understand why BJP leaders are making the issue bitter by calling the tribal hunter Birsa Munda, that too on his birth anniversary. We have never seen a statue of Munda with tree branches on his head,” said Biplab Saren, district secretary of the Bharat Jakat Majhi Pargana Mahal. Trinamul leaders said that despite knowing the truth about the statue, BJP was trying to “establish” BJP state president Dilip Ghosh’s comments. “It was not only low, BJP intentionally hurt the tribal sentiments by making a hunter’s statue into that of Birsa Munda. We will set up a larger statue of Munda near the hunter’s one. No one can then ignore the tribal hero,” said Shyamal Santra, Trinamul chief in Bankura and state minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-308
16-11-2020||West Bengal||Celebs, politicians and social activists take on to pay tribute to the legendary actor||Legendary actor Soumitra Chatterjee breathed his last on November 15 at Calcutta’s Belle Vue Hospital. He was 85. The most celebrated cine icon of the Bengali film industry died on Sunday afternoon, 40 days after being admitted to the hospital. He had tested Covid positive and had even undergone plasma therapy in the hospital. The actor had contracted the deadly virus while shooting for his biopic titled Abhijaan. The actor is survived by his wife and daughter. Soumitra starred as Feluda in Satyajit Ray’s Sonar Kella and Joy Baba Felunath. He has acted in 14 Satyajit Ray films and over 300 other films. His death left his fans including celebrities from both the Bengali and Hindi film industry shattered. Tributes began to pour in across social media, from people who mourned the loss of Feluda. Heartbroken fans expressed their grief on twitter. One of them tweeted that Feluda would be missed, while another asked the veteran actor to rest in power. For many cine stars like Swastika Mukherjee, Rahul Bose, Richa Chadda his death marked the end of an era. Taking to Twitter, actress Swastika Chatterjee wrote, “This year will take it all. Parents, legends, childhood, nostalgia. All of it. Merciless year. Swastika had worked with Soumitra in several Bengali films like - Rupe Tomay Bholabo Na, Hemanter Pakhi to name a few. Actor Rahul Bose,  in his tweet highlighted on how he grew up watching Soumitra's films. It was not just actors, who paid a tribute to the legendary actor, but also politicians and social activists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-309
16-11-2020||West Bengal||Soumitra’s family home deepened ties with Left ||Ties to one’s ancestral home and land run deep. But ties to one’s ideological community may, in some cases, run deeper. So proved the late screen legend Soumitra Chatterjee when in 2007 he coordinated his family efforts to sell their ancestral home — at a nominal price — to a charitable trust run by the Left. Long known for his outspoken Leftist views, residents of Krishnagar, where Chatterjee was born, remember the incident as representative of the actor’s “social commitment”. “Sudha Niloy”, Chatterjee’s childhood home located on RN Tagore Street in Krishnagar town was also an incubator of the veteran actor’s leanings by way of being home to his freedom fighter uncle Jatindranath Mukherjee (1879-1915) better known as “Bagha Jatin”. Though Chatterjee never met his uncle, the home remained a testament to Jatindranath’s memory — being wounded in a gunfight against the British Army and dying a martyr on September 9, 1915  —  and compelled Chatterjee in his later life to ensure that the legacy was not lost to commercial development. “Soumitra babu was immensely proud of his uncle and though they could never meet, his legacy contributed to Soumitra babu’s views,” said a resident of the area. Bagha Jatin succumbed to gun wounds suffered at a battle in Balasore on September 9, 1915. Local sources said that Chatterjee in 2007 spearheaded his family efforts to sell the property to the Amritendu Mukherjee Bhawan Trust, named in honour of freedom fighter and three-time Left Front-era minister. A popular mass leader, the Left’s Nadia dispensation took up the trust as a public welfare cause upon his passing. “Soumitra babu always wanted his childhood home to be used towards community development. He was worried about its dilapidated state but still did not want it sold to a developer,” said Sumit De, district secretary of the Nadia CPM. “When he (Chatterjee) expressed his concerns about the condition of his childhood home, and the need to sell it, we alerted him to the existence of the trust and he seemed eager. He successfully brought on board his cousins and nephews,” added De. On April 19, 2007, the deed for the transfer of the property — on 10 cottahs — was signed. “It was a great gesture on his part, to donate a part of his legacy towards a social cause,” said former CPM MLA Samsul Mollah. He used the term “donate” as the property was sold at a “very nominal price”, said sources. “It was a cherished moment for the party as well, because it contributed directly to Amritendu babu’s legacy. The gesture was wholly unexpected and came solely at Soumitra babu’s initiative,” added MLA S.M. Sadi, chairman of the Amritendu Mukherjee Bhawan Trust and CPM district secretariate member who in 2007 signed the deed as recipient in the presence of Chatterjee and his family. Sources added that owing to lack of funds, maintaining the former structure had proved difficult. “Plans are underway to construct a new structure as the old one has been deemed condemned,” said a source. “The building is still in a precarious state with many parts beyond repair. It has been this way since 1985. Our plan is to construct a new auditorium and guest house named after Amritendu Babu and with memorabilia dedicated to Soumitra Chatterjee and Bagha Jatin (freedom fighter and Chatterjee’s uncle Jatindranath),” added former MLA Samsul Mollah.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-309
16-11-2020||West Bengal||Soumitra stood by Left till the end||In an industry where stardom is worn on the sleeves, Soumitra Chatterjee, considered second only to Uttam Kumar, never shied away from voicing his Marxist leanings till his last days. In a signed article published in this year’s Sharadiya Ganashakti, a publication of the CPM, the actor reasserted his ideological position when he wrote: “I believe if there has to be an alternative (to the Rightist forces ruling the nation), it has to be the Left.” In the same breath, he expressed concern over the rise of the global Right and lamented the Left’s inability to instil confidence in the people. His advocacy of the Left in Bengal was such that when several cultural luminaries began to disassociate themselves from the Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee government during Nandigram and Singur movements, Chatterjee openly supported the then CPM dispensation’s industrialisation drive. “Chatterjee was at the forefront of the rally that Left-leaning intellectuals had brought out in support of the Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee government in November 2007 to counter the one that had protested against the Nandigram massacre,” said a cultural activist close to the actor. Even in the face of criticism for supporting the Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee government, Chatterjee remained unwavering. “He is the one who actively took part in the food movement against the Congress government in Bengal in the 60s. His association with the Left movement goes back a long way. Therefore, his commitment towards Leftism goes far beyond support for a party or a government,” said Calcutta University teacher and minister in the Left Front government, Anjan Bera. His political and ideological positions had made him a strong critic of the Narendra Modi government, leading him to wonder how someone under whose chief ministership a pogrom had been carried out in Gujarat in 2002 could rule the country today. Never known to mince words against Rightist and communal forces, Chatterjee had publicly criticised the Modi government for forcing the Citizenship Amendment Act on the country. “What I gather (from news reports) is that this Act will oppress a large section of the people of this country,” he had told a news agency in December 2019. Deeply wedded to the democratic tradition and a politically conscious mind, Chatterjee had appealed to the CAA protesters not to resort to violence. “When people get angry, they do many things. Causing people to get enraged could have been avoided. I urge the agitators not to resort to violence while protesting the Act,” he had said. Since 2011, on several occasions, Chatterjee had voiced his criticism of the Mamata Banerjee government for trying to “silence voices of opposition” and the manner in which the present government organised the Calcutta International Film Festival.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-309
16-11-2020||West Bengal||Sharmila Tagore mourns loss of a ‘rare’ friendship||Sharmila Tagore said on Sunday she had lost one of her oldest friends in Soumitra Chatterjee, with whom she had started her acting career in 1959. Sharmila and Soumitra made their debut in Satyajit Ray’s Apur Sansar, the final instalment of the “Apu” trilogy. They acted together in several acclaimed films, including Ray’s Devi (1960), Ajoy Kar’s Barnali (1963) and Aranyer Din Ratri (1970). In an interview to PTI, Sharmila, 75, recalled how they became friends. “I was 13 years old and he was 10 years elder to me when we started working in Apur Sansar. In the film, those beautiful dialogues that we spoke to each other also endeared us to each other. That was the beginning. I really respected, admired him and for what he stood for,” she said. “He was one of my oldest friends, after my husband Tiger (cricket legend Mansoor Ali Khan Pataudi) and actor Shashi Kapoor. He has been such a loyal and fun friend,” she added. Their bond, she said, wasn’t transactional. “We could lead our parallel lives and yet have a connection, somewhere because our thoughts, depth and loyalty was the same. Soumitra knew I’d never speak ill of him. There was no questioning of what we shared, we didn’t have to prove it. “If I didn’t talk to him or if he didn’t talk to me, I wouldn’t feel ‘Oh God he hasn’t wished me, he doesn’t remember my birthday’. It was just so organic. I can’t give it any name,” she said. Soumitra was a wonderful companion, Sharmila said, and their banter would be endless. Sometimes he would understand her point of view, at other times she would agree with his belief, she recounted. “We would talk for hours on sports, history, our vision of India. I find him irreplaceable that way because there’s nobody else I can share so much with. If I expressed a certain point of view, he’d agree and expand or shoot it down and give his reasons. That kind of friendship is so rare. To lose that is huge,” Sharmila said. His personality was so well-rounded, it reflected in all aspects of his life, she said. Sharmila recalled shooting for Ray’s Aranyer Din Ratri, where she shared a bungalow with Soumitra and her other co-star, Subhendu Chatterjee. One of Sharmila’s strongest memories of their time together is of her sipping her morning coffee and listening to the actor sing outside. “Soumitra’s interests went beyond acting,” she said. “He would paint, sing, was well read, had immense knowledge of theatre, he would write poetry and short stories for his grandchildren. His interests were vast and that’s what made him who he was — a man of all interests, a powerhouse talent.” “I know he will live forever in our memories because his legacy is so immense. It encompasses so much,” she said. Actor Shabana Azmi condoled the death of Soumitra Chatterjee. “Farewell Soumitra Da. I had the honour of playing your wife in La Nuit Bengali n your daughter in 15 Park Avenue. I was with you in Paris and saw the adulation you received at George Pompidou Centre but you were so nonchalant about it that it left me deeply impressed. RIP,” Shabana tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-309
16-11-2020||North East||Two women gang-raped in Assam||Two women from Tripura’s North district were allegedly gang-raped in an under-construction multi-storied building in Assam’s Karimganj district on the intervening night of November 13 and 14. Karimganj superintendent of police Mayank Kumar told The Telegraph on Sunday evening that five persons, two from Tripura’s North district and three from Karimganj district, have been arrested based on the complaint lodged by the two women in their thirties. “We have arrested five of the accused, the first one on Saturday, through coordinated operations with Tripura police. The victims said they were returning home in a hired Tata Indica along with another person after visiting the mother of one of the women in Silchar Medical College and Hospital. The women are not related. We are probing all angles,” Kumar said. Sources said the four occupants of the car had dinner at a dhaba at Cheragi around 11pm. The driver took a “short-cut” to Churaibari but instead took them to the building where the three other accused were present. Sources said the accused allegedly took away all the belongings of the victims after the crime.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-36
16-11-2020||Opinion||Press play: Sports-related subjects for students||All work and no play has, for long, had a detrimental effect on the mind and body of young Indians. But it seems that the government is waking up to the problem — at last. The announcement that an expert committee of the Union ministry of youth affairs and sports is ready with the blueprint of a National Sports Education Board, which will offer students sports-related subjects apart from the regular curriculum, comes as a ray of hope. There are a number of reasons to be optimistic about the possibilities of such a development. For one, children in India are traditionally discouraged by their families — social pressure plays its role too — from pursuing sports as a career even if they excel in it. This tendency to view sports as a non-lucrative professional prospect might be remedied by the NSEB proposal. The latter will enable students to be tested on sports-related subjects along with conventional ones in their board examinations; crucially, they will be offered a chance to defer their exams, a privilege that was hitherto only granted to established athletes, not aspiring ones. Given that sport is largely viewed as an extra-curricular activity to be eventually given up in favour of ‘serious’ subjects, these elements in the NSEB plan might open up avenues for students to pursue a multidisciplinary approach, a trait that is encouraged by most institutions of excellence. Achieving sporting excellence has been a dream for India. The country’s consistent abysmal showing at the Olympics — it has the worst record in terms of medals per head — is rightly attributed, among other things, to a lack of funding, modern infrastructure and training, bureaucratic meddling as well as — this should not be ignored — unimaginative policy. Arming students interested in sports with intellectual rigour could be beneficial. It would not only offer students a diverse set of disciplines to choose from but also aid the athlete in the application of strategy learnt in the classroom on to the field. If the NSEB succeeds in delivering its goals, it will facilitate a crucial transition, transforming India’s youth into a constituency with able bodies and agile minds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-116
16-11-2020||Opinion||Liberty first: SC justifies Arnab bail||A constitutional court is concerned with an individual’s fundamental right to liberty. This principle, reportedly enunciated by the Supreme Court while granting interim bail to the managing director of a television channel, is of overwhelming importance. There are numerous individuals whose applications for bail are either not being heard or being rejected by the courts. The principle that bail is the rule, not the exception, seems to have been forgotten. Incarceration without trial or even charge-sheets for months or years is a violation of personal liberty and of the principles of justness understood in the widest sense. The Supreme Court set aside the Bombay High Court’s dismissal of the television channel’s managing director’s interim bail plea as an error, and reportedly directed high courts to exercise their jurisdiction to protect human liberty, which is why constitutional courts exist. It also said that state governments should refrain from going after persons who do not agree with them. The ruling strikes at the culture of detaining people by refusing bail, even when the application is made after more than a year of waiting for charge-sheet or trial. Sudha Bhardwaj, arrested in the Bhima Koregaon case, for example, was reportedly advised by the Supreme Court to withdraw her bail application made on grounds of ill health, and apply instead ‘on merit’. In recent times, others arrested in relation to the Bhima Koregaon violence and that in East Delhi have often found bail to be elusive in different courts. Yet the Supreme Court has emphasized the importance of personal liberty more than once. In 2011, for example, it said that since personal liberty is precious, the remedy of the writ of habeas corpus cannot be hindered by technical objections. Of the 554 habeas corpus cases filed when Article 370 was revoked in Kashmir on August 5, 2019, the Jammu and Kashmir High Court has reportedly decided 29. The latest ruling by the Supreme Court also suggests that such cases should be heard with the same punctuality as that of the managing director. That may help undertrial prisoners who, on December 31, 2017, made up 68.50 per cent of prison inmates. Many of them are too poor to afford the bail fee. Maybe the State should look into this, too, in order to honour the Supreme Court’s ruling on personal liberty?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-116
16-11-2020||Opinion||Hurdles ahead for the Unites States||The presidential election of the United States of America has been won by Joe Biden. There have been celebrations in the US and in other parts of the world. Donald Trump’s presidency is widely viewed as a highly disruptive one, making him a rather unpopular figure globally. But in the US his popularity does not seem to have declined, even though he could not muster enough electoral college votes. Since he refuses to concede, words like ‘coup’ are being bandied about. It is highly unusual to hear such words in the context of the American democracy, but the extreme polarization of the body politic has brought to the fore the infirmities of its political system at a time when it was least desired. We were being told that there would be a Democratic wave on November 3. Instead, the performance of the Democrats has been below par. Not only is the US Senate likely to remain under Republican control, but the Democrats also lost seats in the House of Representatives. Democrats did not pick up a single state legislative chamber, and their majority in the House of Representatives has narrowed, sparking calls for a change in leadership. This success will give Republicans substantial control over congressional redistricting as states redraw electoral maps for congressional and state legislative districts next year, putting Democrats on a weak wicket in the long term. Even Biden has managed to scrape through to the presidency by winning with slim margins in the key battleground states. It is this fractured mandate that Trump is seeking to exploit further by throwing in multiple legal challenges in the way of Biden. While the Trump versus Biden saga will continue to attract a lot of attention, what is equally, if not more, interesting is the intra-Democratic Party turmoil that this mandate has begun to produce. The moderate and centrist Democrats are worried that the so-called ‘progressives’ tried to provide an agenda for the party which was viewed as out of the mainstream, making it difficult for the Democrats to win seats in the hinterland. Several centrist Democrats have complained about calls by their colleagues on the left of the party to defund the police and law enforcement. As one moderate Democrat, Abigail Spanberger, said, “We lost races we shouldn’t have lost... ‘Defund the police’ almost cost me my race because of an attack ad... Don’t say socialism ever again... We need to get back to basics.” This has resulted in a strong pushback from the progressives. The Michigan representative, Rashida Tlaib, part of a liberal congressional clique known as “the Squad”, targeted the centrist Democrats for blaming the far-left for hurting the party. She, along with other progressives, has warned, “If we abandon our core progressive base and agenda, Democrats will not hold onto the House majority in the 2022 midterms and will have no hope of gaining grounds in the Senate.” This group remains concerned about the prospect of President Joe Biden engaging with moderate Republicans as he tries to play the role of a unifier. Tlaib has made it clear, “We are not interested in unity that asks people to sacrifice their freedom and their rights any longer.” The senator, Bernie Sanders, is an important player in this dynamic. Sanders, who caucuses with Senate Democrats, has been floated by the progressives as a potential candidate for the labour secretary position in the incoming Biden-Harris administration and he has suggested that he would introduce a 100-day agenda of his own. As Biden tries to make his way to consolidating his governance agenda, he will find that the challenges within his own party might be far more difficult to tackle than he would have imagined. The fault lines within the US and the Democratic Party are likely to ensure that governance will not be easy. This will be the single-most important issue facing the Biden administration at a time when the allure of the American democracy is already being questioned in parts of the world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-116
16-11-2020||Opinion|| A big bang forever: Penrose's beautiful idea||I have known Roger Penrose closely for quite some time. He has been visiting Calcutta for more than 25 years. His involvement with Albert Einstein’s general theory of relativity is intense; his other abiding passion is with black holes. In some way, black holes come out of Einstein’s equation, but Einstein refused to believe in their existence. The idea of a massive cosmic body from where light could not escape was first suggested by the English clergyman, John Michell, way back in 1784; he assumed — erroneously — the density of the massive body to be the same as that of the sun. In 1931, the great Indian astrophysicist, Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar, calculated using the special theory of relativity, that a non-rotating body of electron-degenerate matter above a certain limiting mass — now called Chandrasekhar Limit — at 1.4 solar mass, has no stable solution and thus turns gravitationally unstable. The outstanding Russian physicist, Lev Landau, and the famous Cambridge astronomer, Arthur Eddington, disagreed; in their creative space, there was no room for the black hole. In the 1960s, in a ‘global’ approach using Quantum Field Theory in curved space time, Penrose’s Cambridge colleague, Stephen Hawking, was looking for a generic solution. Eventually, he discovered the Hawking-Penrose singularity, which led to the Nobel prize this year for Penrose. This was the inception of Black hole thermodynamics and the most spectacular outcome of this theory was the Hawking radiation. The temperature of the Hawking radiation is inversely proportional to the mass of the black hole; with the Hawking radiation, the mass of the black hole goes down and, eventually, it would evaporate completely. In December 1967, a student suggested the phrase, ‘black hole’, at a lecture by John Wheeler, the science adviser to the president of the United States of America and a front-runner in modern cosmology. The name caught on quickly. The first ‘real’ picture of black holes colliding, leading to the discovery of gravitational waves, showed up last year when Luciano Rezzolla showed it at a Bari Conference in July 2019. On one occasion, Penrose had explained to me a rudimentary version of his idea of ‘Conformal cyclic cosmology’. It goes as follows: our universe is the universe of this aeon. There existed another aeon before this when there existed another universe. After expanding through space and time for billions of years, the universe cooled off sufficiently and turned into a cosmic grave the size of the entire universe. It turned so cold that the black holes had an intrinsic temperature higher than the ambient universe. The second law of thermodynamics dictates that with the entropy stored within the black holes, the universe’s billions of black holes would burst at once. And that is the ‘big bang’, creating the next universe. The process goes on, destruction followed by creation, from one aeon to another, with no beginning or end. Is there any proof of such fantastic ideas? I have invited Penrose to a conference that I am organizing in March 2021. The abstract of the talk is, “Are we Seeing Hawking Points in the Microwave Sky?” What is it that observers have seen? Penrose says in that abstract, “Hawking points represent the conformably compressed Hawking radiation from supermassive black holes in the previous aeon; supermassive black hole is a million / billion times the solar mass, resides usually at the centre of a galaxy, with voracious gravitational appetite. Each such black hole would have devoured an entire galactic cluster, before finally decaying in the form of Hawking radiation, squashed into a single ‘Hawking point’, 8 times the diameter of the full moon.” Then he goes on to add, “an effect that we appear to be actually observing.” Fred Hoyle and Jayant Narlikar toyed with the idea of a steady-state theory of the universe: destruction, immediately or almost immediately, followed by creation filling up the void. Penrose’s supervisor at Cambridge, Dennis Sciama — my mathematics teacher during my Cambridge undergraduate days —was a champion of the steady-state theory. That got demolished with the experimental discovery of the ‘big bang’ and the associated ‘hiss’ of the expanding universe. Sciama acknowledged his mistake publicly. Penrose has now come up with the brilliant and beautiful idea that there isn’t one ‘big bang’ but a ‘big bang forever’, from one aeon to another to another, making ‘time’ a redundant variable. Our present universe, the product of the ‘big bang’ in this aeon, is, in a sense, the product of the idea of the new steady-state theory of the universe. I end with one of the most penetrating and profound quotes of Einstein who started it all: “One of the strongest motives leading to art and science is a flight from everyday life with its painful coarseness and bleak tediousness, from the chains of ever changing personal wish.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-116
16-11-2020||Opinion||The other Nehru ||India and the world of the 21st century have moved beyond the ideas of Jawaharlal Nehru. Environmental writers and activists have been prominent critics of his development model. More than any other speech, the one on big dams extolling them as ‘temples of modern India’ stand out in public memory. Critics of big dams point to the displacement and the loss of ecological amenity that have so often plagued large river valley schemes in India, Asia, and, indeed, much of the world. The loss of forest cover due to submergence and ecological degradation in the catchment areas became a major concern. Part of the problem with these criticisms is the absence of context. The world in which Nehru served as prime minister was very different from our own. The early part of the century had seen major hydel projects that were of great symbolic importance and also held the promise of great public benefit. The United States of America was admired the world over for the Tennessee Valley Authority that included a series of dams aimed at putting an end to floods in a key part of the Deep South of that country. It also generated hydropower and facilitated development in the wake of the Depression. Nehru was not alone in this. B.R. Ambedkar explicitly evoked this as a model for the Damodar valley in eastern India. The other major power to emerge on the world stage, the Soviet Union, also advertised its mega engineering scheme with a great dam in 1937 on the river, Volga. For Stalin, such dams were a sign that socialism had come of age and could promise greater gains than anything the West had to offer. His successors expanded such works on the Don, the Dnieper and the Volga. In the Indian case, the dams of Bhakra and Nangal were among the prized projects of the Nehru era. But there was a significant difference with the American and Soviet cases. India was not only a newly independent nation: it also had a broad consensus among its leaders that modern industry was imperative to defend its new-found freedoms. By undertaking such projects as the dams on the Sutlej, Nehru and the Punjab government of Partap Singh Kairon were also conveying that Indians were capable of large civilian engineering projects. Begun in 1954, the scheme was completed by October 1963. These were dams built by the state electricity board just as the new planned city of Chandigarh was a project of the public works department. The reference to the dam being equal to ‘a temple, a mosque or a gurudwara’ and the admiration it evokes had a subliminal message. Punjab had been torn apart in the carnage of Partition and this marked a new beginning. The evocation of religious places was to evoke a sense of reverence for a common project for the public good. Quite apart from the symbolic as well as substantive gains of big dams, including irrigation water and power, there were signs of early debate about their ill effects. There had been a black flag demonstration by evacuees at the Hirakud dam site when Nehru visited it in 1946. In Bengal, the engineer-author, Kapil Dev Bhattacharya, had argued that the gains of the Damodar valley schemes were overstated. He further wrote that the silt load was far greater than estimated and that the dams would wreak havoc on the fisheries downstream. Large river valley projects were central to the project of nation-building in more than one country at the time. Work on Gamal Abdel Nasser’s Aswan dam commenced in 1960 and was the symbol of Egyptian pride. The Turks went ahead with the Atatürk dam on the Euphrates. The historian, John R. McNeill, shows how the high point globally was in 1968 when a dam was being commissioned somewhere on earth every day. Yet, there was another Jawaharlal Nehru, not the ardent champion of big projects but the healthy sceptic. The Discovery of India, written in Ahmednagar Fort during his three-year-long detention, offers a clue. Published in 1946, the book has a section where he crucially assesses the impact of modern engineering structures on river valleys. Embankments on river basins blocked the flow of waters and worsened floods. These prevented the natural flow of water in the monsoon and exposed more villagers and townspeople to floods. These were a new feature of the era of British rule. Nehru was thus conscious of the double-edged effect of new technologies. Most revealing are two letters he wrote to chief ministers in August and September 1957, respectively. This was just over three years after his speeches at the Bhakra and the Nangal dam sites in August 1954. Both are in Volume Four of Letters to Chief Ministers, 1954-57, published long ago in 1988. Interestingly, neither his admirers nor his critics seem to have paid much attention to these communications. The first letter dated August 15, 1957, the tenth anniversary of India’s Independence, could have been penned by one of today’s critics and a paragraph deserves to be cited in extenso. “We have many large-scale river valley projects,” he wrote, “which are carefully worked out by our engineers. I wonder, however, how much thought is given before the project is launched, to having an ecological survey of the area and to find out what the effect would be on the drainage system or to the flora and fauna of that area. It would be desirable to have such an ecological survey of these areas before the project is launched and thus to avoid an imbalance of nature.” Emphasis is added here and not in the original but it is notable that he was talking of ecological studies at the planning stage as part of a project, an idea that was to take shape only in the 1970s in the developed world and in India in the next decade. These words were penned in August of 1957. The next letter of September 3 returned to the same theme of bunds and embankments on the flood plains he had taken up in his writings as early as 1946. There was a widespread demand for structures to avert floods but “every embankment or bund, while protecting one area, might lead to greater danger to another area”. Drainage was the key to flood control. Interventions were often a must but they ought to proceed “paying any attention to their effect on nature’s economy”. Nehru favoured large projects as did all his successors as prime minister no matter of what political affiliation. Their gains are seen as outweighing costs. The first instances of ecological considerations leading to rethinking and scrapping of projects were in the 1970s and in 1980s — Silent Valley, Kerala or Bedthi Varahi, Karnataka. Nehru was engaging with these ideas long before any of this. What is important was his willingness to engage and rethink design features. Some of his comments ring true to this day. He was not a heedless advocate of mega dams. On the contrary, he would be not out of place in the world of today. The author teaches History and Environmental Studies at Ashoka University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-116
16-11-2020||Jharkhand||Police arrest four assailants for a murder in Adityapur||The police arrested all four assailants within 24 hours after they killed a 26-year-old youth at Vidyutnagar, Jamshedpur on Sunday. Those arrested on Monday were identified as Kuar Sabaiya alias Mathura, Bhagwan Sabaiya, Jogen Sabaiya and Goberdhan Kurli, all residents of Vidyutnagar. The police also recovered two iron rods and many sticks used in the murder from their houses at Vidyutnagar on Monday. The murder happened in Vidyutnagar under Adityapur thana area in the adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district about five km away. Revealing about the breakthrough, Seraikela-Kharsawan superintendent of police, Mohammed Arshi said that the murder victim Deepak Sardar was returning home after closing his stationery shop at Vidyutnagar at around 10 pm when the four assailants led by Mathura attacked him with iron rods and sticks. Arshi also informed that the attackers had inflected grievous injury to Deepak's younger brother Krishna Sardar. "Having inflicted fatal injuries to Deepak, the four fled the scene, leaving two victims in a pool of blood. As soon as the news of the fatal attack spread, a patrolling party of Adityapur thana reached the spot and rescued the injured, and rushed them to the MGM Medical College Hospital. Deepak who had sustained grievous head injuries succumbed to his injuries in an hour," said Arshi while talking to the media. Speaking about the reason behind the attack, Arshi stated that both Deepak and Mathura wanted to establish their supremacy in Vidyutnagar area and were in a rivalry. He said on the night of November 13, Deepak who was a resident of Krishnanagar in RIT thana area had clashed with Mathura at Vidyutnagar, triggering an enmity between the two. "Two days later Mathura arranged his friends and planned the attack on Deepak for avenging the assault meted out to him on Friday night. Having assaulted the murder victim, the assailants had taken shelter at several slums in and around Adityapur. But a police team led by Adityapur thana OC, Rajendra Kumar Mahto took a statement from the victim's brother Sanjay Sardar and raided each and every probable hideout and arrested all the four by 5 am on Monday," the superintendent of police pointed out. Arshi said the iron rods and sticks that they recovered were blood-stained, suggesting that these had been used in the murder of Deepak Sardar. He said the police would get a forensic test on the blood-stained iron rods and sticks so as to produce them as an exhibit during the trial of the murder case in court. The senior police officer said, though the assailants, all in the age-group of 23-25 years, committed a murder, they did not have any police records as such. All four were sent to the Seraikela Sadar Hospital for Covid-19 test and subsequently sent to Seraikela divisional jail after their production before a judicial magistrate in the afternoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-235
16-11-2020||Jharkhand||Baba Baijnath Seva Sangh to offer doorstep delivery of Chhath Puja items||A Mango-based religious outfit, Baba Baijnath Seva Sangh, will be distributing Chhath Puja items free of cost among the devotees. Fruits and other puja paraphernalia would be delivered at the doorstep of devotees who are also referred to as Chhath vratis in properly sanitized cotton bags. “We are making arrangements for distributing Chhath Puja items in over 5,000 households in Mango and its adjoining areas. We are doing this because of the pandemic. The fruits and other items would be properly sanitized before they are delivered to the doorstep of devotees,” said Vikas Singh, a senior functionary of Baba Baijnath Seva Sangh on Monday. The outfit also organizes a free trip for devotees to Deoghar from steel city during the holy month of Shravan. On Monday, the religious outfit issued two contact numbers – 8540986994 and 9334141644 – where devotees can call for getting Chhath Puja items. This year Chhath will be celebrated on November 20 and 21. The outfit will distribute the puja items on November 19. Meanwhile, the residents have started making arrangements for celebrating the festival on the rooftop and courtyard of their homes as the state disaster management on Sunday midnight issued a communique debarring devotees from celebrating Chhath on river ghats, ponds, lakes and other water bodies due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The directive also banned any kind of stalls to be set up near water bodies and prohibited individuals from earmarking space near water bodies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-235
16-11-2020||Jharkhand||JFC acquire AFC and national licenses for 2020-21 season||FC is one of the six Indian Super League (ISL) clubs to have secured the Asian Football Confederation (AFC) and national Licenses for the 2020-21 season. The results were communicated to the clubs on Saturday evening by the All India Football Federation (AIFF). “We are glad to have fulfilled the Indian clubs licensing by complying to all the criteria required for the same. The objective of club licensing is to develop a professional system of football in the country and we at Jamshedpur FC strive to work towards complying to it. The AIFF has been very encouraging and supporting during the  extensive process of club licensing, especially considering the Covid-19 scenario,” said JFC chief executive officer Mukul Choudhari. He added that the club strongly believes in committing to professionalism and development of football guided with the values of Tata Steel. “We take this very seriously here and ensure that we follow the right practices as laid down by the AIFF and AFC. The club has a robust grassroots and academy system along with various initiatives of coach education, player development, community engagement and various CSR activities in the rural areas of Jharkhand,” Choudhari said. The AIFF had opened up the club licensing system for the 2020-21 season on July 14. The Club Licensing Application Pack (CLAP) was sent to all eligible clubs and they were asked to submit a signed copy of the Club Licensing agreement which is a declaration that they are ready to undertake the initiative for the Club Licensing. Later in October, the AFC had extended the deadline for submitting the necessary documents for the Club Licensing to November 13. Besides JFC,  other clubs who have fulfilled the criteria for club licensing are FC Goa, ATK Mohun Bagan FC, Bengaluru FC, Chennaiyin FC and Mumbai City FC. SC East Bengal, Kerala Blasters FC, Hyderabad FC, NorthEast United FC and Odisha FC have not cleared the licensing procedure. The Tata Steel-owned JFC are presently in Goa for the seventh edition of the cash-rich ISL starting at three separate venues from November 20. Jamshedpur launch their campaign against last season’s runners-up Chennaiyin FC at Tilak Maidan on November 24.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-235
16-11-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant govt faces flak for banning Chhath at lake, ponds||The Hemant Soren government faced severe criticism for banning Chhath congregations at public water bodies with both ruling and Opposition party members accusing it of hurting religious sentiments on Monday, barely 12 hours after a midnight communique was issued to announce the guidelines. The Opposition BJP launched protests on the streets in many parts of the state, including capital Ranchi. Members of the ruling JMM and Congress issued separate appeals and submitted memorandums to the chief minister, asking him to reconsider the guidelines, which were issued keeping the Covid-19 pandemic in mind. Chhath Puja is scheduled to be held November 20 and 21.  Former chief minister Raghubar Das, who is also a patron of the Chhath Puja Samiti of Sidhgora in Jamshedpur, wrote to Hemant, appealing to him to allow devotees to perform morning and evening arghya at ponds amid strict Covid-19 safety norms on the lines of Bihar. “In Bihar, the government has allowed Chhath festival and puja at ponds where congregations can be regulated. Jharkhand too should do it on similar lines to not hurt religious sentiments of Hindus. Chhath is a major festival in Jharkhand too,” Das wrote. State BJP president Deepak Prakash accused the government of being anti-Hindu. “The strange order should be taken back in view of popular religious sentiments. Maintaining social distancing at Chhath ghats is possible with proper planning. BJP will continue to oppose it tooth and nail,” he said. Ranchi MP Sanjay Seth, mayor Asha Lakra, along with district units of the party, held protests at Button Talab in Doranda in the afternoon. Ruling JMM and Congress members also sought amendments of the Chhath guidelines. JMM general secretary Vinod Pandey wrote to Hemant demanding reconsideration of the diktat. Ally Congress echoed similar sentiments. The party’s co-working president Rajesh Thakur said in a statement, “We urge the government to reconsider its decision. Covid-19 is not over yet, but religion and cultural practices are equally important. The babus (bureaucrats) have issued guidelines without applying their minds and keeping people’s religious sentiments in mind.” Around midnight on Sunday, the government issued guidelines banning Chhath Puja at rivers/ponds and other public water bodies in view of the covid-19 pandemic. Chief secretary Sukhdev Singh in his order maintained that since it would  not be possible to maintain the national order of “do gaz ki doori (two feet social distancing) while performing Chhath rituals, the state government was asking residents to stay indoors during the festival to minimise chances of a renewed spread of the coronavirus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-235
16-11-2020||Jharkhand||Tata Steel to organize Virtual Run 2020 on Saturday, November 22 ||The first-ever Tata Steel virtual run, scheduled on November 22, will be different and with a social cause. Registrations for the ‘sought-after’ event, to be conducted in groups like 5 km (12-16 years boys and girls), 7 km (16 years and above, men and women) and 10 km (16 years and above, men and women) are open. To encourage maximum participation, some exciting recognitions like e-certificate, discount coupons and a steel medal especially crafted from steel and made by Tata Steel will be given to participants as per terms and conditions. To respect and protect Mother Nature, and value the great advantages that trees bless us with every day, a sapling will be planted for each participant in Jamshedpur, a Tata Steel official said. The participants can visit www.getactiveindia.com to register. The run is open only for Indian nationals. The participants can run from anywhere they choose to. The activities can be recorded by using GPS-based watch Garmin or mobile fitness app Strava only. The data needs to be uploaded along with the screenshot of the run from the link provided with the registration confirmation mail. Tata Steel has been promoting fitness culture through its marathons organized in five cities across India – Calcutta, Jamshedpur and Noamundi (both in Jharkhand), and Bhubaneswar and Angul (both in Odisha). The run has been a hit whenever it was held in the steel city. People, including corporate honchos and marathoners from across the country, have added gloss to the event. Annually, around 35,000 people participate in these running events. Due to the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic, a need was identified to get connected with various stakeholders through a virtual run. Being conducted on a digital platform ensures extended reach and aim to have more number of participants across the country compared to previous years. The event will be managed by Striders (the event partner) – a fitness training group that designs and organizes fitness-specific training programs and conducts various run events throughout the year. It is sponsored by Brooks, the popular running shoe brand in the world, who designs and markets running-specific performance footwear, apparel and accessories worldwide.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-235
16-11-2020||Jharkhand||7-hour airport shutdown daily till January 2021  ||Flight operations will remain suspended for seven hours between 10.15 am to 5.30 pm at Ranchi airport for the next two months in view of repairs on the runway, airport officials said on Monday. Birsa Munda International Airport director Vinod Kumar Sharma said, “Re-carpeting of the runway was required to be undertaken for smooth operation of flights at our airport. We began work from today (Monday) after getting all clearances from our headquarters. Hence, we have rescheduled our operation timings by splitting it into two halves. In the  first half, flights will run between 6.45 am to 10.15 am and in the second half from 5.30 pm till 9.15 pm.” Sharma said the new timings would be in force till January 15, 2021. As per the new schedule, as many as 12 flights of Go Air, Air Asia, Indigo and Vistara would be operated during the first half while about 11 would be operated in the second half. Ranchi airport has a runway length of around 8,901 feet, at least 2,000 feet short of the regulation length for operating international flights. Hence, despite the inauguration of a new integrated passenger terminal building and renaming it as an international airport in 2013, Ranchi is yet to begin operating flights to international destinations. New Chennai flight In terms of services, a significant addition was announced on Monday. Ranchi residents will now be able to take direct flights to Chennai without having to halt or layover at other destinations. According to airport officials, the first flight to Chennai, run by Indigo Airlines, will take off from Ranchi airport on Wednesday, November 18, at 8.45 am and land in the Tamil Nadu capital at 11.15 am. The Indigo flight will first ferry passengers from Chennai to Ranchi. It will take off from Chennai airport at 5.45 am and land in Ranchi at 8.15 am. “There was a lot of demand for direct flights to Chennai from Ranchi. It was in the pipeline for a long time but we somehow could not start. We will finally start flight services to Chennai from November 18, and it will be a daily service,” said Deputy General Manager (Air Traffic Management) of Birsa Munda Airport, Wilfred Kerketta. Several hundred students, especially the ones pursuing engineering in Tamil Nadu colleges, are likely to benefit from the new direct flights. The demand for direct flights to Chennai was also fueled by the high frequency of Ranchi residents travelling to Vellore for medical treatments and tests. Vellore is about 140km from Chennai by road, and patients may now take a flight to Chennai for visiting Vellore instead of opting for trains, which consume more time, said the DGM (ATM). Ranchi airport is fast growing in terms of connectivity with other cities. The largest airport in Jharkhand has 30 flights connecting Ranchi to cities like New Delhi, Mumbai, Calcutta, Bangalore and Hyderabad. Now, with the inclusion of Chennai in the list, travelling to destinations in southern India is expected to get easier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-235
16-11-2020||Jharkhand||Mother with 2 children jumps in front of train, 3-year-old girl survives||A three-year-old girl survived miraculously after her mother, along with her brother and her, jumped in front of an approaching train at Jalpa station on Saturday. Members of the Palamau district legal services authority helped rescue Kirti Kumari, who has had to have a portion of her foot amputated. Legal aid officials are now overseeing her treatment at the Medinirai Medical College Hospital in Daltonganj. According to Hussainabad sub-divisional police officer Jitendra Kumar, Kirti’s mother, Geeta Devi, took her and her brother to platform number 3 of the Japla railway station, under Mughalsarai station, and jumped with both of them before a goods train that was headed towards Sone Nagar. He said the chairman of the district legal services authority, Pradip K Choubey, who is the principal district and sessions judge of Daltonganj, deputed Sanjiv Kumar, along with paralegal volunteer Bhagirath Dubey, to visit Kirti at the children’s ward of the hospital on Sunday. The legal aid functionary said, “On visiting the girl child at the hospital we found that she needed better treatment and immediately asked Palamau civil surgeon John F Kennedy and deputy medical superintendent K.N. Singh to look into it.” A two-member team from child welfare committee (CWC), comprising Dhirender Kumar and Pranav Kumar Verenyam, also reached the hospital to ensure Kirti received good medical care. Kirti’s grandfather Bandhu Yadav is understood to have petitioned CWC to say that he was too poor to be able to provide for her treatment. He urged the CWC to help them organise her continued medical treatment. Legal services authority chairman Choubey said, “We understand that GRP will investigate this case thoroughly as it occurred on railway tracks. Legal services is open to assisting this child. We will monitor this case too,” he added. Palamau civil surgeon Kennedy said Kirti had already given a unit of blood. “The blood bank has been directed to ensure transfusion facilities were available 24x7. We have to ensure the child does not contract any infection,” he said. Deputy medical superintendent Singh said he had directed physician R. K. Ranjan, surgeon Sushil Pandey and attending doctor Sanjay Singh to keep a round-the-clock vigil on the girl. Singh said, “The child is stable. Her bleeding has stopped. Nurses and other paramedics have been asked to see that she faces minimal discomfort. The attending doctors have been advised to arrange medicines on their own as the child comes from a very poor family.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-235
16-11-2020||Jharkhand||Only 129 fresh infections in a day, active Covid cases drop below 3000 in Jharkhand||Active cases of the Covid-19 infection dropped below 3,000 in Jharkhand on Sunday after 291 patients recovered from the infection in 24 hours while only 129 fresh cases surfaced, figures compiled by the health department stated. As per latest government data, as many as 2,952 people were battling the viral infection across Jharkhand and at least 975 of them were from Ranchi, the district with highest Covid caseload and active cases. East Singhbhum, on the other hand, had 536 active cases of infection, the second highest among all the 24 districts in Jharkhand, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As per the NHM bulletin, none of the districts reported a triple-digit-spike in Covid-19 cases, while at least 11 districts reported less than 10 active cases. No fresh cases of infection were reported in at least seven districts, including Saraikela, Simdega and Giridih, the bulletin stated. As many as 18 of 24 districts in Jharkhand had less than 100 active cases of infection, stated the bulletin, highlighting the rapid fall in the number of Covid-19 cases owing to a high recovery rate and low growth rate in the state. The Covid-19 recovery rate in Jharkhand, as per government data, was 96.34 per cent on Sunday against the national average of 93.10 per cent. While the active cases dropped significantly in Jharkhand, the number of Covid casualties increased slightly on Sunday as two more patients died during treatment in 24 hours. Both East SInghbhum and Ranchi reported one Covid casualty on the day, taking the toll in Ranchi to 185 and that in East Singhbhum to 345. As per government figures, at least 924 people have died of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand so far, taking the Covid mortality rate up at 0.87 per cent. However, the mortality rate in Jharkhand was lower than the national average of 1.50 per cent. The NHM bulletin released on Sunday night further stated that the growth rate of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand was 0.19 per cent against the national average of 0.43 per cent. The doubling rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 371.57 days against the national average of 161.35 days, the bulletin highlighted. Health workers in Jharkhand tested swab samples of 10,186 people on Sunday and over 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, the government has collected swab samples of 38.18 lakh people and tested 37.90 lakh of them. The Covid-19 tally in Jharkhand, as on Sunday, was 1,06,064 and at least 1,02,188 of them have recovered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-235
16-11-2020||Jharkhand||Observe Chhath rituals indoors, state issues strict guidelines||Lakes, ponds, riverbeds and other public water bodies will be out of bounds for devotees during Chhath, the two-day festival scheduled to begin on November 20, the state disaster management department said in a communiqué issued around Sunday midnight. Signed by state chief secretary Sukhdev Singh, the order reads, “Since it will not be possible to maintain the national order of ‘do gaz ki doori (two-feet social distancing)’ while performing Chhath puja in the waters of river/pond/lakes/rivers/dams/reservoirs/any other public water bodies, it is, therefore, not permitted to be held so as to minimise the chances of the spread of the coronavirus infection.” The directive also banned any kind of stalls to be set up near water bodies and prohibited individuals from earmarking space near water bodies, putting up lights or making other special arrangements. The curbs on bursting of crackers in public places during the Chhath festival or the conduct of entertainment and cultural programmes would continue to be in force. “The order was issued after lots of deliberations to balance culture and precautions during the pandemic. Finally, everyone was of the view that Chhath should also be a private affair like other festivals to tackle the pandemic,” said an official of the state IPRD department. All districts, civic bodies and other stakeholders have been directed to ensure total compliance ahead of the festival celebrated widely across Bihar and Jharkhand. This year, Chhath is scheduled to be held on November 20 and 21 when devotees offer arghya (prayer) to the sun God at dusk and dawn. Lakhs of devotees turn up at water bodies for a holy dip and prayers. But amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, allowing such religious congregations could well prove risky, and may aid the spread of the virus. Notably, on Friday, Ranchi mayor Asha Lakra met with the chief secretary to demand urgent issuance of directives for the upcoming festival to end ambiguity and uncertainty among officials and devotees at large. The state had also imposed several curbs during Durga puja and Diwali. While the outcome of the Diwali curbs is yet unknown, the state government seems to have largely succeeded in containing the spread of infection after Durga Puja which was held during the end of October. Recoveries of Covid-19 cases continue to outnumber fresh infections. As per Sunday night’s bulletin, total active cases have come down below the 3,000-mark. There are 2,952 people under treatment for coronavirus infection. State reported 129 new cases, 291 recoveries and two deaths in the last 24 hours. As per official data, Jharkhand has recorded 1,06,064 Covid cases in all. Of these,  1,02,188 have recovered working out to a recovery rate of 96.34 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-235
