17-11-2020||Calcutta||Shortage of nurses hits ICU bed plans||The ICU beds for Covid-19 patients at several private hospitals are all occupied but the authorities are unable to increase the number of such beds in the absence of enough nurses trained in critical care, officials of the hospitals have said. A nurse attending to patients in an intensive care unit (ICU) — also called intensive therapy unit — has to monitor many equipment like ventilator and bipap, both of which provide oxygen, and conduct arterial blood gas tests. Administrators of private hospitals, who have been repeatedly impacted by the exit of nurses to the government sector, said double the number of nurses were required to run an ICU for Covid patients compared with a general ward for patients suffering from the disease. Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital, said “12 or 13” nurses were allotted every shift for 21 ICU beds reserved for Covid-19 patients in his hospital. “In comparison, 25 nurses per shift manage the 129 general beds for Covid-19 patients,” he said. “The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Act says the patient-to-nurse ratio in ICU will be 1:1. But most hospitals are unable to maintain that because there is an acute shortage of nurses trained to manage ICU,” said an official of a private hospital. Officials of AMRI Hospitals and Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals said their Covid ICU beds were all occupied. While Apollo has 16 ICU beds for Covid patients, AMRI has 92 at its hospitals in Salt Lake, Dhakuria and Mukundapur. An official of AMRI Hospitals said they had no immediate plan to increase the number of ICU beds for Covid patients. An official at Apollo said they had increased the number of ICU and high dependency unit beds for Covid patients ahead of Durga Puja. “We have no plan to immediately ramp up ICU beds,” the official said. Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals, said they were ready with equipment and other infrastructure to ramp up the critical care bed count. “But there is a dearth of trained doctors and nurses who can manage ICU patients. That is why we are a little slow in increasing the number of critical care beds for Covid patients, though we feel there is a demand for such beds,” he said. Alok Roy, the chairperson of Medica, echoed Barua. Mitra of Peerless Hospital said they had started training a new batch of nurses in critical care. “Most of the nurses who left our hospital were doing ICU duties. The training of the new nurses will take a few months. There is no scope to increase the number of Covid ICU beds till then,” he said.  The chairperson of the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission has requested private hospitals to increase their ICU bed count through a WhatsApp message. The Telegraph had on October 20 reported that a fresh round of exodus of nurses from private hospitals had threatened their plans to ramp up beds ahead of Durga Puja. The state government had recruited more than 550 nurses in state-run hospitals around that time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-235
17-11-2020||Calcutta||Chhath ban at Sarobar intact so far||The Supreme Court on Monday deferred the hearing of the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority’s (CMDA) plea to allow Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar to a date by when this year’s event will be over, lawyers representing the agency said. “The court did not pass any order but listed the matter for hearing next Monday (November 23),” Rakesh Dwivedi, a lawyer appearing for the CMDA, said over the phone after the hearing. Chhath Puja will be held on November 20.  The apex court’s decision to schedule the hearing for November 23 means the National Green Tribunal’s 2017 order imposing a ban on all pujas in the Rabindra Sarobar complex will be in force when Chhath rituals will be performed this year. “The bench before which the matter came up for hearing on Monday did not hear the matter the last time (on November 2). The bench said that since the previous bench had issued notice to the respondent, it (the previous bench) should hear the plea,” said Dwivedi.  The CMDA, the custodian of the south Calcutta water body and the adjoining gardens, has approached the Supreme Court with an appeal to allow Chhath Puja at the Sarobar. It had earlier approached the NGT with the plea but the tribunal rejected the petition without even hearing it. Firhad Hakim, the state urban development minister and chairperson of the CMDA, told Metro on Monday evening that the state would comply with the NGT’s order. “We will abide by the order of the NGT. We will not make any arrangements for Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar this year. The NGT’s order will be displayed outside Sarobar’s gates,” he said. “We have made alternative ghats across the city. We will run a campaign on the alternative locations in the places from where Chhath devotees used to come to Sarobar.”  Asked if the government would deploy police to prevent a recurrence of last year’s events, Hakim said: “That is for the police to decide. It does not come under my department.” Last year, devotees had broken the locks of Sarobar’s gates and entered the compound to perform the rituals on the banks of the water body, while the police allegedly looked the other way. Environment activists had said the administration acted like an ally of the violators. It remains to be seen whether the administration again allows violation of the tribunal’s order. “If the state government does not comply with the order of the NGT this year, too, it will be a very serious insult to the highest court of the country,” said environment activist Subhas Datta, the respondent in the CMDA’s petition. Datta was served a notice by the Supreme Court as respondent when the CMDA’s petition first came up before it on November 2. “The bench said on Monday that the NGT’s order will remain in force when my counsel asked if the court not issuing any interim order meant the tribunal’s order remains effective,” said Datta, whose petition against allowing football matches under floodlights at the Rabindra Sarobar stadium triggered a series of developments, after which the NGT ordered a ban on all pujas, social events and picnics at Rabindra Sarobar in 2017. “We are not against Chhath Puja, but we are against any puja being held at Sarobar,” said Sumita Banerjee, a regular at Rabindra Sarobar. Environmentalists opposing Chhath Puja at the Sarobar have said the puja rituals affect the ecology of the place. “Every year we notice migratory birds leave the Sarobar immediately after Chhath Puja. Most of them do not return,” said a birdwatcher. Birdwatchers this year recorded more than 100 bird species at the Sarobar. Another environmentalist said devotees float lamps on the water while performing the rituals. The oil and ghee of the lamps spill on the water and affect aquatic lives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-236
17-11-2020||Calcutta||How we treat our birds||A vast wetland near Calcutta has emerged as a popular drive destination over the past few months. The wetland is also a killing field for hundreds of birds every day, many of whom fly in from thousands of kilometres away, said birders and conservationists. A man was arrested from Bortir Bill in Nilgunj, North 24-Parganas, around 35km from the heart of Calcutta, on Sunday evening with a net and dead birds. The arrest has blown the lid off an alleged mass killing of birds at the wetland by a section of residents of the area, wildlife activists said. Over the past three days, scores of nylon nets — some of them 100-metres long — have been removed from the wetland. The nets, white and almost transparent, are as good as invisible. The only giveaway are the bamboo poles on which the nets are erected. The birds fly into the net and get trapped. They are allegedly sold at local markets the next day. The wetland, which spans over 60sq km, is home to a thriving population of local birds, including a variety of herons and snipes. During winter, when the water recedes, the wetland is the destination of many migratory birds, mainly from central Asia and Trans-Siberian region. Some of them are Glossy Ibis, Eurasian Coot, Pacific Golden Plover and Wood Sandpiper, said birdwatchers. The place has been known to birders for some time. It emerged as a popular destination for nature lovers during the lockdown, generating significant online traction and attracting flocks of photographers, amateur and professional. But the alleged killings did not come to the fore until recently. “The nets were set up after sundown and removed before sunset. We had received information from some residents about the killings,” said Sumanta Pramanick, a volunteer with Human and Environment Alliance League (HEAL), the NGO that has visited the place several times over the past week, filming the nets, visiting local markets posing as possible customers of birds and talking to residents on the alleged killings. “Not all trapped birds are eaten. But they are also trapped in the nets and are injured. They are left to die,” said Pramanick. “This (the killings) have been going on for many years now. But the scale has gone up in the past five-six years. The local markets see hundreds of birds, dead and injured, every day. The birds sell for anywhere between Rs 150 and 400 apiece,” said a resident who requested anonymity for fear of reprisal, since a part of the local population is said to be involved in the alleged killings. The NGO, HEAL, collaborated with the state forest department in conducting raids at some of the local markets. Films shot by HEAL members and shared with this newspaper showed several birds trapped in the nets. Birdwatcher and conservationist Sujan Chatterjee identified some of the trapped birds as the Pacific Golden Plover and Wood Sandpiper. The former comes from the Pacific coasts off Russia and China, while the latter comes from Siberia, he said. V.K. Yadav, the chief wildlife warden of Bengal, said the forest department had received complaints about migratory birds being killed at Bortir Bill. “Egrets (local birds) were found on the man who was arrested on Sunday. We have got some reports, on the basis of which we are conducting raids at nearby markets,” said Yadav. “There is nothing that suggests that the birds are being hunted for commercial use. Some people might hunt birds for personal consumption. We are looking into the issue and will do all that is needed,” he said. But conservationists said the recovery of so many nets from the area suggested otherwise. “People don’t spend so much for a personal meal. The scale of investment points to large-scale commercial incentives. I cannot recall a previous instance of such large-scale killing of migratory birds in the recent past,” said Chatterjee. The raids and the arrest are expected to act as a deterrent for people engaged in hunting the birds, said members of the NGO. “Awareness programmes explaining the ecological importance of the birds would not yield immediate results,” said Meghna Banerjee, a founder member of HEAL. “We are collating a comprehensive report to be submitted to the forest department. At least a few hundred birds were being killed every day,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-236
17-11-2020||Calcutta||SC extends interim order on school fees||The Supreme Court on Monday extended its October 28 interim order by which it had declined to interfere with the Calcutta High Court directions to private schools in Bengal to waive 20 per cent of their tuition fees and completely waive the fees for services that could not be offered because of the pandemic. The interim order had, however, stayed certain portions of the high court judgment that asked schools to consider individual applications from parents for further waiver and allowed parents to approach a committee if they did not get redress from the schools. The apex court bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R.Subhash Reddy passed Monday’s order while issuing notices to the Bengal government and the petitioner before the high court, on a batch of fresh petitions filed by some aggrieved private schools challenging the impugned high court order. The bench, while tagging the fresh petitions with the earlier ones, posted the matter for further hearing to the first week of January. Which means the private schools in Bengal, including those run by the Church, will have to offer the pandemic fee cut till further orders. “Permission to file special leave petitions is allowed. Issue notice. Tag with SLP(C) No… There shall be interim order to the same effect, as passed on 28.10.2020 in Special Leave Petition … List in the first week of January, 2021,” the bench said in a brief order. A consortium of schools under the Church of North India and various other schools have filed special leave petitions challenging the October 13 judgment of the high court. In the earlier hearing, the apex court had declined to stay the entire judgment of the high court but said it was staying only directions 8 to 16 contained in paragraph 61 of the judgment. Directions 8 to 16 allowed parents to write to schools seeking further relief in terms of waiver or exemption or delayed or instalment payments. It also allowed them to approach a three-member committee if schools failed to address their concern. The private schools had assailed the high court judgment on the ground that it was contrary to a number of rulings by the Supreme Court in the T.M.A. Pai, P.A. Inamdar and other cases, wherein it was ruled that private unaided schools were free to manage their affairs without any interference from the State. The high court had passed the order while dealing with a PIL by Vineet Ruia, who had alleged that private schools had been disallowing students from attending online classes or writing their exams on the ground that they had not paid their fees. Several parents could not afford the fees because the Covid pandemic had hit their earnings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-236
17-11-2020||Calcutta||Women vulnerable during festivals||A woman walking towards her home in Bijoygarh after seeing off her niece lost her gold chain to a snatcher on a scooter on Sunday evening. Her screams alerted a police patrol, which was nearby, and cops caught the person on the scooter before he could speed away, police said. The chain was found on him. He has been arrested on the charge of robbery. Sunita Pal, 48, was walking towards her home around 6.30pm without realising someone was stalking her, the police said. “As she neared her home, the person on the scooter pushed her and pulled at her chain so hard that it snapped,” an officer of Jadavpur police station said. She lost her balance and fell on the road and started screaming for help as the person rode away. A patrol vehicle that was nearby gave chase and caught up with the scooter, which did not have a number plate, a few hundred metres away, the officer said. Ranajit Patra, 30, a resident of Haridevpur, was arrested after the gold chain was found on him. The scooter has been seized. The patrol was part of the additional police arrangement for Diwali across the city on Saturday and Sunday. “Women are especially vulnerable during festivals because of the jewellery they wear. This year, the situation is more serious as there are fewer people on roads because of the pandemic… criminals can find it easier to target women and children,” an officer said. This was the reason why additional cops were posted in lanes across the city, the officer said. Cops were posted not just to look into to complaints related to firecrakers but also to act as a deterrent to crime on Diwali and Kali Puja, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-236
17-11-2020||Calcutta||Majerhat bridge test in last lap||The load test of the Majerhat bridge started on Monday and will continue till Friday, marking the final stage for opening a vital link in south Calcutta a little over two years since a portion of it had collapsed. Once the weight-bearing capacity of the structure is found to match the specification in the original design, engineers will run the final check and complete some fine-tuning before declaring the bridge “ready for use”. “The load test is the last hurdle we will have to clear,” said a senior PWD official. As part of the test, empty and fully loaded vehicles are mounted on a bridge or flyover and the stability of the structure is monitored. Engineers calculate the load-bearing capacity of the structure and record how different elements — such as the concrete deck slab, bearings and cables (which will hold the part of the bridge that is over railway tracks) — are functioning. The stress-bearing capacity is monitored with the help of advanced machines and the readings are noted down. “We will begin by mounting trucks equal to 50 per cent of the load-bearing capacity of the bridge and then gradually scale it up to 75 per cent and finally 100 per cent,” said a senior PWD official. “Several instruments, including dial gauges, will be placed at the end of the piers of the bridge and all deflections induced by stress will be noted down.” The readings will be taken to the agency that has designed the bridge for an analysis. Structural engineers will find out whether the stress-bearing capacity of various components are in consonance with the design and whether any deviation has been noticed. Since 260m of the deck slab of the bridge stands over railway tracks, bridge experts in the railways, too, will take a look at the data, PWD officials said. The load test of the bridge follows a clearance from the railways. A team led by the chief bridge engineer of the railways and PWD representatives jointly inspected the bridge on November 9. As many as 84 cables, brought from Switzerland, hold the deck slab of the flyover, which has come up at the site where a span of the bridge had collapsed in September 2018. “Only 40 per cent of the load-bearing capacity of each of the cables will be utilised,” an official said. “So there is no threat even if there is a sudden rise in the static load on the bridge because of vehicles.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-236
17-11-2020||Calcutta||Social cause and contests||Eleven schools, a host of live and recorded events and a social cause — that was Morpheus 2020 in a nutshell. Hosted by South City International School, in association with the TTIS, the inter-school fest saw the students raising awareness through social media and innovative campaigns on menstrual hygiene. The event also raised funds to distribute sanitary kits for the underprivileged. A Model United Nation (MUN) was held over three days, raising awareness about the pandemic and related issues. The event, held in collaboration with Jadavpur University’s Model United Nations club, saw students dividing themselves into four committees — World Health Assembly, United Nations Security Council, National Security Council and International Press Corp. The team from Delhi Public School, Ruby Park, was adjudged the Best Delegation. “There were some offline pre-recorded events that we uploaded on YouTube during the fest. They included dance contest Pandemic! At the Disco, music competition Rockdown and a web comic contest Flat-toon The Curve among others. We tried to use puns related to Covid-19,” said Class XII student Roshni Banerjee, who was the president of this year’s event. “All the students have outdone themselves. My boys and girls managed everything themselves — from collecting funds to getting the sponsors. They conducted each event so seamlessly. Soft skills were enhanced for all participants. There was never a dull moment for the five days,” said principal John Bagul. Heritage Academy High School has been taking many initiatives to motivate the students with various events to heal their boredom. One such attempt named Estrella has been taken by the school in association with Telegraph Young Metro, where the students received a competitive platform to unveil their talents in various fields. The school held many contests for all the students from Playhouse to Class XII. The little angels of Playhouse, nursery and preparatory took part in rhymes telling and fancy dress competition. It was followed by storytelling competition and elocution contest performed by the students from classes I to IV. Students from classes V to X took part in quiz, extempore, talent hunt and debate competitions. Even students of classes XI and XII made video on the topic New Normal. Joy of Giving Week, also known as Daan Utsav, is no less than a festival for Indians. Given the prevailing circumstances, this year the students celebrated the occasion on a personal level. Students showed love and kindness to their helpers and drivers. They donated masks, sanitisers, clothes and dry food items to the needy. The children distributed essential products such as groceries to drivers, maid-servants, security guards and the like. Some also showed their concern for the underprivileged by making posters titled We Care. “Every year, this occasion is done on a large scale. But, we could not do so this year. However, it was encouraging to find that the students took motivation from the teachers and celebrated the occasion personally,” said headmistress Farida Singh. The BP Khaitan Memorial Discourse 2020, virtually organised by The BSS School in association with The Telegraph Young Metro and Calcutta Debating Circle, turned out to be a learning experience for all. The event saw 12 schools from United Kingdom, Middle East and different cities of India competing against each other through arguments and rebuttals. The Bishop’s School Pune won the trophy with Tarang Rathi of the school, speaking for the motion, clinching the Best Speaker prize. The motion — Truth is What the Masses Believe — had the proposition and opposition pitting the relative against the objective. Tarang was eloquent in his justifications in both the prelims and the finals. The moderator was entrepreneur-columnist Swati Gautam of Calcutta Debating Circle. “In a competitive space, where excellence is a cliché, we must prepare our students for the outer world. These days when kids are engrossed in technology they often forget to communicate in the real world. Hence the need for elocution and debates that builds the argumentative and communicative skills of students. Organising an international debate has been a great learning experience for all,” said The BSS School principal Sunita Sen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-236
17-11-2020||Calcutta||Ultadanga, Patuli homes burgled ||Two burglaries were reported in two parts of the city on Monday. One was in a housing complex at Ultadanga and the other at a Patuli home. In the Ultadanga housing complex, occupants of the targeted flat were away celebrating Bhai Phonta. In Patuli, a man returned home to find two people inside, fiddling with his wallet and money. They held the man at knifepoint and thrashed him with a rod but he managed to hold on to one of them trying to flee with a laptop from the house. The Ultadanga robbery occurred inside Pratiki Abashan — a housing complex on Ultadanga Main Road in Maniktala police station’s jurisdiction. The robbery was detected around 7pm when Swarnendu Das, the owner of the flat on the fourth floor in one of the blocks, returned with his family after celebrating Bhai Phonta at a relative’s place. Police said Das, an IT professional, found the latch on the main door broken and one of the cupboards ransacked. “The cupboard that had gold jewellery was targeted. The family has reported that valuables worth lakhs have been stolen,” an officer of Maniktala police station said. The housing complex does not have CCTV cameras on every floor. Cops are in the process of scanning the footage obtained from the cameras installed at the ground level, the police said. Several outside people, including vendors, maids, and delivery people, had entered the housing complex during the time the flat had been targeted. Cops suspect someone with insider’s information about the building’s security pattern — that guards takes a two-hour break every day between 1pm and 3pm — might be involved. “It is apparent that someone who had specific information no one would be in the flat between 10am and 7pm and that the building would be unmanned between 1pm and 3pm was involved,” an officer in Lalbazar said. “With such specific information, the role of an insider cannot be ruled out. The floor where the burglary took place has two more flats, one of which had residents throughout the day. The other robbery was reported at Patuli police station on Monday. Two men had broken inside a house in Baghajatin Colony while its occupant was away. Subhankar Mukherjee, 25, had returned to his rented apartment in Baghajatin Colony around 3.30pm. He has told cops that he found the collapsible gate in the front broken and two men inside holding his wallet and Rs10,000 in their hands. One of the men had Mukherjee’s laptop bag in his hand and was trying to flee through the door at the back on seeing Mukherjee. “One of them took out a knife and the other attacked him with a rod before slipping out of the rear door. Mukherjee started shouting and gave chase and managed to catch the man who had his laptop bag with the help of a youth,” an officer said. The captured man has identified himself as Deb Kumar Haldar, a resident of Narendrapur, the police said. Haldar will be produced in court on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-236
17-11-2020||Calcutta||Engineering student found hanging||A final-year student of computer science at a private engineering college in south Calcutta was found hanging in his rented apartment at Garfa on Monday afternoon, police said. Utkarsh Raj, 23, from Bihar’s Muzaffarpur, was declared dead at SSKM Hospital. Police said his roommates had gone to their homes during Diwali and Raj was alone at the apartment in Krishna Kunj on North Purbachal Road. One of the roommates, who hails from Jamshedpur, returned on Monday. “When repeated knocks went unanswered he called some of their neighbours and used a hacksaw to cut the bolt on the main door,” an officer of Garfa police station said. “He was found hanging from the ceiling with a nylon rope and towel round his neck. They alerted the police.” He was found in a partial hanging condition; his knees were resting on the bed, the officer said. A wooden stool was found on the bed. The police have learnt from his friends and neighbours he was “worried about his future prospects”. His family has been alerted and the body sent for post-mortem. Preliminary examination has suggested “discontinuous ligature marks” round his neck. The body bore no external injury marks, the police said. The actual cause of death can be ascertained only after the post-mortem report is available, an officer said. His phone will undergo forensic examination to find any information that might help in the investigation, the police said. His call detail record will be scanned. There has been no complaint from the family till Monday evening and there are no signs of foul play, the police said. Officials of his college told The Telegraph on Monday evening that they got to know of his death from students. “The police have not contacted us,” one of the officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-236
17-11-2020||Calcutta||Story behind the ‘quick’ cut-out||He was supposed to inaugurate the puja that had his debut film as its theme. Instead, the pandal décor ended up adding a visual touch to his last journey. An 18ft cut-out of Soumitra Chatterjee stood at the entry to the lane at the foot of Chetla bridge, leading to the gate of Keoratala crematorium. It was the bearded young Soumitra of Apur Sansar. Underneath, a printout carried a simple message  — Sansar-ey Apu ar nei. (Apu is not in the world any more). Next to it, the wall was lined with several more scenes featuring him from the film. Mourners who accompanied the actor on his last journey from Rabindra Sadan to the crematorium could not have imagined that less than a month ago the same cut-outs and pictures were part of a joyous occasion — Durga puja. Three pujas on a lane near the Rashbehari Avenue crossing had joined forces to offer a tribute to Satyajit Ray in his birth centenary year. With three pujas on board, Ray’s Apu trilogy became a natural choice, suggested by Mridul Pathak, the clubs’ New York-based mentor who has his roots in the locality. Thus Badamtala Ashar Sangha, the first puja on entering the lane, portrayed Pather Panchali, 66 Palli Sarbojanin did Aparajito while Apur Sansar, starring Chatterjee, fell in the share of Kalighat Nepal Bhattacharjee Street Club, the third club on the stretch. “We had preserved the pandal decor for our New Year get-together when we always do up the venue with items depicting the puja theme from the year before. When we heard the sad news, we were thinking of putting up pictures at the entry to our puja on the main road. But we got a call from Kalighat police station, quoting higher government authorities and instructing us to use the material from our pandal to decorate the path to the crematorium,” said Avijit Bose, secretary of the Kalighat Nepal Bhattacharjee Street Club puja, who had planned the look of the pandal environs himself. Bose had approached Chatterjee in January with a request to inaugurate the pandal. “We met him through a club member who was the manager of Star Theatre. He was attending a programme there that day. He was happy to hear about our theme and agreed to drop by. Even in August, our club member spoke to Soumitra babu over phone, inviting him on Panchami. He wanted to come on Chaturthi instead,” said Bose. Once the call came from the thana on Sunday afternoon, the club boys immediately got to work. The crematorium is barely a two-minute drive away from the locality. “When we were working, some passers-by could be overheard commenting on the speed at which they thought the prints had been readied after Soumitra babu’s death,” said Bholanath Chatterjee, joint secretary of the club. Both organisers admitted to harbouring mixed feelings at the turn of events. “While we are deeply honoured for the chance to pay tribute to the great man, we also feel heart-broken at the thought that something we thought would bring him joy ended up being a part of his last rites,” said Bholanath.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-236
17-11-2020||Business||Sensex surge over 300 points to close at a record high||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 315 points to close at a fresh lifetime high on Tuesday, driven by heavy buying in metal, industrials, banking and finance stocks. After touching its all-time peak of 44,161.16 during the session, the 30-share BSE index settled 314.73 points or 0.72 per cent higher at 43,952.71. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty touched a fresh intra-day high of 12,934.05. It finally finished 93.95 points or 0.74 per cent up at its closing record of 12,874.20. Tata Steel was the top gainer among the Sensex constituents, surging around 6 per cent, followed by SBI, HDFC Bank, Bajaj Finance, Axis Bank, LT, Maruti, IndusInd Bank and HDFC. On the other hand, NTPC, HCL Tech, ONGC, Infosys, ITC, PowerGrid, and Hindustan Unilever were in the red. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Seoul ended in the red, while Hong Kong and Tokyo closed with gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a mixed note in early deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.25 per cent lower at USD 43.71 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-233
17-11-2020||Business||Sensex, Nifty open on a high after positive vaccine news||Equity benchmark indices Sensex and Nifty opened on a bullish note and hit record high levels in early trade on Tuesday, tracking positive cues from global markets amid improved risk appetite supported by fresh vaccine news. The 30-share BSE index rallied 274.66 points or 0.63 per cent to scale the fresh peak of 43,912.64. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty gained 74.45 points or 0.58 per cent to a lifetime high of 12,854.70. Tata Steel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 4 per cent, followed by Bharti Airtel, SBI, HDFC Bank, M&M, Asian Paints and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, HCL Tech, Infosys, Bajaj Auto, ITC, Axis Bank and Bajaj Finance were among the losers. In the special Muhurat trading session to mark the beginning of Hindu Samvat year 2077 on Saturday, BSE Sensex soared 194.98 points or 0.45 per cent to close at a record 43,637.98. The broader NSE Nifty advanced 60.30 points, or 0.47 per cent, to finish at its lifetime high of 12,780.25. Equity markets were closed on Monday on account of Balipratipada. On the global front, US equities surged to record high after biotech group Moderna said its Covid-19 vaccine was highly effective. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading higher in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was in the red. The wholesale price-based inflation on Monday rose to an eight-month high of 1.48 per cent in October, as manufactured products turned costlier. Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, rose 0.75 per cent to USD 44.15 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-233
17-11-2020||Business||Piramal-Adani spat over DHFL||Piramal Enterprises has threatened to drop out of the bidding process for the assets of Dewan Housing Finance Corporation (DHFL) after the Adani group revised its offer for the troubled non-banking finance company (NBFC). Sources said the lenders to DHFL may meet on Tuesday where they could take a call on accepting the revised bid of the Adanis for the troubled lender. Adani Properties had earlier bid Rs 3,000 crore for the wholesale and the slum rehabilitation assets of DHFL. The Adanis have now bid for the entire portfolio, and their offer is more than the highest bid put in by Oaktree Capital of around Rs 31,000 crore. Piramal Enterprises has also recently revised its bid for the retail portfolio to Rs 26,500 crore. It had offered Rs 15,000 crore earlier. SC Lowy has offered Rs 2,300 crore for the non-slum book. The proposal from Adani Enterprises to bid for the entire company saw the Piramal group registering a protest. It wrote a letter to the administrator appointed by the RBI. Piramal said in the letter that the timing of submission of the fresh resolution plan by Adani Properties was intended to “disrupt and vitiate the process being followed under the current request for resolution plan (RFRP) and undermine the considerable time and effort invested by us and other participants in submitting our resolution plans” in accordance with the provisions of the RFRP. The letter says the offer submitted by the Adani group is not in accordance with the bidding process or under applicable law. If the creditors and administrator consider the revised resolution plan, Piramal would seek legal remedy or withdraw from the process, Piramal said. A spokesperson from the Piramal group declined to comment on the development. The offers of all these bidders are lower than that made by DHFL promoter Kapil Wadhawan, who proposed to transfer the rights, title and interest in at least 10 projects valued at Rs 43,879 crore and settle the dues with banks. Wadhawan wrote to the RBI appointed administrator Subramaniakumar saying that their offer would ensure maximum value for the assets that have been put on the block.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-233
17-11-2020||Business||CIL relies on mechanised transportation for delivery ||Coal India is relying on mechanised transportation to cut down on the movement of the dry fuel from pitheads to dispatch points, curb pollution and reduce pilferage. The public sector miner has issued tenders for 35 mining projects across six subsidiaries for mechanised transportation and the setting up of coal handling plants and silos for rapid loading at an estimated cost of Rs 12,500 crore. The amount will be spent as part of the company’s own capital expenditure. At present, Coal India (CIL) spends around Rs 3,400 crore on transportation that can be brought down substantially through mechanised movement between pitheads and dispatch points. The miner estimates an internal rate of return of more than 12 per cent once the mechanisation takes shape by 2023-24. At present, mechanised conveyor system and computerised loading of coal is operational in CIL’s 19 projects with a combined capacity of 151 million tonnes per year. With the commissioning of the 35 projects, this would go up to 557mt per year. Under mechanised transportation, coal would be moved through piped conveyor belts. With reduced movement of coal laden trucks on road, this would bring down dust pollution and benefit individuals living in the proximity of mines. CIL is undertaking a study along with the National Environmental Engineering Institute, Calcutta, to assess the environmental benefits of these projects. Further, with reduced manual intervention, precise pre-weighted quantities of coal can be loaded. “Improved loading time will bring down wagon idling, thus increasing their availability. Easing the load on road networks induces savings on diesel along with positive environmental considerations,” said a senior executive of the company. Of the 35 projects, South Eastern Coalfields, Mahanadi Coalfields and Northern Coalfields account for nine projects each.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-233
17-11-2020||Business||Arjas buys assets of Modern Steel||Speciality steel producer Arjas Steel Pvt Ltd has acquired the assets of Chandigarh-based Modern Steel, setting foot in northern India and expanding capacity by 50 per cent. The transaction marks the first acquisition of Arjas, which used to be wholly owned by Gerdau SA of Brazil, before the Latin American company sold the Indian assets to private equity firm ADV Partners in a bid to focus on its core markets. Arjas operates an integrated steel plant at Tadipatri in Andhra Pradesh, producing alloy steel and focusing on the automotive and energy segments. With a capacity of 300,000 tonnes, it clocked a turnover of Rs 1,400 crore in the last fiscal. The acquirer will plough in close to Rs 125 crore for the deal, which includes Rs 86 crore for the assets and around Rs 40 crore for modernisation. BSE-listed Modern Steel is selling the assets to pay off creditors such as Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction Company. Sridhar Krishnamoorthy, managing director of Arjas, said the first priority would be to run the modern plants to the nameplate capacity of 150,000 tonnes and stabilise the operation. In the second phase, it would look at expansion and product diversification. The product line of the two units will complement each other. The northern asset will be called Arjas Modern Steel and supply to the customers of the region. “Our capacity should go up by 30-40 per cent in the first year of full operation and turnover reach about Rs 2,000 crore,” the MD told The Telegraph. The acquisition comes at a time the domestic as well as global economy is upended by the pandemic. Krishnamoorthy said a cautious approach must be taken while growing business during the phase. While concluding the deal — which is subject to closing transactions — Arjas itself has undertaken a brownfield expansion and value addition exercise. The company has embarked on a Rs 200-crore project whereby the capacity will go up to 350,000 tonnes. A heat treatment plant will also be set up to produce more value-added products.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-233
17-11-2020||Business||SBI Funds top gun joins HDFC Mutual Fund||Navneet Munot has quit SBI Funds Management Pvt Ltd (SBIFMPL) to join HDFC Mutual Fund as its managing director and CEO. Munot, who was the chief investment officer (CI)) of SBI Funds, will succeed the present managing director Milind Barve. “The board of directors...at its meeting held on November 16, has approved that Navneet Munot will be appointed as the managing director and CEO of the company and he will succeed the present managing director, Milind Barve,” HDFC Asset Management Company (HDFC AMC) said in a regulatory filing with the stock exchanges on Monday. In a statement, SBIFMPL said that Munot has decided to leave the organisation to pursue other opportunities. “Navneet has been part of this team of skilled and experienced senior fund managers and has overseen many of their achievements. We value his contribution to the organisation and wish him the best in all his future endeavours,”  said Vinay Tonse, MD & CEO, SBI Funds Management Pvt Ltd. SBI Funds said that the fund management structure will continue to remain the same as the company over a period of time has built a very capable second line with strong vintage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-233
17-11-2020||Business||Wholesale prices move up||A spike in potato prices pushed the wholesale price index to an eight month high of 1.48 per cent in October. Potato prices have leapt 107 per cent year-on-year. WPI inflation was 1.32 per cent in September and zero per cent in October last year. This is the highest level of the wholesale price index-based (WPI) inflation since February when it was 2.26 per cent. While food article prices softened in October, manufactured items witnessed hardening of prices, according to data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Monday. Food inflation in October stood at 6.37 per cent against 8.17 per cent in the previous month. The rate of price rise in vegetables and potato remained high at 25.23 per cent and 107.70 per cent, respectively, during the month. Inflation in non-food articles and minerals was higher at 2.85 per cent and 9.11 per cent, respectively. In the manufactured products category, inflation stood at 2.12 per cent in October, compared with 1.61 per cent in September. Prices in the fuel and power basket softened to (-) 10.95 per cent in October. Retail inflation, based on the consumer price index, was 7.61 per cent in October. “The WPI inflation is expected to remain stable in the next print, before recording base effect related volatility. Core inflation will continue to record a steady uptick in month-on-month terms over the next few months,” Aditi Nayar, principal economist of ICRA, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-233
17-11-2020||Business||Big players stay out of BPCL race||The Centre on Monday said it had received a number of bids for state-owned refiner BPCL but indications are that Reliance Industries has not made any offer and neither have giants such as Saudi Aramco, Russia’s Rosneft, BP or Total. Sources said the government has received about three to four bids, including private equity funds and pension funds. Abu Dhabi National Oil Co, which has ambitions for the Indian market, is a potential bidder but it was not immediately known if it has put in an expression of interest. Mining billionaire Anil Agarwal is another potential bidder given his interest in the oil and gas business following  the $8.67-billion acquisition of Cairn India. “Strategic disinvestment of BPCL progresses: Now moves to the second stage after multiple expressions of interest have been received,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said in a tweet. “The transaction adviser has received multiple expressions of interest. The transaction will move to the second stage after scrutiny by the adviser,” said Tuhin Kanta Pandey, secretary in the department of investment and public asset management. The government plans to sell its entire 52.98 per cent stake in BPCL and has extended the deadline four times. The number of bids received are sufficient and the government will not extend the deadline any more. At Friday’s closing price of Rs 412.70 on the BSE, the government’s 52.98 per cent stake in BPCL is worth Rs 47,430 crore. Also, the acquirer would have to make an open offer to buy another 26 per cent stake from the public, which would cost Rs 23,276 crore. Sources said BPCL annually makes a profit of about Rs 8,000 crore and at this pace it would take 8-9 years for the investor to recover the bid amount of over Rs 70,000 crore. The acquisition makes sense for companies which can double profit by growing the business as well as through operational efficiencies and synergies with existing business in half that timeframe. After the EoIs, the government will open a data center for the interested bidders to do due diligence of the books of the company and its operations after which financial bids will be called.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-233
17-11-2020||Business||Actuaries sought  for LIC valuation||The mega initial public offering of Life Insurance Corp (LIC) may spill over to the next fiscal as the government on Monday took the first step to an independent actuarial valuation of the country’s largest insurer. The finance ministry has invited bids from actuarial firms to arrive at the embedded value of LIC ahead of its stake sale. The government plans to sell a minority stake in the insurance behemoth and list it on the bourses. It has already appointed Deloitte and SBI Caps as the pre IPO transaction advisers. In the bid notice, the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (Dipam) said LIC needed to develop an Indian Embedded Value (IEV) reporting framework to make the disclosures for the proposed initial public offering (IPO). Embedded value is a common valuation measure used to estimate the consolidated value of shareholders’ interest in an insurance company. The request for proposal has been issued to seek bids  from reputed and eligible actuarial firms to work with LIC to “develop IEV in line with the requirements of the relevant Acts and regulations, Actuarial Practice Standards and guidance notes issued by the Institute of Actuaries of India and LIC Act, 1956, and to provide support during the IPO process”, it said. The last date for the submission of bids is December 8. Deloitte and SBI Caps have been working with LIC to list out the items of compliance.  The legislative amendment to facilitate the IPO by making changes in the LIC Act is being worked out by the Department of Financial Services. The department is working out amendments to Sections 24, 28 and 37 of the LIC Act. Section 24 deals with the way the corporation handles its corpus, Section 28 is about dividend distribution and Section 37 provides government guarantee on all its policies. At present, LIC pays 5 per cent of the surplus to the government, while the remaining 95 per cent goes to its policyholders. In comparison, private insurance companies pay 10 per cent of their surplus to shareholders and the rest goes to the policyholders. The amendment to the LIC Act could possibly bring the state-owned insurance firm on a par with other insurance companies. In the 2020-21 budget, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced the government's plan to sell a part of its holding in LIC. by way of IPO. "Listing of companies on stock exchanges disciplines the company and provides access to financial markets and unlocks its value. It also gives an opportunity for retail investors to participate in the wealth so created," she had said. The government has budgeted to collect Rs 2.10 lakh crore from stake sales this fiscal. This include Rs 1.20 lakh crore from CPSE disinvestment and Rs 90,000 crore from selling stakes in financial institutions. So far this fiscal, the government has been able to mop up Rs 6,138 crore from the divestment of PSUs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-234
17-11-2020||Business||Mixed impact of stimulus ||The third tranche of stimulus measures unveiled by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has got a thumbs-up from Fitch Solutions which said that the announcements should lead to an economic rebound over the coming quarters. However, it felt that the package’s actual impact on public finances was difficult to ascertain. Last week, the Centre had announced a stimulus package  totaling Rs 2.65 lakh crore. The package included a boost to formal employment, a production-linked (PLI) incentive scheme, an increase in fertiliser subsidy and allocation to rural employment programme MGNREGA. In a report, Fitch Solutions said India’s fiscal deficit is likely to be 7.8 per cent of GDP in the current fiscal. “While many of the measures should support India’s economic rebound over the coming quarters, the actual impact on public finances is difficult to ascertain,” it observed. Fitch added that the PLI scheme, for instance, spans across a five-year period, and their fiscal impact is likely to be seen from 2021-22. “Estimating using the outright fiscal outlays from this announcement, the stimulus appears to suggest additional expenditure of Rs 1 lakh crore (0.44 per cent of 2019-20 GDP),” it noted. China’s factory output rose faster-than-expected in October and retail sales sped up as recovery in the world’s second-largest economy from its Covid-19 slump gathered momentum. Industrial production climbed 6.9 per cent in October from a year earlier, in line with September’s gain and faster than the 6.5-per-cent rise expected by analysts. The upbeat figures came as other Asian powerhouses also climbed out from their pandemic depths with Japan’s economy reporting its fastest quarterly growth on record.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-234
17-11-2020||Business||Inflation spanner in RBI plans||The Reserve Bank of India is in a bind on whether to check prices or kickstart recovery with retail inflation at its highest since May 2014 while the economy is now in “technical recession”. Consumer price inflation (CPI) in October rose to 7.61 per cent from 7.27 per cent in the preceding month thus remaining above the central bank’s medium term target (4 per cent with a band of +/-2 per cent) for the seventh straight month. A large part of the headline inflation was because of elevated food prices. But a bigger concern is core inflation, which is inflation leaving aside food & beverages and fuel. Core inflation is at 5.47 per cent which indicates transmission of food inflation to non-food segments. The monetary policy committee of the RBI with its mandate to keep a check on prices will now be keen to raise rates — but this could wreck the possibility of an economic recovery. “The monetary policy committee is in a difficult situation with inflation breaching 6 per cent three consecutive quarters, growth being low and India having a recession (two consecutive quarters of negative growth) once the second quarter 2020-21 GDP numbers are released,” said Devendra Kumar Pant, chief economist at India Ratings & Research, on the dilemma before the RBI. Economists are, however, of the view the interest rate setting body is likely to continue its accommodative stance and choose the option of a pause in the policy repo rate as  it waits for inflation to cool down. The MPC is set to meet again in December and the overwhelming expectation is that the repo rate will stay put at 4 per cent which is the lowest ever. The RBI has already reduced the repo rate by 250 basis points since February 2019 leading to questions on whether the economy is at the end of the rate cut cycle with elevated inflation which has the potential of affecting a nascent recovery. “The RBI would wait for inflation to subside before taking any monetary policy measures. Till then it will continue with unconventional steps and a long pause on the repo rate. We can at best expect another 25 basis points cut sometime only next year,’’ an analyst with a foreign brokerage said. This view is in line with the widely accepted thought that the central bank will prefer to go into a status-quo mode for now and do nothing on rates for the next three to six months. In its November bulletin, the RBI has cautiously raised the prospect of a revival in the third quarter from an earlier forecast of a 5.6 per cent contraction. However, at the same time it has warned about inflation. Economists are expecting inflation will cool down in the weeks ahead simply because of a lower base effect. However, rising crude oil prices and a general upside in commodity prices especially base metals could scupper these hopes. “While inflation is expected to taper, we are sceptical on the extent of pullback, as a move towards the 4 per cent target is likely to be an uphill task, if non-food components continue to harden,” says  Radhika Rao, economist at DBS Group Research. Sonal Varma at Nomura is optimistic of a cut in the next calendar year. “We expect October to mark the inflation peak, and if current food price trends persist, November and December should see some cooling off. Growth is yet to pick up adequately to durably generate broad-based demand-side pressures,”she said. Nomura expects the RBI to press the pause button at its December 5 policy meeting. However, because of moderating inflation it projects a 50 basis points of policy easing in the first half of 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-234
17-11-2020||India||Centre imposes withdrawal cap at Lakshmi Vilas Bank||The Centre on Tuesday imposed a withdrawal cap for depositors of Lakshmi Vilas Bank at Rs 25,000 per person, after placing the institution under a one-month moratorium and suspending its board. In view of the plummeting financial health of the financial lender, the Reserve Bank of India had advised the government to take the decision. The RBI in a statement said in the unavailability of a substantial revival plan, with a view to protect depositors’ interest and keeping in mind the financial stability of banking, there was no other way but to urge the government to introduce a moratorium under Section 45 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. "Accordingly, after considering the Reserve Bank's request, the Central Government has imposed a moratorium for thirty days effective from today," the statement read. As per the directions in the moratorium, Lakshmi Vilas Bank will not "make, in the aggregate, payment to a depositor of a sum exceeding twenty-five thousand rupees lying to his credit, in any savings, current or any other deposit account, by whatever name called," without the RBI’s permission. Former non-executive chairman of Canara Bank TN Manoharan has been appointed as the administrator of Lakshmi Vilas Bank. The RBI has also publicly introduced a draft scheme proposing the merging of Lakshmi Vilas Vilas Bank (LVB) with DBS Bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-553
17-11-2020||India||Terrorism biggest problem in the world: Modi at BRICS summit||In a veiled reference to Pakistan, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said that there is a need to make sure that countries that support and assist terrorists are held guilty, calling terrorism the "biggest problem” the world is facing. The prime minister was addressing the 12th five-nation BRICS summit hosted by Russian President Vladimir Putin, where he said that there was a need for tackling terrorism in an organised way. "Terrorism is the biggest problem the world is facing. We have to ensure that the countries that support and assist the terrorists are also held guilty," the prime minister said, without naming anyone. Chinese President Xi Jinping, Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro, and South African President Cyril Ramaphosa were also present at the summit. Modi also called for the need to reform the United Nations Security Council, as well as multilateral bodies including the World Trade Organisation and the International Monetary Fund. Detailing about the Covid-19 situation, Modi said that the vaccine production and delivery capabilities in India will work in the interest of humanity. He highlighted the initiatives taken by the Indian government under the ‘self-reliant’ movement. "We have started a comprehensive reform process under the 'Self-reliant India' campaign. The campaign is based on the belief that a self-reliant and resilient India post-Covid can be a force multiplier for the global economy and make a strong contribution to the global value chains,", the PM said. Host Putin backed Modi's statements on terrorism and said that some countries were like the "black sheep of the family" adding that the world can afford to show no smugness in dealing with problems including terrorists and pandemic. The BRICS (Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa), with its combined GDP of $16.6 trillion, is seen as an influential council which represents half the world’s population, or 3.6 billion people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-553
17-11-2020||India||Bombay HC to hear Varavara Rao relief plea on Wednesday||Jailed poet-activist Varavara Rao, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, is "fully conscious and oriented", the Maharashtra government stated in a medical report submitted before the Bombay High Court. However, on the submission of Rao's counsel Indira Jaising that the report "did not shed any light on Rao's neurological condition and the urinary tract infection he is said to have developed while at the Taloja prison", the HC directed the government to file a "complete report detailing the type of medical exam conducted through video conferencing, and all other findings". Rao, 81, is currently lodged as an under-trial in the Taloja prison in neighbouring Navi Mumbai. Rao had filed a bail application and a writ petition seeking he be shifted to Nanavati Hospital in Mumbai immediately, owing to his "diminishing neurological and physical health condition". The high court will hear both pleas of Rao on Wednesday. Jaising told a bench of Justices SS Shinde and Madhav Jamdar that the state government's report was an "eyewash" as it is "silent on Rao's dementia". She also told the bench that doctors at Nanavati Hospital who had examined Rao on November 12 via a video link, had also suggested that further tests, including a complete blood count and sonography of the abdomen, be done on him. "The state has yet to get the tests done. Besides, the doctors examined Rao through the video link only for 15 minutes. He needs to be examined by specialists. A neurologist needs to examine him physically and these tests can't be done at the Taloja prison hospital," Jaising said. "...Rao was not examined by a specialist so how can the video examination tell this court whether he needs to be shifted out of the prison to the hospital?" she said. Jaising also said the state government should apprise the HC about Rao's complete medical condition in light of his application seeking bail on medical grounds. The HC then directed the state government to submit a complete report, detailing the "type of medical exam conducted through video conferencing, and all findings". The HC will now hear both the pleas filed by Rao via a physical hearing on Wednesday to avoid any further delay and technological hindrances, after Jaising faced issues with the audio arrangements during the day's hearing conducted via video link. "We know the seriousness involved in this matter and that is why we will hear it physically tomorrow itself," the bench said. Jaising sought the HC's directions to the state government to submit details of Rao's current neurological condition too, but Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Anil Singh, who appeared for the National Investigation Agency (NIA), told the court that it could "examine the issue tomorrow itself. Since his arrest in June 2018, Rao has been in and out of the government-run JJ hospital in the city. On July 16, he tested positive for coronavirus, after which he was shifted to the Nanavati hospital. He was discharged on July 30 and sent back to the Taloja prison, Jaising said. Last week, Jaising had urged the high court to direct the state government to shift Rao to Nanvati Hospital immediately in view of the apprehension that "Rao might lose his life while in prison". Jaising had said "Rao had dementia, had lost control of his bladder, was in diapers, and that his condition was deteriorating with each passing day". Jaising had alleged that the state government had been negligent in taking care of Rao in prison, "and if he died, it would be a case of custodial death". Following the submissions, the HC had ordered the video examination while giving the Nanavati doctors the liberty to examine Rao physically at the prison if needed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-553
17-11-2020||India||Journalist Patricia Mukhim quits Editors Guild of India||Veteran journalist and Padma Shri awardee Patricia Mukhim, who is also the editor of The Shillong Times, has resigned from the Editors Guild of India, alleging that the top journalists' body "defends" only celebrity journalists. In her resignation letter, accessed by NDTV, Mukhim gave the example of how the journalists' body responded with "alacrity", and issued a statement condemning TV news anchor Arnab Goswami's arrest but did not issue any statement in her case. Last week, the Meghalaya High Court had refused to act over a police complaint filed against her for a Facebook post she had put out in July. Mukhim claimed that she had briefed the top journalists' body in detail about this case. "I now wish to resign from its membership. There are several reasons for doing so. First, as a journalist, I don't belong to that august league of celebrity editors whose newspapers are widely read and web-based news portals are hugely popular," she said in her letter. "I come from the fringes both geographically and in terms of my own status in an association I consider hierarchical by its very composition. I had shared this High Court order with the Guild hoping that it would at least give out a statement condemning it but there was and has been complete silence from the executive," she added. "Ironically, the Guild responded with alacrity and issued a statement condemning Arnab Goswami's arrest (a non-member), not on grounds of journalistic pursuits but on an abetment to suicide case. I see this as a classic case of the Guild playing to the gallery to defend celebrity editors/ anchors whose voices matter while choosing to deliberately ignore a plea (unstated) from one of its members," Ms Mukhim wrote in a strongly-worded letter to Seema Mustafa, the newly elected President of Editors Guild of India. On July 4, in a Facebook post, Ms Mukhim had criticised the Lawsohtun village council for failing to identify the "murderous elements", when masked people attacked five boys at a basketball court in the village. No one was arrested in the case. She had asked Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad Sangma and the Dorbar Shnong, the traditional local body, to take action against the accused. The village council in Meghalaya filed a complaint against Ms Mukhim for allegedly trying to rake up sentiments. Based on this, the police filed a criminal case against her. She was also accused of defamation. Later, she approached the High Court to cancel the case against her. Mukhim has now decided to challenge the High Court order in the Supreme Court. "Clearly this is also a case of prejudice and a deliberate attempt to push those in the margins even further away so that they disappear completely from the national discourse (since the Guild is a national association of editors) and leave them to deal with the matter in their personal capacity. A Facebook post is also another form of media to draw attention to a serious issue. It may not be a purely 'journalistic' pursuit but it still is a platform of communication which is taken seriously by the powers that be, hence an FIR (First Information Report) being filed because of it," she further wrote to the journalists' body in her resignation letter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-553
17-11-2020||India||UP junior engineer in CBI net for alleged sexual abuse of children||The CBI has arrested a junior engineer of Uttar Pradesh irrigation department for alleged sexual exploitation of children for last 10 years and selling videos and photographs of nefarious acts on dark net to other paedophiles across the globe, officials said on Tuesday. He is alleged to have victimised about 50 children in the age group of 5-16 years in the districts of Chitrakoot, Banda and Hamirpur, they said. He was arrested from Banda and is likely to be produced before the competent court soon. During searches, the CBI has recovered eight mobile phones, cash around eight lakh, sex toys, laptop, and other digital evidence carrying huge amount of child sexual abuse material. It is alleged that the junior engineer was operational for the last 10 years, mainly contacting and sharing child sexual abuse material with other paedophiles globally using dark net and cloud services abroad, they said. He is understood to have told the investigators that he used to bribe the children with mobile phones and other electronic gadgets to keep their mouth shut about his activities, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-553
17-11-2020||India||10 Trade unions to hold strike on November 26||Ten central trade unions announced Tuesday that they are moving forward with their plan to observe a general strike across the country on November 26, while also declaring support for a two-day farmers’ agitation in the coming week. Joint Platform of Central Trade Unions (CTUs) and Sectoral Independent Federations and Associations virtually met on November 16. According to a statement by the joint forum, the union expressed its satisfaction over the huge response to the ongoing campaign for the nationwide strike from workers and people at large. The campaign is in motion for the general strike against the "the anti-people, anti-worker, anti-national and destructive policies of the BJP government led by Modi has been going on with great enthusiasm all over the country", said the statement. Unions including Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS), Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), All India United Trade Union Centre (AIUTUC), Trade Union Co-ordination Centre (TUCC), Self-Employed Women's Association (SEWA), All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU), Labour Progressive Federation (LPF) and United Trade Union Congress (UTUC) are part of the forum. The statement said that the strike notices have been served, adding that other than workers, people from all sections of the society including youth, students, women and peasants have been coming forward to extend their full support to the November 26 strike. "It is heartening that the peasants, who are already in the midst of struggle against the draconian farm laws passed by the Modi govt, support the workers fighting against the anti-worker measures of this government," added the statement. The list of demands by the CTUs in their general strike includes the call to revoke the draconian farm laws. The Joint Platform and Sectoral Federations and Associations, too, has extended its active support to the general strike and the  AIKSCC’s subsequent call to march to Delhi on November 26 and 27. “Along with the demands directly related to the workers, the trade unions have also been campaigning on this demand,” the statement added. In a bid to oppose the privatisation policies of the central government and the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020, the All India Power Engineers Federation (AIPEF) has also declared that power engineers will protest on November 26.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-553
17-11-2020||India||Artificial intelligence to aid Facebook prioritise reported content||Social Media giants Facebook on Tuesday said it has stepped up the use of artificial intelligence (AI) to "prioritise reported content", a move that will help them take action faster on harmful and violative content. Facebook, which has 1.82 billion daily users globally, has drawn flak in the past for its handling of hate speech on the platform in India, which is among its biggest markets. Facebook Product Manager (Community Integrity) Ryan Barnes said the company is using AI to prioritise reported content, and that this prioritisation is important to help its over 15,000 reviewers. She explained that the prioritisation is important for four reasons -- not all harmful content is equal, some enforcement decisions are complex, people do not always report harmful content and the reports aren't always accurate. Speaking to reporters in a virtual briefing, she said the company has moved from relying on user reports alone to add use of technology to help aid the process. "We've moved away from just reviewing things chronologically to using AI to help us prioritise what we review. We have looked at severity which has been a factor in our prioritisation, but now we have other factors such as virality, severity and likelihood of violations," she said, adding that this will help "act" on reports faster. Barnes said the community integrity team is focussed on reducing the prevalence of bad experiences by taking action on violating content and abusive actors proactively and with fewer mistakes. She added that over 95 per cent of such content is spotted by the company's technology before anyone reports it to Facebook. Facebook Engineer (Community Integrity) Chris Palow said using AI will help in getting to the "most harmful content faster" and give human review teams more time to spend on complex decisions. He added that this will also help identify new trends, and respond to people attempting to post violating content. Asked if AI can help in handling hate speech, Barnes said Facebook has no tolerance for hate speech on its platform. "We realise this is an important issue, and we in fact think that that AI technologies can help with this in terms of how do we determine if a piece of content needs human moderation...depending on how viral that piece of content is or how severe that piece of content is or its likelihood of violating," she said. Barnes added that the company is using and relying on its technology to bump up such content in terms of ranking as to what reports are reviewed first. The company's decisions on ‘dangerous persons’ are a comprehensive process, including consultation with partners on ground and review of online and offline behaviour. "We don't use AI to make decisions about designating people as dangerous individuals under our policy. But AI can help us find content that may help to inform that decision, but it's not actually making the decision outright," a company spokesperson said. The spokesperson added that while the community guidelines are uniform globally, local context and cultural nuances are kept in mind as these policies are developed and enforced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-553
17-11-2020||India||Amit Shah calls J&K alliance ‘Gupkar Gang’, Opposition reacts||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday termed the political party alliance at Jammu and Kashmir as the “Gupkar Gang”, saying that it is an "unholy global gathbandhan" against India’s national interest. He added that the Union territory will always remain an integral part of the country. Taking to Twitter, Shah also asked Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi if they support the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), which is an amalgamation of national and regional political parties in Jammu and Kashmir established to restore Article 370 that was revoked last year. "Jammu and Kashmir has been, is and will always remain an integral part of India. Indian people will no longer tolerate an unholy 'global gathbandhan' against our national interest. Either the Gupkar Gang swims along with the national mood or else the people will sink it," the home minister tweeted. The Congress and the ‘Gupkar Gang’, Shah said, want to take back Jammu and Kashmir back in the years of turmoil and terror and they "want to take away rights of Dalits, women and tribals that we have ensured by removing Article 370." "The Gupkar Gang is going global! They want foreign forces to intervene in Jammu and Kashmir. The Gupkar Gang also insults India's Tricolour. Do Sonia Ji and Rahul Ji support such moves of the Gupkar Gang ? They should make their stand crystal clear to the people of India," he wrote. Reacting to his comments, former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir Omar Abdullah said that Shah’s frustration is a result of the coalition’s decision to contest the upcoming local body polls and not giving the BJP and its allies a free run. "We are not a gang Amit Shah Ji, we are a legitimate political alliance having fought and continuing to fight elections, much to your disappointment,” the president of the National Conference said. He also took a dig at the UT’s newly formed Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party, saying, “"I can understand the frustration behind this attack by the Hon'ble Home Minister. He had been briefed that the People's Alliance was preparing to boycott elections. This would have allowed the BJP and newly formed King's party a free run in J&K. We didn't oblige them." PDP president and former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister said that Shah’s comments were meant to divert attention from rising unemployment and inflation. According to her, the "BJP's stale tactic of dividing India by projecting themselves as saviours and political opponents as internal and imagined enemies is far too predictable now." "Love jihad, tukde tukde and now Gupkar Gang dominates the political discourse instead of (issues) like rising unemployment and inflation," Mufti said. "Old habits die hard. Earlier BJP's narrative was that the tukde tukde gang threatened India's sovereignty and they are now using 'Gupkar Gang' euphemism to project us as anti-nationals. Irony died a million deaths since it's BJP itself that violates the constitution day in and day out," she tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-553
17-11-2020||India||People of Bihar voted to discard 'goonda raj', asserts Nadda||BJP president JP Nadda on Tuesday asserted confidence on the party's growing influence after winning the Bihar Assembly elections and said the people of Bihar voted to keep "goonda raj" out of power and chose the path of development instead. Inaugurating six party offices in Odisha, Nadda said the people of Bihar gave their "stamp of approval" to the development agenda of the Narendra Modi government at the Centre. "They strongly supported Narendra Modi's policy of 'sabka saath, sabka vikas' (with all, development for all)," he said. The new offices inaugurated by Nadda are located in Angul, Dhenkanal, Keonjhar, Baripada in Mayurbhanj district, Sundergarh and Bargarh. Then BJP chief Amit Shah had laid the foundation stone for the party offices on April 5, 2018. Work for six other new party offices in Odisha will start soon, Nadda announced. "BJP gives priority to even the construction of party offices. Some parties run offices from home. Thus, they become a family party," he said in an apparent swipe at the Congress. "For us, our party is our family, while some others use their family as the party," the BJP chief said. Stating that the BJP prepared an ambitious plan to construct 700 party offices across the country after Narendra Modi became prime minister in 2014, Nadda said 400 of them are ready, while work is in progress for 200 others and the process of land acquisition is on for the rest. "The party office is a proper place for imparting informal training to the party cadres... It functions as a source of major inspiration," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-554
17-11-2020||India||Kejriwal seeks power to impose lockdown in Delhi markets||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal asked permission from the Centre on Tuesday to impose lockdowns in market areas susceptible to become Covid-19 hotspots. He also decided to revoke an order allowing 200 people to attend wedding ceremonies. The chief minister, while addressing an online press briefing, informed that the AAP government had sent a proposal to Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal to permit only 50 guests at wedding functions,as opposed to the earlier 200-guests limit. He said that every agency as well as the Centre are making “double efforts” to curb the Covid-19 situation in Delhi. "We are sending a proposal to the Centre to give power to the Delhi government to impose lockdown in market areas which may emerge as COVID-19 hotspots," Kejriwal said. With folded hands, the chief minister appealed to the citizens to follow social distancing norms and wear masks, while also thanking the central government for assisting Delhiites in “such difficult times”. The national capital has witnessed a sudden spike in the number of Covid-19 cases since October 28 when the daily number breaked the 5,000-mark for the first time. On Wednesday, Delhi recorded more than 8,000 cases of Covid-19 in a single day. A total of 104 deaths related to the infection were recorded on Thursday, making it the highest in over five months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-554
17-11-2020||India||SC unsatisfied with Centre's affidavit over Tablighi congregation media reporting||The Supreme Court Tuesday expressed displeasure over the Centre's affidavit in the case related to media reporting of Tablighi Jamaat congregation during the onset of COVID-19 pandemic, and said the government should consider setting up a regulatory mechanism to deal with such content on TV. The apex court, which asked the Centre to consider creating a regulatory mechanism and apprise it, said the government should also inform as to what steps have been taken on the issue under the Cable Television Network Act (CTNA). First you did not file a proper affidavit and then you filed an affidavit which did not deal with the two important questions. This way it cannot be done Mr Mehta, a bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. Mr Mehta, we are not satisfied with your reply. We wanted you to tell as to what actions you have taken under the Cable TV Network Act, said the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. The top court said the Centre, in its affidavit, has not dealt with the aspect of applicability of the CTNA and the legal regime concerning this. We want to know as to what is the mechanism to deal with these contents on television. If there is no regulatory mechanism then you create one. Regulation cannot be left to organisation like NBSA (News Broadcasters Standards Authority), the bench said. The bench, which was hearing the pleas filed by Jamiat Ulama-I-Hind and others alleging that a section of the media was spreading communal hatred over Tablighi Jamaat congregation during the onset of pandemic, asked the Centre to file a fresh affidavit dealing with mechanism to regulate electronic media under the CTNA. Mehta told the bench that several actions have been taken under the Act. You have to tell us how you have acted under Cable TV Act in some prior incident, the bench sought to know and questioned Mehta as to why the Centre has not created a body to regulate these things. The bench said it had asked the Centre to specify how CTNA could be used to control the content of cable TV network and also about steps which could be taken to deal with such complaints but the affidavit is silent on these aspects. The top court has posted the matter for hearing after three weeks. In its affidavit filed in the apex court, the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting has said that majority of leading national newspapers of the country have carried largely factual reports on the issue. Online news portals such as The Print and The Wire have also undertaken objective reporting, through news reports, and analysis, through opinion and editorial articles of events concerning the Tablighi Jamaat. By and large, issues relating to health, law and order and the action taken by the central government and the various state governments for handling the pandemic have been discussed, the affidavit said. It also said that the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology has issued orders for blocking fake or misleading content related to issue of coronavirus on the social media. The Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Markaz Nizamuddin in central Delhi in March was accused of accelerating the spread of the novel coronavirus, with its attendees allegedly carrying the infection to different parts of the country. On October 8, the apex court had observed that freedom of speech and expression is the most abused right in recent times and pulled up the Centre for its "evasive" and "brazen" affidavit on media coverage of the Tablighi Jamaat event earlier this year. The top court was irked over the fact that instead of secretary of the Information and Broadcasting Ministry, an additional secretary filed the affidavit which contained unnecessary averments with regard to media reporting in Tablighi Jamaat issue. In August, the Centre had told the apex court that a Muslim body's attempt to obtain a blanket "gag order" on the entire media to prevent them from reporting of the Nizamuddin Markaz issue would effectively destroy the freedom of the citizenry to know and the right of journalists to ensure an informed society. The government had said that in the absence of any specific information about any objectionable news published or aired by a specific news channel/agency, the Constitution and the applicable statues do not give it any authority to unilaterally pass any censure order under the Cable Television Networks Rules. In its affidavit filed earlier in reply to the plea of Jamiat, the Centre had said: "Attempts to seek a blanket 'gag order' against the entire media in respect of Markaz Nizamuddin issue will effectively destroy the freedom of the citizen to know about the affairs of respective sections of the society in the nation and the right of the journalist to ensure an informed society." The Jamiat Ulama-I-Hind has filed a plea in the apex court seeking directions to the Centre to stop dissemination of "fake news" related to a religious gathering at Markaz Nizamuddin and take strict action against those responsible for it. It has alleged that unfortunate incident of Tablighi Jamaat was being used to "demonise" and blame entire Muslim community and sought to restrain media from publishing/airing such reports.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-554
17-11-2020||India||SC dismisses plea seeking CBSE exam fee waiver||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to hear a plea seeking an order to the Delhi government and the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to waive the examination fee for students appearing for their class X and XII board exam in the current academic year. Keeping in view the Covid-19 situation and the subsequent financial problems faced by some parents, the plea was filed before the top court. "How can the court direct the government to do this? You should give a representation to the government...Dismissed,” a bench Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R Shah told an NGO called “Social Jurist”, who filed the petition against the September 28 order of the Delhi High Court. The High Court had directed the state government and the CBSE to treat the appeal as a representation and take a call within three weeks "in accordance with law, rules, regulations and government policy applicable to the facts of the case". The plea said that due to the economic effects of the lockdown, income of several parents had disappeared to a level that they cannot even arrange meals for their family, adding that the HC’s direction had resulted in denial of relief to three lakh students in Delhi, and 30 lakh in the country. Filed through lawyer Ashok Agarwal, the PIL sought the waiver of the fees and said that the Centre should pay them through the PM Cares fund in the country, and the AAP government should do the same. "In the current year 2020-21, CBSE has demanded Examination fee from Rs 1,500 to Rs 1,800 from students of class X and Rs 1,500 to Rs 2,400 from class XII students depending upon number of subjects, practical, etc,” it said. The Delhi government had paid the examination fees of CBSE students appearing for their board examinations last year, but this year it has refused to do so citing financial crunch, the PIL said. Starting in 2019, the education board had hiked the examination fees for classes X and XII. According to the new structure, students had to pay Rs 1,500 — double the Rs 750 they paid until 2018. In case of students abroad, the amount had doubled as well from —  Rs 5,000 to Rs 10,000 — as had the fee for appearing for any extra paper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-554
17-11-2020||India||Rain, stronger winds help clean up Delhi's air||The national capital's air quality improved significantly to the 'moderate' category on Tuesday as rain and stronger winds helped bring down pollution levels, authorities said. According to the Central Pollution Control Board's mobile application SAMEER, the city recorded an air quality index of 168, which falls in the 'moderate' category, much better than Monday's AQI of 221, which falls in the 'poor' category. However, Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR, said the improvement will be short-lived and the AQI is likely to slip back into the 'poor' category on Thursday. The city's 24-hour average AQI was 435 on Sunday and 414 on Saturday. An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'. According to SAFAR, the overall air quality of Delhi is in the 'moderate' category as of Tuesday morning. "Surface winds are west-southwesterly and energetic, very favourable for pollutant dispersion. Rainfall along with stronger winds under the influence of western disturbance helped clean the build-up of pollution in the Indo-Gangetic Plain," it said. It also said effective stubble fire counts with sufficient potential estimated from SAFAR-multi-satellite products are significantly reduced to around 98. "Boundary layer wind direction is North north-westerly. However, since the fire-related emissions have significantly reduced, a significant impact is not expected. Stubble burning share in PM2.5 in Delhi's air is almost negligible and estimated marginal three per cent for today," SAFAR said. It, however, said the significant AQI improvement will be short-lived. The AQI is likely to slip back into the 'poor' category on Thursday. "AQI is forecast to further deteriorate to the higher end of 'Poor' to the lower end of 'Very Poor' category on 19th and 20th November," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-554
17-11-2020||India||India records dip in new Covid cases||The number of new coronavirus infections reported in a day dropped below 30,000 after four months, taking India's Covid-19 caseload to 88.74 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The last time India reported less than 30,000 Covid-19 cases was on July 15. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 88,74,290 with 29,163 infections being reported in a day while the death toll climbed to 1,30,519 with 449 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 82,90, 370 while the number of active cases remained below 5 lakh for the seventh consecutive day. There are 4,53,401 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country as on date which comprises 5.11 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. The total recoveries have surged to 82,90,370 pushing the national recovery rate to 93.42 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.47 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 12,65,42,907 samples have been tested up to November 16 with 8,44,382 samples being tested on Monday. The 449 new fatalities include 99 from Delhi, 60 from Maharashtra, 53 from West Bengal, 26 from Chhattisgarh, 22 from Punjab and 21 from Uttar Pradesh. A total of 1,30,519 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 46,034 from Maharashtra followed by 11,541 from Karnataka, 11,495 from Tamil Nadu, 7,714 from West Bengal, 7,713 from Delhi, 7,393 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,881 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,480 from Punjab and 3,808 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-554
17-11-2020||India||Sabarimala opens for devotees||Wearing masks and strictly adhering to Covid-19 protocol, devotees of Lord Ayyappa trekked the holy hill and offered prayers at the Sabarimala temple as it opened for the annual two-month Mandala-Makaravilakku season on Monday. It is the first annual pilgrimage season at the hill temple after the coronavirus outbreak and authorities have decided to restrict the number of devotees to 1,000 per day and to 2,000 on weekends. However, the sannidhanam, the temple complex which used to witness a sea of devotees on the first day of the Malayalam month of Vrichikam, saw only a few devotees this morning. Pilgrims with Covid-19 negative certificates were allowed to trek starting 3am from Pampa, the base camp, through a virtual queue system, temple officials said. Devotees from neighbouring states flocked to the shrine in the initial hours, sources in the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) that manages the hill shrine said. Unlike the usual rush and jostling for a glimpse of the presiding deity, only a few devotees in batches could be seen having a relaxed darshan. Wearing masks, employees of the board and police personnel, some of them clad in personal protection equipment (PPE) kit, kept vigil at various points from the base camps to the temple complex to ensure that the devotees followed the protocol. The rituals began with tantri (head priest) Kantaru Rajeevaru performing the ashtadravya Mmaha ganapathy homam at the sannidhanam, they said. A TDB official said around 650 devotees offered prayers at the hill temple till noon on the first day. Two devotees tested positive for the viral infection on Monday and both were sent to a first line treatment centre at nearby Konni, he said. “Both the devotees — one from Punalur in Kerala and the other one from Chennai — tested positive for the virus while undergoing a test at a health department kiosk at Nilakkal, another base camp,” the official said. State devaswom minister Kadakampally Surendran said all arrangements had been completed to ensure a smooth darshan for the devotees during the pilgrimage season. “Arrangements have been made in compliance with the Covid-19 norms and in accordance with the directions of the Kerala High Court,” he told reporters at the temple complex after taking part in a review meeting of various government departments. The minister said floor markings have been made at various points and steps have been taken to make devotees abide by the instructions. Though the shrine opened on Sunday evening, there was no special puja on Sunday and devotees were permitted inside the complex only on Monday. Marking the beginning of the 62-day-long pilgrimage season, Melshanthi A.K. Sudheer Namboothiri had opened the doors of the sanctum sanctorum and lit the lamps in the presence of the tantri on Sunday evening. The newly-elected Melsanthi V.K. Jayaraj Potti and Malikkapuram Melsanthi M.N. Raj Kumar, who were the first to climb the holy 18 steps and offer prayers, took charge Sunday evening itself. Covid-19 kiosks were opened at the base camps for testing and the pilgrims won’t be allowed to stay on the temple premises, official sources said. The health department has made elaborate arrangements for rapid antigen tests in various centres, including all bus stands and railway stations, at Thiruvananthapuram, Tiruvalla, Chengannur and Kottayam, where pilgrims arrive to proceed to the Ayyappa temple. Doctors, including specialists, would be posted on a rotation basis for seven days each while all other staff have been posted on a rotation basis  for 15 days from November 15 to January 19, sources added. The auspicious mandala puja would be held on December 26.  After the makaravilakku ritual on January 14, the temple would be closed on January 20, marking the end of the season.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-554
17-11-2020||India||Dalit students wait endlessly for stipend||Manish Kumar, a first-year BSc student at S.N. Sinha College in Bihar’s Nawada district, has been applying for the Post-Matric Scholarship for Scheduled Caste students for the past two years. He never received the scholarship last year. He hopes he gets it this year so he can afford private tuition. “I’d like to take private tuition as no classes are being held now. But the money is not coming,” Manish said over the phone. Manish and many other Dalit higher secondary and undergraduate students are being deprived of the Post-Matric Scholarship (PMS) since a rule tweak in 2018 steeply increased the states’ share of the funding and lowered the Centre’s. This has prompted many states like Bihar to go slow on the scholarship, having received very little or nothing at all from the Centre for the scheme this financial year. Dalit students whose parents earn less than Rs 2.5 lakh a year are eligible for this scholarship from Class XI till graduation. The monthly stipend varies depending on the course, from Rs 230 (HS without hostel) to Rs 1,200 (professional course). Manish, being an undergraduate who stays in a hostel, would have expected to receive Rs 570 a month. An estimated 70 lakh or so Dalit students are eligible for the scholarship across the country, provided they apply with all the necessary documents. Data that the Union social justice ministry provided last year to a parliamentary standing committee showed nearly 60.29 lakh Dalit students as beneficiaries of the scheme. What this means is that these 60 lakh are registered for the scholarship and have received the stipend in the past. It does not mean they are getting it regularly now, nor that they would be paid the arrears anytime soon — or ever, if they have graduated while waiting for the money to come. Manish, the eldest of a day labourer’s five children in Chainpura village, is a first-generation learner. His Class X board results won him the Bihar government’s one-time scholarship of Rs 10,000, given to Dalit and tribal students who secure a first division. He heard about the PMS last year and applied, furnishing all the required documents. Pancham Kumar Das, a third-year BSc student from Manish’s college, too had applied for the PMS last year. This year he could not submit the documents because the cyber cafes were closed during the lockdown. “If I get the scholarship on the strength of last year’s application, I shall use the money to get coaching. I’m preparing for a stationmaster’s job with the railways,” Pancham said. “Payment delays are a regular feature with the PMS for Dalit students,” said Beena Pallical, general secretary of the National Campaign on Dalit Human Rights, a think tank and NGO. Official data show that the social justice ministry has released Rs 1,028 crore under the scheme this financial year so far although the budget allocation stands at Rs 2,987 crore. However, only 16 states have received any funds while Odisha, Maharashtra, Kerala, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand, Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya and the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir are among those that have received none. Bihar has received just Rs 2.3 lakh. Tricky formula The then British government had started the scholarship in 1945 following a demand from Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar. Till the 1980s, the Centre bore a fixed 60 per cent of the cost of the scheme and the states bore 40 per cent From the ’80s till 2017-18, a variable share was worked out based on a formula. It said that during any five-year plan, a state’s burden would be the total sum spent by it and the Centre on the scheme for its Dalit students in the last year of the previous five-year plan. This prompted many states to deliberately keep the expenditure on the scholarship very low in the last year of each five-year plan, using very little of the central allocation or its own funds (at the expense of the Dalit students). When the next five-year cycle started, the state’s share dropped because of this trick. However, with the state reverting to its usual spending on the scheme, the Centre’s burden shot up. That the Centre’s share of the funding had crossed 70 per cent in most states suggests that these states tended to keep the entire spending on the scheme below 30 per cent of the usual in the fifth year of the plan periods. So, when the five-year plans were abolished in 2018, the Centre worked out a new fund-share formula for the scheme to get round the problem. It decided that the highest amount spent on a state’s PMS scholarship for Dalits in any particular year during the 12th plan (2012 to 2017) would be that state’s “committed liability” (share of the burden). The Centre would pay whatever sum the state demanded over and above this “committed liability” in any particular year. This caused the Centre’s burden to drop to around 10 per cent in many states. And many other states, unable to cough up anything close to their new “committed liability”, were in no position to demand any additional amounts – so the Centre wasn’t obliged to provide them any funds for the scholarship. With lakhs of students unable to apply this year because of the lockdown, the sums spent on the scholarship in many states were anyway going to be less than their “committed liability”. So, these states were not eligible for any central funds for the scheme this year. No such problem plagues the PMS for tribal or minority students since the Centre provides 100 per cent and 75 per cent, respectively, of their funding, a government official said. The parliamentary standing committee on social justice, headed by BJP member Rama Devi, had in a report in September expressed displeasure at the delay in funds release for the PMS for Dalits. It had asked the social justice department to plug the gaps in securing and utilising funds, in paying the beneficiaries on time, and in clearing arrears. Pallical said the new funding policy was discriminatory and should be revised. “When other ministries are bearing the lion’s share of the funds for the PMS for tribal and minority students, the social justice ministry too must do so for the PMS for Dalits,” Pallical said. R. Subrahmanyam, secretary, ministry of social justice and empowerment, said the government was taking a relook at the funding pattern. “Our ministry has proposed that the Centre bear 60 per cent of the expenses and the states 40 per cent. It’s under consideration,” Subrahmanyam told The Telegraph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-554
17-11-2020||India||Supreme Court to bail applicant: Go to HC  ||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to entertain the bail plea of a man who was arrested in Gujarat for posting allegedly objectionable comments on Twitter against Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and his son Aaditya. A bench of Chief Justice S.A. Bobde and Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian asked the counsel for Sameer Thakkar to approach Bombay High Court. “The high court can also uphold your fundamental rights. It can also transfer the case and grant you bail. Then why are you coming under 32 (under Article 32 of the Constitution, writ pleas are filed in the Supreme Court)? You please go to the high court,” the bench told senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani who was appearing for Thakkar. Jethmalani said Thakkar had been arrested for “bailable offences” and this will “shock your Lordships”. “We are quite immune from shock. We see it every day. Nothing shocks us,” the bench observed. The counsel for Maharashtra said the state would not oppose the bail plea of the accused in the magisterial court on Monday as the custodial interrogation of Thakkar was over in the case. Jethmalani said as many as three FIRs had been lodged against Thakkar for his tweets and he was arrested on October 24 from Rajkot. He was taken to Nagpur on transit remand and was quizzed in police custody. “His neck was tied with rope and he was paraded on roads,” the senior lawyer said. The bench responded: “What makes you think that we are approving all this. We are only telling you repeatedly that you can make these arguments before the high court. Let us have the view of high court.” Jethmalani then withdrew the plea of Thakkar, who besides seeking bail, had sought consolidation of three FIRs registered against him for the posts. Thakkar has 59,000 followers on Twitter and is followed by some prominent government functionaries on the social media platform. He has been granted bail in one case by a Nagapur court and was arrested by Maharashtra police in connection with another FIR.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-554
17-11-2020||India||Youth dies in Kanpur clash||A youth was killed in a clash that erupted between two communities in Kanpur district on Sunday night over water being splashed on one youth. Pintu Nishad, 25, a worker in a tannery, accidentally stepped on a pouch of water lying on a road in Vajidpur-Jajmau area while he was going somewhere with his elder brother Deepak Nishad and friend Sandeep Kumar. The water spattered on the face of Mohammad Arman, who was standing at a paan shop along with his two friends, sparking a brawl. “Arman and his friends reacted sharply to it and a fight broke out between them…. The brawl turned into a violent clash,” said Ravi Srivastava, in-charge of Chakeri police station. “Both sides threw bricks and attacked each other with lathis in which Pintu suffered injuries. He was declared brought dead at Lala Lajpat Rao Hospital in the city,” the officer said. Rajkumar Agrawal, superintendent of police of Kanpur East, said: “We have taken in custody half-a-dozen people from both sides and are probing the case. The police and  the paramilitary force have been deployed at the site and near the house of Sri Ram Nishad, father of the deceased, to avert any escalation of the dispute. “Residents have come forward to sort out the dispute amicably because it is related to two communities. The police have registered a murder case.” Deepak has mentioned in his police complaint the names of Arman, Faiz Mohammad, Mohammad Farman, Mohammad Alam, Mohammad Iqbal, Mohammad Meraz and Mohammad Mohsin as the main accused. The police have formed teams to arrest them as they had fled when the cops reached the spot. An eyewitness said: “The electricity supply was severed soon after the violence erupted. The police knocked the doors of local people but the majority of the residents  didn’t open them. There were two or three residents who opened their door and told the police that they didn’t see anything.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-554
17-11-2020||India||Covid: fresh boost to vaccine hope||A US biotechnology company announced on Monday that its candidate vaccine against Covid-19 was over 94 per cent effective against the infection, becoming the third company in a week to report efficacy levels exceeding expectations. Moderna Therapeutics said its first interim analysis of 95 Covid-19 patients among 30,000 participants in its clinical trial had observed 90 cases among volunteers who had received a placebo and 5 among the candidate vaccine recipients, or a vaccine efficacy of 94.5 per cent. Of the 95 Covid-19 cases, 11 were severe cases, all in the placebo group and none among the candidate vaccine recipients. The trial’s data safety monitoring board, which analysed the results, did not find any significant safety concerns, the company said. “This analysis has given us the first clinical validation that our vaccine can prevent Covid-19 disease, including severe disease,” Stephane Bancel, chief executive officer of Moderna, said in a statement. The company said it intended to submit “in the coming weeks” an application for emergency use authorisation to the US Food and Drug Administration. Moderna also plans to submit applications for authorisations to global regulatory agencies. This is the third announcement of an efficacy level of 90 per cent or higher since November 9, when Pfizer-BioNTech announced over 90 per cent efficacy with their candidate vaccine. On November 11, Russia’s Gamaleya Institute announced a 92 per cent efficacy with its candidate vaccine. The higher than 90 per cent efficacy in three candidates has surprised scientists because regulatory authorities had set clinical trial efficacy thresholds of 50 per cent. However, researchers have underlined that these are early and interim results, which could change over the coming months as more data from trials come in. Moderna said it expected to have 20 million doses ready to ship within the US by the end of 2020 and remained on track to manufacture 500 million to one billion doses during 2021. Media reports in the US have cited Moderna as saying it would price the vaccine at $32 to $37 a dose, which could mean the two-dose vaccine would cost $64 to $74 per recipient. Medical experts in India have said the high-efficacy results are encouraging but cautioned that it is unclear whether, and how much of, the Moderna or Pfizer-BioNTech candidates would be available for use in India. Russia has offered India 100 million doses of its candidate vaccine but clinical trials to assess the efficacy of the Russian candidate in India are yet to be conducted. Health minister Harsh Vardhan had said last month that India hoped to immunise 250 million people with a Covid-19 vaccine by July 2021. The health ministry has asked the states to draw up lists of high-priority groups, such as healthcare workers, to receive the earliest doses. But members of an expert panel tracking Covid-19 vaccines have asserted that until India knows which vaccine will be available for a domestic roll-out, such numbers are “tentative” and only part of multiple scenarios discussed for advanced planning. An analysis by health researchers at the Duke University Health Innovation Centre, released earlier this month, had cautioned that advance orders for Covid-19 vaccines from high-income countries could leave hundreds of millions of people in the developing countries without vaccines in the early years of the roll-outs. But scientists say the high efficacy observed with three different candidates appears to validate a core vaccine design strategy adopted also by other candidate vaccines, including efforts in India. What the three sets of results suggest collectively is that “the spike protein antibodies protect people”, Gagandeep Kang, a senior microbiologist and vaccine science expert at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, told The Telegraph. A Pune-based company, Gennova Biopharmaceuticals, has developed an m-RNA-based candidate vaccine against Covid-19, similar to the Moderna and Pfizer-BioNTech candidates, and is awaiting approvals from central government panels to initiate human trials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-555
17-11-2020||India||Ashok Gehlot clue to churn in Congress||Congress veteran and Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has told off party colleague Kapil Sibal in a series of tweets at a time a view is growing in the party that matters may be heading to a “logical conclusion”. “There was no need for Kapil Sibal to mention our internal issue in media, this has hurt the sentiments of party workers across the country,” Gehlot tweeted after Sibal said in an interview to The Indian Express newspaper that the party’s problems were not being addressed and people no longer saw it as an effective alternative. Gehlot added in his tweets: “The Congress has seen various crises including 1969, 1977, 1989 and later in the 1996 — but every time we came out stronger due to our ideology, programmes, policies and firm belief in party leadership. We have improved with each and every crisis and also formed the UPA government in 2004 under the able leadership of Soniaji, we shall overcome this time too.” “There are various reasons for electoral losses. But each time, the rank and file of the Congress party has shown undivided and firm belief in the party leadership and that is why we came out of it stronger and united after every crisis. Even today, the Congress is the only party which can keep this nation united and take it forward on the path of comprehensive development.” A few hours earlier, a senior functionary had said in private in New Delhi that the Congress leadership was aware of the “mistakes” and “misdeeds” committed in Bihar and was determined to take corrective measures. But the leadership is anguished that a fresh eruption of dissent is dragging unconnected issues into the discourse, he had added. “We are aware that something went terribly wrong in Bihar, primarily with the selection of seats and candidates. Nobody denies that. We are aware of both mistakes and misdeeds,” the source, a key All India Congress Committee functionary, told The Telegraph. “But dragging the leadership question into the discourse to blame Rahul Gandhi is opportunistic and driven by mala fide intention. All these issues would have become irrelevant had we won a few more seats in Bihar. Logic based on situations is often driven by a negative agenda.” He also referred to what Sibal had said in the interview about organisational affairs, the alleged lack of introspection and the Congress not being seen as an alternative anywhere in the country. “These issues have been resolved; the process for a new president has been set in motion,” the AICC functionary said. "Public bickering cannot be allowed. One person speaks and then others start. This will have to be taken to the logical conclusion. Morale is anyway low after the Bihar results, and internal sniping makes it worse.” He did not explain what he meant by “logical conclusion” but appeared to be hinting at tough action that could put the Congress at the crossroads. That the leadership is prepared to confront the dissenting voices was reflected also in the reactions from other office-bearers. Congress general secretary Tariq Anwar said Sibal should not have spoken about the party leadership and other unconnected issues. Spokesperson Pawan Khera and Youth Congress chief B.V. Srinivas asked those who deliver sermons on the party’s plight what they had done in the past few years to strengthen the Congress. There seemed a determination to crush dissent if it came through the media. Sources close to the leadership said the “Group of 23” dissenters were no longer united. The term refers to 23 senior politicians who had written to Sonia Gandhi in August about the drift in the party and were sidelined after that. They included Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Sibal, Manish Tewari, Shashi Tharoor and Veerappa Moily. “There is no doubt a divide, though many of those 23 leaders who signed the letter to Sonia Gandhi have realised their mistake and don’t want to intensify the internal rift,” a source said. “We are aware that some leaders aren’t willing to reconcile. That’s unfortunate. But we hope there will be corrective measures. Those who break party discipline, those who violate laid-down processes of candidate selection, those who underperform --- none of them will be spared. We have also taken note of the poor performance in the by-elections and action will follow.” Congress leaders believe that it’s because of the internal bickering that the attacks are coming from outside as well. RJD leader Shivanand Tiwary had on Sunday questioned Rahul’s handling of the party and his interest in the Bihar election, accusing him of picnicking in Shimla instead of campaigning in the state. He said Rahul had visited Bihar just three times and that the Congress’s performance had hamstrung the alliance. Tejashwi Yadav didn’t endorse the attack, asking party spokesperson Manoj Jha to immediately issue a clarification. Jha dismissed Tiwary’s outburst as his personal opinion and insisted that all the alliance partners had fought the election with unity of purpose. Some Congress leaders wondered why such swift actions didn’t come from Sonia. While many Bihar Congress leaders were openly playing the blame game, general secretary Anwar had said the alliance had lost because of the Congress’s poor performance. Sibal, in his interview, regretted that it was business as usual in the party despite the successive setbacks. “For six years the Congress has not introspected; what hope do we have for introspection now? We know what is wrong with the Congress. Organisationally, we know what is wrong,” he said. “I think we have all the answers. The Congress party itself knows all the answers. But they are not willing to recognise those answers. If they do not recognise those answers, then the graph will continue to decline. That is the sorry state of affairs that the Congress is in, and that is what we are concerned about.” Vivek Tankha, Rajya Sabha member and head of the party’s legal cell, tweeted in response: “Kapil ji is an iconic lawyer & hardcore Congress personality. Together & individually we have fought countless battles & continue to fight against BJP shenanigans. For our democracy to survive Congress has to survive. Time to act is now or tomorrow may be too late.” Former finance minister P. Chidambaram’s son and Lok Sabha member Karti Chidambaram quoted Sibal’s interview and tweeted: “It’s time we introspect, ideate, consult & act.” Rahul avoided the debate and remained focused on his pet theme. Posting a news report that said industrialist Gautam Adani’s wealth had increased by 230 per cent since Narendra Modi became Prime Minister, Rahul tweeted a query: “And Yours?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-555
17-11-2020||India||After reluctance, Supreme Court notice on Kerala journalist||The Supreme Court on Monday issued notice to the Uttar Pradesh government on a plea to grant immediate bail to Kerala journalist Siddique Kappan who has been in custody since October 5 after he was detained on his way to Hathras where a Dalit girl was brutalised and murdered. A bench headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde has posted the matter for hearing on Friday, although the court was initially reluctant to entertain the plea on the ground that it wanted to discourage citizens from directly approaching the top court for relief. The matter had drawn attention recently when Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami was granted interim bail by the Supreme Court after he was in custody in Maharashtra for eight days. The high court had asked Goswami to approach the sessions court. Kappan has been incarcerated for over 40 days now. Uttar Pradesh police have booked Kappan under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) after accusing him of being associated with the Popular Front of India, which is considered an extremist organisation but which is not banned. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) that had sought Kappan’s release, said that there were a number of occasions on which the court had directly entertained petitioners for relief. When the bench, which includes Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, asked Sibal why the petitioner did not approach Allahabad High Court for bail, he said lawyers were not being allowed to meet Kappan, now lodged in a Mathura jail. “I (Kappan) am inside the jail since October 6. The FIR does not mention me,” Sibal told the bench. He said the local magistrate had refused to grant permission for lawyers and family members to meet him. Justice Bobde asked Sibal: “Why did you not approach the high court? We are not on merits at all, but we are trying to discourage Article 32 petitions… there are a spate of Article 32 petitions every day.” Article 32 empowers any person to move the Supreme Court for enforcement of his or her fundamental rights. Sibal said that unless lawyers were allowed to meet Kappan, they would not be able to understand the factual position. “This is about a journalist who continues to be in jail. These are exceptional circumstances,” Sibal said. The KUWJ had filed a habeas corpus petition, which is invoked for producing any person whose whereabouts are not known. Since it is known that Kappan is now in  judicial custody, the court wanted the petition before it to be amended. “We issue notice. Let the matter be listed this Friday. You have not filed their amended petition,” Justice Bobde said. Sibal responded: “We could not meet the gentleman.  How do we amend? We have filed an affidavit to this effect.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-555
17-11-2020||India||Bihar alliance without a single elected Muslim||Bihar has for the first time since Independence got a ruling coalition without a single MLA from its largest minority community. None of the four parties in the National Democratic Alliance — the BJP, Janata Dal United, Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular and Vikassheel Insan Party — has a single MLA from among Muslims, who make up over 16 per cent of the state's population. Of these four, the JDU alone had fielded Muslim candidates, all 11 of whom lost. Nitish Kumar, who on Monday took oath as chief minister for the seventh time and who flaunts his “socialist-secular” credentials, will therefore have to form a council of ministers without a single Muslim member elected directly by the people. He has, of course, the option of engaging in the “tokenism” of appointing a Muslim minister and then nominating them to the state legislative council. All the non-NDA parties or combines that have won seats — apart from the Lok Janshakti Party — have their share of Muslim MLAs. The Rashtriya Janata Dal has 8 Muslims among its 75 MLAs, the Congress has 4 out of 19, Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM has 5 out of 5, and the Left parties have 1 out of 16. The Bahujan Samaj Party’s lone MLA is a Muslim. Veteran socialist leader Shivanand Tiwary, who has worked with both Lalu Prasad and Nitish for over 40 years, put in perspective the loss of the JDU’s Muslim candidates despite their party’s origin and upbringing in Bihar’s socialist tradition. He referred to developments at some of the joint campaign meetings held by Nitish and Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the Seemanchal and Mithila areas. “Nitish remained a silent spectator to Modi shouting ‘Jai Sri Ram’ and demonstrating his ‘victory’ in (amending) Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir to polarise the voters on communal lines from the dais,” he said. “Faced with anger and anti-incumbency, Nitish’s JDU banked on the benefits of the polarisation that the speeches by the Prime Minister and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath delivered. Obviously, the minorities found the BJP and the JDU to be on the same page and didn’t vote for his candidates.” Yet the JDU is in no way similar to the BJP in terms of origin, growth or larger ideology. Abdul Ghafoor, who was Bihar chief minister in the 1970s, was one of the founders of the Samata Party, from which the JDU was born in 1999. Socialist stalwart George Fernandes, a Christian from Mangalore, had been chief of Samata and later the JDU. When Samata struck an alliance with the BJP in 1996, it had recorded its reservations about the BJP’s agenda of repealing Article 370, introducing a uniform civil code and building a Ram temple on the disputed plot in Ayodhya. Muslims have held key ministerial and other constitutional posts ever since the first Assembly elections in Bihar in 1952, whether under the rule of the Congress, Samyukta Socialist Party, Janata Party, Janata Dal or the RJD —  even under the BJP-JDU alliance headed by Nitish until the latest election. From a larger perspective, the community has played a key role in Bihar’s history over the centuries. The road leading to Patna airport is named Peer Ali Marg after a hero of the 1857 revolt. Socialist revolutionary Taqi Rahim was the right-hand man of Jayaprakash Narayan who led the 1970s movement from Bihar that led to Indira Gandhi’s Congress losing power at the Centre in the post-Emergency 1977 election. Muslims have presided over both Houses in Bihar. Ghulam Sarwar was Speaker of the Assembly during Lalu Prasad’s first term as chief minister and Jabir Hussein was chairperson of the legislative council during the later years of RJD rule. “While Nitish is on the verge of creating history by logging the longest tenure as Bihar chief minister after Sri Krishna Sinha, he will also go down in history as the one who led a coalition without a single Muslim MLA,” Shivanand said. “He (Nitish) has actually achieved the larger goal of the RSS to relegate the minorities to second-class citizens and deny them representation in political governance.” When Nitish led the Mahagathbandhan of the JDU, RJD and the Congress to power in 2015, his cabinet had the prominent Muslim face, Abdul Bari Siddiqui, from the RJD as finance minister. After Nitish returned to the BJP in 2017, he had Khurshid Feroz, a JDU lawmaker from Sikta, in his council of ministers. Khurshid was known for chanting "Jai Sri Ram" and donning saffron. Nitish has also had to accept the BJP central leadership's decision of replacing Sushil Kumar Modi with Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi as deputy chief ministers. Sushil, one of the last stalwarts from the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-L.K. Advani era, had stuck with Nitish throughout his career as BJP-JDU chief minister -- even at the cost of angering the Hindutva hardliners in his own party. Tarkishore represents the politics of polarisation and is the MLA from Katihar, which has a large Muslim population and borders election-bound Bengal. “Nitish’s oft-repeated motto of observing the triple Cs -- that is, a policy of no compromise with communalism, crime or corruption -- now sounds like a joke,” D.M. Diwakar, social economist and professor at the AN Sinha Institute of Social Sciences, said. "The results of this election have proved beyond doubt that the BJP, which bears the signature of Narendra Modi and Amit Shah, has thoroughly subsumed Nitish’s JDU.” Nalin Verma is a veteran journalist and media educator||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-555
17-11-2020||India||Shaheen protesters at Supreme Court door||A group of people who were among the Shaheen Bagh protesters against the Citizenship Amendment Act 2019 on Monday urged the Supreme Court to review its judgment of October 7 that such protests can be held only at “designated” areas, arguing that such a direction will “lead to abuse of authority by the government”. “Prima facie the observations of this Hon’ble Court in the order under review appear to be giving way to an unrestricted sanction to the police to take action by misusing these observations. This is all the more troublesome when the police has in the recent past acted arbitrarily by beating students and protesters. The above observations, it is submitted, have clothed the police with an arbitrary discretion to attack any peaceful protester,” the review petition, which is yet to be listed for hearing, stated. According to the petition, the only way for citizens in a democracy to show their dissent towards legislations, policies and other governmental acts and omissions is by way of peaceful protests. So to put any kind of curb on this freedom to show dissent leaves the citizens with no resort whatsoever to voice their concerns. “…Propositions like holding protests at ‘designated places alone’ coming from judicial pronouncements shall upset the very concept of dissent and protest. In case of administrative action coming up with such propositions, the citizens still may approach the courts of law. However, in the present situation, the citizens are vulnerable and helpless. This is an obvious error on the face of it which requires review,” the petition said. According to the petitioners, the impugned judgment also sought to vest extraordinary powers on the police and political representatives to hold negotiations with the protesters which it said would be counter-productive as the authorities would never go against government’s policies. “Protests of this nature ought not to be subjected to the atrocities at the hands of a muscular administration which has targeted vulnerable citizens of this country wherever any peaceful protest have become politically inconvenient to the elected representatives in power. “In a liberal democracy, questions of serious importance such as the threat to a person’s citizenship cannot be confined to the mercy of political representatives without the protesters having a reasonable choice of location to protest so that their voice may be heard effectively,” the protesters in their joint petition said. The petitioners submitted that the impugned judgment is contrary to a 1972 five-judge constitution bench ruling in  the Himat Lal Shah case that there cannot be any excessive restrictions on public protests in a democracy. It quoted paragraph 70 of the said constitution bench judgment wherein it was observed: “Public meeting in open spaces and public streets forms part of the tradition of our national life. In the pre-Independence days such meetings have been held in open space and public streets and the people have come to regard it as a part of their privileges and immunities. The State and the local authority have a virtual monopoly of every open space at which an outdoor meeting can be held. If therefore, the State or municipality can constitutionally close both its streets and its parks entirely to public meetings, the practical result would be that it would be impossible to hold any open-air meetings in any large city… streets. “…Public parks existing primarily for other purposes and the social interests promoted by untrammeled exercise of freedom of utterance and assembly in public street must yield to social interest which prohibition and regulation of speech are designed to protect. But there is a constitutional difference between reasonable regulation and arbitrary exclusions…” Hence it urged the apex court to review its recent judgment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-555
17-11-2020||India||Adityanath, Rawat  stuck in Kedarnath due to snowfall||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and his Uttarkhand counterpart Trivendra Singh Rawat were stuck in Kedarnath for around nine hours because of snowfall and could not return to Lucknow and Dehradun respectively on Monday. After waiting for the weather to improve since 7.30am, the chief ministers flew in two helicopters along with some of their officers and security personnel to Gauchar, 50km from Kedarnath. Sources in the Uttarakhand government said they would be able to fly to Badrinath on Tuesday if the weather improved. Adityanath had gone to Kedarnath on Sunday afternoon to worship in the Kedarnath temple and witness its closing ceremony on Monday morning. However, his chopper could not take off in the morning. The Uttar Pradesh chief minister is supposed to lay the foundation stone of a tourist guesthouse in Badrinath before returning back to Lucknow. The gate of the Badrinath temple is expected to close on November 19. The Kedarnath and Badrinath temples in Rudraprayag and Chamoli districts respectively are being closed in winter because of snow. Even the residents leave the places and spend about five months in the plains before returning back to their homes in April. While there was a rumour that Prime Minister Narendra Modi would attend the closing ceremony in Kedarnath, Adityanath’s programme was made public two days ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-555
17-11-2020||India||BJP attacks Congress over Jammu & Kashmir tie-up||Law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Monday said the Congress was joining the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration and asked the party’s top leadership to clarify if they supported the restoration of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir. “Madam Sonia ji and Shri Rahul Gandhi ji, please tell the nation clearly and categorically, does the Congress party want the restoration of Article 370 in the original form?” Prasad, who was fielded by the BJP, asked. Though senior Congress leader and former finance minister P. Chidambaram has already said the party supports the demand for the restoration of the special status that Jammu and Kashmir enjoyed before August 5, 2019, Sonia and Rahul have not spoken on the issue. The BJP wants to push the Gandhi family to clarify its position over the demand for the restoration of Article 370 in a bid to derive political mileage. The BJP has been doggedly trying to paint the Congress “anti-national” and the saffron party feels Article 370 can be effectively used to corner their political and ideological opponent. “We will not leave the issue. We will raise it across the country,” Prasad said. Prasad said People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, with the National Conference and the PDP as main players, was contesting the local body polls and now the Congress is joining it. He said the main agenda of the alliance is the restoration of Article 370. “Does it mean, the Congress party is going to support the annulment of all the pro-people and pro-poor laws being made applicable to J&K by Parliament?” Prasad asked, underlining that the annulment of Article 370 was in the interest of the people of Jammu and Kashmir. The law minister also picked statements by National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah saying he had no compunction about seeking even China’s help for the restoration of Article 370 and PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti’s remark that she won’t hoist the Tricolour unless the Jammu and Kashmir flag is restored to target the Congress. “Does the Congress support the statements of Farooq Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti?” he asked while terming them “zabardast desh virodhi baatein (strongly anti-national statements)”. Along with the Congress, the BJP leader also slammed Abdullah and Mufti for “disrespecting the constitutional parliamentary process”. Prasad accused the Gupkar alliance of trying to push Jammu and Kashmir back and deprive the people of the benefits of the central laws. The BJP’s Jammu and Kashmir unit chief Ravinder Raina on Monday said the decision of the Congress to join hands with the “Gupkar gang” is akin to joining hands with China and Pakistan”. “They are the people who speak the language of Imran Khan, Xi Jinping….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-555
17-11-2020||India||Nitish Kumar takes oath with 2 deputies from BJP||Nitish Kumar took oath as Bihar chief minister for the seventh time on Monday but if he looked a little disenchanted as he gazed down from the Raj Bhavan dais, he had good reason. Not only was his trusted deputy Sushil Kumar Modi gone, the BJP had replaced the veteran with not one but two deputy chief ministers — Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi — in what seemed an attempt to clip Nitish’s wings. Also, the Janata Dal United looked likely to lose the Assembly Speaker’s post, with outgoing Speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary — who Nitish had been keen to retain — taking oath as a minister. Sources in the BJP said former minister Nand Kishore Yadav could be appointed Speaker. Twelve ministers apart from Nitish, Tarkishore and Renu were sworn in. Six of the 15 who took the oath were from the JDU (including Nitish), seven from the BJP and one each from the Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular and the Vikassheel Insan Party. The cabinet is expected to be expanded later since Bihar is allowed 36 ministers. If Nitish felt undermined during the oath-taking, the BJP seemed to add insult to injury soon after. Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP president J.P. Nadda, who had flown in to attend the swearing-in, returned to Delhi immediately after the ceremony without spending some time with Nitish at the Raj Bhavan. The portfolios are yet to be distributed. Nitish’s stature and clout in a government where his party is now the junior partner will become clearer once the important ministries like home, education and finance have been allotted. Already the BJP has engaged in a bit of “social engineering” that could weaken Nitish politically. While Tarkishore — from the Baniya (trading) caste — is an OBC like Sushil, Renu’s Nonia (salt maker) identity makes her an Extremely Backward Caste, so far seen as a promising vote bank for Nitish. The BJP has chosen its other ministers from an assortment of castes, keeping in mind identity arithmetic. It has retained only one minister, Mangal Pandey, from the previous cabinet, signalling a move at a new beginning. Nitish’s plight owes to his party winning just 43 seats against the BJP’s 74, with the Morcha and Vikassheel notching four seats each to give the alliance 125 of the Assembly’s 243 seats. Asked for his reaction at becoming chief minister again, Nitish said: “What else can be the reaction? Once again the responsibility is there and it has to be discharged.” He ducked the question whether he was missing Sushil and whether his former deputy’s vast experience should be utilised in some other capacity. “This (keeping Sushil away) is a BJP decision. You should ask the BJP about it,” Nitish said. Although Sushil attended the swearing-in, he stayed somewhat aloof and silent in the crowd of politicians. Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, who was present, said: “Nitish is our leader. The government will run strongly under his leadership.” Main Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal, the largest party in the Assembly with 75 seats, boycotted the ceremony. “We boycott the oath-taking ceremony. The public mandate for change is against the NDA. It was changed by the administrative order,” the RJD said. “The people are angry over the fraud committed by the NDA. We are public representatives and we stand with the people.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted: “Congratulations to Nitish Kumar Ji on taking oath as Bihar’s CM. I also congratulate all those who took oath as ministers in the Bihar government. The NDA family will work together for the progress of Bihar. I assure all possible support from the Centre for the welfare of Bihar.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-555
17-11-2020||India||RSS-Congress plot cry in Kerala||Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac on Monday accused the Congress of aligning with an RSS plot to sabotage key infrastructure development in the state. The finance minister attacked state Congress general secretary Mathew Kuzhalnadan — a lawyer by profession — for appearing for a leader of RSS affiliate Swadeshi Jagran Manch that moved the high court against Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) borrowing funds from the bond market. State convener of Swadeshi Jagran Manch Ranjith Karthikeyan had recently moved Kerala High Court against the KIIFB, with Kuzhalnadan appearing for the petitioner. The petitioner had sought judicial intervention in freezing all funds the KIIFB raised by issuing bonds. Isaac said in a media statement that it was RSS leader and BJP national general secretary Ram Madhav who gave the clearance to file the case against the KIIFB and described Kuzhalnadan as the hatchet man in the plot to sabotage the infrastructure development in the state. The KIIFB has so far committed Rs 60,000-crore worth projects covering government schools, roads and bridges. While projects worth Rs 5,400 crore are complete, tender process is on for public works costing about Rs 30,000 crore. Kuzhalnadan rubbished the allegations and said he was only doing his job as a lawyer and would quit public life if the finance minister could prove his allegations. “If the finance minister can prove that I had met any RSS leader anywhere in the country over the KIIFB or any other matter, I will end my political career then and there,” said Kuzhalnadan. The Congress leader insisted that he stood by his arguments that the KIIFB borrowings did not have proper approvals from the Reserve Bank of India. “From what I know, the RBI had only given an NOC (no objection certificate) and not an approval for such borrowings,” said Kuzhalnadan. But the finance minister, who addressed a news conference in Alappuzha, countered by pointing out how the KIIFB was allowed to raise Rs 2,150 via masala bonds (rupee denominated bonds) in London Stock Exchange last year. “Does he think that we could have enlisted the bonds in London Stock Exchange without the RBI’s approval?” Isaac asked. “This is about the rights of a state to borrow money,” he said adding that nowhere was the state proscribed from seeking loans to the KIIFB. Isaac reminded the Congress that has taken up cudgels on behalf of Kuzhalnadan that even the states ruled by the party had been fighting the Centre’s attempt to stop them from taking loans. “Even Congress governments in various states had joined us in fighting against the Centre for trying to deny states the right to take loans,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-555
17-11-2020||India||Delhi health minister rules out fresh lockdown||Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain on Monday ruled out the possibility of any more lockdowns to curb the rapid increase of coronavirus cases in the national capital. He told reporters on Monday: “The lockdown was a learning exercise. What we learnt is that the benefits of a lockdown can be obtained simply by wearing masks. Despite the lockdown, cases increased from a few hundred to thousands in the country. I don’t think it can be contained by a lockdown.” Daily cases crossed 8,000 here last week. Jain attributed some of these cases to patients from neighbouring Uttar Pradesh. “The month on month comparison of deaths with previous years does not show an increase in deaths this year. If a person is ill, and he also has Covid then his death is attributed to the virus. The percentage of deaths is around 1 per cent,” he said. Jain also claimed that the third wave of the pandemic in Delhi had peaked. The positivity rate for Saturday was 15.3 per cent, the highest in 140 days. However, Jain said that he expected it to subside now as the crowds of Diwali shoppers have subsided.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-555
17-11-2020||India||Odisha all-party meet on Question Hour||Odisha Assembly Speaker Surjya Naryan Patro has called an all-party meeting on November 18 to discuss the procedures to be followed during the winter session, which will begin from November 20 and continue till December 3. Patro will seek the opinion of the MLAs on the vital issue of whether Question Hour should be held or not. “We will discuss whether there will be a Question Hour or not. However, efforts will be made to follow the practices adopted by Parliament,” Patro told reporters. According to the programme, the Assembly will have two sittings and the total duration of the sittings will be four-and-a-half hours every day. The MLAs attending the session physically will have to go through mandatory Covid tests. Even police officials and journalists will be subjected to Covid tests. Legislators also have the option to take part in the proceedings using the virtual platform. On the first day of the winter session, the supplementary budget of Rs 11,200 crore will be placed before the Assembly for approval. In a significant move, the Assembly secretariat has planned to go paperless this time. “All the employees of the Assembly are undergoing training for online file management. The Odisha Computer Application Centre is providing them training. The file work will be done using a software called Odisha Secretariat Workflow Automation System,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-556
17-11-2020||West Bengal||Basirhat auto driver spends savings for his idol Netaji||The dream of a 39-year-old autorickshaw driver was fulfilled when Trinamul MLA Dipendu Biswas unveiled a horse-riding fiberglass statue of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose here on Sunday. Driver Ajay Kundu had long nursed a desire to install a statue of his idol Netaji in his hometown, Basirhat. Kundu spent his savings of Rs 1.10 lakh to pay the artisan’s fee for the statue and to meet the expenses of beautification, he borrowed money from his friends and relatives. Kundu’s wife Pampa and his two sons Biswajit and Shanu — both college students — supported Kundu. Kundu, who operates on the Basirhat-Talpukur route and is the secretary of the local auto operators’ union, is a Class IV dropout. However, in the few years he had spent in school, Bose became Netaji’s hero. “I spent only a few years in school. But by then, I had realised that Netaji was the real icon of our country. I later heard about him from many learned persons and concluded that without his initiative, Independence would have come late,” Kundu told The Telegraph. “I always felt that Basirhat should have a life-size statue of Netaji. The town has several half-bust models of the icon but Netaji’s statue at the five-point crossing at Shyambazar in Calcutta always fascinated me. I dreamt of installing a replica of that statue in Basirhat. Eventually, I expressed my desire to Dipendu da last year and he extended support,” Kundu added. MLA Biswas wrote to the PWD authorities to allot a plot for Kundu to install the statue. He also granted Rs 30,000 from his development fund to help Kundu realise his dream. Sculpture artist Khokon Pal finished the 13-ft high statue. “It is a dream come true even though a lot of work, including beautification of the site, remains incomplete. I am grateful to Dipendu da and many of my friends who came forward to support me,” said Kundu. “It is a tribute to the real hero of the nation. We didn’t bother to spend from our savings for a noble cause,” Kundu said while Pampa nodded in agreement. MLA Dipendu Biswas, said: “It is indeed a great initiative to pay tribute to Netaji. I am really moved by his gesture and tried my best to extend all possible support to him”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-307
17-11-2020||West Bengal||Bimal camp to Gorkhas: Vote for Trinamul||The youth wing of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s Bimal Gurung faction on Sunday said there would be worse days for the Gorkhas if the BJP came to power in Bengal and asked the community and adivasis to vote for the Trinamul Congress in the next Assembly elections. Prakash Gurung, the president of the Gorkha Janmukti Yuva Morcha (Gurung camp), alleged that the BJP was using the hill party as a scapegoat to hide its alleged failures. “It will be worse days for Gorkhas if the BJP comes to power (in Bengal). We want to remind the Gorkhas of this. We have known them (BJP) closely,” Prakash said in a video posted from Calcutta. “The BJP has no history of providing anything to the Gorkhas and we want to appeal to them and the adivasis to ensure Trinamul’s victory (in the Bengal Assembly polls),” said Prakash. The Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council — which was later disbanded — and the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration were formed and the Gorkha/Nepali language included in the 8th schedule of the Constitution when the Congress was in power at the Centre. Anil Lopchan, the vice-president of the Yuva Morcha (Gurung faction), accused the BJP of turning the Bengal governor, Jagdeep Dhankhar, into its activist. “The BJP has made the Bengal governor its worker. He is a constitutional head and he should not make political statements as it does not suit him. The esteemed post (of the governor) has been insulted,” said Lopchan. Much of the tirade was, however, reserved for Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista. “Raju Bista has said all political parties must unite for Gorkhaland. We want to ask the BJP and the MP (Bista) whether all parties had been consulted when Article 370 was abrogated in Kashmir and Ladakh given Union territory status or when Opposition leaders were kept under home arrest?,” asked Lopchan. The Gurung camp as well as the Binay Tamang faction of the Morcha now back Trinamul. The Gorkha population can influence verdicts in six to seven Assembly constituencies  in north Bengal. The other allegations by the Gurung faction were the BJP’s silence during the 2017 agitation, failure to grant tribal status to hill communities and start tripartite meetings on Gorkhaland and “double standards” on issues like law and order in different states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-307
17-11-2020||West Bengal||More celebrities to grace Darjeeling Hill Marathon||Celebrities from across the country are set to cheer runners during the Darjeeling Hill Marathon on Sunday. The marathon organised by Darjeeling Police is the biggest run in north Bengal and from this year, the event will feature in the international marathon calendar. After Milind Soman — India’s supermodel, actor, producer and one of the most well-known fitness promoters in the country — became the first person to register for the event, prominent singer Kailash Kher and his band Kailasa decided to perform live during the marathon. Kher is known for his soulful songs with a unique style influenced by Indian folk and sufi music. “I am super excited to be in Darjeeling. Srikant of Surfira (considered a promising talent in the country) will be opening for us at Chowrasta, Darjeeling. I would like to thank Darjeeling police and SP, Dr Santosh Nimbalkar, for taking the event to another level,” Kher said in a video message. It is not just Soman and Kher but former Indian team footballer Shyam Thapa and Everester Jamling Tenzing Norgay Sherpa will also cheer at the event. “Becky Pde, an ultra marathon runner from Shillong, is also our youth ambassador for the event,” said Abhishek Gupta, additional SP, Darjeeling. The marathon is attracting youths from across the region with nearly 1,600 runners having registered themselves for the Darjeeling event till date. Through the month, the organisers worked hard to ensure that the Sunday run is the most talked about event in the region. From releasing a theme song — Time to R-UNLOCK, sung by Darjeeling-based band Red Sky Pirates — to releasing videos of local icons, the Darjeeling police have left no stone unturned. “We want to promote a culture of fitness through running and we have noticed that the youths from Darjeeling are taking to fitness in a big way,” said Gupta. Promotional events are being organised regularly at Darjeeling, Kurseong and Mirik among other places. Hill runners like Premius Bhutia, a recovering addict, Sidharth Lama, Asish Subba, Jatin Chettri, Preeti Rai and 72-year old Gambahadur Tamang are providing pep-talks at the promotional events. “I want to encourage our youths to run and want to send a message that they should not lose their way by indulging in activities harmful to the society,” said Gambahadur. The marathon, which has two sections of 21.1km and 10km runs, will start and finish at Chowrasta and has been divided into six categories.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-307
17-11-2020||West Bengal||Blockade against goons picking on women in Jagaddal||Goons beat up a few people and left two of them injured at Mondalpara in Jagaddal for protesting against their sleazy comments targeting women returning home after visiting Kali Puja pandals late on Sunday night. Sources said after beating up the youths, the goons in a bid to terrorise the local residents hurled bombs. To protest against the incident and demanding immediate arrest of the goons, the residents put up a blockade on the Mondalpara-Kankinara Road on Monday morning. The angry residents also observed a shutdown at the market against the deteriorating law and order in the locality. The three-hour-long blockade was withdrawn after a police team from Kankinara assured the agitators of action against the goons. While the women were passing through the Sthirpara area in Mondalpara on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday, the goons passed sleazy comments targeting them. When family members accompanying the women protested against the abusive comments, the goons beat up the youths. Local resident Ajoy Mondal said: “The goons attacked the youths with bricks and threatened them at gun point. Two of the youths suffered head injuries and were taken to hospital. They have also damaged a few motorcycles.” Hearing the commotion, local residents rushed out of their homes but the goons terrorised them by hurling bombs. Sources said at least 10 bombs were hurled in the area but no one was injured. Local resident Shibam Bhattacharjee said: “The area is in the grip of armed goons who roam around freely. Bombing and terrorising local residents have become a regular affair here. Our lives are on the edge.” The police, however, called the incident as a clash between workers of Trinamul and the BJP over area dominance. Residents at several places of North 24-Parganas district say they often wake up in the middle of the night to the sounds of bomb and speeding motorcycles. “Nights have become horrifying for us. During the past three months bombs continue to be hurled by goons. It appears that the entire jute belt of North 24-Parganas has turned into a stockpile of bombs to which goons have easy access,” said a resident. An officer of Jagaddal police station said: “A case has been lodged over Sunday night’s attack. However, no one has been arrested so far.” Acknowledging the spate of bomb attacks in pockets of Barrackpore, a senior officer of Barrackpore commissionerate said: “We have arrested a number of goons in the recent past but in most cases the accused persons are granted bail.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-308
17-11-2020||West Bengal||Book store recalls Soumitra Chatterjee’s days||Bengal’s cultural icon Soumitra Chatterjee, who passed away on Sunday, had never wanted to miss one thing whenever he was in Santiniketan — an adda at the town’s popular book store and intellectual hub Subarnarekha. “It was a must for Soumitrababu to come to our adda whenever he was in Santiniketan. He enjoyed the conversations and interactions with several senior teachers, scholars and intellectuals of Santiniketan. The discussions covered a wide range of subjects and issues,” said Sujit Chatterjee, an 83-year-old resident of Santiniketan and president of the decade-old film society Bikhshan. Old timers, who used to frequent Subarnarekha, recalled that on several occasions, they had seen Soumitra engaged in animated discussion in the company of litterateur Sunil Gangopadhyay and poet Shakti Chattopadhyay. Samiran Nandy, a retired photographer of Visva-Bharati, said he had first seen Soumitra in Santiniketan in September 1978 and later he would frequently run into him at the adda sessions at Subarnarekha. “ I have spent so many memorable evenings with the legend in the adda sessions at Subarnarekha . We used to sit there as a listener and rarely commented. We tried to hear and absorb his erudition and knowledge on a wide range of subjects,” said Nandy. Nandy said what was endearing about him was that he never used to flaunt his stardom. “He was in every way a cerebral actor whose knowledge was immense. We could enjoy those sessions because the torture of autograph hunters and selfie-seekers was not there on those days,” Nandy added. “Soumitrababu did not speak about his profession at the adda sessions but used to spend time discussing various books, poems and what stood out was his sense of humour and wit,” he added. Soumitra also had personal ties with several persons in Santiniketan. In 2009, the veteran actor came to visit Rabindranath Tagore’s museum at Rabindra Bhavana for an interview with its special officer Nilanjan Banerjee for a radio programme on the bard. “He was really versatile as he had a deep knowledge about Tagore and his works,” said Banerjee who knew Soumitra for many years as he was a part of the production unit of a English film that was shot in 2001 in Santiniketan. “He was a really nice person. One day, he suddenly asked me to take him to the local cinema as he wanted to watch Aamir Khan’s film Lagaan. We took a rickshaw and went to Gitanjali auditorium to watch the film. He enjoyed the movie. He was so simple,” recalled Nilanjan Banerjee. Old timers, however, said Soumitra’s visits to Subarnarekha became less frequent after the death of the book store’s owner Indranath Majumder in 2013. Soumitra had visited Santiniketan for the last time in 2019 and told his close friends that he felt happy whenever he got a chance to visit Santiniketan. However, his last trip was not marked by a visit to Subarnarekha and from Sunday, the innumerable sessions that Soumitra had attended at the bookstore became a part of history.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-308
17-11-2020||West Bengal||Bengal total Covid cases fall below 28,000||Bengal reported a drop by 2,895 in total number of active Covid-19 cases over Sunday and Monday, taking the tally of existing patients to 27,897 — close to the figure on October 5. The state on Monday logged 3,012 new infections, the least since September 4. There were 4,376 recoveries and 53 deaths also. The total of active cases has fallen for 21 consecutive days since the end of Durga Puja. The number dropped by 9,293 since Vijaya Dashami. “The total active cases fell by 1,478 on Sunday and 1,417 today (Monday). There were 6,065 infections and 8,856 recoveries in the past two days,” said a Bengal minister. The state reported 88,866 recoveries and 80,741 infections in the three weeks since the end of Puja, undoing much of the damage from a major spike in the positive cases, along with relatively fewer number of cured patients, for six weeks prior to the festival. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent the worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja. The numbers of infections during the Puja days showed that the intervention was effective. The high court issued a similar set of instructions for Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath to keep the novel coronavirus under check. “There have been many unexpected and almost miraculous positives in the past three weeks. But this steep drop in the total number of active cases over these two days is yet another big one,” said the minister. Asked if the lower number of cases being found on Sunday and Monday was because of relatively low tests — 38,000-odd instead of the current average level of 43,000-45,000, the minister said: “It could be one of the factors, but we are yet to conclusively ascertain what it is to be attributed to.” With 38,127 tests on Monday, over 52.56 lakh swab samples were examined. The number of tests per million people are 58,410 now. The positive confirmation rate is 8.27 per cent. The recovery rate, currently in an unbroken spell of rise for 25 consecutive days, touched another new high of 91.81. The current national rate is 93.36 per cent. The state has recorded a total of 4.34 lakh Covid-19 cases, including nearly 3.99 lakh recoveries and 7,714 deaths. The 53 deaths logged on Monday included 14 each from Calcutta and North 24-Parganas. Of the total deaths, 6,454 (83.7 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities. The state’s mortality rate is 1.77, still less than the national rate of 1.47 per cent. While 30.02 per cent of 13,508 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 101 dedicated hospitals in Bengal were occupied as of Monday, over 4.53 lakh telemedicine consultations have been provided for the disease so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-308
17-11-2020||West Bengal||Hunt for plot to erect Birsa statue||Representatives of adivasi outfits in Bankura, backed by local Trinamul leadership, on Monday identified three plots, one of which they plan to use to set up a statue of tribal icon Birsa Munda in the next few months. The tribal freedom fighter, religious leader and folk hero has suddenly assumed the centrestage in the battle between Trinamul and the BJP since Union home minister Amit Shah paid floral tributes to the statue of an anonymous tribal hunter, which the BJP had identified as the statue of Munda. Although the faux pas by Shah drew criticism from tribal organisations, the state BJP put up a brave face and party president Dilip Ghosh said — much to the dismay of tribal organisations — that the party considered the statue of the anonymous hunter as that of the tribal icon because Shah had paid floral tributes to it. “The BJP has inflicted so much of insult on the tribal hero.... We want to undo the damage for the sake of the pride of the tribal people. Today, we went with tribal representatives and spotted three plots, where we plan to set up a statue,” said Shyamal Santra, a minister of state and Trinamul’s Bankura district president. Santra accompanied the team of the tribal people. According to him, the statue will be set up in “a few months” as the matter has become a priority for local people. All the three plots, which were inspected on Monday, are within 100 meters of the statue of the anonymous hunter. Multiple sources in the ruling party and tribal organisations said while the government would donate land for the statue, local tribal outfits would collect funds for a 20-feet statue of Munda. “The statue would be so tall that the BJP leaders would not miss it... They may be outsiders, but when they come to this part of Bengal, they should know Birsa Munda,” Santra added. The statue saga, however, is unlikely to stop for the time being as BJP MP from Bankura, Subhas Sarkar, visited the site of the anonymous tribal hunter’s statue on Sunday and paid floral tributes on the birth anniversary of the tribal icon. Repeating Ghosh’s stand, he asserted that the BJP considered the anonymous tribal hunter’s statue as that of Munda. Born on November 15, 1875, at Uihatu village, now located in Ranchi, Jharkhand, Bhagwan Birsa Munda, as he is called, is among the foremost tribal icons. Several people from the tribal community this correspondent spoke to said that they would be happy if a statue of Birsa Munda was set up as they think their hero was insulted when Shah paid tribute to an anonymous hunter. “The ignorance was so insulting for all of us... Then, they stuck to their stand and claimed it to be the statue of our icon. It is unfortunate that our hero Bhagwan Birsa Munda is being repeatedly insulted for the sake of politics. It is better to set up a statue of him at the place. So, I came here,” said Samir Munda, a representative of Munda community people. Local BJP leaders, though embarrassed because of the faux pas, have not admitted their mistake till now. On Monday, they blamed Trinamul for using the issue for political gains. “Everyone knows that Trinamul never cared for tribal people... Now, they are trying to play with tribal sentiment ahead of the Assembly polls,” said Vivekananda Patra, the Bankura district  BJP president. The local Trinamul leaders found the tribal outfits by their side in the statue saga. Dhananjay Sardar, a central committee member of the Bharatiyo Adivasi Bhumij Samaj, said: “The anonymous hunter’s statue can’t be Birsa Munda’s... I went there on Monday and welcomed the move to set up a statue of our icon.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-308
17-11-2020||West Bengal||Kurseong player  made coach of Mohammedan||Crispin Chettri, a veteran soccer player from the Kurseong subdivision of the Darjeeling hills, has been appointed as the assistant coach of Mohammedan Sporting Club, one of the prestigious football teams in Calcutta which will participate in the upcoming I League. “It was a surprising call for me. I was vacationing in Kathmandu when I got a call from an official of the club. When he said the club wanted me to join the soccer team as an assistant coach, I immediately gave my consent,” Chettri told The Telegraph. A prominent face among the footballers in the hills, Chettri was the head coach of Lonestar Kashmir, a second division club team of I-League, before he got the offer from Mohammedan Sporting club. Chhetri, who hails from St Mary’s, a tiny hamlet nestled near Kurseong town, has completed the AFC ‘A’ License course offered by the FIFA for coaching youths. A former footballer who has represented the national team in the Asian Youth Championship, Chhetri also played for Mohun Bagan FC and Tollygunge Agragami in Calcutta. He also represented Bengal, Maharashtra and Sikkim in Santosh Trophy. “Our team has just entered the first division of the prestigious soccer tournament of the country, where many soccer giants like SC East Bengal and ATK Mohun Bagan of Calcutta and some other best teams will play. Our initial target is to be a tough contender in the league and also vie for the trophy,” Chettri said. Chhetri, who completed all formalities with the Calcutta club, is at home quarantine after returning from Kathmandu. “I will join my team in Calcutta on November 18,” he added. The achievement of the young coach is expected to give a boost to all budding soccer players in the hills. “Crispin Chhetri’s appointment as the assistant coach of the Calcutta team again proved that there is no dearth of football talents in the region. He has emerged as a footballer first and later become a deputy of an I League team, which is unique indeed,” said Suren Pradhan, a soccer enthusiast and one of the prominent organisers of football tourneys in the region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-308
17-11-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul factions clash, 16 detained||The Tufanganj subdivision of the Cooch Behar district has been rocked by clashes between two groups of the Trinamul Congress. The violence that is the fallout of an alleged attempt to gain control of the area by the two lobbies prompted police to detain around 16 Trinamul supporters. Two groups, one headed by Majibur Rehman, Trinamul president of Deocharai panchayat, and the other by Farooque Mondal, his predecessor, clashed at Chulkanir Bazar on Sunday evening. Supporters of both the groups assembled with bricks, rods, stones and sharp weapons on Monday and clashed again. Two vehicles and some motorcycles were vandalised and supporters of the two factions suffered injuries. A police team reached the spot and dispersed the warring people. A number of Trinamul supporters, including Mondal and Rehman, were detained and whisked away to Tufanganj police station. Factionalism in Trinamul was one of the reasons for the party’s debacle in the 2019 general election in the Cooch Behar Lok Sabha seat. Senior Trinamul leaders, including chief minister Mamata Banerjee, has time and again asked district party functionaries and their followers to refrain from the infighting. “But the local leaders paid no heed to the directives. It is good that the police have taken action. We believe steps like arrest and registering police cases against them for triggering violence would discourage them to some extent. Also, it would send a good message to common people, who are disappointed with recurrence of violence,” said a senior Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-308
17-11-2020||West Bengal||5,000 pay tributes to soldier||The last rites of soldier Subodh Ghosh, who had been killed in unprovoked firing by Pakistani forces in Jammu & Kashmir last week, were held in full state honour at the Plassey ghat on the bank of the Jalangi river in the early hours of Monday. The mortal remains of the slain jawan had been brought home at Raghunathpur in Nadia’s Tehatta on Sunday night from Panagarh where the corpse had landed late in the evening. Around 5,000 villagers gathered at a school ground near the jawan’s home to pay their last tributes to the son of the soil. Local Trinamul MP Mohua Moitra, BJP MP Jagannath Sarkar, along with senior officials of the Nadia administration, laid wreaths on the soldier’s body. Later, the body was taken to the Plassey ghat, around 10km away, for the last rites. Subodh joined the army in 2016. He got married in November last year and became father of a girl child in July, a few days after he had left home to resume duty after a vacation. Last Thursday, he called up his wife Anindita about his plan to visit home to arrange for a rice ceremony of their daughter. But the following morning, Subodh, along with three other soldiers, and six civilians were killed when Pakistan indulged in heavy cross-border shelling along the line of control (LoC). Subodh’s father Gouranga Ghosh said: “It is high time that India gave a fitting reply to Pakistan so that no father loses his son in such a way. We have seen Pulwama; every day precious lives of our soldiers are being sacrificed.” “Hope this ends soon,” Gouranga added as he broke down.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-308
17-11-2020||North East||IITG makes catalysts to put waste to use||A team led by IIT Guwahati scientists has developed efficient “pincer” catalysts having the potential to transform industrial/biomass waste into valuable chemicals. IITGs on Monday said tiny amounts of “pincer” catalysts repeatedly convert large amounts of industrial waste such as glycerol into lactic acid and hydrogen. Such catalysts also efficiently convert bioethanol, a low-energy density fuel, into high-energy density butanol. One could envisage pincer catalyst as an organic molecule (ligand) holding the metal with three arms, a member of the research team, which started work on the project last year, told The Telegraph. “This (pincer catalyst) is very similar to three fingers holding a sphere. The three connecting points provides a good control on stability as the metal does not easily leach out from the system. As the major portion of the metal is surrounded by the ligand, the available space will be selective for reactions to happen as only those molecules which fit in can react,” the member said. The findings have recently appeared in the Royal Society of Chemistry journals, Chemical Communications and Catalysis Science & Technology, IITG said, adding that the results of the experiments have been validated by theoretical studies. The conversion of valuable intermediates such as glycerol and ethanol, produced during the processing of biomass, into industrially useful chemicals has elicited much interest worldwide. Glycerol, for example, which is a by-product in biodiesel, can be transformed into lactic acid and hydrogen — the former used extensively in food, pharmaceutical, cosmetic and polymer industries, and the latter in the energy sector. Likewise, ethanol obtained from biomass can be converted into high quality fuel.  While bioethanol has lower energy density than gasoline and corrodes engine parts when used directly, it can be transformed into higher energy butanol that is immiscible in water and non-corrosive in nature. The research team, which believes that its work will have a global impact on the commercial production of lactic acid/biofuels and their multi-billion-dollar market worldwide, plans to take these bench-scale reactions to pilot-plant scale and ultimately to the commercial level with industrial collaboration. The research team included Dr Akshai Kumar Alape Seetharam, department of chemistry and Centre for Nanotechnology, Dr Hemant Kumar Srivastava, currently at National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (NIPER) Guwahati, research scholars Kanu Das, Moumita Dutta, Siriyara Jagannatha Prathapa, Eileen Yasmin and Dr Babulal Das.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-36
17-11-2020||North East||Baghjan well sealed after 5 months ||The Baghjan gas well, which suffered a blowout on May 27, was finally killed on Sunday afternoon after 172 days, bringing relief to energy major Oil India Limited and local residents. The well belonging to Oil India was controlled through snubbing, an operation that started on November 9 and involved eight foreign experts and about 60 Oil India personnel. Snubbing is a process through which pipes are inserted till the bottom of the well and chemical mud is injected through them to kill the well. Snubbing equipment were flown in from Canada to Calcutta last month and they reached Baghjan, about 530km east of Guwahati, on November 4. The May 27 blowout and the subsequent wellhead fire on June 9 have affected about 8,000 residents around the well site besides the local ecology. “The well has been killed with brine solution (chemical mud) and the fire has been doused completely. A huge relief. There is no pressure in the well now and it will be under observation for 24 hours to check if there is any amount of gas migration and pressure build-up. Further operation to abandon the well is in progress,” senior Oil India official Tridiv Hazarika said on Sunday evening. Local residents were visibly relieved. Satyajit Moran, a local youth leader, said, “There was no sound, no fire and no tremors after 172 days. We are relieved and we thank the people involved in the snubbing operations. We will now request the authorities to compensate the affected and restore the ecology as soon as possible.” On September 13, experts from Canadian company Alert had successfully managed to douse the fire at the gas well by diverting the flow of natural gas to nearby flare pits after three unsuccessful attempts to cap the well. “It was a productive well, but will have to be abandoned now. It produced 80,000scmd (standard cubic metres per day),” Hazarika said. P. Chandrasekaran, director (exploration and development ), P.K. Goswami, director (operations) and D.K. Das, resident chief executive, visited the Baghjan well site and had detailed discussions with the experts from Alert and the Oil India team, Hazarika said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-36
17-11-2020||Opinion||Clear the air: Quiet Diwali in Calcutta||Good sense is seldom evident when celebrations are at hand. But this year’s Kali Puja and Diwali in Calcutta seemed to have bucked the trend — to some extent. The city remained unexpectedly quiet. The particulate matter count indicated improvement in air quality with regard to Diwali in other years, although its rise compared to the day before showed that the celebrations had not been entirely without crackers. That was particularly true of the city’s fringes and the districts. A girl died of burns caused while bursting crackers with her family in Malda, while the city of Howrah apparently could not tear itself away from celebratory noise and smoke. In spite of these aberrations, suggest reports, there was a will to comply with the Calcutta High Court’s order banning the sale and bursting of crackers. Neither the fine nor the length of imprisonment laid down for violations could be taken lightly. The alarming spread of the Covid-19 infection and its effect on the lungs lay behind the blanket ban on crackers. The court’s strictness and the experience of the illness offered a conjuncture of circumstances that seemed to have compelled a sobriety that had remained unattainable in spite of environmentalists’ warnings and rulings about decibel levels in recent years. Fear works. That seems to be the chief lesson of the unusual quietness. The police did their job energetically, and were seen to do so, while the possibility of a spell in jail was clearly uninviting. But there was also the powerful fear of an illness that isolates and inconveniences, and can even maim and kill, while still remaining out of reach of full comprehension. Besides, numerous households are mourning their loss, or trying to save a loved one. Fear springing from many sources rather than a sudden growth in civic sense is possibly the reason behind the compliance. The police with their best efforts could not have achieved this without the conscious cooperation of the public. It is hoped that the virus will leave, or be controlled. One source of fear would disappear. Would society then show its civic sense by keeping Kali Puja and Diwali decently quiet and air pollution free?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-116
17-11-2020||Opinion||Gloom deepens: India in recession||India is in the midst of a serious health crisis not only in society but also in the economy. The widespread pandemic has aggravated the decline of the economy, which was already discernible before the arrival of Covid-19. Now the Reserve Bank of India has announced that India is in the midst of a technical recession, experienced for the first time ever in the country. A technical recession is said to occur when there is a contraction of the gross domestic product for two consecutive quarters. In the first quarter of this financial year, the GDP fell by a massive 23.9 per cent. The quick estimate by the RBI for the second quarter indicates a further fall of 8.6 per cent. On top of this, retail inflation hit a 77-month high of 7.61 per cent in October 2020, even higher than the September rate of 7.27 per cent. This inflation is sustained by a marked rise in the prices of food items. The consumer food price inflation was 11.07 per cent in October this year. Meat and fish prices rose by 18.70 per cent, eggs by 21.81 per cent, and vegetables by 22.51 per cent. The RBI has the target of keeping the retail inflation range bound between 2 per cent and 6 per cent. This means that the economy is in a phase of stagflation, and this will make an accommodative monetary policy more difficult in the near future. Hence interest rates may be on pause for some time to come. With monetary policy kept in check to curb inflationary expectations, the policy-based stimulus has to come from the ministry of finance. The finance minister recently announced a third stimulus package — Atmanirbhar Bharat 3.0 — worth Rs 2.65 lakh crore. Like the previous two packages, a lot is notionally allocated as additional credit for willing borrowers (and lenders). These transactions are not under the direct control of North Block. They do not constitute direct benefits to consumers to boost demand. In the schemes announced, apart from the effects of a larger fertilizer subsidy to farmers and income-tax relief to homebuyers, the only direct benefit to households is worth Rs 10,000 crore in the form of additional allocation for the MGNREGA job creation scheme and the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana programme. The Centre’s approach has been to continue to depend on credit availability to drive recovery and growth. However, credit off-take from the banking system was poor last year and this has dropped further in the first half of the current year to 5.1 per cent compared to 8.6 per cent in the first half of 2019-20. Fresh credit was mainly allocated for personal loans and agriculture. Non-food credit growth was alarmingly low. The government has to understand that demand creates additional output and employment. It is not the other way round.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-116
17-11-2020||Opinion||Economic parity: A goal worth fighting for||Over the last couple of months, as India began to gradually open up the economy, regional newspapers in the hinterland have been aflush with a certain kind of notice every day, issued by banks and other lending institutions, listing out possessions, seizures and e-auctions of assets mortgaged as collaterals against loans. These are defunct loans people are apparently unable to repay following job losses and/or a crash in incomes in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic that, in turn, came on the heels of an economy in recession. Some of it can be traced back to the decision of demonetization in 2016. The notices, which make for curious reading, list out properties or vehicles that people bought before the pandemic hit our shores in March 2020. Then there are notices of auctions of gold, used in some cases as security against debt. You find the seemingly rich and middle classes all sailing in the same boat, struggling to repay their outstanding loans. It is apparent that lending institutions are equally desperate, given the fact that some of this retail debt would turn into bad assets unless recovered in full or part. Properties and vehicles bought on loans are increasingly being seized and e-auctioned by lending institutions if the borrowers have defaulted on their equated monthly instalments and are unable to recast their loans. School buses, one can see, are being e-auctioned in the hundreds. What were functional accounts in March 2020 have gone either defunct or red. The spectre of a sure reversal of the economic strides that some lower to middle-income Indians made over two decades looms. The farming classes are in even more of a quandary. In this context, the political narrative of the Rashtriya Janata Dal leader, Tejashwi Yadav, around economic justice in the run-up to the potboiler of the recently-concluded Bihar assembly elections was a refreshing new battle cry that the Opposition so desperately needed to rally against as well as to reverse the sectarian narrative that the Bharatiya Janata Party has woven over the last few years. The backward classes that have fought for social justice since Independence now seek economic and pay parity that this kind of economic justice shall dovetail. However, jobs — both private and under the government — will merely be one promise to ensure economic justice for the marginalized sections or for the regions lagging behind. India needs to look at its disparities that are both structural as well as policy-driven. Some of this disparity is also driven by caste and religion-based discrimination, particularly in this region where gaining access to even basic amenities is challenging. Look at healthcare, for instance. Apart from jobs, education — basic and technical — has not been an easy deal for a majority of Indians, mainly the backward classes as well as minority, Dalit and tribal communities, among others. The idea of socio-economic justice will need to include making education accessible and an equal opportunity goal. It is unlikely that the Narendra Modi regime — rather, the entire sangh parivar — will wean away from a majoritarian path, given the hefty returns it is reaping for them. It is for the Opposition to take what the RJD scion attempted to revitalize in the Bihar election to the next level. After all, the notion of social and economic justice would need to be explained in a comprehensible language for the masses. It would also entail an earnest sharing of political power with the marginalized sections, combined with course correction for policies. Yadav’s efforts did not materialize this time around, but the Opposition, including the beleaguered Congress, has a chance to unite itself and vast sections of Indians seeking economic parity in a highly unequal land. It may take time, but it is a goal worth persisting for.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-116
17-11-2020||Opinion||Spot the difference||Last week, India expanded its production-linked incentive scheme to 10 manufacturing sectors to a total of 13. The aim is to spur manufacturing, investment and employment through targeted State support (around Rs 2 trillion) to domestic and foreign firms for local production, build global hubs and champions, and integrate into global value chains. This complements a swath of previous initiatives and trade policy shifts in recent months and from 2018. These include, inter alia, labour and agriculture market reforms, import tariffs and restrictions, lower corporate taxes, wooing foreign firms to relocate to India and seeking long-term foreign capital. The strategy pivots on manufacturing-led growth with an export bias through market protection, subsidies and other interventions, several of which are part of the pandemic package under the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ rubric. It would be fair to describe it as protectionist, export-seeking through manufacturing self-reliance, coupled with openness to foreign capital in order to attract large-scale firms relocating from China. By happenstance, China formalized its growth strategy for 2021-25 about a fortnight ago (14th Five Year Plan). Briefly, it will accord a central role to innovation and technological self-reliance, modernize traditional industries and supply chains, build a sturdy domestic market (called ‘internal circulation’), increase openness (‘international circulation’), balance market forces with a socialist economic system and synchronize national defence with economic progress. Future plans aside, China has escalated import restrictions on one ground or another — Australian farm products are an example; whether these are punitive, retaliatory or simply import-substituting will be clear over time. China’s economic proposals have attracted a lot of scrutiny and commentary. Its concurrence with post-pandemic circumstances and growth environment and with India’s aforementioned shift in trade-industrial policies has been noted. In particular, the common inward turn to domestic demand for future growth by two of Asia’s largest economies, neighbours both, has prompted comment. It is interesting that both countries are responding within vastly different contexts, have different motivations and compulsions, even though the growth objective may be shared. Even the self-reliance mechanisms are quite dissimilar in several aspects. What are these? As most commentaries note, the background to China seeking self-reliance in technology and innovation is defined by its deep divide and competition with the United States of America — the US firewalling technological access and alerting other countries in the process due to suspected high-tech theft by Chinese firms, compulsion to safeguard and reduce leverage in semi-conductor imports where the US leads core applied sciences, an ambition to occupy the global technology frontier that has been long held by the US and from which it derives the edge in productivity and substantial economic lead. The Covid-19 pandemic has also altered the external environment: there are efforts by several countries to build alternative supply chains to secure essential supplies and lower Chinese dependency; impending revisions to multilateral trade rules in the future; geopolitical changes and reconfiguration of global alliances, some in response to the escalating military aggression of China. China has proposed a new economic model — dual circulation, a unique composite comprising ‘internal circulation’ — development and leveraging of domestic demand — and ‘international circulation’ — continued expansion of domestic production for exports. This is a continuation of attempts to rebalance domestic demand from investment to consumption dating back to 2007. The rebalancing towards domestic consumption has been unsatisfactory. China’s consumption share in GDP rose just two percentage points from then to 2019, points out Michael Pettis (Financial Times, August 2020), adding that the debt-to-GDP ratio doubled; the pandemic will further lower domestic consumption and increase debt burden and, therefore, dual circulation implies a rebalancing attempt through fundamental redistributions in income and wealth. Other interpretations uphold this perspective on domestic demand, suggesting that the plan may not represent an inward turn for growth but possible qualitative improvements by enhancing productivity, competition, better business environment and adjustments to a bleaker overseas setting (Damien Ma, Houze Song, MacroPolo). Detailed plans ahead will clear the ambiguities. India’s backdrop is very different in comparison. This, in fact, is restricted to growth and predates Covid-19. It is marked by a three-year-long slowdown that ended with growth sliding to 4.2 per cent, which Covid-19 will push into negative trough this year. The other markers are as follows: persistent decline in manufacturing growth, slow rise in output share, capacity slack, failure to attract greenfield foreign direct investments and slower trend export growth. On the demand side, a near-decade-long investment slowdown and the inability to reverse it is alarming; consumption-driven growth, which cannot sustain itself unless investment picks up the baton, has run out of steam. The stretched slowdown, regarded cyclical, has been immune to macro policy stimulation where space has run out. It has been unresponsive to numerous reforms such as the goods and services tax, corporate tax cuts, the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, easier conduct of business, amongst others. India’s overall milieu is, therefore, one of exhausted sources of growth: the turn to import-substitution, backed by targeted, State-led support to domestic manufacturing for home and foreign demand — but mainly the latter — can be interpreted as a last resort to revive investment and employment. It can also be perceived as recognition of unmet expectations from reform dividends of increased efficiency and productivity. Or perhaps their slow-paced gains as producers’ input costs have not lowered as much; hence the fiscal bridge of the competitiveness gap vis-à-vis international competitors, bolstered by other missing pieces (for instance, labour reforms). It remains unclear as to how import-substitution fits into the macroeconomic framework. Evaluated from the respective contexts, motivations and objectives, there are significant dissimilarities. If China’s turn to domestic demand represents increasing household consumption share in growth, India’s objective is diametrically opposite — to rekindle and raise investment. If China seeks to achieve innovation and technological self-sufficiency due to tensions and competitions with another superpower, the US, India’s goal is far humbler and narrow — a route to revive growth. China is foreseeing a different global environment and adjusting to new realities that extend beyond the economic ones. India’s interventionist trade and industry policies, mimicking East Asian economies in the 1960s and China from the 1970s, are seeking opportunities provided by large-scale global producers relocating from China, but reflect the long gap in the two countries’ stages of development. Although the two countries are responding from vastly different standpoints and pressures, the growth objective is common. China has no specific growth target for the first time, seeking instead structural adjustment, efficiency and quality. India, on the other hand, seeks growth per se. There is scepticism whether self-reliance will deliver or whether either or both countries would accomplish the objectives sought. These will unfold in the medium-term. There is also the post-pandemic world to be reckoned with where structural and other changes remain unknown at this point. The author is a macroeconomist||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-116
17-11-2020||Jharkhand||Central Institute of Mining and Fuel Research celebrates 75th foundation day||Platinum jubilee celebration of the Central Institute of Mining and Fuel Research (CIMFR), Dhanbad was held at the institute auditorium on Tuesday. The premiere laboratory of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) celebrated its 75th foundation day which marked the inauguration of three new facilities, including a Pressurized Fluidized Bed Gasification pilot plant, a Non Recovery Coke Oven plant with hot stamping facility and a Centre of Excellence for Strategic and Infrastructural Sector. The inaugurations were done online from Vigyan Bhavan in New Delhi by union minister Harsh Vardhan in presence of NITI Aayog member Vijay Kumar Saraswat and CSIR director general Shekhar C Mande. The day also witnessed the signing of different agreements for transfer of technology with mining and allied sector companies including Knowledge Lens Pvt Ltd, Bangalore and Coresonant Systems Pvt Ltd, Secunderabad for digital mining using IOT. A similar collaborative agreement with Sandros Pvt Ltd, Nagpur for Development of Technology for application of Geo synthetic Concrete Cement Mat (GCCM) & Intelligent Slope Monitoring System and its turn key based application was also made during the occasion. This was followed by another  agreement with AKD Genmining Solutions (OPC) Pvt Ltd, Ranchi for use of CIMFR facility for Geophysical Exploration Related to Electrical Resistivity Imaging System for geophysical survey for coal preparation. A bilateral agreement with Maithon Power Limited, Dhanbad for Coal Quality Assessment at unloading point for coal sampling work was also made during the occasion. Two tripartite agreements on coal quality assessment at loading points for coal sampling work including one with Navi Nagar Power Generation Company Ltd and Central Coalfields Limited, Ranchi and another with Western Coalfields Limited, Nagpur and NTPC Mohuda was also made. The function also marked the release of the platinum jubilee logo of CIMFR by Harsh Vardhan. Addressing participants, including scientists of the institute, industry representatives and other stakeholders through video conferencing, Harsh Vardhan said at a time when the focus of the country is on clean coal technology, the role of CIMFR is crucial. He further said “as we are striving for making our mining policy more pragmatic, research oriented, people friendly, industry friendly, nation friendly and society friendly, the role of scientist of institutes like CIMFR to solve mining related issues through development of technology assumes significance”. He also lauded the role of scientists and researchers in the fight against Covid 19 by developing testing kits, ventilators, PPE kits and other equipment. A bilateral agreement with Maithon Power Limited, Dhanbad for Coal Quality Assessment at unloading point for coal sampling work was also made during the occasion. Two tripartite agreements on coal quality assessment at loading points for coal sampling work including one with Navi Nagar Power Generation Company Ltd and Central Coalfields Limited, Ranchi and another with Western Coalfields Limited, Nagpur and NTPC Mohuda was also made. The function also marked the release of the platinum jubilee logo of CIMFR by Harsh Vardhan. Addressing participants, including scientists of the institute, industry representatives and other stakeholders through video conferencing, Harsh Vardhan said at a time when the focus of the country is on clean coal technology, the role of CIMFR is crucial. He further said “as we are striving for making our mining policy more pragmatic, research oriented, people friendly, industry friendly, nation friendly and society friendly, the role of scientist of institutes like CIMFR to solve mining related issues through development of technology assumes significance”. He also lauded the role of scientists and researchers in the fight against Covid 19 by developing testing kits, ventilators, PPE kits and other equipment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-233
17-11-2020||Jharkhand||State backtracks, allows Chhath at public water bodies||Chief minister Hemant Soren rolled back his government’s decision banning Chhath puja at public water bodies on Tuesday after severe public backlash against Sunday’s guidelines that were issued to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. “Considering popular sentiments and demands from all quarters, we have decided to allow devotees to go to ghats of rivers/ponds/water bodies as opposed to the earlier order. Everyone must ensure use of masks and other safeguards while the respective district administrations and civic bodies will work towards maintaining social distancing,” he told the media at Project Building. Hemant, however, appealed to the people to celebrate the festival indoors. “Many have been observing Chhath at their houses, on terraces, lawns and so on, even before the Covid-19 outbreak. It is my personal appeal to the public to embrace this method of celebration in the interest of personal, family and public health,” the chief minister said in the presence of state health and disaster management minister Banna Gupta. Sources in the disaster management department said detailed guidelines would be issued shortly. “CM has spelt out the broad guidelines. Soon, details will be issued after these are vetted by concerned authorities,” said an official. Both ruling party and Opposition party leaders hailed the decision. The BJP claimed success of its sustained protests to safeguard “Hindu rituals” and the rights of the public. “We are happy that the government has taken back its Tuglaki farman (autocratic diktat). Public sentiments have won over the mindless order issued by the government. This is the victory over wrong policies of the incumbent government,” said state BJP president Deepak Prakash. Earlier in the day, JMM’s general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee accused the BJP of playing cheap politics over public health, adding that the government would take a favourable decision. “Unlike BJP, this government respects all religion, caste and creed. Above all, it is the responsibility of the government to safeguard public health but at the same time our government respects every festival and will take logical decision in the larger interest of people,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-234
17-11-2020||Jharkhand||Cops arrest two touts at Tatanagar station||In a first after the coronavirus-induced lockdown got imposed in March, two railway ticket touts were sent to Ghaghidih Central Jail on Tuesday, following their arrests from the Tatanagar Railway Station on Monday night. One of the scalpers, identified as 24-year-old Mohammed Sahad Khan, was arrested by a team of the Railway Police near the Computerised Reservation Centre (CRS) centre at Tatanagar, while the other, 21-year-old Rohit Kumar Tiwary, was booked from his house at Chhotagovindpur in Govind. Khan, a resident of Azadnagar, was caught by the railway police for illegally getting reserved tickets for his `clients' at the railway reservation counter. On the other hand, Tiwary was arrested for violating the norms of IRCTC and procuring online tickets at his house. Revealing the breakthrough, M.K Sahoo, inspector Railway Protection Force (RPF), Tatanagar, said that the police had got a tip off after the number of passengers t the breakthrough, inspector, Railway Protection Force (RPF), Tatanagar, MK Sahoo said that they had got tips off that after the rush of passenger started to pick up post-lockdown suggesting that several brokers became active in providing reserved tickets from the ticket reservation counters as well as through online booking. “We set up two separate teams of the railway police for probing into the information and act accordingly,” he said. "One of the teams first carried out an inspection in plain clothes and identified some suspected touts at the railway ticket reservation counter. A few minutes before the reservation counter was closed, the team raided the reservation counter and nabbed a youth to recover more than one reserved ticket. On being interrogated, the youth who gave his name as Mohammed Sahad Khan  was indulged in touting tickets.  Khan was taken into custody immediately," said Sahoo, while talking to The Telegraph Online. The RPF inspector pointed out the railway police team had also scanned the CCTV footage at the CRC and found that Khan had been procuring the reserved tickets from the reservation counter every day since the past week. The other team, which was tasked with detecting online fraud, identified Tiwary and verified if he was reserving the tickets from his house at Govindpur in a genuine way. "But during investigation, it was found that Tiwary had opened a personal ID through which he was making the tickets and would sell them at a premium price. The accused had no approval of the IRCTC and continued to make tickets online by using his personal ID.  Hence the railway police team picked up Tiwary from his house too," Sahoo said. The duo was subsequently produced before a judicial magistrate on Tuesday afternoon and moved to the Ghaghidih Central jail later in the day. The train services had come to a standstill since March 23, but the railways had gradually resumed the services since May. Currently 56 trains pass through Tatanagar in the Chakradharpur railway division daily. Of the 56 trains,18 are regular, which run on a daily basis, but due to the festive and wedding seasons, the rush of passengers has surged recently. Senior divisional commercial manager, Chakradharpur, Manish Pathak, while talking to The Telegraph Online, said, "The existing provision of 56 trains through Tatanagar will continue till November 30, and from December 1 onward more passenger trains are likely to resume service.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-234
17-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dalma daily wagers receive pending dues after 8 months||The daily wagers of Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary finally received their pending dues which were cleared by the state government. It was a wait of 8 months for the 48 men and women while the forest officials kept assuring them that they would receive their dues soon. On Tuesday, the cheques were sent to the respective bank accounts of the laborers and the money can be withdrawn from Wednesday. “The pending wages of the laborers have been cleared. The cheques have been sent to the bank accounts of daily wagers,” said Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra. Shrishtidhar Mahato, who heads the Dainik Vetan Bhogi Majdoor Sangh, said they have finally received their pending dues. “It would have been better had the dues were cleared before the festivals – Durga Puja and Diwali. But we are happy that the wait is over,” he added. According to him, they faced lots of hardship during the Covid-19 lockdown as they had no work opportunities. “Der sahi hamen hamara mehnat ka paisa mil gaya (even if it is delayed we have at least got our hard-earned money),” Mahto said. The daily wage earners, who are engaged in maintaining accommodations, taking care of two domesticated elephants (as mahauts), and cooking and tracking, some are tasked with keeping a tab on the movement of animals at the sprawling 192 sq km sanctuary (30 km from Jamshedpur), are paid Rs 249.83 for the labor. They had participated in an agitation near the main entrance and also gheraoed the forest range officer Dinesh Chandra in July. However, nothing moved forward. Some of the laborers were also forced to mortgage their motorbikes to sustain their families while others had taken money by paying interest. Most of the daily wagers were also forced to discontinue tuitions of their wards as it was difficult for them to afford the same. Some foresters had also arranged groceries by asking shopkeepers to provide food on credit. They had also arranged money for the hapless laborers. A forester said the state government has sent the funds and the daily wagers would not have to wait for their dues for some more months. “The laborers will get timely payment of their dues till March next year,” he said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-234
17-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad woman sees a homemaker as nation-builder  ||A housewife starts her day by stepping into the kitchen in the morning and continues working all day, preparing breakfast for her children and husband, arranging children’s books, washing clothes, cooking lunch and dinner, and doing other chores for the family. But her efforts often go unrecognized by members of the family. Most housewives have the same story to tell, those who sacrifice their careers for the wellbeing of their family. The efforts of millions of such housewives have been recognized by a working woman named Abhilasha Singh. The post graduate teacher at the English Department of DAV Public School, Koylanagar in Dhanbad, has written on the efforts of such women in the form of an English novel, titled ‘Housewife, The nation maker’, highlighting the contribution of the women in family and thereby in the nation-building. The 84-page book, published by Indore based Orange Book Publication, would be launched at a function scheduled for November 22. It was written in two years. It highlights the role of such women who could have done much better on the professional front compared to their other family members, as they are having the requisite qualifications for plum jobs but are willingly sacrificing their careers for the family. Talking to the Telegraph Online on Tuesday, Singh, wife of an investment banker of Tata Capital Ashok Kumar Rai, said, “While serving in school for the last 10 years, I had the opportunity to interact with more than 2,000 housemakers, many of whom are immensely talented and I am peeved to know that their sacrifice is not recognized by the family itself.” “My novel revolves around Sudha, the central character who is a housemaker and takes care of every member of the family but nobody recognizes her effort towards them. Everybody in the family ignored her but one day she recognizes herself and her value. She started her career as a writer and also as a small boutique owner and at last succeeds also. Everybody in the family then recognizes her value and contribution in the family,” said Singh. “I was more deeply peeved over the lack of recognition of the effort of their mother by the children of the family, despite the fact that many of these women played the role of the main architect of their career and thus decided to write the novel three ago. I wrote the novel based on the life of one such mother with whom I was greatly impressed,” added Singh. “I got dismayed witnessing one of such dedicated housewife getting humiliated by her own family members and when I asked her why she did not make her own career then she replied that as the entire family depends on her and the career of the other family members will get derailed once she stops taking care of them,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-234
17-11-2020||Jharkhand||RMC goes ahead with pre-Chhath clean-up of ghats||Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) has stepped up Chhath preparations at water bodies across the city in anticipation of the state government revising its guideline to ban puja in public in the wake of widespread protests across Jharkhand. Sources said that in the event of non-revision of guidelines, RMC would require thousands of tankers and additional funds to ensure water was available for the festival across all wards. But mayor Asha Lakra maintained there was no time left to make any alternative arrangements and renewed her plea to the government to revoke the restrictions imposed because of the pandemic. On Tuesday, she led a team of officials and inspected three water bodies - Dhurwa dam, Jagarnath talab and Suvernarekha ghat in Namkum - to supervise arrangements ahead of the festival. “We will need hefty funds for making alternative arrangements for providing water to lakhs of devotees in their areas if the government ban continues on use of public ponds/rivers. But now we don’t have time to make those arrangements and neither do we have enough infrastructure. Had the guidelines come a month back, we could have made alternative arrangements by digging temporary dobhas/culverts in localities,” she told the media at Dhurwa. She said the only option before the government now was to lift the ban in deference to largescale protests across the state. “RMC is hopeful of revised guidelines. Hence, without wasting time we are readying ghats by getting them cleaned and putting up barricades and setting up toilets,” said Lakra, who belongs to the Opposition BJP that is leading protests across the state since Monday. There are around three dozen water bodies across the city where Chhath is held every year. Most of them were nearly ready, said the mayor. “Soon after Dussehra we began cleaning water bodies. Basic sanitisation work is over in almost all places,” she said. Around midnight on Sunday, the state government issued guidelines banning Chhath at rivers/ponds and other public water bodies in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Chief secretary Sukhdev Singh, in his order, maintained that since it would not be possible to maintain the national order of “do gaz ki doori (two feet social distancing)”  while performing Chhath puja in public water bodies, it was being banned to minimise chances of a spread of the coronavirus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-234
17-11-2020||Jharkhand||Chhath devotees make do with curbs, get busy with preparations  ||Markets of the steel city were busy on Tuesday with devotees rushing to buy essentials for Chhath Puja, the biggest festival of Jharkhand and Bihar that will be observed indoors this year as the state government has banned outdoor congregations in view of the pandemic. The four-day-long festival will begin on Wednesday with Nahay Khay. Price of vegetables, especially bottle gourd (or lauki), an essential item used by those observing Chhath, witnessed a rise. It was selling for Rs 20 per kg till Sunday but is now selling at double the price. On Nahay Khay, women take a bath in the morning and cook a proper meal for themselves with rice, chana dal and bottle gourd. The food is cooked in bronze utensils using mango wood on an earthen stove. The women who observe fast eat only once through the entire day. On Tuesday, Chhath vratis put out wheat under sun for drying as is the custom. The wheat is used for making Chhath prasad, also known as kharna, on the second day of the festival. On Friday, November 20, arghya, the main offering, will be given to the Sun God. This year, the state disaster management department has imposed a ban on Chhath celebrations on river ghats, ponds, lakes and other water bodies to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. Devotees will, therefore, offer obeisance to the Sun God on the evening of November 20 and early morning of November 21 from their homes. On Tuesday, many residents were seen procuring big-sized water tubs. Others who could create temporary water bodies within residential complexes so that they were able to offer arghya on both days of the festival with family members. “Chhath is associated with faith, purity and devotion to the sun, the only god we can see. We took a bath and cleaned the wheat before setting it out for drying,” said  Renuka Singh, a Bistupur-based housewife sporting a new cotton sari, especially bought for the occasion. Notably, Chhath is celebrated twice in a year, Chaiti Chhath in the summer and now in early winter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-234
17-11-2020||Jharkhand|| Flocks of migratory birds arrive early in Tilaiya Dam||Corona-induced lockdown turned a boon for the environment as pollution came down to a much lower level. This was the reason why migratory birds reached the famous Tilaiya Dam in Koderma district 15 days before the actual time of every year. Due to their sudden visit and that too before time, the forest department became alert for their security. Officials said they were in action and keeping a watch on the birds to put a check on the activities of poachers. Bird watchers said normally these guests arrive after November 15 but for the first time, bird watchers are witnessing their early arrival here. Forest officials informed hundreds of birds have arrived at this picturesque dam including Common Pochard, Tufted Duck, Norton Pinet, and Bar-headed goose. Forest officials said these birds are from Ladakh, Mongolia, China, and few European countries. Their arrival continues till January and they stay at this dam till April after which their return journey starts. In 2017, the international union for conservation of nature had given Tilaiya Dam the status of an important bird area seeing the arrival of thousands of birds at this dam every year. In January, the number of these birds reached several thousand, attracting tourists as well as poachers too. Local residents said earlier 30,000 to 35,000 birds used to come here. But due to human interference at this dam followed by poaching, the numbers had reduced to few thousands with every passing day. Divisional forest officer of Kodera, Suraj Kumar Singh said his department is on high alert for the security of this bird. He said this dam is the favorite spot of migratory birds for decades. He said for the security of these birds, the district tourism committee had given a go-ahead to construct two watchtowers at the dam area. We are identifying the two best spots to construct the towers, he added. Singh said once constructed, these watchtowers will serve two purposes, one will provide an opportunity for tourists to see the birds and beauty of this dam. Second, forest employees can use it to keep eyes on poachers, he added. He said they are ready to take up a census of the migratory birds to know their actual numbers and their species as well. Singh also confirmed that they are taking up plantation drive to save the catchment area of the dam besides making a natural trail here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-234
17-11-2020||Jharkhand||Twice as many Covid recoveries as fresh cases in Jharkhand||While Covid-19 casualties continued to haunt Jharkhand on Monday, the recovery rate further improved as the state reported more than twice as many recoveries as fresh cases of infection in the past 24 hours and four districts did not report even a single fresh case of Covid-19 infection, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. At least four more Covid-19 patients, including two from Ranchi, died during treatment on Monday, taking the Covid toll in Jharkhand to 928, a daily Covid-19 bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. Dhanbad and Dumka reported one death each, while two casualties in Ranchi took the Covid-19 toll in the district alone to 187, government figures revealed. Jharkhand, as per the NHM bulletin released on Monday night, reported 360 recoveries against 166 fresh cases on the day, taking the recovery rate up at 96.53 per cent. The state’s Covid recovery rate was higher than the national average of 93.20 per cent, the bulletin further stated. With 56 fresh cases, Ranchi was the highest contributor to the Covid-19 caseload on Monday, while East Singhbhum and Dhanbad reported only 32 and 12 fresh cases of infection respectively. At least 118 people recovered from Covid-19 infection in Ranchi on the day, the highest among all the 24 districts. As many as 54 Covid patients recovered in East Singhbhum while 46 recovered in Dhanbad, government data highlighted. While none of the districts in Jharkhand reported a triple-digit-spike in Covid-19 cases, less than 10 fresh cases surfaced in at least 19 districts. As per the NHM bulletin, Simdega, Sahebganj, Pakur and Hazaribag did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection in the past 24 hours. The number of active cases was less than 100 in at least 18 districts, including Chatra, Deoghar and Ramgarh. As per government data, at least 912 people were battling the infection in Ranchi, the highest among all the districts in Jharkhand. There were as many as 513 active cases of infection in East Singhbhum, the second highest in Jharkhand. The government on Monday tested swab samples of 14,461 people and around 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers in Jharkhand have collected swab samples of 38.26 lakh people and tested 38.07 lakh of them. As many as 1,06,230 people have been infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand so far and 1,02,548 of them have recovered. As per government data, the growth rate of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand was 0.17 per cent against the national average of 0.42 per cent. The doubling rate of the virus in the state was 397.12 days against the national average of 167.07 days. The Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 0.87 per cent against the national mortality rate of 1.50 per cent, the NHM bulletin stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-234
17-11-2020||Jharkhand||Netarhat alumnus step in to take classes||Members of the alumni association of Netarhat Vidyalaya have come forward to help current students of the residential school by opting to take online classes that were disrupted by the shortage of teachers and connectivity problems. “We stepped in when we found the online classes were suffering because of inadequate faculty and connectivity issues,” said Colonel (retired) B.B. Singh, a former student and a member of of Netarhat Old Boys Association (Noba). Singh, who lives in Delhi, said the network problem was fixed and Noba members volunteered to take classes. The residential school spread over 780 acres in the sylvan surrounding of Netarhat hill was established by the then Bihar government in 1954 as a centre of excellence. The students, chosen through a selection process, have excelled in various fields across the globe since then. Run by the Bihar government earlier, the school is now being managed by the Jharkhand government. Though the school was earlier affiliated to the state school board, it is now a CBSE affiliated institution. “The first batch will appear for the CBSE board examination in February-March (2021),” principal Santosh Kumar said, admitting that the classes suffered due to shortage of teachers and connectivity issues. The school had 27 teachers out of the total sanctioned posts of 47, the principal said, adding that the former students have extended a helping hand by by taking classes, particularly in science subjects. “The school has always maintained excellent record in the Class X final examinations with the students grabbing most of the top 10 ranks,” principal Singh said. He, however, agreed that it was not the same with Class XII exams as many good students join other schools after passing Class X. “Many good students now opt for CBSE schools. So the students of Netarhat school have to face stiff competition, that too at a national level,” Colonel Singh pointed out, adding that the Noba members were trying to make up for the loss of classes so that the students perform well in their first CBSE examination. “Making their presence felt in the CBSE exams at the national level will be a real challenge for the students,” he said. Singh said the school was not getting as many good students as it used to get before. Earlier, over 25,000 students would compete for 60 seats that would be offered at the entry level, but much less number of students show interest for the 100 seats offered now as many other good schools have been opened in the state, he explained. “Taking online classes is a new activity for Noba members. Besides old students, a few women who are either wives of Noba members or daughters of former teachers, have also volunteered to take online classes,” he said. “I have been taking two online maths classes every day for students of classes X and XII,” said Priya Ranjan, an old student and IIT-Kharagpur alumnus who returned from Maryland (US) to teach at SRM University in Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-234
17-11-2020||Jharkhand||How Soumitra enthralled his Jharkhand fans ||Legendary actor Soumitra Chatterjee, who passed away in Calcutta on Sunday, had visited Jharkhand on several occasions, mesmerising everyone with his poetry recitation and acting skills. Dhanbad-based advocate and executive member of Lindsay Club and Library, Somnath Choudhary, recalled the visit of the versatile actor to the annual book fair organised by the club in April 2001 in coal town. “We were simply amazed by his poetry recitation skills. I still remember Soumitra Chatterjee’s recitation of Rabindranath Tagore’s Birpurush. Despite being 65 years old, one had to see his energy to believe it. Having come by train, he made sure to visit each of the publisher’s stall at the book fair and also read several poetry books before going up on the stage,” said Choudhary, who had the privilege of getting a poetry collection autographed by the actor. “I distinctly remember how he politely refused to give autographs on books of poetry written by someone else, but when I pleaded with him and showed him that the collection also comprised poems by Tagore, he relented and gave his autograph on the book. He spent the entire day at the book fair interacting with visitors and attended the literary session in the evening before returning to Calcutta by train the next day,” Choudhary, 59, recalled. The famous actor also visited Jamshedpur on several occasions. “I could not sleep yesterday night. The nostalgic memories of spending some time with the great actor kept coming back. It was a godsend opportunityfor me to be able to act with him in two Bengali films (Mrs Universe and Khuje Berai Tare) and both the films were shot in Jamshedpur. I still remember his suggestions on memorising the script and bringing out emotions while acting,” said Amit Das, a Jamshedpur-based theatre artiste, who had acted as a milkman in Mrs Universe in 1996 and a gardener in Khuje Berai Tare in 2018. Das said Chatterjee had also performed in several theatre shows at The Milanee, XLRI Auditorium and Rabindra Bhavan in Jamshedpur. “Theatre lovers in Jamshedpur still remember how the famous actor had left them spellbound with his performance on stage. He had last come to Jamshedpur in 2018 and performed in The Milanee,” Das added. Chatterjee had also come to Ranchi at least once. “I had the privilege of singing during Bangla Sanskritik Mela in 2005 at Mahendra Pratap College in Ranchi where Chatterjee was present for a discussion on poetry and prose. During a brief interaction, he gave me several suggestions on theatre performance,” said Soumita Sanatani, a senior teacher at Sant Nandlal Smriti Vidya Mandir in Ghatshila and a theatre artiste. Chatterjee had also visted Daltonganj in 1969 for Satyajit Ray’s Aranyer Dinratri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-234
