18-11-2020||Calcutta||My tribute to Fr Roberge, an endless legend||Father Gaston Roberge, a French-Canadian Jesuit priest, had been asking himself since the 1980s why India did not have a new theory of popular films. It was only in 2010 he got an answer after studying the 2000-year old Indian treatise of dance and drama — Natya Sastra. The result was a 100-page book, The Indian Film Theory: Flames of Sholay, Notes and Beyond, which offered a new perspective on the theories underlying Indian commercial cinema. The book was released at St Xavier’s College Kolkata on June 15, 2010 by Goutam Ghose, a renowned Indian film director. It has been described as “easily readable” and “radical in its content”. Ghose said: “Father Roberge introduced the study of film in the context of our social matrix, which is very important. He analysed the phenomena in the sociopolitical context of this complex and heterogeneous country, writing about our society while studying two films — Sholay and Beder Meye Jyotsna. He had a kind of social observation on cinema. He would ask, ‘Why were people enjoying films? Which class of people? What about education?’ Father Roberge, a legend, a pioneer in the study of cinema and a close friend of Satyajit Ray, passed away in Calcutta on August 26 and was laid to rest at Dhyan Asharm, the Jesuit Novitiate at Konchowki, 20km from the city. He was a Master teacher of film theories and was known as the high priest of cinema. Father Roberge was born in May 1935 in Montreal, Quebec. He joined the Society of Jesus in 1956 and was sent to India on his request in1961. He graduated and did his Masters at UCLA. He graduated from the University of Montreal and did his Masters at the University of California in film studies. He then went to New York where he saw Satyajit Ray’s Pather Panchali and became a fan of Ray. He became a close friend of Ray, with whom he had many interactions and wrote about. They were mutual advisors to each other in the world of films. Ray was also one of the advisors of Chitrabani. Father Roberge developed great associations with Mrinal Sen and other filmmakers of India as well. I had known Father Roberge for more than 30 years. He was an exemplary Jesuit and in the 70s and 80s, an idol to many young Jesuits like me. I had interviewed him a couple of times for an Italian magazine, Popoli, and other publications. He was a large-hearted man with the spirit of the Magi in all that he did especially in spiritual and intellectual life. During his short break in Montreal, I paid a visit to him. He took me to the St Joseph’s Oratory of Mount Royal, a basilica and national shrine in Montreal. It is a national historic site of Canada and is Canada’s largest church, with one of the largest church domes in the world. In one of my interviews he told me: “I was reborn in India on October 15, 1961. For the last 50 years I have been mostly living in Calcutta. I teach communication media and write. My main interest is the cultural roots of the Indian movies. And I love it.” Father Roberge has authored more than 25 books on cinema, communications and spirituality. He won an Indian National Film Award for his best writing on cinema for the year 1998 from the then President K.R. Narayanan. His first book, Chitrabani, published in 1975, like the institute he started, is a book on film appreciation. Satyajit Ray, through his kind relationship with him and through his films, helped him in his journey to the “cave of the heart”. That is how he completed the “Pedagogy of the Media Oppressed — In Tune with the Indian Folk Movies: Seven Steps of a Self-Education for Liberation.” He was the founder-director of Chitrabani (1970), the first and the oldest media centre in eastern India at Prabhu Jisur Gurija campus, Calcutta. For some years, Chitrabani was an extension centre of SXCK and Father Roberge taught film appreciation at the college. Thousands of film-makers, scholars and film critics have been his students. National award winning director K.G. Das has made a documentary on “Father Roberge — Master Preacher of Film Theory”. He was the founder-director of the EMMRC of St Xavier’s College, Kolkata. He was solely responsible for the UGC granting the necessary affiliation and permission of EMMRC to SXCK. St Xavier’s is the only college which has an EMMRC under its management among the 19 EMMR centres in India. He was the executive secretary for social communication (1997 to 1999) at the Jesuit Curia in Rome. Ray’s Pather Panchali shook him and Indian cinema became his passion, his love and his commitment. Through Chitrabani Father Roberge pioneered film academia in India as well as cultivated and nurtured several generations of cineastes and filmmakers. That is why the Bimal Roy Memorial & Film Society, Mumbai, gave him the Lifetime Achievement Award in 2012. After his retirement he remained at the St Xavier’s infirmary till his eternal rest. He was 85. He had almost totally lost his hearing and had to be on hearing aid. This Jesuit priest and film guru has made a “significant contribution” to the film industry. He will continue to be a major player in the field of Indian cinema. Fr. J. Felix Raj is the vice-chancellor of St Xavier’s University, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-234
18-11-2020||Calcutta||Burglars still to be arrested||A day after two burglaries were reported at Ultadanga and Patuli on Bhai Phonta, police are still to arrest anyone in connection with the Ultadanga burglary and the second person involved in Patuli. In the burglary at Pratiki Abashan, a housing complex on Ultadanga Main Road, cops have found in the CCTV footage at least two outsiders entering the complex between 1pm and 3pm when the crime is suspected to have been committed, an officer said. The police are questioning two people working as domestic helps at Swarnendu Das’s flat, which had been targeted, and the elderly guard who was on duty but had taken a break around the time the burglars had struck, the officer said. “It is apparent that someone who knew the family would be away the entire day and that the guard would be on a lunch break between 1pm and 3pm was involved,” an investigating officer said. “It is surprising that the burglar targeted only the cupboard that had gold jewellery and left the others untouched.” Das was at a relative’s home with his family when his flat was burgled. Deb Kumar Haldar, who was caught trying to escape from Subhankar Mukherjee’s rented apartment in Patuli with his laptop bag, was produced in court on Tuesday. He has been remanded in police custody till November 23. The police have established the identity of the other Patuli burglary suspect based on Haldar’s statement. Cops raided his home in Narendrapur on Monday night but he was not there, the police said. Cops are trying to find out if the two have a criminal past. Mukherjee had returned to his rented apartment in Baghajatin Colony around 3.30pm on Monday to find the collapsible gate in the front broken and two men inside holding his wallet and Rs10,000 in their hands. One of the men, later identified as Haldar, had his laptop bag and he tried to flee through the door at the back on seeing Mukherjee but he was caught.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-235
18-11-2020||Calcutta||High-pressure area over Jharkhand robs Calcutta of chill  ||The Celsius in Calcutta has not dipped as it should have after a bout of snowfall in Kashmir last weekend. The Met office blamed a high-pressure area over Jharkhand for denying Calcutta the chill that the cold and dry winds from north India were expected to bring. “A high-pressure area is brewing over Jharkhand. The system is stalling the free flow of northwesterly winds to Calcutta and the rest of south Bengal via Ranchi, Purulia and Asansol. The system is leading to a change in the direction of the winds, towards north Bengal via Kishanganj (Bihar) and Malda,” said a Met official. The system has also robbed Jharkhand of its chill and has led to a rise in temperature. In Calcutta, the minimum temperature has been hovering between 19 and 20 degrees for the past few days. The sky has been relatively clear and the sun is shining bright. “A high-pressure or an anti-cyclonic system usually results in fair weather and a rise in night temperatures,” said the Met official. The high-altitude areas of Kashmir and Uttarakhand received heavy snowfall on Monday. The Kashmir Valley had also received moderate snowfall on Saturday. Usually, after a bout of snowfall in the Valley, the cold winds take around 48 hours to reach south Bengal. The winds are flowing in via Delhi and Uttar Pradesh but are being blocked entry into Jharkhand — and, consequently, south Bengal — by the high-pressure area. “The winds are instead heading towards Kishanganj (Bihar), Malda and further north towards the hills,” said G.K. Das, the director of India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. “The temperature in places like Darjeeling is set to dip over the next few days. In Calcutta, the minimum temperature is tipped to be 21 degrees. On a day or two, it can rise to 22 degrees,” he added. The high-pressure system is tipped to move towards the Bay of Bengal in the coming days. The temperature in the city is expected to dip after the system dissipates, said Das.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-235
18-11-2020||Calcutta||New Town speed cameras with a direct line to cops||Speed cameras will be installed at regular intervals on the six-lane Major Arterial Road that connects New Town with Salt Lake on one end and the airport on the other. The 10.5km-long road had been originally designed as a speed corridor to reduce the travel time of those headed to the airport. The speed cameras as well as the CCTV cameras on the stretch will be connected to an Artificial Intelligence (AI) module to monitor vehicles and alert police of “any abnormal driving” and help reduce accidents. Debashish Sen, the chairman of Hidco that is responsible for New Town’s infrastructure, said cameras had been installed on almost every important road in the township. Footage from the cameras have helped cops during accidents; but it is not enough to prevent accidents, he said. The new system will upgrade the existing surveillance network using the AI technology to alert cops whenever there is a possibility of an accident, Sen said. “Say, a car is moving at high speed and zig-zagging on the road. The new system will track the vehicle and alert the police. The irregular driving behaviour can be because the driver is drunk. One can understand and recognise human action using technology based on artificial intelligence. On being alerted, cops at the nearest location can stop the car.” Vehicle speed is tracked using portable speed trap cameras, which can be set up anywhere on the road, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. Speed cameras are needed as people tend to speed, especially in the night and at dawn, another officer of the commissionerate’s traffic wing said. “We have recorded motorists driving down the Major Arterial Road at more than 100kmph. It is easy to speed on the road as it is wide and smooth… but it is an extremely risky proposition, too,” the officer said. The speed limit on the road has been fixed at 55kmph for light motor vehicles and 40kmph for bus, heavy goods vehicles, and two-wheelers, the officer said. Limiting the speed on a speed corridor like the Major Arterial Road defeats its purpose, several residents said. The road had been designed for faster travel, Akash Chakraborty, a resident of Action Area I, said. “The road has a wide divider and a driver gets an unhindered vision… it is quite smooth, too, and putting speed checks will slow down traffic considerably,” he said. Most accidents are a result of speeding and rash driving, an officer of the commissionerate said. “So, we decided to put crash barriers on roads in a zigzag manner to act as a deterrent to those speeding.” The barriers, though, get coated with dust over time and are difficult to spot in the dark, Tanisha Bhattacharya, a resident of the township, said. “It is dangerous at night… a barrier suddenly pops up in the line of vision, forcing a motorist to slam the brakes or swerve to avoid hitting it,” Bhattacharya said. Hidco plans to install close to 600 CCTV cameras across the township in phases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-235
18-11-2020||Calcutta||Salt Lake roads ‘dangerously dark after dusk’||Roads and lanes in several Salt Lake blocks have been plunging into darkness after dusk over the past few months because of defunct street lights. Residents say they think twice before walking or driving down these stretches at night. On November 10 night, a man on a bicycle snatched the handbag of a woman walking back home with her sister after dinner at a restaurant in Salt Lake. The sisters chased the man but he fled inside a poorly lit lane nearby. The Telegraph drove through various blocks in all three sectors of Salt Lake on Wednesday night and found that most lanes and even some of the arteries had plunged into darkness. In FE Block, where Monday’s snatching took place, darkness had engulfed multiple lanes and roads because street lights were not working. In Sector I, large stretches of the road along the Kestopur canal were dark. “The entire area becomes dangerously dark after dusk. This has been happening for a few months. We have sent several letters to the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation but no action has yet been taken,” said Arindam Ganguly, a resident of AE Block. In HA Block, too, a resident said half the street lights had become defunct and the others were too dim to be of any use. Biswajit Paul, the resident, said the few lights that were functional only produced long shadows, instead of illuminating the streets. “The street lights and the lights in the block’s park that were damaged when Cyclone Amphan struck the city on May 20 have not yet been repaired or replaced,” another resident of HA Block said. An official of the civic body blamed the delay in repairing or replacing the defunct street lights on a staff shortage. “Most workers have gone home during Durga Puja and have not come back yet. We are hoping to start repairs after Diwali,” the official said. Krishna Chakraborty, the administrator of the Bidhannagar civic body, said they would start the repairs soon. Several sodium vapour lamps, she said, will be replaced by LED lights for better illumination. “We will speak to the ward coordinators and tell them to submit a list of unlit areas in their wards and take action accordingly,” said Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-235
18-11-2020||Calcutta||Student alerts cops; bus ‘rogue’ arrested||A young woman who said a co-passenger harassed her throughout her journey on a government bus from Bolpur to Esplanade got the accused arrested moments after getting off the vehicle in the city on Tuesday afternoon.The accused have been identified as Mohammad Kafarul, 39, a resident of Bolpur, in Birbhum district. Police said the 22-year-old woman from Bolpur, who studies in a college in Calcutta, had boarded the South Bengal State Transport Corporation bus around 6am. She was travelling alone. “She was standing as all the seats were occupied. After some time, one of the passengers offered his seat. When the adjoining seat became vacant, the man occupied it,” said an officer of New Market police station. The woman said in her complaint lodged with the police station that the man had initially tried to touch her and then started disturbing her in various ways. The woman dozed off after some time. But she woke up with a start when the bus was travelling through Shaktigarh and found the man had placed his hand on her thigh. “At this point, she became sure the man was molesting her. She raised her voice and alerted the conductor. According to her, neither the conductor nor the driver did anything to help her,” the officer said. Apparently, no passenger on the bus came to her rescue. The woman said the accused was often pretending to doze off on her shoulder. Around four-and-a-half hours later, when the bus reached Esplanade, the woman got off in front of Bidhan Market and spotted a police sergeant. She rushed to him and narrated her plight before accompanying the sergeant to the man, who was then alighting from the bus. The man was taken to New Market police station, where he was arrested on charges of outrage of modesty. If convicted, he can be jailed for five years. The police said they would talk to the bus driver and conductor to verify the allegation of inaction levelled against them by the woman. Several officers said she could have alerted the police by calling 100 from her cellphone or raised an alarm through social media for prompt action during the journey itself. What women can do if molested in a moving vehicle ⚫ Dial 100 ⚫ Start making a video of the accused to scare him ⚫ Turn on Facebook Live and record the perpetrator’s activity to scare him ⚫ Call friends who can connect to the police and bring help||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-235
18-11-2020||Calcutta||Stick for ‘Covid posers’ in IISER||Two research scholars at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) Kolkata have been suspended allegedly because they raised questions about the institute’s handling of Covid testing on the campus. The two students of the Kalyani institute — one pursuing PhD and the other MSc-PhD (integrated) — said they wanted to know from the authorities why the canteen staff were not being asked to undergo tests at a Covid-19 testing facility on the campus. The letter of suspension issued to the researchers by the dean, students’ affairs, on November 13 reads: “You are suspended for a period of two months with immediate effect. You are not allowed to enter the campus during the period of suspension. You must go for proper counselling by a proper counsellor and you need to submit the certificate by the counsellor to the students’ affairs office.” It adds: “Note that any case of future misbehaviour will result in harsher punishment.” One of the suspended researchers has resigned protesting the alleged highhandedness. The director of the institute, Sourav Pal, told Metro: “The decision on suspension was taken based on the recommendation of a committee. The resignation of the research scholar has not been accepted.” The two researchers told Metro on Tuesday that the authorities had told them that they would not receive their monthly scholarship of Rs 43,000 during the period of suspension. On October 19, all students of the institute had received a mail from the students’ affairs council (food, health and hygiene) about tests for Covid-19 to be conducted on the campus the next day. The students who wanted to get tested were asked to fill in an online form. On October 20, a canteen employee who had given samples for a Covid test at a centre outside the campus learnt that he had the disease. The same day, seven students, including the two who have been suspended, met the professor who was facilitating the on-campus testing drive and asked her why the canteen employees had not been approached for the test and why many of the students who had filled in the form the previous day had not been called for the test. The professor, who is also a member of the institute’s Covid Task Force, told the students that eight samples had been collected that day. “We requested her to clarify on what basis were the eight persons (whose samples were collected) prioritised?” said the MSC-PhD student. The two researchers were suspended within three weeks of that conversation. “Although the letter of suspension does not mention the grounds of suspension, we suspect the professor whom we had approached took offence as we dared to raise uncomfortable questions about Covid testing on the campus,” said the PhD student. The professor told this newspaper she had no idea what happened to the two students. “I just reported to the administration about the altercation I had with the students over the functioning of the Covid Task Force…. I don’t have any idea why they have been suspended. I just informed the chairman of the task force about what happened with them (the students) and the problems I was facing in running the facility,” said the professor, from the department of biological science. The dean of students’ affairs, Balaram Mukhopadhyay, said the committee was of the view that the behaviour of the suspended duo breached decorum. “Teachers are not willing to volunteer to hold any testing camp after what happened that day,” he said. Altercations between the IISER authorities and students are not new. In 2015, students got into an argument with then director R.N. Mukherjee during a protest on mess-related issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-235
18-11-2020||Calcutta||State role baffles green activists||The Supreme Court has agreed to hear on Thursday a petition by the state-run Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) seeking permission to allow Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar, changing Monday’s order that scheduled the hearing for next week, a lawyer appearing for the agency said. The bench of Justices U.U. Lalit, Vineet Saran and Shripathi Ravindra Bhat fixed the matter for hearing on Thursday after counsel for the CMDA, the custodian of the south Calcutta water body, mentioned the urgency of the matter before it. Chhath Puja will be celebrated over Friday and Saturday. “We mentioned the urgency of the matter before the bench on Tuesday. The bench then fixed the matter for hearing on Thursday,” said a lawyer for the CMDA. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) had in 2017 banned all pujas, picnics and other social events on the Rabindra Sarobar premises to protect its environment. The CMDA’s keenness to allow Chhath Puja on the Sarobar premises has stoked suspicion and bewilderment in many Calcuttans. They said they failed to understand why the custodian was so determined to allow something that threatened to harm the place. “The role of the state government is really suspicious. The government has made so many alternative ghats for Chhath Puja devotees. There are ghats along the Hooghly where devotees can go. But the state government is so keen on allowing Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar,” said Subhas Datta, a respondent in the CMDA’s petition before the Supreme Court. Author Amit Chaudhuri, who has been fighting to protect Calcutta’s heritage, said: “I am a bit bewildered why the government is pushing so much to have Chhath Puja inside the Sarobar, when the fallout was evident in previous years. Rabindra Sarobar is a public inheritance.” Chaudhuri said Sarobar was not the property of the government or a set of people. Every Calcuttan has the right to know why the government feels so strongly about allowing Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar, he said. Calls to state urban development minister Firhad Hakim, who is also the CMDA chairperson, went unanswered. Antara Acharya, the chief executive officer of the CMDA, refused to say why the CMDA was so keen on organising Chhath Puja at the Sarobar. Environmentalists have said Chhath rituals at the Sarobar affected the ecology of the place, drove away birds and harmed aquatic lives. Mani Prasad Singh, president of the Rashtriya Bihari Samaj, said about 10,000 people who live close to Rabindra Sarobar performed Chhath rituals there. “It has been an old practice. This year we are urging people to perform the rituals at home because of Covid-19. Those who want to visit ghats should go elsewhere if the Supreme Court does not allow Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar,” he said. In 2018, the state government or the CMDA made no efforts to stop devotees from entering the Sarobar complex to perform the rituals. Last year, the CMDA had locked the gates of Sarobar but devotees broke them and entered the compound, while police looked the other way. The CMDA had in September approached the NGT with a plea to allow Chhath Puja at the Sarobar. The tribunal refused to hear the plea, after which the CMDA moved the apex court. Rakesh Dwivedi, a senior advocate appearing for the CMDA, had said on Monday that the bench before which the matter came up on Monday did not hear the matter on November 2. Monday’s bench said that since the previous bench had issued a notice to the respondent, it (the previous bench) should hear the plea, said Dwivedi. “The court had fixed next week for hearing since one of the judges of the previous bench is not available this week. On Tuesday, we told the court that other judges of the bench are available this week. The matter can be fixed for hearing this week. We said that this matter is urgent,” said another lawyer appearing for the CMDA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-235
18-11-2020||Calcutta||Cops to run campaign on alternative venues||Senior officers from Phoolbagan, Beleghata and Entally police stations have started reaching out to families and organisations across eastern Calcutta reminding them of the high court order banning Chhath rituals at Subhas Sarobar. In a repeat of what they had done ahead of Diwali — to prevent bursting of firecrackers — officers are visiting various pockets and telling residents that processions of devotees would not be allowed to head towards the Beleghata water body, off EM Bypass. Calcutta High Court has banned Chhath Puja rituals at Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar. It has also banned processions on the occasion and stated that only two members from each family will be allowed to perform the rituals. Police teams on Tuesday started visiting parts of Convent Lane, AJC Bose Road and CIT Road in Entally, Nar-keldanga North Road and Narkeldanga Main Road in Phoolbagan and parts of Beleghata Main Road, spreading their message through loud hailers. Officers — from Phoolbagan, Beleghata and Entally police stations — requested residents to convince Chhath worshippers to look for alternative venues to perform their rituals. “Our teams have been visiting parts of Oriya Bagan on Suresh Chandra Banerjee Road and Barwaritala Road and explaining that this year rituals cannot be performed at Subhas Sarobar,” said an officer at Beleghata police station. “There are ponds in and around Beleghata. Worshippers can go there.” On Monday, a team of senior police officers visited Subhas Sarobar and also inspected the various lanes in the locality through which worshippers head for the water body. There are at least 16 such pathways off Narkeldanga Main Road, CIT Road, EM Bypass, Ram Mohan Mull-ick Lane, Suresh Sarkar Road and Beleghata Main Road. “We have decided to place guard rails along the pathways to stop devotees from proceeding towards Subhas Sarobar,” an officer said. “We are also trying to hold talks with our counterparts in the Bidhannagar police commissionerate.” People who live around Subhas Sarobar said the waterbody, whose custodian is the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority, had remained neglected. At least 13 varieties of fish can be found in the lake, an official of the West Bengal Anglers’ Association said. “There are seven species of birds in the area.” The waterbody and its surroundings, beautified in 2017 in the run-up to the FIFA Under-17 World Cup, were found littered with styro-foam trays, plastic glasses, liquor bottles and used earthenware after last year’s Chhath Puja. The walking track was covered with garbage and polythene packets were floating on the water. Large swathes of the compound were stinking.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-235
18-11-2020||Calcutta||200 ghats ready for Chhath rituals||Nearly 200 ghats across the city, some of them newly built, have been prepared for Chhath Puja rituals, officials of the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) and Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) have said. Three of the newly built ghats — all three are permanent structures made of concrete — are in Nonadanga, about 700 metres from Fortis Hospital in Anandapur, off EM Bypass. A temporary ghat has been built at 9 Panditya Road, another on the Rashbari ground on Tollygunge Road and a third on Remount Road in the port area. The CMC has readied more than 150 ghats and the CMDA 56 ghats for the rituals, to be performed over Friday and Saturday, engineers of the two organisations said. “We have embarked on a project to build 51 ghats at 16 locations in Kasba, Jadavpur, Anandapur and Patuli. Some of the ghats that are ready can be used by Chhath worshippers to perform rituals,” said a CMDA engineer. The ghats are being built mostly along waterbodies beside EM Bypass. The temporary ghats are of two kinds — some have wooden steps that go down into the waters and others are enclosed brick structures that the CMC will fill with water. Once the rituals are over, the wooden steps will be removed and the brick structures dismantled. The grounds where the structures have come up will be restored, said engineers of the two organisations. Jui Biswas, the coordinator of Ward 81 of the CMC, said a rectangular temporary pool with brick walls had been built on the Rashbari ground on Tollygunge Road. “We had built a temporary pool last year, too, for the devotees. But it was too small compared with the number of people who went there. This year we have built a bigger pool,” she said. A similar structure has come up on Panditiya Road, too. Biswas said many worshippers from the Tollygunge-New Alipore area would go to Rabindra Sarobar to perform the Chhath rituals. “If the rituals are not allowed at the Sarobar, devotees may visit the temporary structures,” she said. A CMDA official said they would campaign across the city, especially where Chhath worshippers live in large numbers, about the ghats. He said they would spread word about the ghats through loudspeakers mounted on autorickshaws. “We will not mention anything about Rabindra Sarobar, because the Supreme Court will hear the matter (the CMDA’s plea to allow the rituals there) on Thursday. We will only encourage devotees to go to the other ghats,” the engineer said. Worshippers from central and north Calcutta perform the rituals at ghats along the Hooghly. “There are numerous ghats along the river. We will illuminate them and clean the steps. There will be drinking water facilities for the devotees,” said a CMC engineer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-235
18-11-2020||Business||Sensex ends above 44,000 for first time||Equity benchmarks scaled record highs for the third straight session on Wednesday as investors accumulated banking, auto and engineering stocks amid firm global cues and unabated foreign fund inflows. The BSE Sensex vaulted 227.34 points or 0.52 per cent to close above the 44,000-level for the first time at 44,180.05. Intra-day, it touched its lifetime high of 44,215.49. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 64.05 points or 0.50 per cent to end at its all-time high of 12,938.25, after making an intra-day record of 12,948.85. M&M was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, soaring 10.76 per cent, followed by L&T, IndusInd Bank, Bajaj Finserv, SBI, Bajaj Finance, ICICI Bank, Kotak Bank and Axis Bank. On the other hand, HUL, ITC, Titan, TCS, Bharti Airtel and Infosys were among the losers, shedding up to 2.07 per cent. According to traders, largely positive cues from global markets and persistent foreign fund inflows buoyed market sentiment. Foreign institutional investors remained net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 4,905.35 crore on Tuesday, according to provisional exchange data. Global equities held steady after the recent rally fuelled by encouraging COVID-19 vaccine trials, though the steadily rising coronavirus cases weighed on risk sentiment. Domestic equities continued to maintain their northward move mainly led by rebound in financials and automobiles, said Arjun Yash Mahajan, Head Institutional Business at Reliance Securities, adding that strong buying continued in mid-cap and small-cap stocks. "A healthy improvement in earnings outlook of financials and visibility over asset quality continued to support financial stocks. Rotational trade also remained visible where IT, FMCG and Pharma remained laggards and cyclical and beaten down stocks witnessed sharp upmove," he said. BSE capital goods, auto, industrials, realty, bankex and finance indices surged up to 3.72 per cent, while FMCG, IT, teck, telecom and healthcare closed with losses. Lakshmi Vilas Bank slumped 20 per cent to hit its lower circuit after the cash-strapped lender was put under moratorium due to its precarious financial health. T N Manoharan, the RBI-appointed administrator of Lakshmi Vilas Bank, on Wednesday said depositors' money is safe and expressed confidence of completing the lender's merger with DBS Bank India within the deadline set by the regulator. Meanwhile, the broader BSE midcap and smallcap indices rallied as much as 1.22 per cent. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul ended on a positive note, while Tokyo was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe also largely opened with gains. Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, was trading 0.85 per cent higher at USD 44.12 per barrel. The rupee continued its winning momentum for the third session in a row on Wednesday, rising 27 paise to settle at 74.19 against the US dollar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-232
18-11-2020||Business||Sensex crosses 44,000 mark in opening trade||Equity benchmark Sensex crossed the 44,000 mark for the first time in early trade on Wednesday, tracking gains in financial stocks amid largely positive cues from other Asian markets and persistent foreign fund inflow. After touching its lifetime intra-day high of 44,051.66, the 30-share BSE index was trading 55.15 points or 0.13 per cent higher at 44,007.86. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 19.10 points or 0.15 per cent to 12,893.30. PowerGrid was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 1 per cent, followed by SBI, M&M, L&T, IndusInd Bank, ICICI Bank, Bajaj Finance and ONGC. On the other hand, HUL, Titan, Tech Mahindra, Nestle India and TCS were among the losers. In the previous session, BSE Sensex settled 314.73 points or 0.72 per cent higher at its new closing record of 43,952.71. Nifty too finished 93.95 points or 0.74 per cent up at its lifetime peak of 12,874.20. Foreign institutional investors remained net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 4,905.35 crore on Tuesday, according to provisional exchange data. "Domestic markets look to be flat amid mixed global trends. However, Nifty is poised to touch the psychological 13,000 mark shortly as underlying strength remains intact," said Arjun Yash Mahajan, Head Institutional Business at Reliance Securities. Improved prospects of corporate earnings will continue to aid mid-cap and small-cap stocks to outperform large caps in the near term and rotational trade is also expected to remain visible, he noted. The Supreme Court's hearing on interest on loan moratorium is scheduled for later in the day, which may have an impact on bank stocks, Mahajan added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul were trading higher in mid-session deals, while Tokyo was in the red. Bourses in the US ended on a negative note in overnight sessions. Meanwhile, Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, were trading flat at USD 43.75 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-232
18-11-2020||Business||Lakshmi Vilas Bank to merge with DBS||Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) will be merged with DBS Bank India after the government on Tuesday placed the troubled private sector lender under moratorium because of its deteriorating financial position. DBS Bank India (DBIL) is a subsidiary of the Singapore-based DBS Bank Ltd (DBS). This is the first instance in recent times where the RBI is merging a private sector lender with a foreign bank. It comes months after the central bank came up with a rescue plan for Yes Bank, while in September last year it placed restrictions on the PMC Bank. The swift action from the RBI came minutes after the government put out a notification placing the Tamil Nadu based bank under moratorium as requested in an application made by the RBI. Simultaneously, the central bank superceded the board of directors of LVB for a period of 30 days. T.N. Manoharan, former executive chairman of Canara Bank, has been appointed as the administrator of the lender. The one-month moratorium, which began from 6pm on Tuesday, will last till December 16. During this period, cash withdrawals by depositors have been capped at Rs 25,000. However, depositors can withdraw more than Rs 25,000 to meet medical expenses for self or a dependant person, to pay for higher education of the depositor or any dependent, to meet expenses for weddings or other ceremonies of the depositor or their dependents. The additional sum can be withdrawn for any other unavoidable emergency situations as well. The amalgamation with DBIL, however, brings with it some bad news for LVB shareholders. The RBI said from the “appointed date”, the entire amount of the paid-up share capital and reserves and surplus, including the balances in the share or securities premium account of the transferor bank will be written off. This means LVB will be delisted from the bourses with shareholders getting nothing. For any interest bearing deposit accounts, DBIL will pay interest at the rate applicable under the prevailing policy of LVB till the appointed date. After this date, depositors of LVB will get interest rates similar to that offered by the foreign lender. DBIL is a wholly owned subsidiary of DBS Bank Ltd, Singapore, which in turn is a subsidiary of Asia’s leading financial services group, DBS Group Holdings and has the advantage of a strong parentage. It has been issued a banking licence to operate as a banking company under Section 22 (1) of the B R Act, on October 4, 2018. DBIL has a healthy balance sheet. As on June 30, 2020, its total regulatory capital was Rs 7,109 crore (against capital of Rs 7,023 crore as on March 31, 2020). As on June 30, 2020, its gross NPAs and net NPAs were low at 2.7 per cent and 0.5 per cent, respectively; the capital to risk weighted assets ratio (CRAR) was comfortable at 15.99 per cent (against the requirement of 9 per cent); and the common equity Tier-1 (CET-1) capital at 12.84 per cent was well above the requirement of 5.5 per cent. Although the DBIL is well capitalised, it will bring in an additional capital of Rs 2,500 crore upfront to support credit growth of the merged entity. The combined balance sheet of DBIL would remain healthy after the proposed amalgamation, with CRAR at 12.51 per cent and CET-1 capital at 9.61 per cent, without taking into account the infusion of additional capital. The RBI had stepped in after LVB’s financials weakened as its losses widened to Rs 397 crore for the September quarter of 2020 against a loss of Rs 357 crore in the year-ago period because of a rise in bad loans and provisions. The bank was in the news in September when shareholders voted out seven members from the board, including the then MD and CEO S Sundar. Later the RBI appointed a three-member committee of directors to run its daily affairs. LVB was also in talks with Gurgaon-based Clix group for a merger to bring in the much required capital, which did not fructify. The RBI said LVB’s financial position has steadily declined with the bank incurring losses over the last three years, eroding its net-worth. In the absence of any viable strategic plan, declining advances and mounting non-performing assets (NPAs), the losses will widen. “The bank management had indicated that it was in talks with certain investors. However, it failed to submit any concrete proposal to the RBI and the bank’s efforts to enhance its capital through amalgamation of an NBFC with itself appears to have reached a dead end,” it added. The RBI also sought to assure depositors that their interests will be fully protected. The RBI said DBIL will bring in additional capital of Rs 2500 crore upfront. The combined balance sheet of DBIL will remain healthy after the proposed amalgamation with a capital adequacy ratio of 12.51 per cent. The banking regulator added that since bank-led and market-led revival efforts were a preferred option over a regulatory resolution, it had allowed the bank enough opportunities to draw up a credible revival plan or an amalgamation scheme, which did not materialise. “After taking into consideration these developments, ...there is no alternative but to apply to the central government to impose a moratorium under section 45 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949,’’ it disclosed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-232
18-11-2020||Business||ONGC to put Bengal on oil map||The commercial production of gas from ONGC’s Ashoknagar block is expected to begin soon, bringing Bengal on to the energy map of the country, petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan said on Tuesday. He said “ONGC is moving towards commercial production from its block in Bengal which would put it on the oil map of the country”. Industry sources said commercial production of the block in the North 24-Parganas district could start before the end of this fiscal and the initial output could be 120 cubic metres. Speaking at the contract signing ceremony of the fifth bid round of the Open Acreage Licensing Policy (OALP), oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan said with the latest bid round, the government has in the last four years awarded 1.56 lakh square kilometres of acreage to find and produce oil and gas. This compares with 90,000 sq km of area awarded in the nine rounds of the New Exploration Licensing Policy (Nelp) and pre-Nelp awards in the previous two decades. Pradhan asked exploration companies to consider farming out their acreages to global players with advanced technology to expedite development and raise oil and gas output. The nation’s oil and gas output has been stagnant for years, forcing it to raise reliance on imports to meet rising fuel demand. “The government will grant petroleum mining lease rights but the companies should consider a farm-out (of a stake) to get global technology players,” Pradhan said. Red tape and multiple permissions have in the past led to several slippages in the committed timelines. “Tell us, if you need more help,” Pradhan said, asking explorers to give suggestions on improving the regulatory environment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-232
18-11-2020||Business||Sensex sets a new record||Key indices on Tuesday hit record peaks following encouraging data from another Covid-19 vaccine trial, abundant global liquidity and better-than-expected factory output from China. The 30-share Sensex crossed the 44000-mark during intra-day trade and touched a lifetime high of 44161.16 after which it gave up some of the gains to finish at 43952.71 which was still a new closing record. The gains came as Wall Street vaulted to lifetime highs in the overnight session after US-based biotechnology giant Moderna said its Covid-19 vaccine candidate was found to be 94.5 per cent effective in Phase 3 trials. The announcement came just a week after Pfizer and BioNtech said their vaccine was more than 90 per cent effective in preventing Covid-19, based on preliminary data. It strengthened expectations of a sharp global recovery next year even as data from China showed factory output rising more than expected. Global liquidity with central banks following accommodative policies is one of the key factors that is driving the momentum with encouraging high frequency data improving the confidence among investors. This comes after a better-than-expected corporate earnings for the second quarter ended September 30 and reduction in fresh number of Covid-19 cases in several parts of the country. The optimistic sentiment has seen Morgan Stanley raising its target for the Sensex to 50000 by December 2021 against an earlier target of 37300 by June 2021. “We expect growth to surprise on the upside, rates trough to be behind, and real rates to remain in the negative territory for several months,” Morgan Stanley said. It presented a bull case target of 59000 for the 30-share index, indicating a 35 per cent upside from the current level, assuming the virus situation improves, recovery in growth is sustained and global stimulus supports asset prices. In a bear case scenario, it sees the Sensex fall to 37,000, a 15 per cent drop from the current level, if the virus issue lingers into 2021 and growth falters as India fails to deliver an adequate policy response leading to losses in the financial system. The Sensex on Tuesday opened above the 44000-mark at 44095.85 and scaled an intra-day high of 44161.16, a gain of over 523 points. It gave some of the gains to close at 43952.71, up 314.73 points which was still a new closing record. The NSE Nifty touched a fresh intra-day high of 12934.05 and finally finished 93.95 points, or 0.74 per cent, up at its lifetime peak of 12874.20. Shares of BPCL, however, dropped over 4 per cent after the government received multiple expressions of interest for stake purchase in the company even as some of the big names did not put in any initial bids. The stock fell 4.42 per cent to close at Rs 394.45 on BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-232
18-11-2020||Business||Embassy REIT to acquire ETV for Rs 9,782.4 crore||In the largest single property commercial deal in the country, Embassy REIT on Tuesday said it has agreed to acquire business park Embassy TechVillage (ETV) in Bangalore for Rs 9,782.4 crore. Embassy REIT is India’s first publicly listed REIT (Real Estate Investment Trust) sponsored by Blackstone and Embassy group. It got listed on the stock exchanges last year. Embassy REIT would acquire the business park from Embassy group, Blackstone and some other investors. This deal would make Embassy REIT one of the largest REITs in Asia in terms of office space. The buyout comprises 6.1 million sq ft of completed office space, 3.1 million sq ft of under-construction area and two proposed 518-keys Hilton hotels in the Embassy Tech Village campus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-232
18-11-2020||Business||Pfizer to sue Indian drug duo||Pfizer Inc and its group companies filed a petition in a US court against Aurobindo Pharma and Dr Reddy’s Laboratories alleging that the Indian drug makers were planning separately to come out with generic versions of its blockbuster multi-billion dollar drug Ibrance (palbociclib) before the expiration of its patent. Pfizer filed the possible patent infringement case against Aurobindo Pharma in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware and Dr Reddy’s in the New Jersey court. Palbociclib is used to treat certain types of breast cancer. Ibrance clocked nearly $5 billion in revenues globally, including $3.25 billion in the US in 2019. In March 2019, several generic companies had filed abbreviated new drug applications with the USFDA to market generic versions of Ibrance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-232
18-11-2020||Business||DHFL lenders allow new bids||Lenders of troubled non-banking finance company, Dewan Housing Finance Corporation (DHFL), on Tuesday allowed all applicants to submit revised offers. Following this, the Piramal group is understood to have again revised its offer for the retail portfolio of DHFL. It had recently revised its bid for the retail portfolio to Rs 26,500 crore from an offer of Rs 15,000 crore earlier. The move by Piramal Enterprises came after Adani Properties made key changes to its bid. While the Adani group had earlier bid Rs 3,000 crore for the wholesale and Slum Rehabilitation Authority assets, it recently offered around Rs 250 crore more than that given by Oaktree Capital for the entire book. Oaktree Capital had cited a bid price of around Rs 31,000 crore. Sources said that the committee of creditors did not take any decision on Tuesday and that it will respond over the next few days to the revised bid made by the Adani group. The Piramal group had protested against the fresh bid made by Adani Properties and it wrote a letter to the administrator appointed by the RBI. Shares of DHFL were locked in the upper circuit on Tuesday. It settled at Rs 18.45, a gain of 4.83 per cent over the previous close on the BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-232
18-11-2020||Business||Sale of Tata Dutch unit on course||Swedish steel maker SSAB will complete the due diligence of Tata Steel’s Netherlands business in two months, potentially leading to a binding agreement for the sale of the Dutch unit. The company said the proceeds of the sale may be able to pay part or all of the 1.7-billion-euro debt on Tata Steel Europe’s books as deleveraging the balance sheet becomes key to the Indian steel maker’s business plan going forward. A sale of the Ijmuiden operations will leave the Tatas with the UK business for which the company is seeking a more “substantive and permanent” solution from the Boris Jonson government. So far it has received only short-term assistance. A research report put out by Edelweiss suggested that the deal may be done at a valuation of six times of through-the-cycle EBIDTA, using the recently stitched transaction between ArcelorMittal and Cleveland Cliffs for the US business as the benchmark. Going by those metrics, the 7-million-tonne Ijmuiden steel asset could fetch as much as $3 billion, or Rs 22,500 crore. Edelweiss believes the possibility of better cash proceeds may be expected as Tata Steel Netherlands is one of the most profitable assets in Europe. The management said the deal was likely to face less hurdles than what it faced with the Thyssenkrupp transaction, which failed to get approval from the European Commission. “There were overlaps in packaging and automotive business with Thyssenkrupp. Some of the user industries raised objections to that transaction. We do not see such issues with SSAB,” said T.V. Narendran, managing director and CEO of Tata Steel. Tata Steel has started the process of separating the UK and Dutch operations and consultations with the Dutch government, unions and the supervisory board are on. The company’s stock reacted to the SSAB announcement and stellar performance of the India business as many brokerages upgraded the stock to buy. It touched a 52-week high of Rs 530.95 on the NSE during the trading hours before closing at Rs 522.70, up Rs 30.6, or 6.2 per cent. On the BSE, too, shares touched their 52-week high of Rs 530.80 before ending at Rs 522.80, up 6.24 per cent. In India, the company said it would focus on growing the flat steel business at Jamshedpur, Kalinganagar and Angul and may not participate if and when NMDC’s steel plant comes up for sale. However, Narendran said Tata Steel would be interested in the disinvestment of public sector Neelachal Ispat Nigam Ltd (NINL), which is based in Odisha. “It is a long product producer and it is something we may see,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-232
18-11-2020||Business||AirAsia hints at India exit||Malaysia’s flagship budget carrier AirAsia Group Bhd has given its strongest indication to date that it could exit India, saying on Tuesday it was reviewing its investment in a joint venture airline there. The group said in a statement that its operations in India, like those of its now-shuttered Japan business, have been draining cash and adding to the group’s financial stress. “Cost containment and reducing cash burn remain key priorities evident by the recent closure of AirAsia Japan and an ongoing review of our investment in AirAsia India,” it said. AirAsia shut operations in Japan, the smallest of its foreign offshoots, last month. The airline owns 49 per cent of AirAsia India, a joint venture with Tata Sons. According to a media report last month, Tata Sons’ parent is in discussions to buy AirAsia Group’s stake. Group chief executive officer Tony Fernandes told Reuters in September that the group intends to consolidate and strengthen its Asean foothold, which could mean one day exiting both Japan and India. AirAsia Group said it remains confident of returning stronger, more robust and faster than many competitors, given strong signs of recovery in its key domestic markets because of pent-up demand and numerous Covid-19 vaccines in near final stages of testing. “The general outlook is that air travel will be bouncing back real soon; we expect to get back to pre-pandemic levels on many routes across the Group by mid-2021, if not earlier,” president for the group’s airlines, Bo Lingam, said. AirAsia Group’s share price touched its highest since June 29 on Tuesday in a second consecutive day of sharp gains, likely buoyed by news that US vaccine maker Moderna Inc’s experimental vaccine is 94.5 per cent effective in preventing Covid-19 based on interim data from a late-stage trial. Shares in its long-haul arm AirAsia X Bhd rose as much as 14 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-233
18-11-2020||Business||Few opt for RBI’s one time debt restructuring scheme||Crisil Ratings, an S&P Global company, on Tuesday said as many as 99 per cent of the non-MSME corporate houses it has rated are unlikely to opt for the Reserve Bank of India’s one time debt restructuring scheme. The firm has done an analysis covering 3,523 non-MSME borrowers and only around 1 per cent indicated that they would apply for the scheme despite two thirds of the entities being eligible for the same based on parameters proposed by the KV Kamath Committee set up by the RBI. The regulator in August had announced a one time debt restructuring scheme (OTDR) for non-msme corporate borrowers under stress because of the Covid-19 pandemic. According to Crisil, expectations of a recovery next fiscal is making corporate houses rethink plans to restructure their loans. “Improving business sentiment on account of increased economic activity over the past couple of months and expectations of a sharp recovery next fiscal are persuading borrowers to skip OTDR. “Another deterrent is the impact on the borrower's long term credit history — accounts of those opting for OTDR would be classified as restructured advances by lenders, which could impact their ability to raise debt in future,” said Subodh Rai, senior director, Crisil Ratings. Crisil said for around 44 per cent of the rated corporates, more than three fourth of their debt comprises short term working capital facilities and for those firms, OTDR would have negligible benefits as the resolution plan under this scheme is focussed on deferring principal repayment of long term debt. Instead of a debt recast, such borrowers may opt for additional working capital financing, Crisil said. The report added that in the earlier phase of the lockdown, 968 companies, or around 27 per cent of the sample set had opted for moratorium allowed by the RBI. Bankers said that unlike earlier instances corporates have become more aware about leveraging, restructuring and its impact on their credit rating amid possibility of losing control on enterprises through the insolvency proceedings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-233
18-11-2020||India|| Bengaluru riots: NIA conducts search in 43 places across city||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday conducted several search operations at Bengaluru in connection with the August 11 riots and attacks on the DJ Halli and KG Halli police stations, said an official. The searches were conducted in 43 locations across the city, including four offices of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), which is the political outfit of the Popular Front of India (PFI). “The cases pertain to large-scale rioting, causing injuries to police personnel, destruction of public and private property, including the police stations' buildings and public and private vehicles,” the NIA official said, while also informing that the rioters were carrying lethal weapons. The attacks, which set off fear and panic in the nearby locales, were aimed to cause terror in the society, the spokesperson said. The central agency recovered incriminating material relating to the SDPI and the PFI, including swords, knives and iron rods, which were seized during the searches, he added. On August 11, over 3,000 rioters went on a rampage and set fires to the residences of Congress MLA R Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy, his sister Jayanthi and the two police stations. The incident took off due to an alleged offensive post by the nephew of the Congress MLA, and resulted in the death of four persons. While three of them were killed in police firing, one sustained abdominal injuries during the violence, which led to his demise. Former Congress mayor R Sampath Raj, an accused in the violence, was recently arrested, while further investigation regarding the case is underway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-550
18-11-2020||India||12 civilians injured in grenade attack at J&K’s Pulwama||At least 12 civilians were injured when militants launched a grenade attack on security personnel in Jammu and Kashmir’s Pulwama on Wednesday, said the police. According to a police official, the incident took place in the Kakapora area of Pulwama. The grenade, he said, missed its intended target and hit the road, which resulted in the incident. The civilians, who sustained splinter injuries due to the explosion, were rushed to a nearby hospital, the official added. According to media reports, no security personnel was hurt in the attack. The official said that the area has been cordoned off and a hunt has been launched to nab the militants. This comes days after India had summoned Pakistan High Commission’s Charge d'Affaires,lodging a heavy protest over several unprovoked violations in ceasefire by the Pakistani troops along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir last Friday. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), in a statement, also condemned the "deliberate targeting" of civilians by the neighbouring country’s forces. The statement also called out Pakistan’s act of choosing an Indian festive occasion to perpetrate violence thereby disrupting peace in Jammu and Kashmir with its coordinated attacks along the LoC. Five security personnels were killed in the attacks along with four civilians, while 19 others were seriously injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-550
18-11-2020||India||Varavara Rao to be shifted to Nanavati Hospital||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday said that it will move jailed poet-activist Varavara Rao to Mumbai’s Nanavati Hospital for 15 days for his treatment. The state, following an intervention of a bench of Justices SS Shinde and Madhav Jamdar, said that it will shift the 81-year-old to the Nanavati hospital as a “special case”. Rao is currently lodged at the Taloja prison in Navi Mumbai, as an unter-trial in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case. Deepak Thakre, the state’s counsel, had told the court that the decision was taken as per the directions of Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, who said that the state had no problem in moving Rao to the Nanavati Hospital, which is a private facility. The court directed the state to bear the cost of the poet’s treatment, adding that he should not be discharged from the hospital without the HC being notified. Rao’s family members should be able to meet him, the court instructed. It further said that the state should produce all medical reports of him before the bench. The court, while also hearing a bail plea filed by him on medical grounds, asked his counsel, senior advocate Indira Jaising, to restrict her arguments to the interim permission to move Rao to the hospital. Jaising did not press on the matter after the suggestion. Jaising, however, said that Rao had developed a urinary tract infection in prison, suffered from dementia, and his "mental and physical health condition was fast diminishing". She warned that Rao might die in prison, and his condition cannot be treated in the Taloja prison and needed specialists’ care. Following this, the court asked the National investigation Agency (NIA) why rao cannot be moved to nanavati hospital. "Ultimately the man is on almost his deathbed. He needs some treatment. Can the State say no we will treat him in Taloja?" "We are only asking to transfer him to the Nanavati Hospital for two weeks. We will further see after two weeks," said the bench. Initially, both the NIA and the state had objected to shifting him to the Nanavati Hospital, saying that other prisoners will want the same as well. The court will next hear the case on December 3. Since his arrest in June 2018, Rao has been in and out of the government-run JJ hospital in the city. On July 16, he tested positive for coronavirus, after which he was shifted to the Nanavati hospital. He was discharged on July 30 and sent back to the Taloja prison, Jaising said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-550
18-11-2020||India||Indian Railways to arrange 800 beds for Delhi's Covid-19 treatment||In a bid to help Delhi in its fight against the rising cases of Coronavirus, Indian Railways have decided to make available coaches with 800 beds at a station here to be used as Covid care-cum-isolation facilities while as many as 45 doctors and 160 paramedics of the paramilitary forces are on standby in the national capital for deployment on Covid-19 duties, the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said on Wednesday. The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) is going to add 250 ICU beds to the existing 250 in addition to creating 35 BIPAP beds in the next 3-4 days at its Covid-19 hospital near the Delhi airport, a home ministry spokesperson said. These developments come in the wake of 12 decisions taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday after Delhi saw fresh spike in Covid-19 cases. The spurt in coronavirus cases in Delhi has been witnessed since October 28 when the daily rise breached the 5,000-mark for the first time and it crossed the 8,000-mark on November 11. Delhi recorded 6,396 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the infection tally in the national capital to over 4.95 lakh, even as 99 new fatalities pushed the toll to 7,812, authorities said. The rising coronavirus cases in Delhi are attributed to the festive season, non-compliance of COVID-19 safety behaviour and rising pollution in the city. Forty-five doctors and 160 paramedics from paramilitary forces have arrived in Delhi for deployment at DRDO hospital near Delhi airport and at a COVID care centre at Chhatarpur, the spokesperson said. More doctors and paramedics will reach Delhi in the next few days. The home ministry has constituted 10 multi-disciplinary teams to visit more than 100 private hospitals in Delhi for assessing bed utilisation and testing capacity and to identify extra ICU beds. Visits by the teams are underway. The Railways is making available coaches with 800 beds at Shakur Basti railway station while doctors and paramedics from paramilitary forces will man the coaches which will act as Covid care-cum-isolation facilities. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the Delhi government are working together to enhance RT-PCR testing capacity to 60,000 tests by end of November. Testing capacity has already been enhanced by 10,000 tests per day on November 17, the spokesperson said. The planning for house-to-house survey in Delhi is in the advanced stage. The survey is expected to begin by the end of the week and completed by November 25. According to the spokesperson, Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) has dispatched 250 ventilators from Bengaluru and these are expected to reach Delhi by the end of the week. The Union health ministry has delivered 35 BIPAP machines to DRDO Covid facility near the Delhi airport. To bring testing closer to Delhi residents, the ICMR will help Delhi government in deploying 10 mobile testing laboratories with a total capacity of 20,000 tests in a phased manner beginning next week. The ICMR will also help in augmenting capacity by 2,000 tests of existing Delhi laboratories by deploying more manpower, increasing number of shifts and placing more equipment and through engagement with private sector laboratories so that per day 60,000 RT-PCR tests could be done by November end. Five RT-PCR laboratories including at AIIMS, Delhi have already started functioning round-the-clock. Orientation meeting of deputy commissioners, municipal corporations officials and other stakeholders were conducted by the union health ministry. As many as 25 BIPAP machines for the Delhi government will be provided by health ministry, the spokesperson said. Sunday's meeting was convened in the wake of the rising number of cases, which is being called the 'third wave' of Covid-19, in Delhi and it noted the increasing strain on medical infrastructure in the city. Apart from Shah, those who attended the meeting include Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan among others. It was the second major intervention by Shah, who had stepped in and announced several steps in June to check the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the national capital after criticism in different quarters of the Delhi government's handling of the crisis. Shah had said that the situation of Covid-19 in Delhi, as also in the neighbouring areas of the National Capital Region (NCR), would be reviewed on a continuous basis over the coming weeks. The highest single-day spike of 8,593 cases till date here was recorded on November 11 when 85 fatalities were recorded. Ninety-nine fatalities were recorded, pushing the toll in the national capital to 7,812. The active cases tally on Tuesday rise to 42,004 from 40,128, previous day. The total number of cases has climbed to 4,95,598, while the recovery rate stood at over 89 per cent. The number of containment zones in Delhi increased to 4,449 on Tuesday. The National Centre for Disease Control, in a report drafted recently, had warned that Delhi needed to be prepared for about 15,000 fresh Covid-19 cases per day, taking into account the winter-related respiratory problems, a large influx of patients from outside and festive gatherings. In June, when the number of Covid-19 cases was on the rise in Delhi, there were complaints of non-availability of beds in hospitals and difficulty in getting tests done in laboratories. Leading from the front, the home minister ensured that the facilities were augmented by increasing the numbers of daily testing, hospital beds and setting up of temporary hospitals and COVID care centre. A committee set up by Shah also fixed the rates for testing, beds in private hospitals, ICUs and isolation beds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-551
18-11-2020||India||No Chhath Puja at public places, Delhi HC backs state govt||The Delhi High Court Wednesday refused to interfere with AAP government's decision to ban Chhath Puja celebrations at public places like ponds and riverbanks in the city due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The high court said the third wave of the infection was already underway in the national capital and allowing a large gathering would result in people becoming super spreaders. A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad dismissed a petition by Durga Jan Seva Trust, challenging the November 10 order of chairman of Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) not to allow any gathering in public places for Chhath Puja on November 20. The trust sought permission to hold a gathering of 1,000 people for Chhath Puja. To this, the bench remarked, "Oh really! Today when the Delhi government is not allowing marriages with over 50 persons, you want only 1,000 persons. How come?" The bench said the authorities passed the order after considering the spread of infection in Delhi and the petition was meritless. "In today's day and time, such a petition is belied by the ground reality," the bench said, adding that the petitioner should have taken into consideration the current circumstances in the city. The high court said it appeared that the petitioner is not alive to the COVID-19 situation. The infection rate is hovering around 7,800 to 8,593 and the death rate is in double figures. There are 42,000 active cases, it noted. Chhath Puja is celebrated by thousands of people in the capital, especially those hailing from Bihar and Eastern Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-551
18-11-2020||India||Kangana Ranaut, sister summoned by Mumbai police again ||Mumbai police on Wednesday asked actor Kangana Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel to appear before them on November 23 and 24 respectively over their "objectionable comments" on social media aimed at "spreading communal tension". This is the third time Mumbai police have asked them to appear before the Bandra police in the matter. They were earlier asked to be present on October 26 and 27 respectively but failed to appear. They were later asked to appear on November 9 and 10 but did not do so. Kangana had informed police that she was busy with a wedding in the family and will be available after November 15. Mumbai police had issued the second notice to Kangana Ranaut and Rangoli Chandel on November 3 and ordered them to appear before it on November 9 and 10 respectively. Both the sisters were booked for allegedly promoting enmity between communities through posts on social media. Bandra police on October 21 issued a notice to Kangana and her sister to record statements in the case. Ranauts lawyer then informed police that she was in Himachal Pradesh and busy with the wedding preparations. The Bandra metropolitan magistrate's court last month ordered police to investigate a complaint filed by Bollywood casting director and fitness trainer Munawwar Ali Sayyed, referring to the tweets and other statements of Ranaut and her sister. Police filed an FIR against Ranaut and her sister under IPC sections 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race), 295-A (deliberate acts hurting religious sentiments) and 124-A (sedition), 34 (common intention) and also asked Kangana and her sister to appear before the police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-551
18-11-2020||India||Delhi's air quality 'moderate', no sudden change likely||Delhi's air quality was recorded in the moderate category on Wednesday morning, while government agencies said no significant change is likely in the next three to four days. The mercury is also predicted to dip to single digits by Saturday. On Wednesday morning, it was 10.6 degrees Celsius, two notches below normal, according to the India Meteorological Department. The air quality index (AQI) stood at 414, in the severe category, on Diwali day. But rain and high-velocity winds under the influence of a Western Disturbance brought relief from high pollution levels. The city's 24-hour average AQI improved from 435 on Sunday to 221 on Monday. On Tuesday, it was 171. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". The central government's Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said Delhi-NCR's air quality is likely to remain in the moderate and the lower end of the poor category on Thursday and Friday. On Wednesday, the prominent surface wind direction will be northwesterly and the maximum wind speed will be 10 kmph, it said. The wind speed will continue to be favourable for dispersion of pollutants over the next three to four days, according to IMD. Delhi's ventilation index -- a product of mixing depth and average wind speed will be around 5,000 m2/s on Wednesday and 7,500 m2/s on Thursday. Mixing depth is the vertical height in which pollutants are suspended in the air. It reduces on cold days with calm wind speed. A ventilation index lower than 6,000 sqm/second, with the average wind speed less than 10 kmph, is unfavourable for dispersal of pollutants. The Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi also said very few farm fire were observed over Punjab and Haryana on Tuesday and their impact on air quality of Delhi is likely to be negligible . The IMD said the minimum temperature in Delhi is predicted to drop to 9 degrees Celsius by Saturday, as cold winds have started blowing from hilly regions, which have witnessed a fresh bout of snowfall. The minimum temperature this month, barring on November 16, has remained 2-3 degree Celsius below normal in the absence of a cloud cover, according to IMD officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-551
18-11-2020||India||Ten dead, 16 injured in a truck collision in Vadodara||At least 10 people died and 16 others were injured when a mini-truck in which they were travelling rammed into another truck on the outskirts of Gujarat's Vadodara city early Wednesday morning, police said. The accident took place at Waghodia circle near the city around 2.45 am when the victims were heading towards Pavagadh in Panchmahal district, Vadodara Deputy Commissioner of Police Karanraj Vaghela said. "At least 10 persons, including five women, died in the accident. The mini-truck, carrying around 25 people, rammed into a truck trailer from behind," Vadodara Police Commissioner R B Brahmbhatt said. The injured persons were rushed to a civil hospital, Vaghela said. Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani expressed grief over the loss of lives in the accident. "Saddened by the loss of lives due to a road accident near Vadodara. Instructed officials to do needful. May those who have been injured recover at the earliest. I pray for the departed souls. Om Shanti," Rupani tweeted. The victims, all from Varachha area of Surat city, were heading towards Pavagadh, a famous religious place in Panchmahal located near Vadodara, Vaghela said. Some families from Varachha in Surat had hired the mini-truck to visit temples at Pavagadh, Vadtal and Dakor (in Kheda), he said. An investigation was underway to find out the cause of the accident, he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday expressed grief over a road accident in Gujarat's Vadodara that left at least 10 people dead and said that the administration is providing all possible assistance to the needy. In a tweet, Modi said, "Saddened by the accident in Vadodara. My thoughts are with those who lost their loved ones. Praying that the injured recover soon. The administration is providing all possible assistance at the site of the accident."  Union Home Minister Amit Shah expressed deep anguish over the loss of lives in a road accident in Gujarat saying he has spoken to the local administration which is providing all assistance. "Deeply anguished to learn about the loss of lives in a tragic road accident in Vadodara, Gujarat. Have spoken to the local administration they are providing all possible assistance. Condolences with the bereaved families. May injured recover at the earliest," Shah tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-551
18-11-2020||India||Some countries supporting cross-border terrorism amid Covid, says India in UN||The Covid-19 pandemic has not prevented some countries from supporting cross-border terrorism and spreading religious hatred, India has said at the UN, in an apparent reference to Pakistan, asserting that the United Nations must speak decisively and not take sides among religions or justify terrorism in any way. India's Permanent Representative to the UN, Ambassador T S Tirumurti, said on Tuesday that India condemns all forms of anti-semitism and all forms of discrimination on religious grounds anywhere in the world. "We now have countries taking advantage of the ongoing pandemic and spreading divisive hatred to other parts of the world on the basis of religion. COVID has not prevented them from supporting cross-border terrorism to kill innocent people and spread religious hatred, he said, without naming any country. Tirumurti said India calls on those countries to stop spreading anti-semitism and hatred and stop dividing the world on the basis of religion. "We ask them to look inwards to promote harmony within their own societies, stop sectarian violence and ensure the protection of minorities. We believe it is important for the United Nations to speak decisively and not take sides with one group of religions vis-a-vis the others or justify terrorism in any way," he said. Tirumurti was addressing the virtual high-level event by World Jewish Congress on combating anti-semitism. India co-sponsored the online side event, which was held in partnership with the Permanent Mission of the Germany to the UN in collaboration with Albania, Argentina, Austria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Canada, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Israel, Romania, Slovakia and Uruguay. He said India is a country which is home to all major religions of the world and is a nation that has given birth to several religions -- the most prominent of them being Hinduism, Buddhism, Sikhism and Jainism. "I also come from a country which does not have any trace of anti-semitism, Tirumurti said, highlighting India's thriving Jewish community that goes back more than 2,000 years. He said the Jewish community is an integral part of the pluralistic fabric of India, and it has enriched this fabric as much as any other community. "In this river called Indian civilization, every faith and every denomination is embraced in the framework of our democratic structure, pluralism, harmony and mutual acceptance, the Indian diplomat said. Tirumurti also highlighted the numerous milestones over the period of 2,000 years of Jewish community in India -- from the Jewish community being granted sanctuary by the Hindu Maharaja of Cochin Rama Varma in Kerala when it faced persecution from some European powers in the 16th century and the King of Jamnagar Maharaja Digvijaysinhji Ranjitsinhji Jadeja who in 1942 provided refuge and protection to more than 1,000 Polish children, including Jewish children when they were denied entry by other countries, bringing them up as his own. He also spoke about the dastardly" Mumbai terror attacks in November 2008 carried out by Pakistani terrorists. Tirumurti said the whole of India prayed for baby Moshe Holtzberg, who was saved by his Indian caregiver, Sandra Samuel, when terrorists stormed Nariman House and killed the little baby's father Rabbi Gavriel and mother Rivka, who was five months pregnant at the time. He added that there are many well known Jewish-Indians who have distinguished themselves in all walks of life, including General J F R Jacob, a national hero in India who led the Eastern Command of the Indian Army during India's victory in the 1971 Bangladesh Liberation War. The World Jewish Congress held the high-level online event on the role of the UN in combating antisemitism as a side event to the 75th Session of the United Nations General Assembly. Antisemitism poses a threat to democratic values, peace and stability, and the World Jewish Congress has long worked with the United Nations to ensure that the fight against antisemitism is a priority of the UN's human rights agenda, it said in a statement. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-551
18-11-2020||India||India's Covid caseload breaches 89-lakh mark||India's Covid-19 caseload went past 89 lakh, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease crossed 83 lakh pushing the national recovery rate to 93.52 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 89,12,907 with 38,617 infections being reported in a day while the death toll climbed to 1,30,993 with 474 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of active cases remained below 5 lakh for the eighth consecutive day. There are 4,46,805 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country as on date which comprises 5.01 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. The total recoveries have surged to 83,35,109 pushing the national recovery rate to 93.52 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.47 per cent. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of more than 12.74 crore samples have been tested up to November 17 with 9,37,279 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 474 new fatalities include 99 from Delhi, 68 from Maharashtra, 52 from West Bengal, 30 from Punjab, 27 from Kerala and 25 from Haryana. A total of 1,30,993 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 46,102 from Maharashtra followed by 11,557 from Karnataka, 11,513 from Tamil Nadu, 7,812 from Delhi, 7,766 from West Bengal, 7,412 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,890 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,510 from Punjab and 3,815 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-551
18-11-2020||India||India hopes ride on vaccines on trial at home||India at best will have limited access to the promising vaccines against the coronavirus disease from Moderna or Pfizer-BioNTech and will need to depend on one or more of the five vaccine candidates under trial in the country, researchers said. Clinical trial results have found the Moderna vaccine to be over 94 per cent effective and the Pfizer-BioNTech product over 90 per cent effective in protecting people from the Covid-19 infection and bolstered hopes for early vaccine roll-outs. But Indian health officials and vaccine researchers are convinced that any mass vaccination campaign against Covid-19 in India would have to hinge on other vaccine candidates under evaluation here. In addition to their high observed efficacy, both, the vaccine from Moderna, a US biotech company, and the one developed by US-based Pfizer in collaboration with BioNTech in Germany, use genetic material called RNA, a vaccine “platform” that comes with certain advantages. But, experts say, the anticipated high costs of these RNA vaccines as well as advance purchase orders already made by the high-income countries will, if at all, make only limited inventories available for the developing countries, including India. The Pfizer-BioNTech product demands ultra-cold storage temperatures of minus 70 degrees, which experts have pointed out would make distributing the vaccine across India a serious challenge. “Our hopes are in the other vaccines,” said Vinod Paul, a senior paediatrician and chair of the Centre’s Covid-19 vaccine expert panel, referring to the five candidates under test or soon to be tested in India. “We will get more doses from them. We will get the doses we need to address the pandemic.” India is currently testing three vaccine candidates — a homegrown vaccine from the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, a DNA vaccine from Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila, and the Oxford vaccine produced in India by Pune-based Serum Institute. Clinical trials on two more vaccines — a candidate from Russia and one from the Hyderabad-based Biological E — are also set to begin. Members of the vaccine expert panel have told The Telegraph that they expect one or more of these vaccines to support large-scale immunisation in the country. Bharat Biotech has indicated that it can currently produce 300 million doses annually and raise capacity to 500 million doses. Health officials said Serum had indicated a capacity of over 70 million doses a month. But as Serum is producing the vaccine under licence from AstraZeneca, only 50 per cent of its production capacity will be available for the Indian market. “Any timelines on vaccine rollout in India can be determined once we know which vaccine will be available,” said another member of the expert panel. While the results on the Oxford vaccine are expected in December, Bharat’s efficacy trial results are expected during the first or second quarter of 2021, scientists familiar with the trials said. While India also has an RNA vaccine candidate from a Pune-based company that has shown promising animal results, the candidate is still awaiting government approval for human trials. An analysis earlier this month of advance purchase orders had found that high-income countries and some middle-income countries have reserved 8.8 billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines, with some high-income countries booking more doses than needed by their populations. Canada, for instance, has booked vaccines to cover its population five times. While Indian health officials have not revealed details of any deals with vaccine companies, the analysis by researchers at the US-based Duke University Health Innovation Centre had said India had confirmed 600 million doses — enough for 300 million people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-551
18-11-2020||India||Plea to rights panel for Stan Swamy treatment||A disability rights group has written to the National Human Rights Commission chairperson demanding that the ailing and elderly Fr Stan Swamy, who is lodged in a Maharashtra jail over alleged Maoist links, be given the treatment and facilities he needs to survive. In the letter to NHRC chairperson Justice H.L. Dattu on Tuesday, the CPM-backed National Platform for the Rights of the Disabled (NPRD) said that the condition of the 83-year-old Catholic priest was worsening because of the improper care he was receiving for Parkinson’s Disease. The letter, written by NPRD general secretary Muralidharan, says: “Those living with Parkinson’s often have tremors (involuntary, uncontrollable muscle contractions manifesting as shaking in body parts, most often the hands)…. He has trouble eating because of the tremors. He is unable to take bath, bring water or wash clothes on his own. “Fr Stan also has a serious hearing problem and needs hearing aids for both ears. He was operated twice for hernia in the recent past and hence may not be in a position to go through a strenuous schedule as demanded in the jail. He used to take daily steam inhalations too.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-551
18-11-2020||India||Supreme Court frowns on government report on Tablighi||The Supreme Court on Tuesday pulled up the Centre after it filed an affidavit glossing over television coverage of the Tablighi Jamaat gathering in the capital in the summer and focused largely on the print media and news portals to give a blanket clean chit to the reporting. The court suggested that the government should consider setting up a regulatory mechanism under the Cable Television Network Act to deal with such content on news channels. The bench headed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde expressed displeasure with the affidavit, prompting the Centre to offer to file a fresh one. The matter will be heard again after three weeks. “What is shown on TV channels is of great consequence for the country,” Justice Bobde said. The Jamiat Ulama-I-Hind and others had approached the court alleging that a section of the media had spread communal hatred over the Tablighi Jamaat congregation during the onset of pandemic. The Union government as well as the Right-wing ecosystem had tried to create an impression that the Tablighi delegates were primarily responsible for the spread of the virus in the country. Some television channels had used terms such as “Corona Jihad” and “Corona Bombs” and whipped up an atmosphere in which Muslims were stigmatised. However, the Centre, choosing to selectively play the champion of freedom of expression, had filed an affidavit that confined itself to the print media and a few portals. Based on their coverage, the Centre said  the newspapers have “carried largely factual reports in this context” and online news portals undertook objective reporting. “The media has made a clear distinction between the organisers and attendees of the Tablighi Jamaat event and the larger Muslim community in general,” the Centre’s affidavit said. On Tuesday, the bench headed by Chief Justice Bobde, told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for Centre: “We are not happy with the reply of the central government. You have not dealt with the applicability of the Cable Television Networks Act and the legal regime concerning this…. First, you did not file a proper affidavit and then you filed an affidavit which did not deal with the two important questions. This way it cannot be done, Mr Mehta.” The bench includes Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian. When Mehta, along with the Centre’s counsel Rajat Sharma, said a majority of media houses had observed sobriety and there was no communal tinge to the reports, Justice Bobde observed: “You have to tell us how you have acted under the Cable TV Act in some prior incident.   We want to know the mechanism employed by you and this affidavit has nothing on it.” The court turned down Mehta’s suggestion that the News Broadcasting Standards Authority (NBSA) be permitted to deal with violations of the provisions by the channels if any. “Why should we refer to the NBSA etc… when you (the Centre) have the authority to look into it? If it does not exist,  then you create an authority, else, we will hand it over to an outside agency,” Justice Bobde said. The NBSA is a self-regulatory body and the concerns raised by the court can be addressed by it, the solicitor-general submitted. The Centre has ample powers to regulate the content of TV channels but it takes a “…very cautious approach as right to free speech as a fundamental right is available to media”, Mehta said. But the court said the Centre must create a mechanism for addressing grievances against fake news circulated by TV channels and media. Mehta offered to file a fresh affidavit, following which the bench adjourned the matter by three weeks. The latest affidavit filed by the Centre had stated that the government till date had issued 743 orders for blocking fake or misleading content on Covid-19  on social media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-551
18-11-2020||India||Kerala finance minister alleges ‘massive conspiracy’ to scuttle development work ||Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac on Tuesday alleged a “massive conspiracy” to scuttle development work in Kerala, pointing out that the Comptroller and Auditor General of India had added several pages of previously not discussed remarks against an ambitious project without even seeking the state’s explanation. The minister corrected himself and said the “draft” CAG report he had been referring to for the past three days was in fact the final report of the central audit machinery. On how he had earlier concluded that it was a “draft” report, Isaac told a media conference in Alappuzha on Tuesday that he had never seen a final report that contained remarks that were not addressed in the draft report. “Never before had I seen anything in a final report that had not been discussed or explained in a draft report. The CAG has added four new pages of remarks against the KIIFB (Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board),” the finance minister said. “How can I assume that certain remarks that were not even made during the exit meetings with the CAG would find place in the final report?” Isaac asked. The CPM veteran said the four additional pages in the CAG report dealt with the constitutionality of floating masala bonds in the London Stock Exchange to raise funds for the KIIFB, registered as a corporate body under the state government. “They added these pages in Delhi without even informing the state government…. This is not a small game but a massive conspiracy to destroy Kerala,” Isaac alleged. “It’s not whether this is a draft or final report. The issue is how it will affect development work in Kerala,” he added. The finance minister said one of the three points raised by the CAG was about loans taken by the KIIFB to fund infrastructure development in Kerala. The CAG has described the borrowings as “off-budget loans”. It has also remarked that the loans taken by the KIIFB were as good as state loans and hence created a liability and was in violation of Article 293 (1) of the Constitution that makes central approval mandatory for all such borrowings. The third point was about the KIIFB’s Rs 2,150 external borrowings via masala bonds listed last year at the London Stock Exchange. Isaac refuted the CAG’s charges and said the KIIFB loans were entirely “on-budget”. “A separate agency is taking this loan just to circumvent the borrowing ceiling on the state government. But the government provides money for the KIIFB to repay the loans via 50 per cent of the motor vehicles tax and petrol cess,” the finance minister noted. But the admission that Isaac was in possession of the final report of the CAG before even tabling it in the Assembly became a whip in the hands of the Opposition. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala termed it a “gross violation of his oath of office” and demanded Isaac’s resignation. “He has committed a grave violation of procedures and insulted the Assembly,” Chennithala said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-552
18-11-2020||India||‘Celebrity bias’ in Editors Guild of India||Latent disquiet in newsrooms about the way some celebrity anchors are being defended with alacrity and others being left to fend for themselves has spilled out in the open with an editor resigning from the Editors Guild of India. Patricia Mukhim, editor of The Shillong Times, has sent her resignation letter to the Guild, saying the association was playing to the gallery to defend celebrity anchors while choosing to ignore the plea of one of its members. In the resignation letter, Mukhim mentioned Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami who was recently arrested in a suicide abetment case. The Guild, founded 42 years ago with “the twin objectives of protecting press freedom and for raising the standards of editorial leadership of newspapers and magazines”, had condemned the arrest of Goswami and found it “extremely distressing”. The Guild had called upon the Maharashtra chief minister to ensure that Goswami, who has been granted interim bail by the Supreme Court since then, was treated fairly and state power was not used against critical reporting by the media. Mukhim said she sent her resignation letter as a member to Guild president Seema Mustafa on Monday but declined to reveal details.  Mustafa could not be contacted by this newspaper for comment but sources said efforts were on to persuade Mukhim to stay on. Two executive committee members of the Guild called her on Monday and requested her to reconsider her decision, Mukhim said. Mukhim added that she was firm on her decision. The resignation letter accessed by this newspaper shows Mukhim was upset with the Guild for “maintaining complete silence” after Meghalaya High Court on November 10 refused to quash an FIR filed against her. The Shillong Times is the second oldest English daily in the Northeast. The FIR was filed by the Dorbar Shnong (traditional institution) for her July 4 Facebook post following an attack on a group of non-tribal youths playing basketball in a Shillong locality. The court had observed that the post  “apparently seeks to promote disharmony or feelings of enmity, hatred or ill-will between two communities”. Defending her post, Mukhim had said earlier that she only raised the issue of “continued” attacks on non-tribal persons in her post. “I had shared this High Court order with the Guild hoping that it would at least give out a statement condemning the HC order but there was and has been complete silence from the executive. Ironically, the Guild responded with alacrity and issued a statement condemning Arnab Goswami’s arrest (a non-member), not on grounds of journalistic pursuits but on an abetment to suicide case,” Mukhim’s resignation letter said. Sources said Goswami had resigned from the Guild earlier but it had not been accepted yet. Mukhim added in the letter: “I see this as a classic case of the Guild playing to the gallery to defend celebrity editors/anchors whose voices matter while choosing to deliberately ignore a plea (unstated) from one of its members. Clearly, this is also a case of prejudice and a deliberate attempt to push those in the margins even further away so that they disappear completely from the national discourse (since the Guild is a national association of editors) and leave them to deal with the matter in their personal capacity. “A Facebook post is also another form of media to draw attention to a serious issue. It may not be a purely ‘journalistic’ pursuit but it still is a platform of communication which is taken seriously by the powers that be, hence an FIR being filed….” “As such, it is no longer tenable for me to be part of this hallowed group of editors whose loyalties are to those that occupy a certain elite space. In fact, I feel completely out of place; almost an outlier in the Guild. Kindly therefore accept my resignation…,” Mukhim’s letter said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-552
18-11-2020||India||Riot arson cuffs on Karnataka councillor ||A Congress leader and former mayor was on Tuesday arrested in connection with rioting that left a party MLA’s house gutted and four dead in August. The arrest of Sampath Raj, an influential councillor, ended a two-week hunt that followed his escape from a private hospital where he had been treated for Covid-19. Raj has been named in the chargesheet on the August 11 violence that rocked parts of Bangalore over an offensive Facebook post by the nephew of Congress MLA Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy. Murthy had then claimed he had nothing to do with his nephew P. Naveen, who was arrested over the post. Naveen is believed to have Hindu Right-wing leanings, apparently the reason why Murthy distanced himself from his nephew. Four youths, alleged to be among the rioters, were killed when police opened fire at a mob that attacked a police station in an eastern neighbourhood of the city. The rioters had burned down Murthy’s house and attacked the DJ Halli and KG Halli police stations in a pitched street battle with riot cops. While the police had rounded up more than 150 suspects, Murthy had maintained that some of his own party colleagues had masterminded the attack to capitalise on a political rivalry. Raj gave the slip on October 30 after spending nearly a month in the private hospital where he was treated for Covid. The police later arrested his aide, Riyazuddin, and councillor A.R. Zakeer who had helped Raj escape from the hospital and hide at Nagarhole in Mysore district. The delay in arresting Raj had led a city-based lawyer to Karnataka High Court, which had on Friday sought an action-taken report and ordered the police to trace the absconding councillor at the earliest. The chargesheet had alleged that political rivalry between Murthy and Raj had led to the rioting. It had cited a conspiracy involving Raj and his supporters who instigated youths in the area to resort to violence and target Murthy’s house. The rivalry between Raj and Murthy started after the latter switched to the Congress from the Janata Dal Secular and went on to bag a party ticket to contest the 2018 Assembly polls from Pulakeshinagar in the city. The party had then favoured Murthy over Raj who had risen up the Congress ranks and boasted of a huge following. Murthy had told the police about the enmity and how Raj had been trying to damage his political career. Soon after Raj’s arrest, Murthy told reporters that he just wanted the guilty to be punished. “I have been pleading for justice for over three months (since the arson attack). Punish whoever is guilty of the crime,” the MLA said. Murthy said he would meet state Congress president D.K. Shivakumar and leader of the Opposition P.C. Siddaramaiah on Tuesday to once again brief them about why he was seeking action against Raj. Shivakumar urged his partymen to respect the law and not do anything to mar peace. “Everyone should respect the law. I am for those who are on the right side of the law,” he said when reporters sought his comment on the arrest. Siddaramaiah observed that it would not matter if the arrested person was from his party. “It’s not important who is from which party. Nobody is above the law. He has to face the law if he has done anything wrong,” the former chief minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-552
18-11-2020||India||Covid: Daily count under 30,000||India’s count of new coronavirus disease cases on Tuesday fell below 30,000 for the first time in four months, but experts have cautioned about localised surges elsewhere, citing Delhi’s third peak that has dangerously overwhelmed hospitals. The Union health ministry recorded 29,163 new Covid-19 cases and a new overnight fall in the number of active patients to around 450,000 after a steady decline since mid-September peaks of 96,000 daily new cases and a million active patients. However, instead of an average of over 10 lakh daily tests, the total number tested across India was 8.44 lakh on Monday after the Diwali weekend. Health experts and officials are apprehensive about the epidemic’s direction in the coming weeks. “We may yet see the impact of festivals and the (Bihar) elections — the impact may not be over. We need to watch new cases in the coming weeks,” health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said. Despite the nationwide decline, the seven-day average of  daily new cases has increased over the past week in Delhi, Haryana and Punjab. Delhi’s average increased from 4,300 daily cases in mid-September to nearly 7,000 this week. Amid Delhi’s rising counts of Covid-19 patients, central and local health authorities have announced plans to increase the national capital’s number of intensive care unit beds from 3,500 to 6,000 within the next three days and double the number of daily tests to nearly 120,000. The Centre is flying in over 250 doctors and paramedical personnel from central police forces to assist local doctors. Ten health teams will visit private hospitals across the capital to ensure “optimal use of resources and facilitate transparency in bed allocations”, a health official said. “The surges we’re seeing in Delhi and elsewhere appear to be direct outcomes of non-adherence to precautions such as masks and physical distancing,” said Oommen John, a senior physician with The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. John and others point out that crowds have thronged city markets ahead of festivals, many people continue to appear maskless in public, and there are no restrictions on the number of people inside shops. Surges are inevitable under such circumstances, John said. The Centre’s recommendations to Delhi to “enforce” quarantine of contacts and standard operating protocols such as house-to-house search for people with symptoms within containment zones, experts say, iterate steps authorities should have been taking anyway under guidelines issued in April. Community medicine experts had cautioned in August that when a local epidemic grows in counts beyond a certain threshold, lack of human resources and fatigue would limit the efficiency of efforts to trace and quarantine contacts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-552
18-11-2020||India||Amit Shah brands Kashmir alliance a ‘gang’||Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday used the phrase “Gupkar Gang” to describe the seven-party alliance fighting for the restoration of Article 370, insinuating that it was “anti-national” and attacked the Congress for joining hands with it. “The Gupkar Gang is going global! They want foreign forces to intervene in Jammu and Kashmir. The Gupkar Gang also insults India’s Tricolour. Do Sonia Ji and Rahul Ji support such moves of the Gupkar Gang? They should make their stand crystal clear to the people of India,” Shah said, issuing a series of tweets. Shah’s offensive comes two days after the Congress decided it would have a tie-up with the alliance for the maiden District Development Council polls beginning on November 26. The Congress has not formally joined the alliance, which calls itself the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration. The National Conference and the Peoples Democratic Party are its lead players. “Jammu and Kashmir has been, is and will always remain an integral part of India. Indian people will no longer tolerate an unholy ‘global gathbandhan’ against our national interest. Either the Gupkar Gang swims along with the national mood or else the people will sink it,” the home minister said in another tweet. This triggered a war of words, with former chief ministers Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti unsparing in their response. “I can understand the frustration behind this attack by the Home Minister. He had been briefed that the People’s Alliance was preparing to boycott elections. This would have allowed the BJP and newly formed king’s party a free run in J&K. We didn’t oblige them,” Omar tweeted. “We are not a ‘gang’ Amit Shah ji, we are a legitimate political alliance having fought and continuing to fight elections, much to your disappointment.” The grapevine in Jammu and Kashmir is that the Centre announced the DDC polls, thinking that the alliance would boycott these in protest against the scrapping of Article 370 and the BJP would get the advantage. But the alliance surprised many when it decided to contest the elections. The decision has also angered many in Jammu and Kashmir who were expecting them to follow in the footsteps of pro-azadi leaders. Omar further said: “Only in J&K can leaders be detained & called anti-national for participating in elections & supporting the democratic process. The truth is all those who oppose the ideology of the BJP are labelled ‘corrupt & anti-national’.” Mehbooba Mufti, once an ally of the BJP, hit back, tweeting: “Old habits die hard. Earlier BJP’s narrative was that the ‘tukde tukde’ gang threatened India’s sovereignty and they are now using ‘Gupkar Gang’ euphemism to project us as anti nationals. Irony died a million deaths since its BJP itself that violates the constitution day in and day out.” She also wrote: “Fighting elections in an alliance is also anti-national now. BJP can stitch as many alliances in its hunger for power but somehow we are undermining national interest by putting up a united front.” The PDP president said: “BJPs stale tactic of dividing India by projecting themselves as saviours & political opponents as internal & imagined enemies is far too predictable now. Love jihad, tukde tukde & now Gupkar Gang dominates the political discourse instead of (issues) like rising unemployment & inflation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-552
18-11-2020||India||Congress slams Kejriwal over ICU beds||The Congress on Tuesday said 600 intensive care unit (ICU) beds could have been readied for critical Covid-19 patients in Delhi with “Rs 32 crore” that the Arvind Kejriwal government spent on the publicity of his Diwali event. The party also criticised the plan to selectively close markets. “A market becomes the hotspot because of the customers who come there. If you close that market, the same customers will go to other markets. If four markets are closed and two are open in an area, crowds will swell and infections will rise,” general secretary Ajay Maken said. “Either close down all markets or keep all open. Even Metro train should not be closed on selective routes….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-552
18-11-2020||India||Covid: Delhi sets wedding curb, mulls mini lockdowns ||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday approached the Centre to permit mini lockdowns at markets and restrict the number of guests at weddings, a day after the state government claimed that the “third wave” of the coronavirus had peaked in the capital and that wearing a mask alone would be enough. Kejriwal said in a webcast: “Following the central government’s guidelines and considering the marriage season, the Delhi government had earlier allowed 200 guests at weddings.… Only 50 people will now be allowed at weddings in the capital considering the spike in the number of Covid cases in Delhi. I have sent the proposal to the lieutenant governor of Delhi for his approval.” The chief minister added: “Secondly, we witnessed massive crowds at some of the popular markets of Delhi before Diwali. At these markets, no social distancing was followed and due to this situation, the number of Covid-19 cases has surged significantly in the capital. “In the last order passed by the central government, it was noted that permission to impose local lockdowns in the state should be taken from the Centre. In view of the recent situation and considering the last order of the central government, we have requested the Centre to permit shutting down market places if necessary. I do believe that such harsh measures would not be required.” The AAP traders’ wing has called a meeting of 200 trade bodies on Wednesday to allay fears that a total lockdown could be imposed again. The AAP government has not offered any explanation so far for the steep drop in the number of tests conducted since Diwali on November 14.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-552
18-11-2020||India||Differences surface in Congress on trade pact||Serious differences have come to the fore in the Congress on the critical issue of India’s refusal to join the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), a free trade agreement in the Asia-Pacific region between the 10 Asean nations. The differences have caused embarrassment to the leadership, which is anyway struggling to harmonise varying perceptions within the party on political and organisational issues. Two former Union ministers who have held key portfolios in the economic policy sphere — finance and commerce — P. Chidambaram and Anand Sharma, have expressed unease over India’s position on the RCEP. However, another former minister, Jairam Ramesh, who ran the rural development department that might have legitimate concerns about the ill-effects of joining a half-baked RCEP, has hailed the position taken by the Narendra Modi government. Chidambaram tweeted on Monday: “RCEP born, it is the world’s largest trading body. Fifteen nations in our region are members of RCEP, India is not among them. There are pros and cons to India joining RCEP. But the debate has never taken place in Parliament or among the people or involving the Opposition parties. It is another bad example of centralised decision-making unacceptable in a democracy.” Chidambaram followed it up with a series of tweets on Tuesday: “My guarded tweet yesterday on India not being member of RCEP has been noticed by many. Every English language newspaper that I read has carried an editorial today that India would be better off by being a part of RCEP. I would reserve a final view until the Congress party has taken a considered position on the issue.” The Congress veteran further said: “I must, however, express my dismay on the speech by foreign minister S. Jaishankar yesterday at the ‘Deccan Dialogue’ when he railed against trade agreements and praised the virtues of protectionism. Mr Jaishankar is speaking in the language and in the words that I heard in the 1970s and 1980s!” Sharma, sidelined in the Congress for signing a letter written to Sonia Gandhi on the drift in the party, was more forthright. He tweeted: “India’s decision of not joining RCEP is unfortunate and ill-advised. It is in India’s strategic and economic interests to be a part of the process of Asia-Pacific integration. Withdrawal has negated years of persuasive negotiations for India to be accepted as part of RCEP. We could have negotiated safeguards to protect our interests. Keeping out of the RCEP is a backward leap.” Ramesh, however, had a different view. “On Oct 21, 2019, I had described India’s imminent membership of RCEP as a third jhatka for the economy after demonetisation and the botched GST. A year later, the position the Congress took then in demanding that the Prime Minister not drag India into an unfair RCEP, as was being planned, stands vindicated,” he tweeted. What is intriguing is that the positions taken by both Chidambaram and Sharma are viewed as open defiance and being linked to the “rebellious posturing” of a group for the past few months. While Chidambaram was not part of the “group of 23” which signed the controversial letter to Sonia, many office-bearers argued his tweets were part of calculated messaging that the party position was flawed. When pointed out that Chidambaram had clarified he would finalise his stand after the party articulated its position, a Congress spokesperson said on the condition of anonymity: “The party position is clear. If somebody is not clear about the party’s mind on this subject, he or she should have consulted the top leadership before taking a public stand….” On October 21, 2019, Ramesh had tweeted: “Demonetisation. Botched GST. Now a third jhatka (shock) with India likely to join new trade accord called RCEP. This means: 1. More imports from China impacting Indian MSME (micro small and medium enterprises); 2. Dairy imports from New Zealand & Australia hurting farmers/cooperatives; 3. Free data flow compromising data security.” The Congress later articulated its opposition to the RCEP at a media conference, arguing that the agriculture sector was not ready for the fallout and such experiments could be carried out only when the economy was on a sound footing. Congress chief Sonia on November 2 called a meeting of office-bearers where she said: “As if the government’s economic decisions have not damaged the economy enough, it is now ready to deal a body blow to it by signing the RCEP…. This will result in untold hardship for our farmers, shopkeepers, small and medium enterprises with serious repercussions for the people.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-552
18-11-2020||India||Nitish Kumar has his way with portfolio allocation||Bihar chief minister and JDU president Nitish Kumar on Tuesday refused to yield further to ally BJP and distributed ministerial portfolios in line with his wishes. He also struck a deal on “an equal number of departments” with the BJP, signalling that there may not be too much difference in the number of ministers from the two parties when the cabinet is expanded despite a vast gap between the BJP’s 74 MLAs and the JDU’s 43. In the portfolio allocation, the JDU has kept 20 departments with itself while leaving 21 for the BJP. Two departments have been given to minister Santosh Suman from the Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular (HAMS) and one to Vikassheel Insan Party (VIP) chief Mukesh Sahni. The BJP had been gunning for the home and education departments, but Nitish refused to budge and kept both with his party. Nitish retained the home department. The JDU’s Tarapur MLA, Mewalal Chaudhary, who has been vice-chancellor of various agriculture universities, has been made education minister. The BJP has already clipped the wings of Nitish by sidelining his trusted deputy Sushil Kumar Modi, assigning two deputy chief ministers to breathe down his neck and taking away the post of the Assembly Speaker. However, the chief minister put his foot down when it came to the allocation of portfolios to his cabinet colleagues — five from the JDU, seven from the BJP and two each from HAMS and VIP. Nitish retained all the major departments, including home, cabinet secretariat, vigilance, general administration and election. He just shed the law department in favour of the BJP. “This ensures that police, law and order, bureaucracy, intelligence agencies, anti-corruption, cabinet and aviation-related institutions remain under him. He will have wide-ranging powers now, and will be able to steer the state as per his decisions. These departments are connected to day-to-day governance as well,” a senior JDU leader said. Several other departments like agriculture, urban development, health and road construction have been left with the BJP like earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-552
18-11-2020||India||Rivals break Bihar government stupor on murder||Rahul Gandhi, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and other Opposition leaders on Tuesday castigated the newly formed Bihar government for inaction over the murder of a young woman from the minority community for resisting molestation, following which police arrested one of the accused over a fortnight after the election-time crime. Rahul, Tejashwi and the others accused the Nitish Kumar-led BJP-JDU government of brushing the October 30 crime under the carpet for electoral gains. The woman from Vaishali district died on Sunday after battling for life for 16 days. Rahul’s tweet on Tuesday highlighting the crime and the perceived apathy of the government set off a chain of events that led to the arrest of accused Chandan Kumar Rai within hours. His cousin Satish Kumar Rai and father Vijay Rai are absconding. All  the three belong to the dominant Yadav caste. The 20-year-old victim, a resident of a village under Desari police station in Vaishali, had gone to discard garbage on the evening of October 30 when the three youths allegedly caught and molested her. She resisted and threatened to complain to her mother and get the accused thrashed, according to the FIR. Angered by this, Satish took out a bottle of kerosene from his pocket, poured it on her and lit a match. They escaped when the woman started screaming and people rushed in to save her. She was taken to a private hospital in Hajipur and admitted to the emergency ward. The victim gave her statement to the police the same day. She also said that the accused had harassed her earlier too. She was later shifted to Patna Medical College and Hospital when her condition deteriorated. The police registered an FIR on November 2, three days after the incident, but no arrests were made. Bihar was in the middle of elections at that time and two of the three phases — on November 3 and 7 — were due. The woman later succumbed to the burns. Her family members demonstrated with her body in Patna for some time before returning home. They had initially refused to bury her till the culprits were brought to book. The crime had gone largely unaddressed till Congress MP Rahul tweeted about it on Tuesday. “Whose crime is more dangerous? Those who indulged in the inhuman act or those who hid it for electoral benefits so that they could lay the foundation of their false ‘good governance’ over this mis-governance,” Rahul asked. Soon, RJD leader Tejashwi re-tweeted Rahul’s comments, adding: “Where are those who came from Delhi to look for ‘jungle raj’ in LED light in Bihar? The nation wants to know who is the ‘maharaja’ of the jungle raj,” Tejashwi said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said during the campaign that the days of the lantern, the RJD’s poll symbol, were over as LED lights had come. AIMIM parliamentarian Asaduddin Owaisi, whose party won an unprecedented five seats in Bihar, also tried to corner the state government. “Unbelievable cruelty. Prayers for victim & her family. These men ‘punished’ her for resisting molestation. It’s been 15 DAYS & there’s still no action. Men like Satish are emboldened by the fact that there’s never any action. @NitishKumar where’s your “tough on crime” policy now?” Owaisi tweeted. Under fire, the police swung into action and arrested two of the three accused. “We arrested the main accused, Chandan Kumar Rai, on Tuesday. The other two also will be arrested soon. All three are related to each other. We have also suspended the Chandpura police outpost in-charge, V.D. Dubey,” Vaishali superintendent of police Maneesh told The Telegraph. The Vaishali SP said the police were camping in the victim’s village in view of the law-and-order situation, and that an armed guard had been provided to her family. The victim’s mother and younger sister alleged that musclemen from the village had threatened them with consequences for approaching the police. “We are continuously being threatened by musclemen from the village. We have no faith in the police as they are also pressurising us to strike a compromise with the accused. There are around 150 police personnel camping in our village and they are not allowing us to go outside,” the mother said. The family conducted the burial rites on Tuesday after assurances from the district administration that the accused would be brought to justice. The CPI-ML has announced that it would hold demonstrations across Bihar on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-552
18-11-2020||India||Push for homestay on Odisha nature trails||The Odisha government has decided to promote homestay facilities at nature trails and eco-tourist spots in the state. Homestay facilities will be developed in remote areas untouched by the hotel network. The project will be supported by the state government for a period of 10 years. A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting chaired by chief secretary Asit Tripathy. “Nature trails and experiential tourism is the current fad, and Odisha has much to offer in this sector. Homestay facilities will be linked with global online travel aggregators such as Airbnb, Oyo, MakeMyTrip, etc, and onboarded onto their respective sites,” said Tripathy. Development commissioner Suresh Chandra Mohapatra said, “Presently homestay facilities in Magalajodi in Khordha district and at Dangmala in Kendrapara district have shown encouraging results. Such facilities at other places will attract more tourists and will expand economic activities in the rural sector. It can be tapped as a sustainable source of livelihood and an income generation activity.” Homestay facilities will be developed in places like Diam-ond Triangle Buddhist circuit (Ratnagiri–Udayagiri–Lalitgiri); Onkadelli in Koraput district; Khola, Gupti, Dangmala and Bhitarkanika National Park in Kendrapara district; Daringibadi and Belghar in Kandhamal; Simlipal, Pithabata and Jashipur in Mayurbhanj; Tikarpada and Satakosia in Angul; Magalajodi and Chilika in Khordha district and Dhodrokusum and Zero point in Bargarh district. Around 80 homestay providers at these places will be incentivised each year with financial support.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-553
18-11-2020||West Bengal||Declare Netaji’s birth anniversary national holiday, Mamata to PM||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday and sought his intervention in making January 23, the birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, a national holiday. She also asked the PM to personally intervene and see that his government takes appropriate measures to provide a conclusive picture regarding the freedom fighter’s disappearance on August 18, 1945. "Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose has a special place in our hearts. I would like to request your kind personal intervention to see that the Central Government declared 23rd January, Netaji's birthday, a National Holiday and also takes appropriate steps to give conclusive steps to give conclusive position to the issue relating to the disappearance of Netaji...(sic)", Banerjee wrote. The CM asserted in the two-page long that her state had been demanding the declaration of January 23 a national holiday for years now. She also urged Modi to give citizens the  "much-awaited opportunity to know what happened to their great leader - their inspiration and their passion". The 125th birth anniversary of Netaji, who was born in 1897, will be observed in 2021. While several reports claim that the freedom fighter died in a plane crash after a plane from Taihoku Airport in Taiwan, there is no confirmation of his passing. Experts have come up with various theories relating to his disappearance over the years. In the past, the Centre had commissioned three inquiries -- the Shah Nawaz Committee of Inquiry of 1956, the Khosla Commission of 1974, and the Justice Mukherjee Commission of Inquiry (JMCI) of 2005 -- to throw light on the matter. While the first two boards had concluded that Netaji died in a plane crash in Taipei, the third one claimed that he was alive after the accident. The Narendra Modi government in 2016 had declassified 100 files related to the leader, and in 2015, Banerjee had put 64 reports on him on public domain. However, none of them could reach any conclusions regarding Bose’s death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-306
18-11-2020||West Bengal||Amit Shah, JP Nadda to pay Bengal monthly visits till assembly elections||Union Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP national president J P Nadda will visit the state every month till the end of Bengal Assembly elections next year, BJP chief Dilip Ghosh said  on Wednesday. Elections to the 294-member state Assembly are scheduled in April-May next year. The two senior BJP leaders will visit the state separately every month to take stock of the party organisation ahead of the elections. "Amit Shah and J P Nadda will visit the state separately every month till the assembly elections are over.The dates are yet to be finalised. Their regular visits will energise the party workers," Ghosh told reporters. Shah is likely to visit the state for two consecutive days a month and Nadda for three days, party sources said. Lashing out at the Congress-CPI(M) alliance, Ghosh said both the parties have been rejected by the people of the state long back. "The people of Bengal have given chances to the Congress, the CPI(M) and the TMC. All the three parties have failed to live up to the expectations of the masses, which will now be fulfilled by the BJP," he said. With an eye on the elections, the BJP on Tuesday divided the state into five organisational zones and put central leaders in charge of them, party sources said. Senior BJP leaders Sunil Deodhar, Vinod Tawde, Dushyant Gautam, Harish Dwivedi and Vinod Sonkar have been handpicked by the party top brass to head the North Bengal, Rarh Banga (south-western districts), Nabadwip, Midnapore and Calcutta organisational zones, they said. Deodhar, Tawde, Gautam and Sonkar are likely to conduct party meetings in their respective zones during the day. BJP national general secretary Dushyant Gautam, who has been given charge of the Calcutta zone, exuded confidence after arriving in the city that the saffron party will come to power in the state in the assembly elections. After having a limited presence in the politically polarised state for decades, the BJP has emerged as the main rival of the ruling Trinamul Congress by winning 18 of the 42 Lok Sabha seats in Bengal in the 2019 general elections. With the BJP's strength increasing in the state in the last few years, party leaders have exuded confidence that it will be able to end Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's 10-year rule in the 2021 assembly elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-306
18-11-2020||West Bengal||SpiceJet's trial flight to Sikkim a success||A Q-400 Bombardier successfully landed at the Pakyong airport — the sole airport in the Himalayan state of Sikkim located near capital Gangtok — on Tuesday during a trial run conducted by SpiceJet after a gap of around one-and-a-half years. Since June 1, 2019, the private airline company suspended its flights to Sikkim. On Tuesday, the flight circled over the airport for approximately an hour, made five required navigation performances and eight approaches, before finally landing at 12.18pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-306
18-11-2020||West Bengal||Statue sting awaits Amit Shah ||Trinamul in Bankura has decided to flood the letterbox of Union home minister Amit Shah with 50,000 postcards written by tribal residents of Jungle Mahal districts seeking an apology from the BJP leader for paying tribute to an adivasi  hunter’s statue by assuming it to be of Birsa Munda during his visit to the district on November 5. “We want to utilise the discontent among tribal people over the statue-issue. It will help us show how the BJP is ignorant about tribal culture and their icon,” said a senior Trinamul leader. Trinamul leaders said in the letters that the tribal people would send Shah, they would ask the home minister to stop BJP leaders from equating the unknown tribal hunter with Birsa Munda. “Even after the faux pas by Amit Shah, BJP leaders are continuously saying that the statue is that of Munda. This has hurt the sentiment of the tribal community,” said Shyamal Santra, minister and Trinamul’s Bankura president. BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh  said: “I want to ask those tribal brothers why they did not protest when the the old statue of Birsa Munda which was situated at the same spot was removed by the district administration? Why did they not demand the installation of a Birsa Munda statue at the same spot? Nobody has seen Birsa Munda.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-306
18-11-2020||West Bengal||Central leaders for Bengal BJP zones||The BJP has appointed five central leaders to look after the affairs of the five organisational zones of the party in Bengal amid murmurs that Union home minister Amit Shah deployed them to steer the saffron camp in the run up to the Assembly polls next year. Sources said four national secretaries — Sunil Deodhar, Vinod Tawde, Vinod Sonkar and Harish Dwivedi — will look after the Howrah-Hooghly-Midnapore, Nabadwip, Burdwan and north Bengal zones, respectively. BJP national general secretary Dushyant Gautam will oversee the Calcutta zone. “The party’s Mission Bengal is a project of Amit-ji and all the five appointees are his men. The five-men army hasn’t been given any specific designations, but the state BJP leadership has been told that they will look after the affairs of the five zones,” said a BJP source. Flying in five central leaders to look after the zones is unprecedented for the party, but multiple sources said direct control of Delhi was the need of the hour. “The polls are just five to six months away. Our leaders don’t want to risk our chances of winning because a few leaders in the state are still busy fighting each other,” a source said. Over the next three days, these five leaders will visit their respective zones and meet the leaders and workers there to assess the BJP’s organisational strength, said the source. “They will prepare reports on respective areas and submit them to Amit-ji and party president JP Nadda-ji after holding meetings,” another state leader said. The leader added that presidents of the district committees, zone observers, MPs and MLAs from the area and other leaders had been asked to attend these meetings. Delhi’s decision to despatch the five men to look after the affairs of the party in Bengal is part of a plan to take charge of poll-bound Bengal. As part of that plan, BJP national general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santosh presided over a meeting in Calcutta on Tuesday in the presence of other central leaders like the party’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya and his deputies, Arvind Menon and Amit Malviya. The discussions revolved around the programmes that the party will undertake till December and how they would be implemented, said the source. “From now on, even the nitty-gritty of the state unit will be under direct scrutiny of the central leaders as the focus has shifted to Bengal after the Bihar polls,” a source said. As part of the central command plan, it has also been decided that Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta will visit the districts and engage with people from the world of art and culture to expand the BJP’s support base. Several other central leaders will also be visiting the state regularly. Rinku Naskar, former CPM councillor of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s ward  102, joined the BJP on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-306
18-11-2020||West Bengal||Headwinds in Trinamul drive on Suvendu Adhikari||A senior Trinamul Congress MP called on Bengal transport minister Suvendu Adhikari on Monday amid murmurs that the meeting was held to break the ice with the 49-year-old who has been making his discontent with the party leadership clear for the past few months. Suvendu’s comments and his prolonged absence from cabinet meetings and party programmes since May have fuelled speculation that he is all set to chart a different political path for himself. The Trinamul leadership has been trying to reach out to him, albeit silently, for the past three weeks. “The senior MP spoke to Suvendu and reported back to the top brass. While all might not be lost yet, there was no breakthrough, nor any cause for more optimism,” said a source in the ruling party. The two are slated to hold another round of talks on Saturday or Sunday. The attempts to retain Suvendu — amid intense speculation over his joining the BJP or floating a new platform aligned to the NDA — are increasingly becoming a crucial consideration for Trinamul, as discordant voices from the party are now emerging in the public space. A significant majority of the voices are primarily those upset with poll strategist Prashant Kishor and his role in the party. “While Suvendu’s current position has little to do with PK, the minister’s disapproval of the strategist and his methods is no secret,” said a source. Suvendu did not stay to meet Kishor, who paid a visit to the Adhikari residence in Contai on November 13. The strategist spoke to Sisir Adhikari, the 79-year-old patriarch of the political family. “As the meeting with PK wasn’t held, the meeting with the senior MP was arranged to gauge Suvendu’s mood ahead of his proposed ‘mega’ rally at Ramnagar on Thursday,” said a source. A Trinamul minister said:  “Things seem to be a bit difficult for us at least for the time being for two reasons... The uncertainty over Suvendu’s next course of action is the primary concern while the discontent over PK’s way of functioning being the other woe.” According to him, the situation now, with leader after leader making public statements against PK — Cooch Behar South MLA Mihir Goswami, Sitai MLA Jagadish Barma Basunia and Hariharpara MLA Niamot Sheikh only on Monday and Tuesday — demands firefighting from the very top. “Didi has to handle this now, only her troubleshooting can work at this stage,” he said. According to him, Mamata, who steers clear of active political activity during the Kali Puja-Bhai Phonta phase, will step into the ring now. “Expect a make-or-break phase over the next 15 days or so, as she herself handles it. Most of us are waiting with bated breath,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-306
18-11-2020||West Bengal||Bengal govt's one-stop land guide for investors ||The Mamata Banerjee government has made the West Bengal Industrial Development Corporation (WBIDC) responsible for providing information about plots available on industrial parks and estates across the state in a bid to make land scouting easier for potential investors. According to the plan, any potential investor — irrespective of the sector or the size — will have to visit the WBIDC office on Camac Street in Calcutta and he/she will be offered information on all available industrial plots. As of now, three agencies — WBIDC, WBIIDC (West Bengal Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation) and WBSIDC (West Bengal Small Industries Development Corporation) — have land in their possession for allotment to investors. “If an investor needs a plot in Nadia, he does not know which of the agencies has plots there. It is not possible for an investor to knock on the doors of all the three agencies to zero in on the right plot for his or her project. The government is trying to make land scouting easier for investors,” said a senior government official. Once an investor selects a plot after visiting the WBIDC office, it would have to take steps to ensure that the required land is allotted, said an official. If the selected land is possessed by any other agency, the WBIDC would send the requisition on behalf of the investor to the agency (WBIIDC or WBSIDC) concerned and it would make the allotment. The investor does not need to run from one agency to another to get the land, explained the official. Sources said that after compiling information on industrial plots possessed by the three agencies, it was found that there was enough land available in the state. According to the available figures, the state has a total of 1,411 acres on industrial parks or developed industrial estates, in addition to 27 lakh sqft space, for small and medium investors. Similarly, 4,630 acres are available for large industries and 4.5 lakh sqft space and 141 acres on 14 IT parks across the state. An official said there was a propaganda that the state did not have land for industries, which the figures contradict. “Perhaps, investors did not get a clear picture about the land available for them,” said an official. The sources said the government was eager to get some investment proposals in next two three months as they could be taken up as a major campaign item by the ruling party ahead of the Assembly polls. While the decision to make land scouting easier for industry is a welcome step, said a city-based industrialist, investment would not necessarily depend on availability of land. “Suddenly, the political environment in Bengal is getting violent and there is a buzz that it will become more volatile as the elections approach. Investors are generally disinclined to put in their money under such circumstances,” said a source. Besides, he said, several states offer incentives to attract investments and it affects Bengal’s development. “Over the past few years, the industries in the state are not getting any incentives from the WBIDC. Earlier, the agency used to have an equity participation in projects, which has also been stopped in recent years. As an industrial promotional agency, it has to reorient its focus to achieve the desired goals,” said another source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-307
18-11-2020||West Bengal||Bengal Covid recoveries cross 4 lakh||Bengal achieved the milestones of going past 4 lakh in Covid-19 recoveries and the 92 per cent mark in recovery rate as 4,388 patients were reported cured during a 24-hour period till 9am on Tuesday. The total recoveries surpassed 4.03 lakh and the rate is 92.04 per cent. The state, which also reported 3,654 new infections and 52 deaths on Tuesday, recorded a drop in total active cases for the 22nd consecutive day since the end of Durga Puja. Having fallen by 10,076 since Vijaya Dashami on October 26, the total of active cases now is 27,111, almost at the level of October 3. “We crossed the 4 lakh mark in recoveries today (Tuesday), 12 days after the 3.5 lakh mark (on November 5). The first 50,000 recoveries were achieved on August 1, over a span of 137 days since the first case (detected on March 17),” said a Bengal minister. In the 22 days since Dashami, Bengal reported 93,254 recoveries and 84,395 new infections. The recovery rate, currently in an unbroken spell of rise for 26 consecutive days, inched closer to the national rate of 93.46 per cent. “When this spell of rise in the recovery rate began on October 22, the rate was 87.44. Now, we are over 92. We will overtake the national rate in a matter of weeks,” said the minister. The state has now total 4.38 lakh Covid-19 cases, including the 4.03 lakh recoveries and 7,766 deaths. With 44,238 tests on Tuesday, the state’s total test count went past the 53 lakh mark, at 58,902 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.27 per cent. The 52 deaths of the day included 13 in Calcutta. Of the total deaths, 6,490 (83.6 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities. The state’s mortality is 1.77, still less than the national rate of 1.46 per cent. As of Tuesday, 29.15 per cent of 13,508 beds earmarked for Covid-19 patients at 101 dedicated hospitals were occupied. Over 4.56 lakh people have availed themselves of telemedicine consultations on the novel coronavirus so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-307
18-11-2020||West Bengal||CBI arrests BSF officer for alleged cattle-smuggling||The CBI on Tuesday arrested Satish Kumar, a serving commandant of the BSF in Chhatisgarh, for his alleged involvement in the cattle-smuggling trade in Murshidabad during his posting at the bordering districts in Bengal. “He was questioned for several hours and then arrested,” saif a source. According to him, Satish’s involvement in illegal cattle trade date to his tenure as the commandant of 36th battalion of the BSF overseeing operations in Malda and Murshidabad between between December 2015 and April 2017. “During his tenure, Satish had seized around 20,000 cows during raids to prevent cattle smuggling along the border. But these cows were reportedly shown as calves in the record books. This meant when they were put up for auction, the animals fetched lesser amounts compared to cows,” said a source. The CBI has primarily learnt that Mursihabad-based businessman Enamul Haque and his gang would allegedly buy these cows at a lower price only to smuggle them back to Bangladesh. His team would reportedly pay Rs 2,000 for each of the cows that was auctioned at a lower price. CBI officers have learnt if a full grown cow fetched around Rs 60,000 a calf would attract half the amount. By showing cows as calves, the investigating agency said the government had lost several hundreds of crores in revenue. While cows were seized, the CBI has learnt neither the operatives nor vans carrying them were held, raising questions about the nature of raids that were carried out for those 16 months. Enamul was arrested on November 6 at Delhi. The CBI alleged Satish’s son had worked with Emanul’s company for sometime drawing Rs 40,000 every month. “We will seek his custody when he is produced before the court,” a CBI officer said. Tuesday’s arrest follows a series of summons to the officer over the last month-and-a-half asking him to appear before the central investigating agency for questioning in connection with its probe into the alleged cattle-smuggling trade in the bordering district of Bengal. The CBI had conducted search and raid operations at his office earlier in September besides his Salt Lake residence which was later sealed. A separate team of officers had also visited his house in Gaziabad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-307
18-11-2020||West Bengal||Snake fear stalks nurses’ quarters in Kalyani||Nurses posted at the ESI hospital in Kalyani are being compelled to live with venomous snakes in their dilapidated residential quarters, prompting some to live in rented houses close to the hospital, shouldering the additional financial burden for their emergency service. However, many others such as the recent recruits, who are not in a position to afford rented homes, have been staying in the quarters despite the scare of the snakes. Concerned with the situation, hospital superintendent Banani Das Dutta last week wrote a letter to the ESI director, appealing for immediate renovations to the dilapidated quarters. Sources in the state labour department said the renovation work could be delayed because of the Covid-19 situation. “We have been living in total horror. These dilapidated quarters are no longer suitable for living…. Besides many other problems, these are infested with snakes. This is a matter of life and death,” said a nurse. “Snakes are often being found on our beds, on the dining tables, in the corners of our rooms, inside the windows. We are being compelled to stay there, risking our lives. The nights are especially scary as the darkness makes it more difficult to spot the snakes,” said another, adding that the nurses have been trying to get assigned night shifts to avoid staying at the quarters overnight. The hospital has a total of 36 dilapidated quarters for nurses and 36 others for group D employees. Cyclone Amphan caused further damage to the quarters. “The problems worsened since May, with walls collapsing, windows damaged, pipes broken and even a weak rood,” said a nurse. The nurses alleged that appeals for renovation work have been ignored by the state government. Superintendent Das Dutta said: “I am aware of the poor condition of the nurses’ quarters. Nevertheless, according to the standing order we are not in a position to take up any work except in emergency situations.” “At the same time, no minor repair work of these quarters would serve the purpose. It needs major renovation. So I have appealed to the ESI director to look into the problem,” she said. “I have also advised the nurses to submit a representation to the higher authorities from their end, so that the magnitude of the issue could be better understood,” she added. The hospital’s acting matron Shibani Choudhury said all the staff quarters of nurses and group D employees have been severely damaged and not suitable for living. “The girls have been telling me for long. I feel helpless. They joined the service from remote areas and have no option but to avail the quarters. The house rent allowance of 12 per cent is deducted from their salary. But, in return they are allotted are not at all suitable to live, which compelled many to leave and to stay on rent, which they can barely afford,” she said. The 266-bed ESI Hospital was set up in Kalyani in 1968. It is run by the state labour department as part of the Employees’ State Insurance Scheme, to facilitate medical care to industrial workers in Bengal. The scheme was introduced under the ESI Act, 1948, as a measure of social security with the primary objective of providing certain benefits to employees in case of sickness, maternity, and employment-related injuries. The hospital is popular and experiences a regular rush of patients, since it offers free services that include pathology, ECG, urology, radiology, ICCU and medicine to the patients, who are often admitted beyond hospital capacity. The hospital has currently has around 30 doctors and 56 nurses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-307
18-11-2020||West Bengal||Paddy helps remove border farming barrier in Malda||Around 250 farmers at different villages of Kaliachak 3 block in Malda district who have become migrant workers have smiles back on their faces. This is because they could resume cultivation on their land located beyond the fences of the India-Bangladesh border after a couple of years and could also provide employment to some other migrant workers who are landless and had been working in different other states. In the Kaliachak 3 block, there are around 250 traditional farming families who live at villages like Gopalnagar Shoshani, Chori-Anantapur, Mohabbatpur and Sukhdebpur. “All of us together own around 80 acres of land that is beyond the fences on the international border. For years, we had been cultivating maize and jute on our land. Things, however, changed for us a couple of years ago when officers of the Border Security Force (BSF) told us that we could not cultivate these items. They mentioned that anti-social elements might sneak through using the vegetation of our land,” said Tazmul Haque, a farmer from Gopalnagar. This restriction changed the life of the farmers, who then went on exploring other options as to how to make earnings to run their families. While their land remained unused beyond the fences, most of them moved out of their homes and headed for other states, working as migrant workers. However, after the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown, they returned homes like millions of others. They were sitting jobless at homes when Haradhan Rajak, a local panchayat member of the CPM, took the initiative to resume the farming. “I narrated their plight to officials of the state agricultural department and put all efforts to find out how they can start farming on their land again. As crops of all sorts are not allowed to grow on their land because of security reasons, I solicited expertise from the officials as to which crop they could cultivate so that they did not face any objection,” said Rajak. His initiative worked and officials of the department suggested that they could go ahead and cultivate paddy. Abhishek Labar, an assistant director of the agriculture department, said as they learnt about the problem, they decided to utilise the land. “We helped the farmers with free seedlings, fertiliser and also mechanical aid to sow the seedlings. A high yielding variety of seedlings were sown and the farmers could harvest the crop within 95 to 115 days. This has opened a new avenue for them,” said Labar. According to him, around 80 quintals of paddy have been harvested from each bigha of the land. The first harvest has left farmers like Niranjan Mondal relieved. “It has never come to our mind that paddy can be sown on our land. We were in despair as despite having agricultural land, we had to work as migrant workers. After the lockdown, we were in utter distress but the initiative taken by the panchayat member and the assistance provided by the agriculture department has really helped us to get out of the situation,” said Mondal. Many others like him want to focus on farming again, instead of foraying for jobs in other states. The initiative, Rajak, the panchayat member said, has also helped many others. “Those owning land have started engaging otherswho do not have land and used to work in other states like them. Altogether, the initiative has helped at least 500 families of these villages,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-307
18-11-2020||West Bengal||Spike in Covid cases in Bengal four districts||A steady surge has been witnessed in the number of Covid cases in at least four districts of north and south Bengal in the past few days. While in north Bengal, more than 100 new cases have been reported every day in the districts of Darjeeling and Jalpaiguri, a similar trend has been seen in East and West Midnapore districts in southern parts of the state. Ahead of the Durga Puja, health officials had time and again mentioned that people should strictly adhere to health safety protocols to curb the spread of the pandemic. “However, after the festivities, we have seen how the number of cases climbed in all districts. The impact can be still felt in Jalpaiguri and Darjeeling districts where over 100 new cases were reported every day in the past seven days,” said Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty deputed by the state government to handle the Covid-19 situation. Sources in the state health department said from November 8 to 16, 1,248 people were infected in Darjeeling district while the figure is 1,157 in Jalpaiguri. So far, 13,697 cases have been reported in Darjeeling district, while 10,932 people have been tested positive in Jalpaiguri. “This indicates that the viral load is high in these districts, particularly in towns. Also, we are apprehensive that the number of super spreaders is on the rise,” added Roy. In East Midnapore, there had been 30 deaths and 2,066 new cases in these 15 days, while in the neighbouring district of West Midnapore, 32 people have died and 2,631 new cases have been reported during this period. “Even on November 16, 116 people tested positive in East Midnapore while 158 samples have been found infected with the virus in West Midnapore,” said Nimai Chandra Mondal, the chief medical officer of health of East Midnapore. Additional reporting by Anshuman Phadikar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-307
18-11-2020||West Bengal||Diwali gift for manual labourer in Bengal: a rebuilt home||For the past six months, 42-year-old Babla Pramanik has been living under a tarpaulin shed with his wife Pinki and three-year-old daughter. The manual labourer, who is a known hand in the Haripur area here for his pandal-building expertise during the pujas, was rendered homeless in late May this year when Cyclone Amphan tore his house to shreds. This Diwali, amid a festival of lights stifled by pandemic prudence, youths and Good Samaritans from the area channelled their regular puja efforts into building a new home for Pramanik’s family. Members of the Santipur Purnima Milani Sangha were able to garner Rs 25,000 by redirecting fireworks expenditures, and instead procured bamboo and corrugated metal to rebuild Pramanik’s home to give him “ new beginning”. “I am speechless. I have had no work since March and have been wracked with worry. This is a priceless gesture,” said Pramanik, who was handed over the new home by Sangha members on Tuesday afternoon. Police officer Raja Sarkar was also present at the event, and handed over winter garments and dry food to the family, too. “This is truly a fresh beginning. I could not have imagined such a gesture, let alone do it myself,” said Pramanik. “The hopeless situation compelled my wife into working as a domestic help recently, but the income was too meagre to even buy enough food. The last six months have almost evaporated for me now. I am truly grateful,” he added. Members of the Santipur Purnima Milani Sangha said they were moved to action on behalf of the family upon hearing of their plight recently. “We conduct winter clothes drives a few weeks before Diwali every year. That is when we came to know about this family, and were shocked to see an infant sleeping under an open sky of rain. We quickly came to a collective decision that we must do something for them,” said club secretary Biswajit Roy. “We eventually decided to save the money that we usually incur for buying crackers and decorative lights during Diwali. We found that the approximate cost to rebuild the house using bamboo and corrugated sheet could be covered through the saved fund. We eventually took up the job earlier this month,” added Roy. Babla’s wife Pinki added: “It might be a renovated home, but to me, it is actually a new one. It provided me with a new lease of life today. I am grateful to all who made this possible and who gave me immense happiness.” Appreciating the endeavour, local gram panchayat pradhan Sova Mondal Sarkar said: “It is a fantastic job undertaken by the club members. If more people and clubs come up to extend support, many families could be rescued from such distress.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-307
18-11-2020||North East||Guwahati air better on Diwali||The city not only registered lower air and noise pollution levels during Diwali this year but also less burn cases, the improvement attributed to the ban imposed on bursting of firecrackers and awareness drives carried by various organisations to curb a rise in air pollution in view of the Covid-19 situation. According to the Pollution Control Board, Assam, the air quality index (AQI) was 117, 120,173 and 175 on November 13, 14, 15 and 16 respectively, conveying moderate air pollution levels. Air quality is considered poor if the AQI is 200 and above and very poor if it is 300 and above. The AQI was good last year because of rain on Diwali, which helped in reducing air pollution. “Compared to the last few years, the AQI was moderate this year because of the cracker ban and cooperation from the conscious public. It is a very positive development. Last year, it was good because rain helped clear the air of pollutants such as soot, sulphates, and other organic particles. This time the weather was dry, so the readings were accurate. We feel it can only improve if awareness grows,” said PCBA official M.M. Bora. Even noise pollution was less this year compared to last year but more than the permissible level for silent, commercial and residential zones in the city. The PCBA had monitored the noise level at Panbazar, Ganeshguri and Ulubari here. Sources said bursting of crackers this time mainly took place in the lanes and bylanes instead of the main road because of the ban. Nemcare Hospital, which has a specialised burn unit in the city, said they received much less burn cases this year compared to 2019. “We received only six cases (on November 15 and 16) compared to the 51 we received during Diwali and post-Diwali last year. All cases this year were treated in the OPD. We feel the ban on crackers and awareness drive helped bring down the number of cases,” Dr B.P. Sarma of Nemcare told The Telegraph. Following the November 9 directive from the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in view of the pandemic, the PCBA had banned the sale and bursting of firecrackers in Guwahati from midnight of November 9 to the midnight of November 30 because air quality in the city was in the poor category. Outside Guwahati, only green crackers were allowed for two hours from 8pm during Diwali. The relaxation will be in force from 6am to 8am on Chhath Puja and 11.55pm to 12.30am on Christmas and New Year’s Eve. The NGT order banning crackers was based on the view that pollution aggravates Covid-19. It had directed state pollution control boards and committees to take special steps to check air pollution. There were many like Kailash Sarma, the general secretary of Save Guwahati Build Guwahati, who believes things can only improve if concerted efforts are made to check air and noise pollution. “We had less air and noise pollution because of the ban and awareness drive. We feel there should be at least three months of awareness campaign in the run-up to the festive season for a few years at least along with the ban on crackers, except green crackers. “There should also be some kind of light punishment, I repeat light punishment, for violators like detention in police station for a few hours so that they do not repeat their mistakes,” Sarma said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-35
18-11-2020||Opinion||Will India lose out for not joining world’s largest trading bloc?||It was Asia’s big party but India stayed away. It was only a virtual bash but all the big names were there – Japan, China, South Korea and Australia and the like. And what was the occasion? Well, last Sunday, 15 nations with a combined population of 2.2 billion, signed into being the world’s largest trading bloc, the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP). The emergence of this new free-trade pact flags the key question of whether India was right to walk away from the trade bloc, literally at the 11th hour. The bloc binds the regional powerhouse China with advanced economies like Japan, South Korea, Australia, New Zealand and Singapore plus a handful of countries with a distinctly poorer, Third World flavour like Cambodia, Laos and the Philippines. China, the aspiring superpower, is the moving force behind RCEP and the bloc’s other countries are already watching nervously, worried about being bullied by it. India shocked everyone last year when it suddenly declared it wouldn’t join RCEP as it was unhappy with the terms offered. Among India’s demands were more protection from cheap Chinese goods that might flood our country, a better deal for service-sector industries (where we have greater muscle) and freer movement for professionals. Certainly, everyone wanted us to join. The Chinese were hoping to get easier access for its products to India’s 1.4-billion strong market. The other countries, especially Japan, Australia and New Zealand wanted us as a counterweight to the Chinese mega-giant that threatens to totally dominate RCEP. In fact, members are so keen to bring India into the fold that a special fast-track procedure has been outlined in the agreement should we wish to sign up. Despite all that, it doesn’t look likely that we will join RCEP anytime in the near future. Apart from the scores of Indian industries that were terrified about facing a gigantic wave of competition, there was political opposition from the RSS which still espouses an ultra-nationalistic philosophy that wants to block as many imports as possible. Also, the military standoff in Ladakh makes it even more unlikely that India would sign a trade deal in which China was the largest and most muscular player. Keeping the Chinese out is one of the unspoken aims of India’s atmanirbhar programme. The government defends its position by arguing that it prefers bilateral free trade agreements with individual countries and trade groupings – but it says even these haven’t brought huge benefits. We have trade agreements with Asean and with individual countries like Malaysia and Indonesia and we have a mammoth $48-billion trade deficit with China. Foreign Minister S. Jaishankar said Monday that the effect of some trade agreements had “been to de-industrialise some sectors.” India had allowed other countries “unfair” trade and manufacturing advantages “in the name of openness” and a globalised economy, Jaishankar said. Former Congress finance minister P. Chidambaram said Jaishankar was turning back the clock. He’s “speaking in the language and in the words that I heard in the 1970s and 1980s,” Chidamabaram said. India could end up being the long-term loser if it turns its face against ever joining the trade grouping. Many global corporations are now moving out of China and looking for new production bases. It would make sense for many to put up factories in an RCEP country and be part of the grouping’s global supply chain so their products could move smoothly tariff-free to other countries. Look at Vietnam, for instance, which is part of RCEP and also has a free trade agreement with the European Union (it also has one with India). Also, modern trans-national corporations have streamlined production and reduced costs by creating multi-country value chains (China, for instance, produces 80 per cent of the world’s ballpoint pens but imports the pen tips from Japan, Germany and Switzerland). Says Santosh Pai, Link Legal Law Services: “India needs to be part of global value chains. Domestic consumption alone is not enough to attract foreign direct investment (FDI). And if we want to attract export-oriented FDI, then such free trade agreements are essential.” Were Indian companies right to oppose joining RCEP? India’s giant and politically powerful dairy industry is worried, for instance, that it might lose out to skimmed milk imports from New Zealand. In a bid to win over India, the New Zealand agriculture and food safety minister visited the Amul plant in Anand. The New Zealanders were even willing to agree to tariffs and quotas on skimmed milk imports. Then, India’s pharmaceutical sector, one of our few globally recognised industries, also protested about joining RCEP because the agreement wanted Indian companies to accept tougher patent rules. In the medium-scale sector, many companies feared they would be steamrollered out of existence by cheap Chinese products. “We cannot join because we are not competitive. And we are not competitive because policy limits us and folks are risk averse,” says Manoj Kewalramani, a China Studies fellow at Takshashila Institution. Turning our face against competition, though, cannot be a long-term solution, experts say. “The political economy is such that you cannot enact changes. Then how does one ever get competitive? RCEP could have created a shock to the system, an impetus to change,” says Kewalramani. Also, there are other possible consequences of staying out of RCEP. For India, a particular worry is that China will be able to create standards for products and impose them in the RCEP region, leaving us in the cold. Looking beyond trade and the economy, the other Asean countries, Australia and Japan want India as a check on China. There are a rising number of conflict flashpoints across Asia – and almost all involve the Chinese and the region would like India to serve as a counterweight. For instance, Japan and China are tussling over the Senkaku Islands, a group of uninhabited islets and rocks. Though Japan has extensive business links with China, the two countries do not have a trade agreement– and that’s despite the fact that around 35,000 Japanese companies have plants in China. That compares with only 1,500 firms in India. (Incidentally, Japan and Australia on Tuesday signed a military pact allowing reciprocal visits for training and operations. Japan has only one other military pact with the US signed in 1960 allowing foreign troops on its soil). Similarly, China has disputes with most of the countries in the South China Sea over its Nine Dash Line. Chinese belligerence is one reason why the Quad grouping of India, the US, Japan and Australia are currently holding exercises in the Arabian Sea. The Quad held exercises in the Bay of Bengal in early November. For the time being, it looks like India won’t take part in RCEP or any other agreement like it as it says it won’t join any group that has China as a member. But then we need to fashion an alternate strategy to boost exports. Says Pai: “Not joining is not the end of the world but the key question is whether India is conscious of the need to make up for not joining RCEP.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-115
18-11-2020||Opinion||Single aim: CPM thinks BJP no threat in Bengal||For a party that headed a ruling coalition in a state for 34 years, advice is unnecessary. Leaders of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), including its general secretary, Sitaram Yechury, and the West Bengal Left Front chairman, Biman Bose, together with others, have rejected the perception of the general secretary of the Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist), Dipankar Bhattacharya, that the Bharatiya Janata Party would be the chief challenge in the 2021 West Bengal assembly elections. Mr Bhattacharya felt that the Left’s resurgence in Bihar as part of an alliance against the BJP could inspire the CPI(M) in Bengal. The CPI(M), however, sees the BJP as the political opponent nationally, and the Trinamul Congress as the chief rival in West Bengal. So it has decided on the Congress as its ally to defeat the TMC in the state. Its logic is mysterious. Apparently, if the CPI(M) is seen to be ‘soft’ on the TMC in order to fight the BJP, the anti-incumbency vote will go to the BJP. The argument loses its feet if it is recalled that Mr Yechury, speaking after the Left’s drubbing in West Bengal in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections — no seats — and the BJP’s dramatic rise, admitted that the Left supporters’ vote had gone to the BJP. The Left had opposed the TMC even then. Myopia is a stubborn disease. It may masquerade as ideological firmness and concern for a TMC-oppressed people to disguise an enduring hostility towards the TMC and its leader for overturning Left rule in 2011. At the moment, the CPI(M) has 26 seats in the 294-seat state assembly. The CPI(M) is either unaware of or not bothered by the rising BJP in Bengal; it wants the TMC to go. Since it is a stretch to imagine a Left-Congress government in Bengal should the TMC be ousted — it may divide the vote, of course — the nasty-minded may argue that the CPI(M) prefers the BJP to the TMC. Indian communists always had a strange sense of priorities — beginning with their opposition to the Quit India movement and condemnation of Independence as false. The BJP’s threat to democracy is unconcealed. It takes extreme myopia to believe that the TMC, which is fighting the BJP, is the bigger peril at any level.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-115
18-11-2020||Opinion||Grey theory: Ideology and national interest||Ideology, it is believed, is the elixir that sustains political parties in a democracy. But can ideology also sound the death knell of democracy and national interest? This intriguing query was raised by the prime minister recently while unveiling a statue of Swami Vivekananda at the Jawaharlal Nehru University, a campus that has, over the years, witnessed intense clashes between adherents of contesting ideologies. Narendra Modi, it may be argued, suggested the need for balance, saying that the tendency to prioritize political ideology over the interest of the nation has corroded India’s democratic experience. The prime minister also referred to two shining instances where political opponents managed to build a bridge over this frightening ideological chasm: the first was the national mobilization under M.K. Gandhi; the other, Mr Modi said, was the united battle by the Left and the Right against the spectre of Emergency. Mr Modi’s concern for India’s deepening ideological fault lines is touching. But is it sincere? There is indisputable evidence to suggest that the divisions in contemporary India are the outcome of contentious efforts by the Bharatiya Janata Party — New India’s principal political force — to herd a pluralist republic towards a hegemonic, allegedly majoritarian, nationhood. That the BJP’s ascendancy has corresponded with explicit and furtive assaults on the inclusive, federal character of Indian democracy is not a coincidence. The worrying metamorphosis is linked to the BJP’s core ideological agenda — the facilitation of the Hindu rashtra. Of course, the collateral damage —the systematic discrimination and violence against minorities, the incarceration of dissidents, the bulldozing of states — must all count as the BJP’s way of upholding national interest. Mr Modi, surprisingly, did not elaborate on what constitutes national interest. Perhaps that is because the polarizing ethic of Hindutva — the BJP’s ideological engine — is inimical to it. National interest can only be served by a political commitment to honour public welfare, unity and diversity, three elements integral to the nation-building project. The problem for Mr Modi and his party is that their ideological blinkers prevent them from seeing that India derives its strength from the very multiplicity that the BJP, wedded to the principle of unilateralism, finds unpalatable. The myopic vision — the fruit of a toxic ideology — is truly antithetical to India’s interests. The prime minister, it must be admitted, is not wrong.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-115
18-11-2020||Opinion||Formula for disempowerment of persons with disabilities||The department of empowerment of persons with disabilities deals with three legislations governing different aspects of disability, welfare and empowerment of the persons with disabilities. These are — The Rehabilitation Council of India Act, 1992, The National Trust for the Welfare of Persons with Autism, Cerebral Palsy, Mental Retardation and Multiple Disabilities Act, 1999, and The Rights of Persons with Disabilities (RPwD) Act, 2016. Recently, the last two legislations were in the news, inviting criticism for the government for shaving down the rights of the PwDs. The journey of the NDA-I government started on a positive note with the launching of the Accessible India Campaign, 2015 and the enactment of the RPwD Act, 2016. The Act is considered as a ‘game changer’ as it provides a framework for defining the rights to equality and a life with dignity for the 2.68 crore PwDs in India. The focus of the disability movement has always been on shifting the welfare approach to a rights-based approach. The enactment of the RPwD Act by the Government of India was, therefore, aligned with the demands of the movement. However, in late June 2020, the ministry of social justice and empowerment proposed to amend the grievance redressal mechanism under the RPwD Act “For Improving Business Sentiment and Unclogging Court Processes”. After widespread protests, the government withdrew the amendment to the Act and restored the status quo. Surprisingly, this pro-corporate move to promote ease of doing business was not a demand from the industrial lobby. In fact, the World Economic Forum’s annual meeting in Davos in 2019 had led to the launching of an initiative to close the disability inclusion gap in shaping the future economy. With the introduction of the RPwD Act, the disabled people got legal rights against discrimination for the first time in India’s history. The dilution of the grievance redressal mechanism by decriminalizing minor offences could potentially weaken the effectiveness of the RPwD Act. The Act, while being hailed as a ‘landmark’, is not a perfect piece of legislation for a number of reasons. Firstly, the minimum 40 per cent disability criteria in defining PwDs excludes persons who suffer less than 40 per cent of disabilities from receiving any of its benefits. Its anti-discrimination clause is subject to legitimate aims that have not been defined. Neither are there any penalties for the dereliction of duties by State officials responsible for implementing the Act, nor is there a time limit within which grievances are to be redressed. These are the main causes for the poor implementation of the Act. Moreover, the realization that the rights are subject to the normative gaps under the law has further compounded the lack of implementation of even the diluted form of rights assured by the Act. The department’s attempt to dilute it further through decriminalization of minor offences instead of strengthening its provisions is indicative of an ulterior motive. The Union ministry of finance is now planning to repeal the National Trust Act, 1999 and bring all disabilities under the umbrella RPwD Act. This is being cited as an austerity measure. The NTA is another important legislation, which complements the RPwD Act. Under the Act, the National Trust, a statutory body, was formed for the welfare of people with autism, cerebral palsy, mental retardation, and multiple disabilities. The trust, even though it is part of the MSJE, has independent powers to implement schemes pertaining to healthcare, insurance and shelter homes for persons with intellectual and developmental disabilities. Therefore, the role of the NT is enormous for the parents with intellectual and developmentally disabled children. These parents now fear that in the absence of the statutory body, their children, who need special care, will not get enough attention under the RPwD Act. The RPwD Act did away with the welfare approach normatively, but the poor implementation of the legislation is deterring the realization of the rights of the disabled. Welfare schemes under the NTA are, therefore, more important in the interim till the rights under 2016 are realized. The full utilization of the Rs 20 crore allocated to support the National Trust in the 2019-20 Union budget indicates its resource needs. The DEPwDs acknowledged that the National Trust has been receiving less grants against actual requirement. As a result, the trust not only had to reduce the funding pattern under different schemes but also had to meet much of its requirements from the interest of a one-time corpus fund available with it. Repealing the Act would certainly not help improve India’s economic situation. The community is in dire need of a rights-based budget and higher allocation for health, employment, nutrition, shelter and education during and beyond the Covid-19 pandemic. Instead of increasing budgetary outlays crucial to fulfil the mandates of the PwDs, the government seems inclined towards the dilution of disability laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-115
18-11-2020||Opinion||A permanent presence||The starting point of the camel safari at Sam outside Jaisalmer could easily have been the space immediately outside the gates of any primary school in Calcutta at the end of the last school day before the summer holidays. Excited children running around, mothers scrambling, drivers revving their charges, and Bengali in the air, not soft or gentle as it often can be but closer, instead, to the sounds of clanging utensils as children made the most of their new-found freedom and mothers raised their voices more out of habit than need. I was about 11 then and like most young girls and boys that evening, I was there for only one reason: to follow in the footsteps of Feluda. Like many others, my first brush with Feluda was with the films, Sonar Kella and Joy Baba Felunath. The books came immediately thereafter. So Feluda was Soumitra Chatterjee and Soumitra Chatterjee was Feluda. A fearless detective, with superhuman intelligence, astute observation, who operated in worlds beyond my own. Soumitra embodied Feluda, and I for one longed to be his sidekick, Topshe, setting out on adventures to nab Bengali dacoits in Rajasthan and smugglers in Kashi. “Chaliye ji Ram Deora,” I said to the camel driver, much to his bemusement. Feluda was the first chapter of my growing up with Soumitra Chatterjee. When in high school, the adventure of Feluda gave way to the reticence of Amitabha Roy, aka kapurush (the coward). Being in a Jesuit all boys’ school, I often found myself tongue-tied when it came to speaking to girls (something that didn’t have a similar effect on everyone studying there), let alone expressing something more intimate. Soumitra as Ami provided the archetype. When Ami fails to persuade Karuna to come away with him a second time, Soumitra’s expression, the last shot of the film, conveys dread, self-pity and an intense longing in one fleeting frame. As his face progressively blurs and the film ends with a gently ominous background score, Soumitra transforms from the kapurush Amitabha to just another ordinary man who comes up short. It was this extraordinary description of ordinariness that was the highlight of Soumitra’s performance as the adult Apu. In reverse chronology of the dates of their release, I came to Apur Sansar after watching the Feluda films and understood it fully only as a grown man. Adulthood came with its ebbs and flows, of great despair one moment turning to hope soon after. Apu manifested this rhythm of life — a chance meeting, fledgling love, ordinary struggles, terrible tragedy and, ultimately, hope of redemption. But more than its depiction of the cadences of life, Apur Sansar was about small moments — the conversation between Apu and Aparna when he asks her longingly, “tell me, what do I see in your eyes?” and she playfully replies “kajol”, his description of the painful ambivalence that stops him from loving his son fully and the last scene of Apu carrying his son, Kajol, on his shoulders towards the unknown, leaving tragedy, sadness and loss behind. Unlike Amitabha whom I could identify with and Feluda whom I could idolize, I did not feel any obvious identification with Apu. I did not share his experiences, face his difficulties, live his struggles. Yet, it was perhaps Apu who left the deepest impression. To make the audience feel for someone on screen with whom they feel no obvious connection is perhaps the greatest testament to both an actor and a film-maker. Soumitra evoked this sentiment through the minutest of expressions — a subtle hand movement indicating that he hadn’t shaved and wasn’t quite ready for marriage, a wistful smile held for a second longer than necessary when looking at his young bride, the childlike delivery of the words, “chole esho”, addressed to his son, washing away the grief that had hitherto engulfed their lives. Soumitra has been called an actor’s actor, his subtleties often eluding the ordinary observer. I am no actor, but Soumitra’s touches guided by his Master’s instinct made me feel for Apu, mourn with him, pity him and wish him all the best, sometimes all at the same time. I haven’t found a truer definition of art than this. As a legal scholar whose daily work is far away from the world of art, I have never found myself far away from Soumitra and Feluda. The law, contrary to its popular perception of being ensconced in its impenetrable ivory tower is, in fact, a simple confluence of logic and experience, marred chiefly by the claptrap legalese employed by lawyers. It requires attention to detail, a calm head, and quick thinking. All these were in evidence in the circuit house in Jodhpur when Soumitra drumming his fingers on his forehead noticed that the real Dr Hajra, rather atypically, spelt his surname with a ‘j’ and not the more usual ‘z’. He was quick to tally this against the visitor’s book in the circuit house, note the discrepancy calmly, and call for a taxi to the Sonar Kella in Jaisalmer to nab the charlatan Dr Hazra. Every lawyer worth his/her salt would do well to imbibe these traits of hard-nosed observation and logical connecting of the dots. But a trait transcending these, necessary for every citizen but in short supply today, was Feluda’s sense of responsibility. In Joy Baba Felunath, Feluda’s misjudgment leads to a near-death moment for Jatayu, his comrade-in-arms. Soumitra breaks an extended sequence of silence saying that he would either take revenge or give up his career as a detective. As a statement taken out of context, it appears over-the-top, disproportionate and impulsive. But Soumitra delivered this line without histrionics, only with steely determination. A viewer can sense his hurt at having bungled, with near-fatal consequences not for himself but for others reliant on him. At a time when indulging in loose talk is a national pastime and taking responsibility for one’s actions is the stuff of scripture alone, Feluda epitomizes a world where responsibility trumps convenience and actions speak louder than words. Perhaps taking a cue from this, though equally bringing such a world alive on screen, Soumitra exemplified these traits in his own life like no other. Today Soumitra Chatterjee is no more. But he has not left me, or any of us. In the words of Konstantin Stanislavski, a copy of whose book, An Actor Prepares, was given by Satyajit Ray to Soumitra, he has travelled to the “region of the sub-conscious”. This is what six decades of acting had primed him to do — to reach his inner creative state from where he could deliver performances straight into our sub-conscious. And that is where he will permanently reside — in the Ram Deora of my mind, atop a camel, ready for his next adventure. The author is Research Director, Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy. Views are personal||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-115
18-11-2020||Jharkhand||River-cleaning drive at steel city for Chhath||Local civic body Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) on Wednesday carried out the cleaning of rivers Subarnarekha and Kharkai with 100 workers for Chhath celebrations. The state government on Tuesday rolled back its decision to ban Chhath puja at public water bodies in view of the Covid-19 situation, as a result of widespread public protests. The cleanliness drive for removing puja paraphernalia and other wastes was carried out in all the major ghats including the Subarnarekha ghat at Sakchi, Kapali in Mango, Domuhani in Sonari, Pandey in Bhuiyadih, Bhuiyandih ghat, Sati ghat in Sonari, Substation ghat at Kadma and Bodhanwala ghat in Bistupur. Members of several social associations also joined in to clean the Baroda ghat at Bagbera among others. A team led by special officer of JNAC Krishna Kumar supervised the cleanliness operation at the Subernarekha ghat in Sakchi, Domuhani in Sonari and Bodhanwalla ghat at Bistupur. These are the three ghats which attract the maximum number of devotees during the biggest festival of Bihar. “Besides cleaning, the ghats will also be levelled. We have begun the work to prepare the ghats for Chhath. All ghats would be cleansed and would be ready by tomorrow,” Kumar said. He added that streetlights and halogen lights would be set up at the river banks to make things convenient for the devotees. In Jamshedpur, the rituals will also be performed at the sprawling premises of the Surya Mandir at Sidhgora, which has two artificial ponds. "We are getting ready for the festival.   An appeal has been issued to the devotees for maintaining social distance and other safety norms while performing puja and offering arghya on both days,” said a member of the Surya Mandir committee. The celebrations will also be observed at the Dimna lake, which is maintained by Jusco. However, due to the pandemic, many devotees will be celebrating Chhath, which began on Wednesday, at their homes. On the first day, known as Nahay Khay, women devotees take bath  in the morning and cook a proper meal for themselves. Lauki (bottle gourd) bhaat, along with chana daal is a popular meal prepared by the devotees on this day. Meanwhile, apart from the markets, which witnessed seas of devotees buying last minute Chhath Puja essentials, the long distance Bihar-bound buses also witnessed a huge rush at the Sitaramdera Bus Terminus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-233
18-11-2020||Jharkhand||No one violated pollution norms during Diwali||No one has been booked in Ranchi under relevant sections of the law for violating government guidelines on checking pollution during Diwali despite blatant violation of curbs on bursting crackers during the festival and the day after, highly placed sources in the government admitted on Wednesday. “Nobody lodged any complaint with the local police against violators during Diwali. So, no FIRs were lodged. Even suo motu cases were not filed,” said an IAS rank official in Ranchi, requesting anonymity. An order issued by Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB) two days prior to Diwali clearly stated that people found violating rules set by the pollution watchdog would be booked under section 188 of IPC and Prevention and Control of Pollution Act 1981. A copy of the order is in possession of The Telegraph Online. The JSPCB order set a time limit of two hours, from 8pm to 10pm, for bursting firecrackers across the state, and allowed only “green crackers” in at least 14 urban areas of Jharkhand, including Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Dhanbad and Bokaro. But bursting of firecrackers in public places was prohibited. However, Diwali revelry started as early as 6pm on November 14 and the fireworks continued unabated till late in the night, causing noise as well as air pollution. In fact, Diwali noise this year was higher than last year in some parts of the city, JSPCB officials said. While the government permitted sale of only “green crackers” in the city, there was no effective mechanism to check whether cracker traders followed the rules, sources said. A highly placed source in the government said that the guideline for Diwali was issued too late, and it was impossible to follow all the rules when the festival was only 48 hours away. “Green crackers are not even available in all parts of Jharkhand. Most traders already had ordinary crackers in their stock,” the source said. JSPCB member secretary Rajiv Lochan Bakshi said that the pollution watchdog only issued guidelines for pollution control, and it was up to law enforcement agencies to ensure that rules were not violated. “We cannot take action against individuals,” he said. Ranchi SSP S.K. Jha said he did not have data on the number of people who were booked for violating pollution control norms during Diwali. Officials are now worried that social distancing norms may go for a toss during Chhath too, as it would be impossible to control a crowd of devotees at Chhath ghats during the festival.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-233
18-11-2020||Jharkhand||Trains few, Chhath devotees forced to opt for buses ||Limited numbers of special trains during Chhath have compelled passengers to line up at Dhanbad interstate bus depot to reach their homes during the festival. Commuters have opted for advanced booking in several bus routes including Patna, Nawada, Bihar Sharif and Aurangabad, while many others were seen beelining at the counters to book tickets for reaching their destinations. However, several others have been compelled to travel in hired or private vehicles. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Wednesday, Bundela Travels operator Sumit Singh said, “We had maximum rush on November 16 and 17 but but it is continuing till today. But there are fewer passengers from tomorrow onwards.” Bundela Travels operates more than two dozen buses in the Patna, Aurangabad and Bihar Sharif routes from Dhanbad. “Such was the situation that we had to divert the buses meant for other places like Bokaro, Hazaribagh and Ranchi to the Patna, Aurangabad and Bihar Sharif route”, he said, adding that they were operating four buses on the Patna route two or three days earlier but had to increase it to six per day to cater to the huge rush. “We have also increased the number of buses on the Aurangabad route from four to eight, and from six to eight on the Bihar Sharif route,” Sumit said. A bus operator at Dhanbad, who wished to remain anonymous, said that the fares were hiked at about 20 to 25 percent than normal. The fare for AC buses to Patna stands at Rs 500 per person while that for Non-AC ones are priced at Rs 400. The fares for Aurangabad and Bihar Sharif routes are kept at Rs 350 and Rs 320 in non-AC buses. “We are trying to accommodate almost all passengers and the decision to increase the buses on Bihar route has been carried out accordingly,” another bus operator named Sunil Singh said. Meanwhile, reservations were full at the Bihar-bound Chhath special trains like the ganga-Damodar Express as well as the regular trains like the Ganga-Sutlej Express . Talking to The Telegraph Online on Wednesday, Ravi Prakash, a resident of Digwadih in Dhanbad, said, “The journey was comfortable and being a regular visitor of my native place at Patna I experienced the most comfortable journey this Chhath as only the limited ticket bearing passengers as per seat availability have been allowed to enter the station.” Prakash was traveling in the third AC coach of the Ganga-Damodar Express to reach his hometown at Patna.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-233
18-11-2020||Jharkhand||Maoists shoot clerk, set two vehicles ablaze at Lohardaga construction site||Members of the CPI (Maoists) shot down a clerk working at a construction site of a bridge on Tuesday night in rebel-hit Peshrar block in Lohardaga district, over 130 km from Ranchi. The miscreants also charred two vehicles on the site. This is the second incident by Maoists in the last 72 hours. After the news broke, police on Wednesday sent a team under the aegis of Lohardaga SDPO Jitendra Kumar to the mishap site, around 50km from the district headquarters to take stock of the situation while separate teams comprising district police and CRPF began a combing operation to trace and nab the extremists, said officials. The deceased has been identified as Vickey Gupta, in his early 30s and hailed from Garhwa district, said police sources. “He was a relative of the contractor Vikash Gupta, who was assigned the bridge construction work. Last year too, the deceased was among the three who was attacked by rebels during construction of a road project in Lohardaga,” said a cop. Lohardaga SP Priyanka Meena confirmed the incident while talking to reporters this morning. “Maoists have killed a Munshi was killed and two vehicles engaged in construction works were put on fire on Tuesday night. Police is investigating the incident,” she said Officer in-charge of Peshrar police station Ramawadh Karmali said that a poclain (machine for digging soil) and a tractor were set on fire at the construction site. “The same squad of Ravindra Ganjhu could be behind the incident, the motive being to instill fear and extract levy,” he said. According to information, the construction cost of the bridge over Onegada river is estimated to be at around Rs 2.5 crore. On Sunday, Maoists had killed a 55-year-old villager, Jagisr Bhagat in Mungo village under Serendag police station on suspicion of being a police informer when he along with his wife was on their way to their grocery shop at night. Rebels had first held them captive by tying the duo and then pumped bullets into Bhagat’s body while freeing his wife later on. Dreaded Maoist Ravindra Ganjhu’s squad was suspected to be behind the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-233
18-11-2020||Jharkhand||Chhath days likely to see light rain as temperatures rise||The India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Ranchi and Patna centres on Wednesday said that light rains are likely in Jharkhand on November 20 -- the day Chhath devotees or bvratis will offer evening arghya to the sun god. “We are expecting light rain especially in southern and central Jharkhand covering places like Ranchi, Jamshedpur and several other districts on Friday due to convergence of westerly and north-westerly wind, which usually results in rain" said Abhishek Anand, Deputy Director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. He added that a cyclonic circulation, too, has formed over the southwest part of the Arabian Sea, resulting in the formation of clouds across several places in the state since Wednesday morning. Weathermen at IMD's Patna Met Centre said cloud cover is also expected to prevail in some Jharkhand districts on November 21, which is the last day of the four-day Chhath festivals. On this day, devotees offer early morning prayers to the sun god. Today's satellite reading suggested a generally cloudy sky over Jharkhand during the next 48 hours followed by light rain on Friday. There is also a possibility of moderate thunder and lightning on Friday, " said a senior weather analyst at Patna Met Centre that monitors Jharkhand’s weather. Minimum temperature in the state rose on Wednesday due to the cloud cover, with ranchi recording a minimum temperature of 16.7 degrees Celsius -- four notches above normal. The maximum temperature was as high as 20 degrees Celsius, which is four degrees above normal. Met department headquarters at Palamu recorded four degrees above normal minimum readings at Daltonganj on Wednesday. The local IMD observatory at Daltonganj recorded a minimum temperature of  17.5 degree Celsius on this day. Statistics available from the Met department suggested a rising trend of night readings in several other districts due to the adverse weather conditions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-233
18-11-2020||Jharkhand||Shoppers throng Ranchi markets as uncertainty over Chhath clears||A day after the Hemant Soren-led Jharkhand Government permitted Chhath rituals at public water bodies in the state, devotees thronged market places in the state capital on Wednesday to buy fruits, bamboo soops and bottle gourds to prepare for one of the largest festivals in Jharkhand, to be celebrated on Friday and Saturday this week. Meanwhile, the district administration also started cleaning water bodies across the city to ensure that devotees get clean ghats to offer Arghya, a holy ritual during Chhath. On Wednesday morning, a team from the Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) inspected the line tank lake and initiated a cleanliness drive. Ranchi Sub-divisional Officer (SDO) Sameera S said that the district administration was also planning ways to maintain social distancing between devotees during Chhath and ensure adherence to the government guidelines.  Following protests by devotees and opposition parties in Jharkhand against the government's diktat of prohibiting Chhath at public water bodies, the government had to amend an earlier guideline and incorporate changes to allow Chhath at public lakes, ponds and rivers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-233
18-11-2020||Jharkhand||XLRI to accept GRE scores for flagship course||The Xavier School of Management  (XLR) on Wednesday announced that it will accept GRE scores along with GMAT and XAT scores for admissions to its flagship Executive PGDM (General) program, starting this year. Admissions  are open for the 15-month full-time residential General Management programme  - Executive PGDM (General) at the premiere B-school of the country. The last date for registration to the course is November 30 . The program has got various prestigious accreditations, including  The Association of MBAs (AMBA) and All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE). The aim of the course is to augment the skill-sets and capabilities of practising managers and boost their careers. To be eligible for the course, one has to hold a recognised bachelor’s degree in any discipline and have an experience in managerial or supervisory positions of at least five years. The Executive PGDM (General) programme consists of core and optional courses designed specifically for fast track executives with work experience, and exposes them to recent trends, tools, and techniques in management. Coming with a three-month field training, the programme provides the essentials of management education with the flexibility of individual exploration in their chosen area of interest. XLRI director Fr. P. Christie said, " Knowledge and continuous learning is the mainstay amongst progressive organisations of today. To satisfy this thirst for knowledge and to become a learning organisation, XLRI has evolved a 15-month consolidated programme in general management .  The objective of the course is to provide the practising managers a substantial exposure to theoretical foundations in management as well as to provide them a holistic perspective of business in such a way that they are not only equipped with tools and techniques to perform their task effectively but also to shoulder greater responsibilities in the future as they move up the organisational hierarchy." Founded in 1949, XLRI has grown into a top-ranking business management school of international repute with a wide portfolio of management programmes and research publications.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-233
18-11-2020||Jharkhand||Jayant Sinha, BSF jawans clean Hazaribagh lake for Chhath||Former  union minister of state for civil aviation and Hazaribagh MP Jayant Sinha on Wednesday led a team of Border Security Force(BSF) 400 jawans and officials to clean Hazaribagh lake, which was left filthy due to the Chhath festival that started on this day. The team, which came forward for the first time to clean the popular tourist spot, brought in trolleys, JCB machines and tractors to dispose of the garbage that was collected from the lake. Praising the efforts of the BSF and calling its jawans and officials sanitation warriors, Sinha urged everyone to take part in such drives in order to keep their areas clean. He also hoped that the force would come forward to participate in such missions at other important areas of the town. The MP reached the lake this morning and joined the BSF jawans to clean it. The Hazaribagh lake, a popular tourist destination, is used by devotees during the Chhath festival to perform several rituals that subsequently pollutes it. With the situation being the same at three other reservoirs as well, efforts are on to clean them all. In recent years, all the four lakes have been covered with jalkumbhi or common water hyacinths as a result of negligence, which has prompted the deputy commissioner to ask the department of fisheries to take up the cleaning work. According to Inspector General Rajiv Gandhi, paramilitary forces including the BSF have been taking part in these drives from time to time as a result of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for a cleaner and greener India, which asks everyone to take part in sanitation works. Along with securing the borders the BSF has also been taking care of the residents living around the camp areas, he said. Gandhi added that on Wednesday 350 jawans and 50 officials took part in the s sanitation drive, while terming the Hazaribagh lake an ornament for any city. Other BSF officials present were deputy inspector general S Ahmad, second-in-command S Kereketta and Nalin, deputy commandants R.K. Mishra, D.K.Mishra, Sushil Kumar, Sanjay Kumar and Pawan Kumar beside assistant commandants Neeraj Kumar, Vikas Kumar and Amar Chand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-233
18-11-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand reports 261 cases, 343 recoveries in a day||While Covid-19 recoveries outnumbered the fresh cases of infection in the past 24 hours in Jharkhand, three more casualties took the state's Covid toll up at 931 on Tuesday, figures compiled by the state health department highlighted. As per a daily bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Tuesday night, at least 261 of the 16,675 people tested for Covid-19 in Jharkhand on Tuesday – roughly 1.5 per cent – were found to be infected by the lethal virus. All the three fatalities reported in Jharkhand on the day occurred in East Singhbhum, a district which accounts for 348 Covid casualties, the highest among all the 24 districts in Jharkhand. As per government data, Ranchi has reported 187 Covid casualties so far, the second highest in the state. The festive season has also lowered the Covid testing rate in Jharkhand, NHM figures revealed. As on Tuesday, over 18,000 swab samples, collected over the past one week, were yet to be tested. As per government data, the government has so far collected swab samples of 38.44 lakh people and tested 48.26 lakh of them. As many as 343 Covid patients recovered from the viral infection on Tuesday, taking the Covid recovery rate in the state up at 96.61 per cent. The number of active cases of infection also dropped down to 2,669 on the day. As per government data, as many as 1,02,891 Covid patients have recovered from the infection in Jharkhand since March. At least 17 of the 24 districts in Jharkhand reported a single-digit-spike in Covid cases on Tuesday. With 86 fresh cases, Ranchi was the highest contributor to the state’s Covid caseload on the day. At least four districts – Chatra, Khunti, Koderma and Lohardaga – reported only one case each. As many as 18 of 24 districts in the state had fewer active cases of infection than 100. Ranchi, with 912 active cases, had the highest number of Covid-19 patients in Jharkhand, while East Singhbhum had the second highest. At least 470 people were battling the infection in East Singhbhum on Tuesday. As per government data, the growth rate of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand was 0.17 per cent against the national average of 0.39 per cent. The doubling rate of Covid-19 infection in the state was 405.38 days against the national doubling rate of 178.16 days. The Covid mortality rate in the state was 0.87 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent, the NHM bulletin stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-233
