19-11-2020||Calcutta||Prof. Alokeranjan Dasgupta dies at 87 in Germany ||The illustrious poet, academic and translator, Prof. Alokeranjan Dasgupta, died on November 17 in Heidelberg, Germany. He was 87. A tribute: He was not only my beloved, elder cousin, but also my intimate friend and revered mentor. I still recall with joy and gratitude his sterling advice, “Now that you are in Germany, do your PhD in Heidelberg before returning to Kolkata.” I responded positively to his advice and my academic attainment which followed changed the course of my life. He was not only a remarkable poet, but along with this distinction, he was a great scholar and prolific translator. Indeed, he acted as the cultural and creative bridge between the Orient and the Occident. His first book of poems Jouban Baul created a sensation and his translation of Goethe’s mini-epic West Easterly Divan was regarded as a masterpiece. This brilliant lyrical text has been choreographed by the well-known Kathak danseuse Surangama Dasgupta. Lovers of literature are immensely grateful to him for bringing home the brilliant translations of Friedrich Holderlin, Heinrich Heine, Bertolt Brecht and Peter Weiss. At the same time, he disseminated the creativity of Kabir, Rabindranath, Lalan and Jibanananda in Europe, Germany in particular. He was honoured with the prestigious Goethe Prize, Ananda Puraskar and Kabir Shamman. He was an enviable conversationalist and his ability to play with words was phenomenal. At Jadavpur University, where he taught comparative literature, and at Heidelberg, where he taught Indian literature and philosophy, students used to sit on the floor and stand outside the classroom to attend his lectures. This week is cruel because after Soumitra Chatterjee’s death, we have lost yet another cultural and creative icon. If I am asked to list his memorable books and writings, I shall certainly choose two books of poems, ‘Jouban Baul’ and ‘Nishiddho Kojagori’; two critical texts ‘Goethe and Tagore’ and ‘Jibanananda’; two translations ‘Goethe’s West Easterly Divan’ and ‘Preme Parobaashe’ (In Love and In Exile, poems by Heinrich Heine). His favourite poet was Rainer Maria Rilke, whose poems he translated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-234
19-11-2020||Calcutta||Rs 50 lakh contribution and a first for IIEST||A young man who could not study engineering because of financial constraints wanted to do something so that an engineering student did not have to quit studies for want of money. On his death, he left a considerable part of his savings to be donated to an engineering institution of repute. His wife will come to IIEST, Shibpur, on Tuesday on the occasion of the institution’s foundation day to hand over a cheque for Rs 50 lakh to fulfil the wishes of her late husband. The woman, a retired college teacher, would not be identified by her name, although she spoke to Metro at length. This is the first time a non-alumnus is making a contribution to the institute. The money could go a long way in addressing the financial constraints threatening the future of many students amid the Covid pandemic. The person in whose name an endowment fund will be created had passed away in 2006. He had been a general manager of a cotton mill. “My husband wanted this contribution to be used for a specific purpose. I expect his wishes will be honoured. Although the bulk of the contribution was from my husband, I, too, have contributed,” said the 81-year-old, who will not mind exposing herself to the risk of catching infection and visiting the campus to hand over the cheque. A devotee of Sri Ramakrishna and Sarada Devi, she said she wanted to stay away from the glare of the media. “I want to work silently,” she said when this newspaper sought her consent to name her in the news report. IIEST director Parthasarathi Chakrabarti said: “With the money we will create an endowment to give scholarships to the poor but meritorious students all through the undergraduate programme. This will help them pay the hostel and mess fees.” Registrar Biman Banerjee said that from the annual interest to be earned every year from the deposit, IIEST will give scholarship/assistantship to three first-year undergraduate students. Each student will get Rs 30,000 annually. “At least one of the students will preferably be a woman,” Banerjee said. Sunandan Narayan Basu, who had graduated from the erstwhile Bengal Engineering College (now IIEST) 64 years ago and donated Rs 50 lakh to his alma mater in August, will visit the campus on Tuesday to hand over another Rs 50 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-234
19-11-2020||Calcutta||Chhath Puja toll on Rabindra Sarobar||The impact of Chhath Puja rituals on the birds, animals, trees and the overall environment at Rabindra Sarobar in previous years is evidence enough why the puja should not be allowed on the banks of the water body, Sarobar regulars said. Chhath Puja will be held over Friday and Saturday. Scientists explained that the noise and emission from firecrackers, blaring music, pouring of oil and ghee and throwing of flowers into the water affect the birds, aquatic animals and the many other species that inhabit the 192-acre Rabindra Sarobar complex. The place is home to three species of turtles, Common Toads, Bullfrogs, Cricket Frogs, Skittering Frogs, squirrels, about 60 species of butterflies, about 30 species of dragonflies and snakes. There is a high court bar on loud celebrations this year. Last year, too, there was a bar on loud firecrackers, but it was flouted with impunity. The National Green Tribunal has banned all pujas, picnics and other social events on the ecologically sensitive Sarobar premises. The Supreme Court will hear on Thursday a plea from the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA), a Bengal government agency, to allow Chhath rituals on the Sarobar premises. Metro lists what the devotees were found doing in previous years and why environmentalists are opposed to a rerun Worshippers burst firecrackers and play loud music during the rituals, which are performed at dusk and the next dawn. This is exactly when birds forage, said naturalist Arjan Basu Roy, founder of NGO Nature Mates. “More than 100 bird species have been recorded at the Sarobar this year. Several Painted Storks, a threatened Indian species not seen at the Sarobar for many years, have been spotted. Noise from firecrackers will drive them away,” Basu Roy said. “Chhath Puja is performed at a time when birds go out for food. So the disturbance will make them feel more threatened.” A birdwatcher said that in previous years birds would disappear from the Sarobar immediately after Chhath. “While some birds return, many migrants do not,” the birdwatcher said. Devotees place lamps on the water as part of the rituals. Oil spills on the water from the lamps. They also pour ghee into the water. “The oil and the ghee create a layer that prevents oxygen in the air from entering into the water. Aquatic animals die if there is not enough oxygen in the water,” said Parthib Basu, a professor of zoology at Calcutta University. Worshippers also throw flowers into the water. “Flowers need oxygen to decompose. They consume the oxygen dissolved in the water,” Basu said. On the one hand, the oil and the ghee prevent oxygen from mixing with the water and on the other, decomposing flowers consume dissolved oxygen. “The twin effects are very harmful for aquatic animals,” Basu said. A dead Indian Flapshell Turtle was found floating at the Sarobar on the morning after Chhath Puja last year, said Sudip Ghosh, a daily visitor to the Sarobar. Naturalists said turtles are known to breed around this time of the year and lay their eggs on the shallow edges of the water body. Basu Roy said Rabindra Sarobar had a good number of turtles, including Indian Roofed Turtles and Indian Tent Turtles. “Devotees enter the water to offer their prayers. This creates a natural conflict with the turtles breeding on the edges,” he said. Thousands of people gathering in the Sarobar compound at the same time results in the facilities inside getting overwhelmed for a while. Ghosh had seen worshippers relieving themselves behind bushes last year. “The number of publictoilets on the premises are far from enough compared with the turnout,” he said. A naturalist said that it was foolish to expect that a religious festival, which takes the shape of a carnival, would be a disciplined affair. Ghosh said he had seen worshippers breaking bamboo fencing surrounding some patches of gardens to go inside. Many newly planted trees get trampled in the process. People also feast in the lawns. The disposable cutlery is often thrown into the water. When firecrackers are burst, they emit smoke and chemicals. The toxic smoke can trigger respiratory distress in humans if they inhale it. “The chemicals released by firecrackers settle down on the land and the water in the immediate vicinity. These are harmful substances that enter the food chain of the organisms living there,” said Anumita Roy Chowdhury, the executive director of Delhi-based Centre for Science and Environment. Chhath Puja should be allowed keeping in mind the Covid norms and the judgment of the court…. The government should observe the policy of justice for all and appeasement to none…. Law should be equal for all. Sayantan Basu,  BJP (Basu made some other comments that are not relevant to the protection of open spaces and  hence, have not been included here.) We are concerned about the environment. Rabindra Sarobar was not protected this much before 2011-12. People used to observe Chhath rituals at the Sarobar. People used to wash clothes there. We came to power and set up grilles and gates, and beautified the place. People are saying it was better before, when they could enter Rabindra Sarobar whenever they wished. We will abide by the court’s order, but at the same time we have to respect religious sentiments. Firhad Hakim, Trinamul Congress The government should comply with the order of the National Green Tribunal and make alternative arrangements for Chhath Puja. I do not believe that Chhath Puja devotees do not care about nature, about the environment. This is a ploy by Mamata Banerjee to give an impression that she loves Chhath Puja. This is being done to get votes. Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury,  Congress We are saying that the government should implement the court’s order. We do not want Rabindra Sarobar to get polluted. But the government has gone to court, to the Supreme Court. Naturally they should abide by what the court says. Rabin Deb, CPM leader Rituals that affect the biodiversity of any water body should not be allowed. I oppose the idea of performing Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar. Why do we need to tamper with a natural water body? We have done many wrongs in the past. Why can’t we rectify our mistakes and take a more scientific approach? Parthib Basu, professor of zoology, Calcutta University I have seen dead birds and turtles at the Sarobar after Chhath Puja. I suspect they died because of pollution caused by the celebrations. In previous years, worshippers burst firecrackers, lit fire for yajnas and played loud music. After many years, a few Painted Storks have come to the Sarobar. What if they are forced to flee? Sumita Banerjee,  activist who has been fighting for protection of the Sarobar Rabindra Sarobar is home to hundreds of birds. The Chhath rituals can scare them away. Thirty minutes of loud music and firecrackers are enough to do the damage. It is true the present state government has done a lot to improve the Sarobar, but I do not understand why they are so keen on allowing Chhath there. Partho Ghosh,  resident of Lake Temple Road I had seen last year dead fish and a turtle floating in the water after Chhath Puja. The oil and the ghee poured into the water affect aquatic animals. Chhath Puja should not be allowed at the Sarobar keeping in mind the rich biodiversity of the place. Reema Das, resident of the area, who recently finished her BSc in geography||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-234
19-11-2020||Calcutta||Chhath circular silent on Calcutta High Court ban||The environment department had on November 11 issued a circular on Chhath Puja based on a high court order the day before, but did not refer to the blanket ban the court had imposed on Chhath rituals at Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar. The circular was sent to the panchayat, urban development and municipal affairs, and transport departments, Bengal and Calcutta police, state pollution control board and the district magistrates. Environment activists said the omission of the ban in the circular was “intentional” and it amounted to “misrepresentation of the high court order”. “As far as Subhas Sarobar and Rabindra Sarobar are concerned… these water bodies will be totally out of bounds for Chhath Puja celebrations,” ruled the division bench of Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Arijit Banerjee on November 10. The environment department’s circular, issued the next day, only referred to that part of the high court order which said repeated announcements would have to be made to let people know that no more than two persons from a family would be allowed to perform the rituals, long processions would not be allowed and Covid protocols would have to be followed. Sabuj Mancha, an organisation that works for protection of the environment, wrote to the chief minister on Wednesday, demanding that “misrepresentation of the High Court order” be “rectified at the earliest”. A senior official in the environment department asked Metro to talk to the CMDA (the custodian of the two water bodies) or the urban development department (under which the agency functions) when asked about the omission. However, when it was pointed out to him that the circular was issued by his department, he refused to make any further comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-234
19-11-2020||Calcutta||Murder whiff in Southern Avenue footpath death||A man attached with a real estate firm was found dead on a footpath along Southern Avenue on Monday. His family has alleged foul play and accused four of his acquaintances of murdering him. Police have started a murder case against Biswajit Chakraborty, Surajit Chakraborty, Bapi Halder, and Asish Gayen, all residents of Panchanantala Road, named by Prabir Das’s family in their FIR with Rabindra Sarobar police station. Das, 36, a resident of Rahim Ostagar Road, used to oversee the construction work in some of the real estate firm’s projects, the family has told cops. He was found on a footpath off Keyatala Road on Monday evening and declared dead at SSKM Hospital. A post-mortem was carried out on Tuesday, after which his mother Kajal Das lodged the FIR against the four. The Das family stays not far from the place where the body had been found. “She has alleged that the four thrashed her son causing grievous injuries that led to his death. She has said they had personal enmity,” an officer of Rabindra Sarobar police station said. Preliminary investigations suggested this was not the first time Das had been found lying unconscious on a footpath along Southern Avenue. “We are waiting for the post-mortem report to ascertain if there are injury marks that suggest foul play. We will question the four men named in the FIR,” the officer said. No one has been arrested so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-234
19-11-2020||Calcutta||Son found with dead parents in Shibpur||The decomposed bodies of an elderly couple were found in their flat in Howrah’s Shibpur on Wednesday. Their son who was in the flat has been arrested in connection with the death of his parents. Pradyut Bose,75, and his wife Gopa, 70, used to live with their son Subhojit, 40, in their flat on the top floor of a four-storey building in Koi Pukur lane in Shibpur, police said. On Wednesday morning, neighbours of the Bose family became suspicious because of a stench from the flat. They knocked on the door and Subhojit answered, the police said. On entering the house, the neighbours found the bodies of his old parents and they alerted the police. Cops reached the house and removed the bodies and sent them for post-mortem. “Preliminary investigation and according to the statement of the son of the deceased, he has admitted to have smothered his parents to death with pillows,” an officer in Howrah said. He has been arrested and he will be produced in court on Thursday. The police have found from the neighbours that Pradyut Bose had been ill and bedridden for the past couple of years. His wife used to do all domestic chores, including going to the market. She was last seen returning home from the market on the morning of Kali Puja on Saturday. “The family used to keep to themselves. The neighbours have not been able to say much except what they saw. The couple’s son is possibly jobless. But we are still to verify this fact,” an investigating officer said. Cops will get the son checked up by medical practitioners to ascertain if he has any medical condition, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-234
19-11-2020||Calcutta||Paying guest in gold theft net in Sealdah||A man living as a paying guest at a Haridevpur house was arrested in Sealdah on Tuesday in connection with a gold jewellery theft at the house. Pradipta Kishore Sahoo, who had allowed Sudipta Das, 30, to stay in his house as a paying guest, found the jewellery and the keys to a cupboard and the main door missing after returning from Kalighat on Saturday. He had gone with his family to the Kali temple to offer prayers on the occasion of Kali Puja. Sahoo later realised that his credit cards and his phone’s SIM card were missing. Das had possibly removed the card from the phone on the pretext of making a call to ensure bank alerts regarding online transactions don’t land up at the phone, police said. After his arrest, cops have recovered the stolen credit cards, money and gold jewellery he had bought from a store in Gariahat using one of the credit cards. He has apparently told cops that he sold the jewellery he had stolen from the house to a goldsmith. The detective department’s anti-burglary section took over the case from Haridevpur police station. Cops located the store in Gariahat from details of the credit card used to buy jewellery and scanned the footage of CCTV cameras there and zeroed in on Das. Sahoo confirmed the identity of Das who had been living at his house for the past three months. “The moment he had inserted the SIM card in another phone to receive the OTP needed to validate an online transaction, cops traced the phone’s location to a hotel in Sealdah,” an officer said. Das has been booked for theft.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-234
19-11-2020||Business||Sensex drops over 200 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled over 200 points in early trade on Thursday, tracking losses in index majors HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Infosys amid negative cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 240.96 points or 0.55 per cent lower at 43,939.09 in the opening session. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty declined 62.80 points or 0.49 per cent to 12,875.45. PowerGrid was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, shedding over 2 per cent, followed by Axis Bank, ICICI Bank, HDFC duo, Asian Paints and Bharti Airtel. On the other hand, Bajaj Finserv, L&T, Tata Steel and Bajaj Finance were among the gainers. In the previous session, BSE Sensex ended 227.34 points or 0.52 per cent higher at its record closing of 44,180.05, while Nifty advanced 64.05 points or 0.50 per cent to end at its all-time high of 12,938.25. Foreign institutional investors remained net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 3,071.93 crore on Wednesday, according to provisional exchange data. Asian markets are trading lower mainly taking cues for US markets, said Arjun Yash Mahajan Head Institutional Business at Reliance Securities. However, underlying strength in domestic markets continues to look good and any meaningful downside will be used as an opportunity to buy quality stocks, he noted. US markets closed lower as decision to close public school system by New York City officials to contain virus dampened investors' sentiments despite positive announcement made by Pfizer about improved efficacy of its vaccine candidate along with BioNTech. Decision by the New York City officials raised concerns about whether more states may opt for economic restrictions due to rapid rise in new COVID-19 cases, said Mahajan. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading in the red in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was in the positive territory. Bourses in the US ended on a negative note in overnight trade. Meanwhile, Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, were trading 0.56 per cent lower at USD 44.09 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-231
19-11-2020||Business||Renault Kiger launch next year||Renault India will expand its product range and segment presence with the launch of its compact SUV Kiger in the first quarter of next year. The Kiger will be built on the same platform as Tribe. Renault will also introduce an all-new engine with the Kiger. Renault had earlier unveiled the Kiger show car on which the new SUV is designed and developed. The actual Renault Kiger will have an 80 per cent similarity to the show car in terms of design. Venkatram Mamillapalle, country CEO & managing director, Renault India Operations, said, “After Kwid and Triber, Renault Kiger is the third global car from Groupe Renault to be launched in India first, followed by other markets.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-231
19-11-2020||Business||TCG blends oil, tech solutions||The Chatterjee Group controlled Lummus Technology and TCG Digital are coming together to harness emerging digital transformation opportunities in the oil and gas sector. The firms have floated a joint venture — Lummus Digital — which will work with existing and potential customers of the two companies based in India, the United States, West Asia and Europe. TCG had acquired Lummus in partnership with private equity firm Rhone Capital for $2.725 billion in June. This marks one of the early initiatives of TCG to sweat the vast knowledge base and proprietary technologies of the 110-year old Lummus in a world upended by the pandemic. The venture will aid Lummus’ clients — which include some of the leading names in the oil and gas sector — to implement digital analysis and operative solutions in their refining, petrochemical, and gas processing assets and across the hydrocarbon processing value chain. Purnendu Chatterjee, chairman of TCG, said the JV would provide an edge with digitalisation in these difficult times. “This joint venture will co-create and innovate with other areas of the group such as TCG Crest, our research university, LabVantage and Haldia Petrochemicals,” Chatterjee said in a statement. Lummus Digital will offer big data, advanced analytics, artificial intelligence, process simulations, proprietary know-how, and 24/7 advisory services, the company said. Commenting on the partnership, Leon de Bruyn, president and CEO of Lummus Technology, said the initiative would ensure the company’s position as industry leader at the forefront of innovation. The solutions are designed to maximise economic benefit through digitalisation; ensure operators and technicians are equipped with the insights to improve efficiency and reliability of their operations and assets. The products will enhance the safety of the operating staff; bolster decision-making capabilities of the management, and provide flexibility to quickly adapt operations to changing market dynamics, the statement said. Debdas Sen, CEO of TCG Digital, said, “Lummus Digital will leverage the TCG mcube data platform to drive operational excellence, improve plant safety, enhance reliability, and increase margins.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-231
19-11-2020||Business||Insuretech start-up Turtlemint raises $30m||Insuretech start-up Turtlemint has raised $30 million (Rs 225 crore) in a funding round led by venture capital firm GGV Capital. New investors American Family Ventures, MassMutual Ventures and SIG, along with existing investors Sequoia Capital India, Blume Ventures, Nexus Venture Partners, Dream Incubator and Trifecta Capital participated in the round. The funds raised will be used to increase the reach of insurance and financial products by investing in technology solutions, reaching out to tier 2 and tier 3 towns and upskilling advisers through training. Launched in 2015, the Turtlemint platform currently partners more than 40 insurers, and caters to more than 1.5 million customers. “For over five years, Turtlemint through its ‘Point of Sales Person’ model has been empowering insurance advisers across India,” said Turtlemint co-founder Dhirendra Mahyavanshi. “Our target is to create a million successful financial entrepreneurs over the next 3-5 years,” said co-founder Anand Prabhudesai. “Insurance is one of the largest and fastest growing markets in India. Through its products, Turtlemint is enabling the small insurance advisor with choice of insurance manufacturer, efficiency in policy issuance and claims,” said Harshjit Sethi, Principal, Sequoia Capital India LLP. “In this time, we saw our advisers wholeheartedly embrace our digital solutions, resulting in a 2.5x boost to their business,” added Mahyavanshi. True Balance Fintech firm True Balance on Wednesday said it has raised $28 million (about Rs 207.7 crore) in funding from SoftBank Ventures Asia, Daesung Private Equity and others.  The Series D round also saw participation from Naver, BonAngels and Shinhan Capital, a statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-231
19-11-2020||Business||PSUs in fresh bidding for BPCL ||The government is exploring various options in the BPCL stake sale exercise if no financial bids are received or if these are lower than the price that the government expects. Such a situation has arisen in the wake of energy giants staying clear of the BPCL bidding. Metals and minerals major Vedanta on Wednesday confirmed it has bid for the entire government stake of 52.98 per cent in BPCL. Others believed to have put in bids include two to three private equity funds and pension funds. “Vedanta's EoI for BPCL is to evaluate potential synergies with our existing oil and gas business. The EoI is at a preliminary stage and exploratory in nature,” a company spokesperson said in a statement. Sources said the government is mulling at different options in the absence of any bids from Reliance Industries as well as from global giants such as Saudi Aramco, Rosneft, BP or Total. The sources said a contingency measure, or a Plan B, is a possibility if the bidders after access to the data room do not bid or if  they quote much lower that the government estimates. Among the options being considered is to call for a fresh bidding for BPCL and the biggest change could be to allow the state-owned firms like IOC and ONGC to bid. In the current round, they were barred from putting in their bids. If the state-run oil firms are allowed, it could be repeat of the HPCL sale to ONGC. The exploration firm had bought the government’s entire 51.11 per cent stake in oil refiner HPCL for Rs 36,915 crore in 2018. “For strategic disinvestment of BPCL, multiple expressions of interest have been received by the Transaction Adviser. The Transaction will move to the second stage after scrutiny by TA,” the government had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-231
19-11-2020||Business||Emami forays into home care segment||Emami has forayed into the Rs 4,000-crore home hygiene space with a suit of products to cash in on the changing consumption pattern during Covid times. The Calcutta-based FMCG player, which was so far present in the personal care and healthcare space, has entered the new category with the ‘Emasol’ brand. It has signed up cricketer Shikhar Dhawan as the brand ambassador. Director Mohan Goenka said the home hygiene segment has been growing in double digits even before the pandemic. “We are seeing frequent cleaning at home across all economic stratas. The category is expected to grow faster going forward,” Goenka said. A Worldpanel Kantar report says the use of toilet cleaners have gone up by 47 per cent, floor cleaners by 41 per cent and disinfectant use by 28 per cent in the post-Covid world. Nielsen category trends show that e-commerce channels recorded a growth of around 80 per cent for floor and toilet cleaners.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-231
19-11-2020||Business||Telecom operators mull rate hike to boost revenue||Telecom operators are likely to hike tariff by about 20 per cent before the year-end or early next year to boost their revenues as economic activity has shown signs of picking up and demand for data has gone up. A 20 per cent tariff hike could drive up Vodafone Idea’s average revenue per user (ARPU) to Rs 140 in 2021-22, a report by Motilal Oswal said on Wednesday. Bharti Airtel may follow suit but both will closely watch rival Reliance Jio’s moves and calibrate their rates accordingly. This is on the expected lines as the firms are struggling with cash burn and are trying to raise funds, analysts said. After the second-quarter results were out, Ravinder Takkar, Vodafone Idea (Vi) CEO, told analysts that “ongoing consultations around floor price (for data rates) doesn’t stop anyone from hiking tariffs, but the timing has to be right... the tariff hike decision is not far away”. However, Airtel CEO Gopal Vittal said while they would hike the tariff, it will surely not be the first operator to do so and will follow its peers. The report said Vi requires an ARPU hike of 74 per cent to achieve an EBITDA of Rs 300 billion to address its cash obligation sustainably in 2022-23, including the deferred spectrum payments. Vi also needs to arrest its subscriber churn to realise the benefit of the price hike, said the report. Motilal Oswal maintains Vi under “review” because of its liquidity crunch and limited clarity on business continuity. A 20 per cent hike could raise Airtel’s and Jio’s ARPU to Rs 178 and Rs 167, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-231
19-11-2020||Business||Hearing in Tata-Mistry case from December 2||Supreme Court on Wednesday said it will conduct from December 2 a “final hearing” on Tata Sons’ petition challenging the Shapoorji Pallonji Group’s decision to pledge its shares to a Canadian firm. Tata Sons has contested the Mistry camp's move to pledge its holding on the ground that the articles of association of the holding company confer a right of first refusal to the Tata group. The court also listed for final hearing the cross appeals filed by Tata Sons and Cyrus Investments against appellate tribunal NCLAT’s order which had restored Cyrus Mistry as the executive chairman of Tata Sons. “We will post the matter for final hearing,” Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde, heading a three-judge bench, told senior advocates Harish Salve and  Aryama Sundaram appearing for the Tata and Pallonji groups, respectively. Though Sundaram tried to make certain references to the additional affidavit filed by the Pallonji group, the CJI cut short the arguments saying:  “We have kept the matter for final hearing on December 2, why do you keep filing additional affidavits? Will everything not be covered in final hearing?” The bench includes Justices A.S. Bopanna and V.Ramasubramanian. In effect, the court will commence an elaborate hearing from December 2 on the rival claims, which is expected to spill over for several days before a final verdict is passed. Tata Sons has challenged the Pallonji Group’s agreement with Canada-based Brookfield to raise Rs 3,750 crore by pledging Tata Sons shares on the ground that the  Articles of Association (AoA) of the Tata’s restrict Pallonji Group from transferring shares without allowing Tata Sons the right of first refusal. However, the Pallonji Group is opposing Tata Sons’ plea on the ground that pledging of shares is not the same as that of transferring absolute ownership of shares to the Canadian firm. On September 22, the bench had directed the Pallonji group to maintain “status quo” with regard to transfer or pledging of its shares in Tata Sons. Both the parties had agreed to abide by any orders passed by the top court on the issue but wanted an early resolution of the dispute.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-231
19-11-2020||Business||Spotlight on Future Retail, Amazon ties||Details are emerging of Amazon holding controlling rights in Future Retail Limited (FRL) as the two parties slug it out in the Delhi high court over the acquisition of the Kishore Biyani-company by Reliance Retail. In the Delhi court, Future Retail is seeking to restrain Amazon which armed with the order of a Singapore arbitrator wants to stop the Reliance-Future deal. Amazon holding controlling rights in Future Retail has led to questions on whether the US online giant  is running foul of investment rules in multi-brand retail. Amazon on the other hand says it does not have any operational control over Future Retail and the agreement only tries to protect its investments. On August 22, 2019, Future Retail had informed the stock exchanges that existing shareholders forming part of the promoter group and Future Coupons Limited (FCL) entered into a share subscription agreement and a shareholders’ agreement with Amazon. Amazon has agreed to make an equity investment in Future Coupons for acquiring a 49 per cent stake comprising both voting and non-voting shares. A call option allowed Amazon to acquire all or part of the promoters’ shareholding in Future  Retail and is exercisable between the third to tenth years, in certain circumstances. However, 10 days ahead of this announcement, FRL had entered into a shareholders agreement with Future Coupons and other promoters to record certain rights and obligations of Future Coupons and the latter. Due to such an agreement, the interpretation is that Amazon has control rights in FRL, though the law does not provide that. Amazon had reportedly contended that it could have invested up to 9.9 per cent in Future Retail under the FPI route and that under the current transaction if conflated, it merely held 4.81 per cent in FRL through FCL and that it along with the 4.81 per cent only held “protective rights”/“passive rights” in FRL, which do not amount to ''control''.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-231
19-11-2020||Business||Sumitomo Bank announces capital infusion of $600 million in India||Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation (SMBC) of Japan has announced a capital infusion of $600 million in India and said it would open its third branch in Chennai. The funding doubles the capital commitment of the global banking corporation to $1.2 billion, the bank said. The other two branches of the bank are in New Delhi and Mumbai. The Chennai branch will cater to Indian and foreign companies operating in Tamil Nadu and neighbouring regions. Automotive, consumer durables, technology are among the sectors that stand to benefit from the expansion. SMBC Group is also looking to provide syndicated and bilateral loans and specialist financial advisory services for project, trade and asset finance as well as deposits and foreign exchange services in southern India. “We are aiming to become more Asia-centric and India remains extremely vital for the growth of our global business. As per the research of Jetro (Japan External Trade Organisation) in 2019, there were as many as 1,454 Japanese companies registered in India. That number is growing each year and clearly presents an opportunity for us,” said Toshitake Funaki, country head of India and general manager, New Delhi branch. “SMBC has a wide product suite, and we continue to build upon our capabilities to meet our clients’ requirements,” Funaki said. He said the capital base created the base for SMBC India to serve its customers’ growing requirements over the next several years. It would also allow the bank to substantially increase the group borrower and single borrower exposure limits to better serve its customers. SMBC currently has a strategic alliance with Kotak Mahindra Bank since the acquisition of a minority stake in the bank in 2010 and with Northern Arc Capital where it acquired a 5.4 per cent equity interest in December 2019. According to rating agency Crisil, SMBC Bank’s Indian operations started in December 2012 with the opening of its first branch in New Delhi. In March, 2017, the bank opened its second branch in Mumbai. The total asset size of SMBC in India was Rs 15,724 crore as on December 31, 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-231
19-11-2020||Business||Lakshmi Vilas Bank shares reduced to scrap||The shareholders of Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) will get nothing from the proposed merger with DBS Bank India Limited — a disagreeable prospect they woke up to a day after the details of the amalgamation scheme of the two banks were revealed, sending the LVB stock plummeting 20 per cent on the bourses on Wednesday. The stock sank to Rs 3.10 from Rs 12.40 as it hit the lower circuit filter when it emerged that the RBI in its draft scheme of amalgamation had shown the value of the shares held by the equity holders of the private sector bank to be zero. In the amalgamation scheme, the RBI said that from the “appointed date”, the entire amount of the paid-up share capital and reserves and surplus including the balances in the share or securities premium account of the transferor bank (LVB) will be written off. Shares or debentures of LVB listed in any bourse will be delisted without any further action from the transferor bank, DBIL or order from any authority, the RBI said. Stock exchange data showed that as of September 30, public shareholders held 93.20 per cent of the Tamil Nadu-based bank. The central bank’s proposed plan will affect 96,380 retail shareholders who hold close to 23.98 per cent of LVB. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) who hold 8.65 per cent, insurance companies having 6.40 per cent and HNI investors holding 22.75 per cent will also get nothing. Apart from these, entities such as Srei Infrastructure Finance (3.34 per cent), Indiabulls Housing Finance (4.99 per cent), Prolific Finvest having 3.36 per cent will also take a knock. Analysts said LVB’s net worth had turned negative and shareholders would have to take the hit. Besides, depositors get precedence over the shareholders. On Tuesday, the government had placed LVB under moratorium. During the one-month moratorium, depositors can withdraw up to Rs 25,000. T.N. Manoharan, the RBI-appointed administrator, on Tuesday said that the bank has enough liquidity to pay back the depositors. Speaking at a virtual press conference, he said  the depositors’ money is safe and that he was confident the merger with DBS would take place before the December 16 deadline. On the reasons behind recommending the moratorium to the Centre, the RBI said the financial position of LVB has undergone a steady decline with the bank incurring continuous losses over the last three years, eroding its net-worth. The lender has not been able to raise adequate capital to address issues around its negative net-worth and continuing losses. Shareholders miffed One of the shareholders, requesting anonymity, said: “The move should not be done at the cost of domestic investors, otherwise it would set a precedent that would discourage investors from investing their hard earned money in Indian banks and financial services firms.” The shareholder said any move that hinders the principles of natural justice should be avoided.  “Hence, we would urge RBI to reconsider the proposal of writing off the paid-up share capital and reserves, which would affect both retail and institutional shareholders of the bank.” The shareholder said the regulator should opt for a solution that is fair and protects the interest of all the stakeholders of the bank and does not discriminate one from another. With inputs from the Calcutta Bureau||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-232
19-11-2020||India||Bihar minister Mewa Lal Chaudhary quits role hours after assuming charge||Just three days after taking charge at Nitish Kumar’s newly formed cabinet, Bihar education minister Mewa Lal Chaudhary resigned from his post, amid controversies regarding his appointment despite being charged with corruption. According to informed sources, Chaudhary, who was allocated the position on Tuesday, immediately sent in his resignation after assuming the role at 1 pm. The JD(U) member had been named in a five-year old case in connection with alleged irregularities appointment of teachers and technicians at Bihar Agricultural University, Bhagalpur, where he served as the Vice Chancellor. On Wednesday, RJ(D) along with its allies threw heat at Chief Minister Nitish Kumar for appointing Chaudhary to his cabinet despite him facing corruption charges and being suspended from the party earlier, and demanded he should be sacked. RJ(D) leader Tejashwi Yadav said that the first-time minister faces serious charges under the Indian Penal Code including cheating and dishonestly (section 420), and criminal conspiracy (120B). Taking to Twitter, he asked, “"Has Chief Minister Nitish Kumar awarded Mewalal Choudhary for corruption and given him the freedom to loot?” The 67-year-old was suspended from the Kumar-led JD(U) in 2017 following the registration of an FIR against him in the irregularities case in February that year. The BJP, which currently has an alliance with JD(U), had also expressed strong opposition against Chaudhary at the time. "Look at the irony, the BJP which was attacking the JD (U) over Mewalal until now, is silent today," RJD supremo Lalu Prasad Yadav, who is currently lodged in prison, tweeted in Hindi. The former vice chancellor had then left his job to contest the 2015 Bihar polls on a JD(U) ticket, following which he was elected from Tarapur Assembly seat in Munger district and retained the seat in the 2020 polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-548
19-11-2020||India||Parliamentary committee grills Twitter over Kunal Kamra’s comments||A parliamentary committee on Thursday sought reply from Twitter within seven days after grilling the social media giant over recent ‘obscene’ tweets by stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra against the Supreme Court and the Chief Justice of India (CJI), said the panel's chairperson Meenakshi Lekhi. The incident came days after Twitter apologised to the same parliamentary committee in written for wrongly showing Ladakh as part of China and promised to rectify it by month-end. Representatives from Twitter India testified before the panel on Thursday. "It is shameful that Twitter is allowing its platform for obscene remarks like the one by stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra against the Supreme Court and the CJI," Lekhi told reporters today. "Twitter is allowing its platform to be misused for abusing top constitutional authorities, such as the Supreme Court and the CJI,” she added. She disclosed that members of the committee across the political array, including Congress MP Vivek Tankha, BSP MP Ritesh Pandey and BJD MP Bhatruhari Mahtab, questioned Twitter representatives over the issue. She added that the social media giant’s explanations to ban such tweets and handles were found to be inadequate. Kamra, however, has refused to withdraw his comments against the Supreme Court and the CJI, saying that he believes that his tweets “speak for themselves”. Last week, attorney-general K.K. Venugopal had granted consent for Kamra’s prosecution for criminal contempt on the basis of multiple petitions against his tweets about the Supreme Court and the grant of interim bail to Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami on November 11.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-548
19-11-2020||India||In Delhi, fines hiked, beds increased to fight Covid||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday, in a bid to curb the rising Covid-19 cases in the national capital, announced that the fine for not wearing face masks in public has been increased from Rs 500 to Rs 2,000. He also declared that the number of beds for Covid patients have been increased amid the surge. From November 19, Delhi government is implementing its call to reserve 80 per cent of ICU beds in private hospitals for those infected with Covid-19, Kejriwal added, while urging people not to celebrate Chhath at public water bodies in the city. Addressing a virtual press briefing, the CM said the government had directed private hospitals to increase the number of non-ICU Covid-19 beds from 50 per cent to 60 per cent. Announcing the fine hike for not wearing the masks, Kejriwal informed that he had met  Lt Governor Anil Baijal to brief him about the steps taken by his government to curb the spread of the infection. “Arrangements are being made for over 1,400 ICU beds, including 663 in Delhi government hospitals and 750 at a Central government facility,” he said, adding that about 7,500 general and 446 ICU beds are available for the city’s Covid-19 patients at the moment. “The hospitals have also been asked to postpone non-critical planned surgeries for the time being,” said Kejriwal. Talking about the all-party meeting regarding the pandemic situation in Delhi, the chief minister said he had received assurance of cooperation from all political parties regarding the control of the same. He said that he had urged them to distribute masks among the masses to help better the situation. Kejriwal urged people to stop doing politics over the pandemic and appealed to them to perform Chhath Puja at their homes. “Even if one COVID-19 infected person enters the water during Chhath Puja, all others might get infected by the virus”, the CM said. “The Delhi government is being forced to restrict Chhath Puja celebrations at riverbanks, ponds and other public places due to the threat of the infection,” he added. The Delhi government has also directed all district magistrates (DMs) to take appropriate measures to double the number of testing centres in their areas immediately, after discussing the same with Union Home Minister Amit Shah. The national capital has witnessed a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases since October 28, and recorded 7,486 fresh COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the infection tally to over 5 lakh. A total of 133 people died on this day, making the death toll the highest in the city as of now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-548
19-11-2020||India||High court slams Delhi govt for Covid negligence||The Delhi High Court castigated the AAP government on Thursday, asking if it could explain to those who had lost their near and dear ones to COVID-19 in the last 18 days why the administration did not take steps when cases were spiralling in the national capital. The high court, which also asked the government to look at the situation with a "magnifying glass", observed that it was "disheartening" to see that the number of daily deaths due to the virus had increased to 131 and fresh COVID cases have risen to 7,486. Pulling up the Delhi government, a bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad asked why it waited till the court intervened to take steps such as reducing the number of people attending weddings to 50 to prevent the spread of COVID-19. "You (Delhi government) saw from November 1 which way the wind was blowing. But you turn turtle now because we asked you some questions. The bell should have rung loud and clear when the numbers were spiralling. Why did you not wake up when you saw the situation was deteriorating? "Why did we have to shake you out of your slumber on November 11? What did you do from November 1 till November 11? Why did you wait 18 days (till November 18) to take a decision. Do you know how many lives were lost during this period? Can you explain it to those who lost their near and dear ones," the bench asked. It also noted that Delhi government statements, with regard to the rising COVID cases, to the Press appear to be contrary to the submissions made in court. The bench said that while Delhi government ministers were giving Press statements to the effect that third wave of COVID infections had reached its peak and the numbers were going down, the same "is not reflected" in the daily figures and the status report before the court. "We can take judicial note of the statements your ministers are making," the bench told senior advocate Sandeep Sethi and Delhi government additional standing counsel Satyakam, who were representing the AAP government. The bench also noted that crematoriums were "overflowing" and "funeral pyres were burning throughout the night" and asked the Delhi government whether adequate arrangements were in place to cremate or bury the rising number of people succumbing to COVID-19. It said that Delhi government ought to reduce its reliance on the Rapid Antigen Testing (RAT) and focus on increasing tests by the more accurate RTPCR method as more and more asymptomatic persons are testing positive and the number of COVID-19 cases are spiralling in the city. "Delhi government should have been alive to the fact that RAT is not effective," it said. RT/PCR, short for Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction, is a laboratory technique widely used in the diagnosis of genetic diseases and to measure gene expression in research. The bench directed the Delhi government to file a status report, before the next date of hearing on November 26, indicating the funeral/burial arrangements, increase of ICU beds in its hospitals by an additional number of 663 and number of care homes for accommodating those who cannot home quarantine themselves.Fines not a deterrent On implementation of social distancing norms, prevention of spitting and wearing of masks, the court was not satisfied with the monitoring being done by the Delhi government in some districts where COVID-19 numbers were high. The bench also said the fines being imposed -- Rs 500 for first violation and Rs 1,000 for every subsequent violation -- did not appear to be a deterrent. It said there appeared to be substantial disparity in monitoring and imposition of fines in certain districts as compared to others. "What kind of monitoring and marshalling are you doing? Look at the situation seriously with a magnifying glass. You have crossed cities like New York and Sao Paolo," the court said. The high court was hearing a PIL by advocate Rakesh Malhotra seeking increase in the COVID-19 testing numbers in the national capital and getting speedy results.Situation ‘alarming’ The court on November 11 had pulled up the Delhi government for relaxing norms for public movement and gatherings even as COVID-19 cases were increasing with no household "left untouched", and sought to know if it had any policy or strategy in place to deal with the "alarming" situation. It had directed the Delhi government to file a status report explaining steps taken by it in the last two weeks, when the COVID-19 cases have risen alarmingly, to contain the spread of the infection.Govt status report In its latest status report filed on Wednesday, the Delhi government said that it was not allowing all the activities, like reopening of schools, higher educational institutions and swimming pools, that have been permitted by the Central government. It also told the court that it banned bursting of firecrackers during Diwali with the view to prevent increase in air pollution and crowding of people and also prohibited celebration of Chhath Puja in public places, open grounds, river banks and temples. The Delhi government also told the court that it had approached the Centre seeking its sanction for closing certain markets in the city during certain days or hours of a week. It told the court that it was alive to the situation and was making every effort to arrest the spread of COVID-19. However, the bench said that whatever the Delhi government was doing was not enough in the prevailing situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-548
19-11-2020||India||State nod mandatory for CBI probe in its jurisdiction: SC||Noting that the provisions are in accordance with the federal character of the Constitution, bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar and BR Gavai said that it has to be one of the basic structures of the CBI. "It could thus be seen, that though Section 5 enables the central government to extend the powers and jurisdiction of members of the DSPE beyond the Union Territories to a State, the same is not permissible unless a State grants its consent for such an extension within the area of State concerned under Section 6 of the DSPE Act," the bench said. The said sections of the Delhi Special Police Establishment (DSPE) Act deal with the extension of powers and jurisdiction of special police establishments to other areas and consent of state government to exercise powers and jurisdiction. The top court’s observation emerged significant amid the recent withdrawal of “general consent” to CBI investigations in states including Punjab, Bengal, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh. The Supreme Court on Thursday said the state government’s consent is compulsory for a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) inquiry in its jurisdiction and that the agency cannot probe any case without its permission. The SC’s verdict came in view of an appeal filed by a few accused private and public servants, who challenged the top agency’s validity in probing a corruption case against them saying that the CBI had not taken permission from the state governments. The appeals challenged an August 2019 verdict passed by the Allahabad High Court against Fertico Marketing and Investment Private Limited and others. The HC had said that the Uttar Pradesh government had issued post-facto consent against the two public servants who were later named in the chargesheet, adding that it was enough to proceed with the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-549
19-11-2020||India||Four suspected Jaish militants killed in encounter at J&K||Four suspected Jaish-e-Mohammed militants were killed in an encounter with security forces early Thursday near the toll plaza in Ban area of Nagrota on the Jammu-Srinagar national highway, officials said. They added that  a huge cache of arms and ammunition were recovered from the slain terrorists’ possession. According to a top police officer, the militants were on their way to the Kashmir Valley to disrupt the District Development Council (DDC) which will be held later this month, as the neighbouring Pakistan has been trying to cause trouble in the political process. For the last few days, Pakistan has increased attempts to infiltrate militants into this side and to disturb the elections for which the process is on. In this context, Jammu Police and security forces have done a good job by neutralising four Pakistanis (militants). Their (militants') aim was to come to Kashmir to disturb the election process,” Vijay kumar, Inspector General of Police (IGP), Kashmir, told reporters. He added that the security forces were fully prepared to tackle any militant attack during the polls. “Whether there is an election or August 15 or January 26 or even a VIP visit, apprehensions are always there, but we are fully prepared... We are providing security to the candidates and they have started going to the field for campaigning from yesterday and there is nothing to fear,” Kumar said. However, according to the IGP, providing security to each candidate in the November 28 polls would be difficult. “Providing security to each candidate is difficult. We are providing them collective security and they are being put up in secure areas. Whenever any candidate goes out for campaigning, we provide a double escort with him and secure the area for him to campaign, he said when asked that the candidates were alleging they had not been provided security.” On being asked about the number of terrorists waiting at the launch pads along the Line of Control (LoC) to infiltrate the Indian side, Kumar informed that that according to inputs, about 250 of them, adding that the security forces are prepared to foil Pakistan’s intentions. “Other security forces have already given the figures that about 200 to 250 militants are ready to infiltrate, but the security forces are alert. The endeavour of Pakistan is to push more militants into this side, but the security forces are prepared to foil their designs,” he said. The IGP also informed that the militant behind Wednesday’s grenade attack in Pulwama has been identified as well. “It was an unfortunate incident. The target was CRPF and police, but 12 civilians were injured -- out of whom four were rushed to a Srinagar hospital, but their condition is stable. We have identified the militant who threw the grenade and we are after him and will arrest him soon,” Kumar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-549
19-11-2020||India||More than 45,000 fresh infections takes Covid caseload past 89.5 lakh||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 89.58 lakh with fresh 45,576 infections, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to over 83.83 lakh pushing the national recovery rate to 93.58 per cent, according to data updated by the Union Health Ministry on Thursday. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 89,58,483, with 45,576 infections being reported in a day while the death toll climbed to 1,31,578 with 585 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of active cases remained below 5 lakh for the ninth consecutive day. There are 4,43,303 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country as on date which accounts for 4.95 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. The total recoveries have surged to 83,83,602, pushing the national recovery rate to 93.58 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.47 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 12,85,08,389 samples have been tested up to November 18, of which 10,28,203 samples were tested on Wednesday. The 585 new fatalities include 131 from Delhi, 100 from Maharashtra, 54 from Bengal, 31 from Punjab, 30 from Haryana, 29 from Uttar Pradesh, 28 from Kerala, 23 from Chhattisgarh and 21 from Karnataka. Total 1,31,578 deaths reported so far in the country include 46,202 from Maharashtra, 11,578 from Karnataka, 11,531 from Tamil Nadu, 7,943 from Delhi, 7,820 from Bengal, 7,441 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,899 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,541 from Punjab and 3,823 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-549
19-11-2020||India||Delhi's air quality slips back into 'poor' category||Delhi's air quality was recorded in the poor category on Thursday morning and is likely to deteriorate further amid a dip in the minimum temperature. The minimum temperature in the national capital dropped to 9.4 degrees Celsius on Thursday morning, the lowest this season so far, due to cold winds blowing from snow-capped western Himalayas. A change in the wind direction has also increased the share of stubble burning in the city's pollution slightly. Delhi's air quality index was recorded at 272 at 9 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 211 on Wednesday and 171 on Tuesday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". V K Soni, the head of the IMD's environment research centre, said the northwesterly winds increased the stubble contribution slightly on Wednesday. According to the Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR, stubble burning accounted for 8 percent of Delhi's PM2.5 pollution on Wednesday. It was 3 percent on Tuesday. Around 800 fire points were observed in Punjab, Haryana and western Pakistan on Wednesday. However, their impact on Delhi-NCR's air quality will not be significant, Soni said. The central government's Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi also said Delhi-NCR's air quality is likely to remain in the moderate and the lower end of the poor category on Thursday and Friday. However, SAFAR said it may deteriorate to the lower end of the very poor category on Friday and Saturday, as the conductive meteorological environment created after rainfall is slowly retreating . The minimum temperature settled at 9.4 degrees Celsius on Thursday the lowest this season so far -- and the maximum wind speed was predicted to be 10 kmph, according to IMD. Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion. Delhi's ventilation index -- a product of mixing depth and average wind speed was around 5,000 m2/s on Wednesday and is likely to be 7,500 m2/s on Thursday. Mixing depth is the vertical height in which pollutants are suspended in the air. It reduces on cold days with calm wind speed. A ventilation index lower than 6,000 sqm/second, with the average wind speed less than 10 kmph, is unfavourable for dispersal of pollutants. The IMD had earlier said the minimum temperature in Delhi will drop to 9 degrees Celsius by Saturday, as cold winds have started blowing from hilly regions, which have witnessed a fresh bout of snowfall. The minimum temperature this month, barring on November 16, has remained 2-3 degree Celsius below normal in the absence of a cloud cover, according to IMD officials. The minimum temperature on Thursday was three notches below normal in the nattional capital. The city recorded a low of 10.6 degrees Celsius on Wednesday. The average minimum temperature from November 22 to November 26 is 11.3 degrees Celsius, according to the India Meteorological Department. The IMD had earlier predicted a drop in the minimum temperature in Delhi as cold winds have started blowing from hilly regions, which have witnessed a fresh bout of snowfall. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-549
19-11-2020||India||Sunita Narain awarded the Edinburgh Medal 2020||Sunita Narain, director-general of the New Delhi-based think-tank Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), has won the Edinburgh Medal 2020, instituted by the City of Edinburgh Council. Narain is the second Indian after Amartya Sen to receive the award, the latter winning it in 1997, after it was instituted in 1988. “It’s a great honour and I take it as a vindication of the stand taken by the CSE over the years in upholding climate justice particularly equity, equitable but just responsibility of countries in cutting down carbon emission” Narain told The Telegraph. She was supposed to travel to Edinburgh in April to receive the award but could not because of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-549
19-11-2020||India||Birju Maharaj, other artistes face eviction threat||Celebrated artists including Kathak exponent Birju Maharaj, painter Jatin Das and Hindustani classical maestro Wasifuddin Dagar face the threat of eviction from government accommodation in Delhi despite their age, the pandemic and pleas to the Centre. Culture minister Prahlad Patel signalled the government’s firmness on evicting the veteran creative and performing artists, although nearly half the houses earmarked for artists are already vacant. “The policy already exists and it’s clear that no one can stay on above the age of 60, or for more than two terms of three years each. Their income should not be more than Rs 20,000 a month. But people have been living (in these government houses) for 12 to 35 years,” he told The Telegraph. “The CCA (cabinet committee on accommodation) has decided to waive their liability (penalty for overstay) if they vacate. If they don’t, then commercial rates will apply.” Since the 1970s, many award-winning artists aged between 40 and 60 have on the culture ministry’s recommendation been allotted government accommodation at nominal rents for three-year terms that were routinely renewed. Forty such homes are now available. Of these, 21 are occupied — 14 of them in the Asiad Village. Birju Maharaj told this newspaper: “I’m 83 now. At this age, I hoped the government would let me live here as long as I was alive. There isn’t much time left for me, anyway. We served India through culture, and when we travelled the world to showcase our art, we represented India.” But Patel said: “(Any new) policy on who should be accommodated will be framed later, after they have vacated (the houses). Where do new artists who really need homes go? If an MLA or MP sticks to one place, then what happens to others? The rules are the same for all.” The Hindu newspaper has reported that the CCA, headed by Union home minister Amit Shah, had on November 8 approved a culture ministry proposal to waive “damage charges” — penalty for overstay — against 27 artists allotted government houses in Delhi. The total penalty amounted to Rs 32.09 crore. The extensions given to these artists to stay on in these houses had expired in 2014. Six among the 27 have already left, including the family of theatre exponent Joy Michael who died in 2018 and Kuchipudi expert Raja Reddy, who vacated his government house in August this year. Last month, the remaining 21 — including the families of the late artistes Ghulam Sadiq Khan, Sabri Khan and Asad Ali Khan — were ordered to vacate their bungalows by December 31. Failing this, they are to be evicted and fined an amount around 50 times the rent for the duration of overstay, including pending rent dues of more than Rs 2 crore. “I have written to the Prime Minister and the housing and urban affairs minister (Hardeep Puri), but I’m yet to receive a reply. I ask them to think about us — who have given our whole life for the culture of this country,” Birju Maharaj said. “Where do we go once we are evicted? I have no other home. Rajiv Gandhi gave me this home (on Shahjahan Road) in 1985, along with another to Pandit Ravi Shankar (in Lodhi Estate).” Before being allotted his current home, Birju Maharaj had lived in another government house since 1978, when the Janata Party was in power. The government accommodation for the artists ranges from two-bedroom to four-bedroom houses. Puri, the housing and urban affairs minister, told this newspaper that it was for the culture ministry to decide what facilities artists get. Five artistes had received calls to meet culture secretary Raghvendra Singh after writing to everyone from the joint secretary in the culture and housing ministries to the Prime Minister. They were dance historian Sunil Kothari, Kuchipudi guru Veernala Jayarama Rao, Mohiniyattom expert Bharati Shivaji, Dagar and Sangeet Natak Akademi awardee and Kathak expert Nalini Asthana. They received no assurances, except that their request would be examined. “At the age of 73, during a pandemic, I expected my government to support me and not evict us,” Rao said. His wife Vanashree — a Sangeet Natak Akademi awardee and Kuchipudi dancer — said the family had been paying the rent of Rs 16,800 per month, cumulatively every six months, for its 2BHK home in Asiad Village. “We received notices in 1994, 2004, 2014, 2017 and 2018 before this. In 2018, we were given just 15 days to vacate but officials told us to keep paying the rent and nothing would happen,” she said. “We are both in our early 70s, and for the last eight months we have had no income since we can’t conduct classes amid the pandemic and since all performances have stopped.” She added: “Unlike Bollywood artistes we don’t make a lot of money. It’s only state festivals that pay us in full, and even that amount is spent on the musicians and lights. We have no pension or provident fund.” She went on: “You call us cultural legends, ambassadors and so on but are unable to house some 20 of us. We are not against others getting accommodation too.... Give us some place to stay. For so many years (since 1987) we have developed our art and our livelihood from this house.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-549
19-11-2020||India||Kahmir BJP chief sets new goal:  chant 'Jai Sri Ram' and wear a tilak||Article 370 provisions junked, Jammu and Kashmir BJP chief Ravinder Raina has set himself and his party a new goal. He wants to force former chief ministers Farooq Abdullah, Mehbooba Mufti and Ghulam Nabi Azad to chant “Jai Sri Ram” and wear a tilak. Many in Jammu and Kashmir believe that Article 370, which gave special rights to permanent residents, was scrapped to change the Muslim-majority character of the erstwhile state. Remarks like Raina’s can only add to their fears. Raina, seen by many as a loose cannon, has risen through the ranks in his party. He is known for making inflammatory remarks, and with elections approaching he is always willing to walk the extra mile. “Just wait and watch. You will see what more they have to do. They will have to wear a tilak and chant ‘Jai Sri Ram’,” Raina told a local TV channel in Jammu on Tuesday. “They will have to chant ‘Jai Sri Ram’ in the future. Whether it’s the NC (National Conference), PDP (People’s Democratic Party), Congress, (Farooq) Abdullah, (Mehbooba) Mufti, Ghulam-shulam (Ghulam Nabi Azad). No matter how many they are, they will have to chant ‘Bharat Mata ki jai’ and ‘Jai Sri Ram’.” The National Conference and the PDP are part of a seven-party alliance campaigning for the restoration of Article 370. The alliance will be contesting the maiden district development council elections, beginning from November 28, to rally support for its agenda. Raina had gone into a shell recently after the Centre changed the laws to allow outsiders to own land in Jammu and Kashmir. The decision has enraged many Jammu Hindus, called Dogras, who see it as an assault on their culture. The local Congress leadership’s decision to have a poll tie-up with the alliance has now given Raina an opportunity to bounce back with a vengeance. The Congress has clarified that it is not part of the alliance, which suggests it only wants a seat-sharing arrangement. Raina threatened to send all the Valley’s mainstream politicians to jail and said that whatever they ate would be pulled out through their nose. “Yeh Gokkar gang waley, yeh ghaddar, loteri, daku, desh de ghaddar, sarey atankwadi, Pakistani (This Gupkar gang, these traitors, thieves, bandits, traitors against the country, all are terrorists, Pakistani). They are taking money from China to vitiate the atmosphere in Jammu and Kashmir." he said. "People will teach them a lesson. They know the BJP will sweep the elections." He added: “Bharat mein agar rehna hai toh ‘Bharat Mata ki jai’ kehna hoga. Tiranga haat mein lena hoga (If you have to live in India you must chant ‘Victory to Bharat Mata’ and hold the Tricolour).” Mehbooba has refused to hold the national flag until Jammu and Kashmir’s former state flag has been restored. PDP spokesperson Najmus Saqib said Raina wanted to pit one community against another for votes and divert the people’s attention from issues such as joblessness. “The ruling alliance in Bihar has not a single Muslim candidate (MLA); it’s a reflection of what they want to eventually do in Kashmir,” Saqib told The Telegraph. “This is brazen communalism. The people of India will have to decide whether they want to live in a theocratic Hindutva society or... a secular state.” The BJP government in Madhya Pradesh has decided to set up a separate “cabinet” for the protection and promotion of the cow, PTI reported. The maiden meeting of the “gau cabinet” will be held on November 22 at a cow sanctuary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-549
19-11-2020||India||Slight but curious variance in accounts ||US President-elect Joe Biden spoke about “strengthening democracy at home and abroad” on Tuesday during his first conversation with Prime Minister Narendra Modi after the US presidential polls were called in his favour a week and a half ago. The telephone conversation took place late on Tuesday night. It was Modi who first announced that the conversation had taken place by posting two tweets close to midnight. Neither these two tweets nor the official readout issued by the Indian external affairs ministry mentioned Biden talking about working with Modi towards “strengthening dem-ocracy at home and abroad”. The words were included in the readout from the Biden-Harris Presidential Transition. The only mention of democracy in the ministry’s statement was a reference to the Prime Minister describing Biden’s election as “a testament to the strength and resilience of democratic traditions in the United States”. Sources said not too much should be made of the slight difference in the two readouts since statements by different capitals about the same conversation are seldom identical. They also underlined that the Indian readout spoke of shared values, one of which is democracy. “The leaders agreed to work closely to further advance the India-US Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership, built on shared values and common interests,” the external affairs ministry had said. “The leaders also discussed their priorities, including containing the Covid-19 pandemic, promoting access to affordable vaccines, tackling climate change, and cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region.” The readout put out by the Biden-Harris Presidential Transition said: “The President-elect noted that he looks forward to working closely with the Prime Minister on shared global challenges, including containing Covid-19 and defending against future health crises, tackling the threat of climate change, launching the global economic recovery, strengthening democracy at home and abroad, and maintaining a secure and prosperous Indo-Pacific region.” The Biden administration is widely expected to be more vocal than the Trump White House on issues relating to democracy and liberalism. During his campaign, Biden had called for restoration of the rights of the people of Kashmir and expressed his disappointment with the Citizenship Amendment Act, terming these measures “inconsistent with the country’s long tradition of secularism and with sustaining a multi-ethnic and multi-religious democracy”. The Biden-Modi conversation was part of a series of congratulatory calls that the President-elect took part in over the past week. On Tuesday, Biden spoke to five leaders including Modi, the others being the President of Chile, the President and Prime Minister of Israel, and the President of South Africa. By Tuesday evening, Biden had spoken to 14 world leaders, beginning with neighbour Canada and longstanding US allies in Europe and Asia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-549
19-11-2020||India||Vaccine boost and rider||The high-efficacy candidate vaccines against the coronavirus disease from Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna represent triumphs of science, but researchers and officials say India is unlikely to get either product in the doses needed to address its epidemic. Both the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna candidates have in clinical trials shown 95 per cent efficacy in protecting people from Covid-19, emerging from an unprecedented pace of research that has brought vaccines in sight only 10 months since scientists unveiled the genome of SARS-CoV-2, the Covid-19 virus. The US-based Pfizer and the Germany-based BioNTech jointly announced on Wednesday that the final analysis in their ongoing clinical trial had indicated a vaccine efficacy rate of 95 per cent. Among over 41,000 people in their trial, there have been 170 cases of coronavirus disease --- 162 cases among those who received placebo injections and 8 cases among those who received the vaccine. Among the 10 severe Covid-19 cases, nine were in the placebo group and one in the vaccine group. Pfizer-BioNTech said it would submit an application “within days” to the US drug regulatory authority for “emergency use authorisation” of the vaccine. The US-based Moderna had this week announced over 94 per cent efficacy and plans to seek emergency use authorisation “within weeks”. Pfizer and BioNTech have announced they can produce 50 million doses in 2020 and up to 1.3 billion doses during 2021. Moderna has said it can ship 20 million doses in 2020 and 500 million to 1 billion during 2021. But health researchers and officials in India do not expect either of these vaccines to be available in the country in the quantities required to support mass vaccination campaigns — primarily because high-income nations have already made advance purchase orders. The US department of health and human services (HHS) had in July announced up to $1.95 billion in funds for Pfizer towards the large-scale manufacture and nationwide distribution of 100 million doses of their candidate. In August, the HHS announced $1.5 billion for 100 million doses of the Moderna vaccine. “We’ll need to wait for other vaccines to emerge,” said a clinician-researcher and member of the Centre’s expert panel on Covid-19 vaccines. Three candidate vaccines -- including two home-grown ones and one from Oxford university -- are under clinical trial in India for efficacy. Trials on two other candidates are expected to start within days. Researchers and officials say they are aware that whatever efficacy levels emerge from the trials in India are likely to be compared with the high-efficacy levels of the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna candidates. They say vaccines with lower efficacy points need not be interpreted as inferior products. “We don’t compare two vaccines on a table — the vaccination strategy is more important than vaccine efficacy,” said Samiran Panda, an infectious disease specialist and head of the division of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research. Many regulatory authorities worldwide, including India’s Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, have set 50 per cent efficacy as the threshold for Covid-19 vaccines. This means a candidate vaccine with anything above 50 per cent efficacy, for instance 65 per cent, that meets the safety criteria would get approved. Public health researchers say an efficient vaccination strategy would target specific groups of the population in efforts to stop the epidemic. “The 65 versus 95 is not something I’d worry about,” Panda said. “I would rather be in a country with a 65 per cent efficacy vaccine with 90 per cent vaccination than in a country with a 90 per cent efficacy vaccine but only 40 per cent vaccination.” Public health researchers say the quantity of vaccines available will critically determine whether a country can address the challenge posed by the Covid-19 pandemic. They have underlined that to stop the pandemic, India would not need to vaccinate 1.3 billion people but 40 to 50 per cent of them. Such a mass vaccination campaign would require 1 billion to 1.3 billion doses, based on a two-dose vaccination schedule. India’s Bharat Biotech, which is testing a home-grown vaccine, has said it can provide 300 million doses per year while the Serum Institute, which is producing AstraZeneca’s candidate, could produce 560 million doses a year, of which half will be available for India. “India is better placed than most countries mainly because of our manufacturing capacity,” said Shahid Jameel, a senior virologist and director of the Trivedi School of Biosciences at India’s Ashoka University. “It is an unequal world, so no point asking why one country may get a given vaccine while another may not.” Jameel said the foreign-made vaccines are also expected to be expensive for India. “A price tag of $20 to $35 per dose would be unaffordable for India. Compare that with the $3 per dose pledged by an Indian manufacturer. This is not a race. We expect additional vaccines to emerge over the next six months,” he said. “Eighteen months to a vaccine instead of the usual 10 to 30 years is good going.” The Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna candidates are both novel vaccines that use genetic material called RNA as a “platform” that promises certain advantages over traditional or other platforms. India has a candidate RNA vaccine now awaiting the Centre’s approval for human trials. “India should have been working on research related to RNA vaccines before the pandemic. Our biological institutions have had the capacity to do that,” said Sudanshu Vrati, a senior virologist at the Regional Centre for Biotechnology in Faridabad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-549
19-11-2020||India||SC refuses to adjourn appeal challenging Modi election||The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to adjourn the appeal of dismissed BSF jawan Tej Bahadur Yadav challenging Narendra Modi’s election from Varanasi in 2019. “No, we can’t adjourn the matter. You are abusing the process of law…you go ahead with the matter. We have already adjourned the matter many times. This is an important case which revolves around the unique office of the Prime Minister. You have made the Prime Minister the respondent. We cannot keep it pending indefinitely,” Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde, heading a bench also comprising Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, told the counsel for Yadav. A bench headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde made the observation while refusing to accede to the request of, advocate appearing for Tej Bahdur for either adjourning the case of at least pass over the case. In legal parlance, adjournment refers to postponement of the hearing to a later date, while passover is done only for a few minutes or hours, but the matter is heard on the same day. Besides challenging the rejection of his nomination papers, Yadav wanted the result of Modi’s win set aside and declared as “void”. The returning officer for the constituency had rejected Yadav’s nomination papers on May 1, 2019, on the ground that he had concealed the factum of his dismissal from service upon conviction in April 2017, which was a ground for disqualification for contesting elections for a period of six years under the election rules. As soon as the case, which was listed as Item No. 1 on the agenda came up for hearing on Wednesday, Yadav’s counsel repeatedly urged the court to adjourn the matter to help him fully prepare with the case. However, the CJI rejected the plea saying the matter was already adjourned on a number of occasions. “As far as I remember, I myself had heard the matter four times while sitting with my brother Justice Bopanna,” Justice Bobde said. The counsel insisted that if not adjournment the court should at least pass over the matter. But the CJI refused to concede the plea. “We can’t give you indefinite time to hear this case. You show us the evidence. Is it so important to take passover in the case? The adjournments have gone so long for three months in the case,” Justice Bobde said. In response to query from the bench, the counsel said Yadav had filed two nomination papers — one as an Independent and another as a Samajwadi Party candidate. “This is a case going for long time, please carry on,” the CJI told the counsel, after he again insisted that the matter be either adjourned or passed over. The court also briefly heard senior advocate Harish Salve appearing for Modi. The senior advocate told the bench that the high court had rightly dismissed his plea as the petitioner had failed to furnish the relevant details sought by the returning officer.The bench later reserved the verdict. The apex court will pronounce the judgment either on Friday or next week. Yadav, earlier dismissed by the Centre after he alleged on social media that substandard food was served to soldiers on the border, had filed two nomination papers for the Varanasi seat — one as an Independent candidate on April 24, 2019, and another as a SP candidate on April 23, 2019. He had challenged the rejection of his nomination papers in Allahabad High Court pleading that although he was dismissed from service of Government of India, the dismissal was not on the ground of corruption or disloyalty to the State, which in terms of Section 9 and Section 33(3) of The Representation of the People Act, 1951, would have acted as a bar from his contesting the election. However, the high court on December 6, 2019, dismissed his plea on the ground that Yadav had no locus standi (legal right) as he was neither a voter nor a resident of Varanasi and as such his election petition was not maintainable.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-549
19-11-2020||India||Graft cuffs on IUML ex-minister ||Indian Union Muslim League lawmaker and former Kerala public works minister V.K. Ibrahim Kunju was arrested in Kochi on Wednesday over his alleged involvement in a multi-crore corruption case related to the construction of a flyover. A team from the state Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau recorded the arrest after seeking medical opinion since Kunju, 68, had got himself admitted to a private hospital for an ailment he was already under treatment for. The vigilance department had earlier questioned him several times during the investigation into the alleged corruption in the construction of a flyover at Palarivattom in Kochi city. Built at a cost of Rs 42 crore during the previous United Democratic Front government headed by the Congress’s Oommen Chandy, the flyover was inaugurated in 2016 but soon developed holes and cracks leading to its closure in May 2019. Based on expert opinion, the Left Democratic Front government started demolishing faulty sections of the flyover in September 2019. It will be eventually re-constructed. Kunju was listed as the fifth accused in the case in which four others, including an IAS officer, have already been arrested. Sumeet Goyal, managing director of the construction company RDS Projects Ltd; M.T. Thankachan, then assistant manager of the Roads and Bridges Development Corporation of Kerala; Benny Paul, joint general manager of the consultancy KITCO Ltd, and then public works department secretary T.O. Sooraj were arrested last year. They are all out on bail. The vigilance bureau would take Kunju into custody once they secure medical clearance from the doctors treating him. The flyover project was marred by a series of corrupt practices allegedly involving the then minister and others including the PWD secretary. The vigilance probe had found that Goyal was allowed a “mobilisation advance” (working capital) of Rs 8.25 crore, that too interest free, on the direction of Kunju although such a provision was not announced in the tender. The then minister and the officials concerned signed the file allowing the advance in just a day after the contractor applied for the fund. Kunju was already facing investigation in a money-laundering case filed by the Enforcement Directorate that was probing if he had used a party mouthpiece to launder Rs 10 crore of ill-gotten wealth. It is being probed whether the amount was partly or fully kickbacks from the flyover project. Kunju is the second IUML lawmaker to be arrested this month after M.C. Kamaruddin was taken into custody for allegedly swindling more than 800 depositors out of over Rs 150 crore in a gold investment scheme run by his now-defunct firm. Kamaruddin had allegedly run the investment scheme without the requisite permissions and most of the aggrieved investors belonged to his party. The IUML has found itself in a spot over its lawmakers getting embroiled in corruption cases and scams ahead of the local body polls in December. Another IUML lawmaker, K.M. Shaji, has been booked in a bribery case involving the illegal construction of a palatial house beyond his known sources of income. The vigilance bureau and the ED are separately probing the case. The leader of the Opposition, the Congress’s Ramesh Chennithala, accused the government of misusing law-enforcement agencies to target political rivals. The Congress and the IUML are allies. “The people of Kerala should understand this political vendetta using law-enforcement agencies. The chief minister is directly intervening in these cases by putting pressure on officials to act against political rivals,” said Chennithala. “What wrong did Ibrahim Kunju do? Was it the first instance of granting a mobilisation advance? He had only put his signature on that document granting mobilisation advance,” the Congress leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-550
19-11-2020||India||SC notice to Jaishankar||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued notice to external affairs minister S. Jaishankar on Congress leader Gaurav Hemantbhai Pandya’s appeal challenging his Rajya Sabha election from Gujarat in July last year, on the ground that the Election Commission should not have held separate elections for the two seats vacated by Union ministers Amit Shah and Smriti Irani. The court also issued notice to another BJP MP, Jugalsinh Mathurji Lokhandwala, who also got elected from Gujarat, on the petitions filed by two other unsuccessful Congress candidates Paresh Kumar Dhirajlal Dhanani and Chandrikaben Kanjibhai Chudasama raising the same plea. Pandya and the two others have moved the apex court after Gujarat High Court on February 4 dismissed their petitions challenging the two BJP candidates’ election on the ground that the poll panel had acted illegally by conducting separate polls to the two RS seats vacated by Shah and Irani, after they got elected to the Lok Sabha. Senior advocate Harish Salve, who was present in the court, on a caveat accepted the notice on behalf of Jaishankar and said he would file his response to the petition. Pandya had challenged the election of Jaishankar on the ground that the EC could not have issued separate notifications to fill up the vacant seats as according to him the elections for the two seats ought to have been held simultaneously under the rules and not separately. The Congress had earlier accused the EC of deliberately issuing two separate notifications to fill up the seats as the party did not have sufficient numerical strength in the Gujarat Assembly to get its own candidate elected if the elections are held separately. A bench headed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde, while issuing the notice, told senior advocate Kapil Sibal appearing for Pandya that it will hear the matter at the earliest on a “short date, on a non-miscellaneous day”. The bench, which included Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, however, did not specify the date of hearing. According to the Congress leaders, the EC had acted in an “arbitrary” and “mala fide” manner by issuing separate notifications for holding separate elections to the two vacant seats instead of conducting the process in one single instalment. It was submitted that the EC’s decision was totally contrary to the rules framed under The Representation of the People Act, 1951, which mandated that elections to the vacant seats should be held simultaneously and not separately.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-550
19-11-2020||India||Corruption heat on Nitish minister||The Opposition turned up the heat on the Nitish Kumar-led NDA government in Bihar for making recruitment scam accused Mewalal Choudhary a minister and handing him over the education portfolio. Mewalal is currently out on interim bail. RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav raised the issue to attack the government and said: “Chief minister Nitish Kumar has made Mewalal Choudhary, who is an accused in serious cases of corruption in the appointment of assistant professors and construction of building, a minister. Is it a reward for corruption and a free hand to loot?” Tejashwi, whose RJD with 75 MLAs is the largest party in the 243-seat Assembly, followed it up with sharp comments on the first few days of the government. “An accused and absconder in various cases of corruption has been made the education minister. Nobody from minority communities has been made a minister. The criminals patronised by the government are making merry. Crime is breaking all records. However, the chief minister will keep preaching on crime, corruption and communalism for the sake of power,” Tejaswhi said. Mewalal is a member of Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United (JDU) and is an MLA from Tarapur in Munger district. Attempts to contact Mewalal were not successful.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-550
19-11-2020||India||JNU model of inclusion: Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday paid glowing tribute to the legacy of Jawaharlal Nehru University in encouraging free debate and respect for difference of opinion and described JNU as a model of inclusion, diversity and excellence. The university, which is seen as a Left bastion, has been a favourite punching bag of the Right-wing ecosystem, has hurtled from one controversy to another, been painted as a hub of “anti-national” activities and blamed for the many ills plaguing the country, and its students have been targeted over the past six years of NDA rule. Addressing the JNU convocation, Kovind, the Visitor, said: “On the campus, students and teachers live in close proximity. This closeness strengthens the bond between them. This closer bond facilitates learning. The excellent faculty of this university has been encouraging free debate and respect for difference in opinions. “Students are treated as partners in learning, which is how it should be in higher education. The university is known for vibrant discussions, which also take place outside the classrooms, in the cafeterias and dhabas at all hours.” In 2016, a police force had been sent into JNU and students arrested on the charge of raising “anti-national” slogans. Six students, including then union president Kanhaiya Kumar, were picked up for sedition. Earlier this year, a group of masked men and women entered the campus and attacked students and teachers who were opposed to a proposal for hostel fee hike. Kovind said JNU had produced many eminent personalities and had been guided by some of the greatest minds. He referred to former President K.R. Narayanan, who had served as vice-chancellor. The President also named finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and external affairs minister S. Jaishankar among notable alumni. “From among the over 80,000 former students of JNU, many have been making their impact in India and abroad through contribution in the civil services, academia, politics, social work, science and technology, media and communications, fine arts and business leadership,” Kovind said. He praised JNU for its national character. Students from all parts of India and from all strata of society study in JNU in an “atmosphere of equal opportunity for excellence”, Kovind pointed out. “The university represents blending of inclusion, diversity and excellence,” the President added. He also reflected on diversity at JNU whose hostels are named after famous rivers of India. The President quoted Mahatma Gandhi and Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar to ask the students to work for the people. “It is your sacred duty to repay this debt by reaching out to the people who are left behind in the country’s journey for growth and development,” Kovind said. He also quoted Swami Vivekananda who had stressed on “life-building, man-making and character-making assimilation of ideas”. Kovind remembered India’s rich tradition in higher education, referring to institutions like Takshashila, Nalanda, Vikramshila and Vallabhi. He also hailed India’s scholars like Charaka, Aryabhata, Chanakya, Panini, Patanjali, Gargi, Maitreyi and Thiruvalluvar. “Today’s Indian scholars should try to create such an original body of knowledge which is utilised for dealing with contemporary global challenges. JNU is among those select institutions of higher learning which can reach globally comparable excellence,” Kovind said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-550
19-11-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh govt to set up ‘cow cabinet’ ||The BJP government in Madhya Pradesh has decided to set up a “gau cabinet” for the protection and promotion of the cow, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced on Wednesday. “It has been decided to constitute a ‘gau cabinet’ for the protection and fostering of godhan (cow and its progeny) in the state,” Chouhan tweeted in Hindi. Ministers of the animal husbandry, forest, panchayat and rural development, revenue, home and farmers’ welfare departments will be part of the cabinet, he said. “The first meeting will be held at 12 noon on November 22 to mark Gopashtami at the Gau Sanctuary in Agar Malwa,” Chouhan added. Besides Chouhan, the cabinet will include home minister Narottam Mishra, forest minister Vijay Shah, agriculture minister Kamal Patel, panchayat and rural development minister Mahendra Singh Sisodia and animal husbandry minister Prem Singh Patel. An action plan will be implemented for increasing the use of cow dung cakes. The making and marketing of gau-kasht (cow-wood) is being encouraged and efforts will be made to also market products made from cow milk, the chief minister said. State Congress chief Kamal Nath alleged that Chouhan had not kept his promise made before the 2018 Assembly elections. “Shivraj Singh, who had announced the formation of a separate cow ministry in the state before the 2018 Assembly elections, is now talking about setting up a cabinet for cow protection and fostering,” the former chief minister said. The announcement of a cow cabinet came a day after the Madhya Pradesh government said it is planning to introduce a bill proposing five years’ imprisonment for the alleged practice of luring a person through fraud and forcing marriage by religious conversion. The Dharma Swatantrya (Religious Freedom) Bill, 2020, is expected to be introduced in the next session of the Assembly, home minister Mishra said. “Such incidents are on the rise, which you call ‘love jihad’,” he added. The bill will have a provision to declare such marriages null and void, he said. “It will be compulsory for family members of the person who is forced to convert for marriage…to file a complaint,” Mishra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-550
19-11-2020||India||BJP steps up Congress attack||The BJP launched an attack on the Congress for the third time in a row on Wednesday in an apparent effort to enmesh the rival once again in allegations of corruption at a time the Opposition party is battling infighting in the aftermath of electoral setbacks. On Wednesday, the BJP fielded former Union minister Rajyavardhan Rathore to try to drag Gandhi family members into the multi-crore AugustaWestland helicopter deal scam. On Tuesday, law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had addressed the media over the same issue and demanded a clarification from Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi over the names of the Congress’s top leaders allegedly surfacing in the scam. “What does the Congress have to say when its leaders are being named in kickback cases in defence deals again?” Prasad asked on Tuesday after reports emerged that a prime accused in the AugustaWestland case had named Congress leaders such as Kamal Nath’s son Bakul Nath, Salman Khurshid and Ahmed Patel. “The nation is awake and listening,” Prasad had said. Picking up from where the law minister had left off, Rathore said on Wednesday: “Yesterday, senior minister Ravi Shankarji had demanded a clarification from Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi on the names of their party leaders. But so far there is silence.” The sustained attack comes at a time when the Congress is in the throes of severe infighting triggered by the party’s poor performance in the Bihar Assembly elections and a batch of bypolls. Several leaders of partner RJD have also accused the Congress, which won just 19 of the 70 seats it contested, of pulling down the Grand Alliance in Bihar when it was certain to wrest power. The setbacks have triggered discontent to again rear its head in the Congress with some senior leaders seeking to indirectly target the Gandhis. The BJP appears to have lunged at the opportunity to pin its principal national rival down, deploying a corruption-themed assault that had yielded rich dividends before the 2014 elections. Referring to the BJP’s agenda of a “Congress-mukt Bharat”, ruling party leaders explained the importance of the target. “The Congress is the only national party that can pose a challenge to us at the Centre. Regional parties are effective in states but not nationally,” a BJP leader said, asked about the sustained attacks on the Congress. More than the Congress, the Gandhi family has been the target of the BJP. BJP leaders believe the Congress will disintegrate if they succeed in discrediting the Gandhis. On Monday, Prasad questioned the Gandhis over the demand to restore Article 370 and the Congress’s purported attempts to join the Kashmir alliance of parties fighting for it. “Do they (Congress) want to restore Article 370? Do they stand by Farooq Abdullah’s statement of taking help from China?” Prasad asked. Union home minister Amit Shah too latched onto the issue on Tuesday and accused the Congress and the “Gupkar gang” — an uncharitable reference to the alliance of the Kashmir-based parties — of taking Jammu and Kashmir back to the era of “terror and turmoil”. On Wednesday, former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis addressed the media on Article 370, picking out the Congress as the main target. BJP leaders said all state leaders of the party had been asked to address media conferences and hold protests against the Augusta corruption case and the demand to restore Article 370 to create the perception that the Congress was both “corrupt” and “anti-national”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-550
19-11-2020||India||Face-off drags on, habitats set up for troops ||The Indian Army has established habitat facilities for its nearly 50,000 additional troops deployed along the Line of Actual Control amid the ongoing border standoff with China in the Ladakh sector where temperatures have already reached minus 15-20 degree Celsius, sources in the defence ministry said. This is the first time such a huge number of additional soldiers are being deployed in the forward areas of the LAC in the harsh terrain 12,000-14,000ft above sea level where temperatures are expected to dip to minus 30-40 degree Celsius by next month. Indian and Chinese troops have been locked in a face-off at multiple points — Pangong Lake, Hot Springs and Depsang Plains — since May and eight rounds of military talks between the two sides have failed to find a solution. “The Indian Army has now completed the establishment of habitat facilities for all troops deployed in the sector. This will also ensure operational efficiency of troops deployed in the harsh winter,” said a defence ministry official. The living accommodation, he said, includes fast erectable modular shelters that will protect the troops from the severe cold and chilling winds. Besides the smart camps with integrated facilities that have been built over the years, the additional facilities will include state-of-the-art habitats with integrated arrangements for heating, electricity, water, health and hygiene. Special shelters for material and equipment have also been put in place to save them from heavy snow. Another ministry official said providing logistics in peacetime deployment was a big challenge in the winter. “The habitats were set up in quick time and the entire war machinery was pressed into action,” he said. Sources in the defence ministry said the army had increased its military readiness at the high altitude to deal with any Chinese provocation. The official said the army recently procured high-altitude gear and had stocked up on food, fuel and ammunition to sustain the six-month winter deployment. Keeping in mind the Chinese army’s massive deployment, the Indian Army has put in place mirror deployment along the LAC, backed by battle tanks, missile systems and frequent sorties by the Indian Air Force’s combat aircrafts. “The Indian Army has also increased its military readiness and rejigged its deployment at several points,” the official said. Since May, the Chinese People’s Liberation Army has altered the unmarked LAC at several friction points and as per estimates it has taken over close to 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-550
19-11-2020||West Bengal||Make Netaji birthday a national holiday: Mamata||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging his “kind personal intervention” to ensure Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s birth anniversary, January 23, is declared a national holiday, and take steps to clear the mystery behind the icon’s disappearance to the fore, both emotive issues for Bengal. In her two-page letter, Mamata asked Modi to get the national holiday declared as part of the start of Netaji’s 125th birth anniversary celebrations. Born on January 23, 1897, Netaji’s 125th birth anniversary celebrations are likely to begin from January 23, 2021, and last for a year. Mamata told Modi that they had been requesting the Centre for long for this, and the start of the 125th birth anniversary celebrations “would be a very appropriate recognition” to the “epitome of determination, courage, leadership, unity and love for motherland”. This apart, Mamata added: “We would once again request the central government to take decisive steps to find out what happened to Netaji and place the matter in public domain...” Several accounts claimed that Netaji — missing since August 18, 1945 — died of injuries from a plane crash near Taihoku airport. But there is no conclusive confirmation. “People of the country and especially of Bengal, have the right to know the truth about the matter (Netaji’s disappearance),” Mamata said. “West Bengal government has already declassified and placed in public domain (in September, 2015) many files relating to Netaji on this issue,” she wrote. Taking a cue from the Bengal government, the Centre had declassified a clutch of files related to Netaji in 2016, but the information therein failed to shed more light on his disappearance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-305
19-11-2020||West Bengal||Bengal Covid count drops for the 23rd consecutive day||Bengal on Wednesday logged a drop in its total of active Covid-19 cases for the 23rd consecutive day since the end of Durga Puja, as the recovery rate rose further to 92.28 per cent. The state’s total count of active cases, which was 37,190 on Dashami, is 26,296 now. The recovery rate inched closer to the national rate of 93.51 per cent. On Wednesday, Bengal reported 4,429 recoveries, 3,668 new infections and 54 casualties. The state’s total of cases, since the first was detected on March 17, is over 4.41 lakh now. It includes nearly 4.08 lakh recoveries and 7,820 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-305
19-11-2020||West Bengal||Message to BJP ticket aspirants||BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya has asked aspirants to party tickets for the Assembly elections to behave properly amid reports that several state functionaries have started declaring themselves to be the potential candidates in particular seats. Vijayvargiya’s comments came at a meeting of state BJP office-bearers in Calcutta on Tuesday. “Do not preconceive that you’ll be fighting from a particular seat and start making plans accordingly. Focus on the party’s organisational work first,” Vijayvargiya said. Multiple sources in the BJP this correspondent spoke to said that the national general secretary was aware that several leaders were projecting themselves as potential candidates from constituencies they felt comfortable about. Some of these leaders have been visiting these areas regularly — sometimes even without the knowledge of the party leadership — to gain recognition and acceptance among the electorate. Although the BJP minder may have cracked the whip, it remains to be seen whether it will have the desired impact as there is likely to be a battle between the newcomers and old guard over party tickets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-306
19-11-2020||West Bengal||Mamata set to resume public programmes||Mamata Banerjee is scheduled to attend an administrative review meeting and a public distribution programme in Bankura next week amid speculation that she would now resume her district tours, which she had kept in abeyance because of Covid-19. “The chief minister is scheduled to hold a review meeting in Bankura on November 24 and a public distribution programme the following day. This would be her first programme where she would address the public after the nationwide lockdown was announced in March,” said a source aware of the chief minister’s itinerary. Senior Trinamul leaders, along with district police officers, visited a ground in Sunukpahari on Wednesday to finalise the venue of the distribution programme. “We inspected the ground today. The chief minister would address the public on November 25 afternoon. This is a very important meeting for us,” said Shyamal Santra, a junior minister and Bankura Trinamul chief. Mamata, sources said, is scheduled to visit Purulia, East Burdwan, West Burdwan and Birbhum by the third week of December. In all these districts, she would attend public distribution programmes, where several government facilities, including pattas, bicycles and caste certificates, are generally handed over to beneficiaries. “The chief minister likes to talk to common people during such tours and gets to know about the ground reality,” said a senior official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-306
19-11-2020||West Bengal||2 school boys drown in Damodar, one traceless||Police fished out the bodies of two 17-year-old boys from the Damodar on Wednesday but a search for their friend — the trio went missing in the river in West Burdwan’s Raniganj on Tuesday — is still on. The bodies of Abhishek Mishra and Abhishek Mahato were identified. Their friend Roshan Singh is still traceless. All three boys were students of Class XI at Gyan Bharti Vidyalaya in Raniganj. The police said that the trio had gone to the river on Tuesday afternoon to bathe. “Initially four boys had gone to the river bank but one returned. These three went into the river to bathe. Residents saw them struggling in the water and informed Mejia police,” said a police officer. The police found their clothes and Abhishek’s two wheeler on the riverbank. The disaster management team, which launched a search, recovered two bodies on Wednesday. One of Abhishek’s relatives said the three friends had gone to a tuition class on Tuesday morning but did not return. “I called up Abhishek on his cell phone to find out why they were late. Abhishek told me they were at the Damodar river,” he said. That was the last time he heard the boy. Sources said the boys knew swimming. But the river bed was uneven and with deep crevices at some points because of illegal sandlifting. “The boys may have got trapped in a hole underwater,” said a resident. A pall of gloom descended on Bhagat Para in Raniganj town where the boys lived. “We have lost hope of getting Roshan back alive,” said a neighbour. “After his friends’ bodies were found, there seems little hope for Roshan,” he added. Neighbours said that the trio would used to go to the river for bathing but had never expected such a tragedy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-306
19-11-2020||West Bengal||Cooch Behar BJP worker killed, party blames TMC ||A BJP worker was beaten to death at village in Tufanganj subdivision of Cooch Behar by residents on Wednesday morning when he tried to stop warring members of two local clubs. BJP leaders, including senior ones such as Kailash Vijayvargiya and Sayantan Basu, alleged that Kalachand Karmakar, 50, had been murdered by Trinamul backed criminals. The party announced a 12 hour strike in Tufanganj subdivision on Thursday in protest. Karmakar, a BJP booth committee president at Sikarpur village under Nakkatigach panchayat of the subdivision, was critically injured after being beaten up with fists and sticks. Rushed to the Tufanganj subdivisional hospital, doctors pronounced him dead. Sources said Karmakar was caught amid a heated exchange between members of two rival clubs with two Kali Puja pandals. On Wednesday, some members of both clubs were arguing when Biplab Karmakar, a neighbour of the BJP worker, was attacked. Karmakar rushed out to intervene and was attacked. As he collapsed on the spot, his attackers fled. The news sparked tension in the area with hundreds of BJP supporters accusing Trinamul of orchestrating the attack. A police team led by Rahul Talukdar, Tufanganj police station OC, brought the situation under control. Malati Rava, the BJP chief of Cooch Behar district, said: “A group of criminals backed by Trinamul brutally murdered Kalachand Karmakar.” She accused the police of “acting in a biased manner”. Jalil Ahmed, a district Trinamul leader, called the incident “unfortunate” but added: “It has no connection to our party. The BJP is unnecessarily trying to politicise the issue.” K. Kannan, the Cooch Behar district chief, said they had detained a person in connection with the case and were searching for others. “The incident occurred when the victim tried to stop the members of two clubs who had got into an altercation. Karmakar was attacked and later pronounced dead. We have detained a person in connection with the incident and are in search of some others,” said Kannan, the district superintendent of police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-306
19-11-2020||North East||Police detain Assamese artists for drawing activist’s graffiti||Four artists were booked on Thursday by the police over drawing graffiti of jailed activist Akhil Gogoi, and were later forced to whitewash the wall. The graffiti, which depicted Gogoi being stopped by a group of baton-carrying police officials, was being drawn by artists of the Guwahati-based Anga Art Collective on Wednesday afternoon. According to a senior police official, the art depicted the department in a “derogatory manner" and was unacceptable. "Moreover, nobody can deface public property by painting on it. If one wants to use the public property, then necessary permission is required," the official said. He added that the graffiti had been removed after they detained five people, including the four artists, to stop them from drawing. One of the artists, Dhrubajit Sarma, said that the group had been painting graffiti on social issues since 2010. "We are artists. We cannot remain mute spectators of the happenings around us. Akhil Gogoi has been in jail for almost one year, and we thought of depicting his condition through our painting," he said. Sarma added that they were taken to the site at the National Highway-27 and then "forced" to remove the painting on the wall with white paint, following their brief detention at the police station. The artists, including Sarma Rahul Lahon, Kuladip Sarma and Bulbul Das, are all in their 20s and students of the Government Art College in Guwahati. Apart from them Pranjal Kalita of the Satra Mukti Sangram Samiti, the students' wing of the Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti was also detained. The KMSS leader, Gogoi, is at the moment lodged at the Gauhati Medical College and Hospital, after he tested positive for Covid-19. The leader was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in December last year following the violent protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act and his alleged role in them. People from various sections of the society took to social media to condemn the action of the police after photos of the graffiti went viral. "When the cloud covers the sun," said Assamese singer Manas Robin as he shared photos on Facebook. “The writing is on the wall (Democracy),” senior journalist Sushanta Talukder said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-35
19-11-2020||North East||'Inclusive' forum for Northeast journalists : Patricia Mukhim||Patricia Mukhim, the editor of The Shillong Times, said on Wednesday that she would not reconsider her decision to quit the Editors Guild of India and floated the idea of an alternative broad-based and inclusive forum for Northeast journalists. Mukhim had on Monday resigned from the Guild, accusing the association of defending celebrity anchors while choosing to ignore her plea. “I cannot reconsider going back to an organisation that I have left after giving much thought on for over a week,” the Padma Shri awardee told The Telegraph on Wednesday evening, in reply to a question. Two executive committee members of the Guild had called her on Monday and requested her to reconsider, Mukhim had said on Tuesday. On Wednesday, Mukhim, the editor of the Northeast’s second oldest English daily, mooted an “inclusive and broad-based” platform for journalists in the region so that they can take up issues that affect them. “The Northeast needs a journalists’ forum to protect our freedoms. An organisation which will stand up for the fraternity,” she said. A section of senior journalists from the Northeast has discussed on social media the idea of floating an editors’ guild for the region. Mukhim said: “I would just like to add that as a fraternity if we don’t stand up for ourselves, no one will do it for us. We must claim our right to free speech and must collectively approach the Supreme Court to do away with colonial laws like criminal defamation and sedition, among others.” Her resignation letter accessed by this newspaper shows Mukhim was upset with the Guild for “maintaining complete silence” after Meghalaya High Court on November 10 refused to quash an FIR filed against her. The FIR was filed by the Dorbar Shnong (traditional institution) for her July 4 Facebook post following an attack on a group of non-tribal youths playing basketball in a Shillong locality. Meghalaya High Court had observed that Mukhim’s post “apparently seeks to promote disharmony or feelings of enmity, hatred or ill-will between two communities”. Mukhim has defended her post, asserting she had only raised the issue of “continued” attacks on non-tribal persons in her post. In the resignation letter, Mukhim mentioned that the Guild spoke up for Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami when he was arrested in a suicide abetment case. Mukhim said she would approach the Supreme Court in connection with the case next week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-35
19-11-2020||Opinion||Biden-Harris win not as close as it is made out to be||When I arrived in New York from Delhi on March 21, 2020, JFK airport wore a deserted and forlorn look. All of three other passengers joined me on the flight from New York to Boston. In the months that followed the most scientifically and medically advanced country in the world was brought to its knees by the utter mishandling of the pandemic by an inept and insensitive administration in Washington. Systemic racism ensured that vulnerable minorities suffered and died in disproportionate numbers. In such a situation of unprecedented social stress a white police officer’s knee on a helpless black man’s neck triggered a wave of protests across US cities by a rainbow coalition of idealistic youth. By the time I was ready to board my flight in New York back to Delhi on November 6, 2020, the television screens brought the reassuring news that Biden was poised to overtake Trump in the crucial state of Pennsylvania and thereby win the Presidency of the United States. The catastrophe of a second term for Trump had been averted. Like so many of my faculty colleagues and students, I felt a sense of relief, but no euphoria. The pandemic continued unabated. The color line still divided America down the middle. Yet the victory of Joe Biden-Kamala Harris over Donald Trump-Mike Pence still holds meaning in America and for the world. It showed that democratic mobilization could halt and turn back the triumphant march of majoritarian tyranny. And it raised a glimmer of hope that xenophobic anti-immigrant nationalism could perhaps be transcended by an openness to global exchanges and invocations of a shared humanity. The result of the American election is not as close as it is being made out to be. In a two-party system a margin of well over 5 million in the popular vote and a nearly 4 percentage point difference must be regarded as a clear and decisive win. It is America’s weird and outmoded electoral college system that has created the optical illusion of a narrow victory. In the rust-belt states of Michigan, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania the turnout of Democratic voters who had stayed home in 2016 made the crucial difference. In Georgia and Arizona, the civil rights icon John Lewis and the war hero John McCain took their revenge from their graves against a boorish Trump who had disparaged and disrespected them in life and in death. Stacy Abrams galvanized the African-American electorate in Atlanta and the young Latino vote around Phoenix struck a punishing blow against Trump’s unbridled racist rhetoric and cruel immigration policy. Only in Florida did the Republicans successfully paint Biden and Harris as radical leftists among the Cuban-American community in Miami-Dade. Faced with barely disguised racist and gendered attacks at Trump’s rallies, Kamala Harris was a model of grace and dignity. Indian and Jamaican by heritage, she is African-American by upbringing, education and choice. The Biden-Harris ticket won well over 90% of the Black female vote. Domestic racial and gender justice will have to be high on the new administration’s agenda. Yet the fact that both Biden and Harris trace their roots to British colonies – Ireland, India and the Caribbean – does matter in shaping their outlook on the world. Biden’s tepid slogan “Buy American” is far removed from Trump’s strident “America First”. Having served as Chair of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and as Vice-President, Joe Biden will re-engage with the wider world. The first steps of his administration will be to rejoin the World Health Organization and the Paris climate accord. What might Trump’s defeat portend for other democratically elected authoritarian leaders. Majoritarianism masquerading as democracy undergirds the authoritarian turn in contemporary global politics. Trump is not unique and is of a piece with Modi, Erdogan, Johnson and Bolsonaro in the manipulation of religion or race-based majorities by whipping up ultra-nationalist protests against globalization. Narendra Modi precedes and rivals Trump in the use of the language of citizenship and illegal immigration to mask virulent anti-minority prejudice. While I was campaigning in the 2014 elections, I heard with great consternation Modi’s proclamation that on the day the results were to be announced he would drive all “illegal immigrants” across the border of Bangladesh. The citizenship crisis that erupted in December 2019 could be traced back to the tenor of the election campaign in 2014. Trump adopted that rhetoric in 2016 as did Boris Johnson in his Brexit campaign. Across the pond from the United States it will be Boris Johnson’s far-right Brexiteer government that will be the first domino to fall in the wake of Trump’s defeat. Dominic Cummings is to Boris Johnson what Steve Bannon was to Donald Trump in the early phase of his Presidency. The impending departure from 10 Downing Street of Dominic Cummings, the diabolical author of the “Get Brexit Done” and “Take Back Control” campaigns, does not bode well for Johnson’s prospects of serving a full term. Labor under Keir Starmer is well-poised to win a future election. Also, mainstream Conservatives in the UK are less supine than Republican Senators in the US when it comes to the government’s violation of law. It will be a harder struggle for the opposition in India, partly because it is still early in Modi’s unfortunate second term and partly due to the challenges of building a credible federal front against him. However, Trump’s discomfiture will rattle other authoritarians of his ilk, including the one who fawned on him in Houston and Ahmedabad. This is not to under-estimate the poisoned legacy of Trumpism that Trump will leave behind. The Yale historian Tim Snyder has warned in a recent article in the Boston Globe to take seriously the threat Trump represents even during the transition as he spreads disinformation and goes about undermining the legitimacy of American democracy. “Constitutions break,” Snyder had written in his New York Times review of Benjamin Hett’s The Death of Democracy, “when ill-motivated leaders deliberately expose their vulnerabilities.” His worries are not entirely unfounded. However, come January 20, 2021, a demagogue refusing to concede defeat will be deprived of the use of the instruments of state power. That moment will demoralize the votaries of white supremacy in America as well as Trumpian leaders preaching political chauvinism and economic autarky in other parts of the world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-114
19-11-2020||Opinion||Be responsible: Elon Musk contracts Covid-19||Sir — The tech entrepreneur, Elon Musk, has recently stated that he “most likely” has a moderate case of Covid-19 but has been getting varying results from different labs. Musk had initially played down the seriousness of the contagion. While it is understandable that Musk might be frustrated that the tests are yielding different results, to call the procedure “bogus” in the midst of a pandemic is irresponsible. Opinions of public figures hold disproportionate weight and such statements will only enable those denying the seriousness of Covid-19 to further flout precautionary measures. Anamika Sharma,Gwalior Endless fight Sir — The political situation in the United States of America continues to be turbulent even after the results of the historic election, held earlier this month, had decisively declared the Democratic candidate, Joe Biden, as the 46th president of the country. But there is still some time before the Biden administration takes over the reins in the White House, and the charges of fraudulent elections — the outgoing president, Donald Trump, continues to allege that the 2020 election was “stolen” from him — have made the transition incredibly challenging. The clashes between Democratic and Republican voters that had erupted on the streets of the US during the counting was unimaginable. This really has dented the democratic credentials of the country. Although this election was challenging in many ways — a record number of mail-in ballots were cast in view of the pandemic — it is hoped that future elections will be conducted smoothly. Recently, thousands of Trump supporters marched  in Washington, DC to back the president’s unsubstantiated claims of voter fraud. Reportedly violent skirmishes broke out as well. It seems that there is little chance of a peaceful transition. Like many countries around the world, America, too, is facing an unprecedented political crisis. It is now up to progressive and liberal individuals to remedy the situation. P. Senthil Saravana Durai,Mumbai Sir — It is a matter of great concern that the outgoing president of the US, Donald Trump, is refusing to admit defeat in the 2020 presidential elections and extend cooperation to the president-elect, Joe Biden, and his staff. Biden is right to say that Trump’s behaviour is an “embarrassment”. He is not only further damaging his legacy but has also torn America’s vibrant democratic traditions to shreds. The people of America have clearly shown through the ballot who they want to lead the country in these turbulent times. Trump continued to make false claims throughout the counting process and is now alleging “voter fraud” without any evidence. Now the administration is doing all it can to prevent Biden from assuming office in January. In spite of that, Biden has shown that he is up for the challenge and has already announced a coronavirus task force to combat the worsening situation. His transition team has continued to work in spite of the hurdles. It is this dedication to the service of the nation that sets this administration apart from its predecessor. It is time for Trump to gracefully bow out without causing any further damage to the dignity of the office he held for the last four years. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu On time Sir — The decision of the Supreme Court to grant interim bail to Arnab Goswami rightly holds up the principle that bail is the rule, not the exception (“Liberty first”, Nov 16). The speed with which the hearing was conducted must be lauded. However, we also need to remember that several students, activists, lawyers and teachers, many of whom have been incarcerated without sufficient cause, continue to languish in jail for years. Varavara Rao, Sudha Bharadwaj and Stan Swamy — all suffering from ill health — have found bail to be elusive even when applied for on medical grounds. It is time that these cases, too, are heard urgently. It is only now that Rao will be shifted to Mumbai’s Nanavati Hospital for 15 days. The judicial system in India has long suffered from a backlog and postponements in hearings. Along with that, in recent times, questions have been raised regarding the increasing invocation of the principle of scandalizing the court, which many believe can be detrimental to free speech. At a time when many countries around the world have done away with the provision, perhaps India should consider doing the same. The Supreme Court’s fast handling of the case must act as an example of how the judicial system is expected to function at all levels. The courts must ensure that the personal liberty of citizens is ensured at all times without exception. S.S. Paul,Nadia||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-115
19-11-2020||Opinion||Greener pasture: India's 'brain drain'||India, data suggest, is second only to China when it comes to contributing to the international students’ population in the United States of America. This, interestingly, is a poorer showing from previous years; the cumulative number of 1,93,124 Indians pursuing higher studies in the US has fallen by 4.4 per cent compared to 2018-19. Indians pursuing an overseas education is encouraging; educated citizens can bolster cultural and economic capital. But it must also be kept in mind that a vast section of Indians are unable to afford such opportunities and, often, even basic education. There is an additional concern. With the exodus of meritorious students, India is losing much of its skilled human capital, a phenomenon known as the ‘brain drain’. According to the United Nations, India had the largest diaspora in the world, with the US being the second biggest host of migrants from India. It is clear that the brightest minds desire the West’s greener pastures. The formidable challenge lies in reversing this ‘migration’. Higher education in India is an unattractive prospect for a number of reasons. Diminishing research opportunities, impossible cut-offs at top universities and falling standards of university education are among them. Indian universities consistently score low in global rankings; the QS World University Rankings 2021 did not feature an Indian institute among the world’s top 100 universities. The anomaly between education and employment is also a factor; even before Covid-19, job creation did not match the numbers looking for employment. This has led to the creation of a sizeable constituency of educated citizens who are unemployed. The National Education Policy says it seeks to arrest brain drain by encouraging “knowledge exchange” with top international universities and making Indian institutes an international brand under the ‘study in India’ campaign. If India were to become a destination for foreign students, it could certainly consolidate the reach of its soft power. Only a radical overhaul in funding, infrastructure and institutional autonomy can guarantee excellence in higher education that can hold Indian students back while attracting foreign scholars.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-115
19-11-2020||Opinion||Missed chance: India not part of RCEP||The world’s biggest regional trading forum has just been created — and India is not a part of it. The 15 nations that signed up as members of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership account for nearly 40 per cent of global commerce and 35 per cent of its gross domestic product. India chose to opt out of the trading forum last year since its concerns over the terms of market access were not adequately addressed. The Centre had badgered hard for a protected list of goods mainly to shield its domestic market. It harboured fears that India could be flooded with cheap Chinese agricultural and industrial products once it signed the deal. The big sticking point was over inadequate safeguards to stop an industrial powerhouse like China from circumventing the Rules of Origin guidelines in the agreement. Companies use a multi-stage production process to manufacture goods through plants spread over several countries. This creates a situation where Chinese companies could set up final assembly plants in Vietnam and Thailand and push cheap products into India without identifying themselves as the real beneficiaries. India had also insisted on a tariff safeguard mechanism that would bump up duties automatically whenever there was an alarming surge in imports from one of the RCEP nations. The forum shot down the idea. India also baulked at the idea of providing most favoured nation status for investments to all RCEP members, including China. Over the past two decades, nations have squabbled so much over tariffs, investment, market access and free movement of goods, services and people that the World Trade Organization has failed to deliver a fair, equitable rules-based system for global trade. That has led to a surge in regional trade agreements: from around 50 in 1990 to almost 300 today. There are many pundits who believe that India ought to have joined the RCEP simply because trade ought not to be seen through a narrow prism. They believe that a deep and wide regional trading forum like the RCEP provides negotiating heft to all its members on issues that go beyond markets and tariffs. In a rapidly evolving world — albeit one teetering on the brink of a deep recession because of the pandemic — such a forum provides the scope for discussion on multiple policy areas like competition policy, government procurement rules and intellectual property rights. When Atal Bihari Vajpayee articulated the Look East policy, he had signaled a major change in India’s outlook as he sought to build trade and cultural ties in the region in the hope that they would benefit collectively. The RCEP is keeping the door open for India. The success of this trading forum depends on China and India being part of it. Without either of the two regional giants, the gains from the arrangement will be extremely limited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-115
19-11-2020||Opinion||A muscular triumph for Aung San Suu Kyi's NLD in Myanmar||Beyond a point, nationalism does not have any use for any standard scale of universal moral rectitude. For those convinced that humanism informs all moral judgment of humans, the ways of nationalism can often be counter-intuitive. Nowhere was this starker than in the results of the November 8 elections to Myanmar’s bicameral national assemblies as well as its 14 state assemblies. The ruling National League for Democracy, led by the de facto head of government and the state chancellor, Aung San Suu Kyi — the Nobel peace laureate much vilified in the Western world now for her defence of the military action against Rohingyas — returned with a landslide larger than the historic victory in 2015. The NLD now commands absolute majority in the bicameral national assembly, together known as the Pyidaungsu Hluttaw. The two Houses are the Pyithu Hluttaw (lower House) and the Amyotha Hluttaw (upper House). Then there are the 14 sub-national Hluttaws, corresponding to the country’s seven ethnic states and seven regions. By the 2008 Constitution, 25 per cent of seats in all the Hluttaws are reserved for the military. The NLD’s main opponent, the Union Solidarity and Development Party, together with its 23 allies in the 93-party fray, has been pushed further to the margins from the roughly 10 per cent representation won in 2015. Few ever doubted that the NLD would be coming out on top. However, the cautious popular prepoll verdict was that the NLD would emerge as single largest party but would have to seek alliance partners to form the next government, and that the pound of flesh for such a compromise would be expensive. These predictions are now in history’s dustbin. Obviously, nationalism cannot be read on a conventional moral scale, and is also generally a majoritarian enterprise. When Suu Kyi formally defended Myanmar military’s alleged genocidal campaign against the Rohingyas at the International Court of Justice in December 2019, she was treated as a pariah by much of the Western world but in her own country, especially amongst the majority Bamar population, under a sense of siege from international scrutiny, respect for her only deepened. The failure of most to see this is despite the emerging pattern of ultranationalism all over the world, including India. At all these places, conventional morality is being thrown to the wind not just by political parties but also by larger sections of their populations. Indeed, Myanmar’s Rohingya problem should remind India of its own painful tussle over the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. The November 2020 elections also belied another expectation. The ethnic states were predicted to drift further away from the mainstream and ethnic political parties, it was believed, would consolidate as a block, or blocks, outside of the NLD to become kingmakers. Quite to the contrary, the NLD has made inroads into the states as well, and if the NLD wishes, it can foist its own governments given the fact that the 2008 Constitution leaves it to the national government, and not the winners of contests in the local arenas, to form state governments. Many think this victory by the first-past-the-post system may be deceptive, for though losing out on the number of seats, support bases of these bested ethnic parties can still be very large. Therefore, their alienation can still mean big trouble for the militancy-torn country. The challenge before Suu Kyi is to acknowledge this and go for what peace scholars like John Paul Lederach have called the “Moral Imagination”, which rests on the belief that a sincere handshake can often resolve conflicts better than legal treaties or victories. Despite its super majority, the hope among many then is that the NLD would still strive to partner with ethnic parties. How did Myanmar come to be in this state of chaos? The jurist, A.G. Noorani, in his India-China Boundary Problem, may have provided an answer by differentiating between the nature of decolonization of India and Myanmar. In the case of India, it was a transfer of power, and India retained all existing institutions of governance to maintain continuity and then modify at will and leisure. In Myanmar, it was simply an end of the paramountcy of the British, leaving the country to begin institution-building from scratch, throwing it into turmoil. Shelby Tucker’s profile of this chaos in Burma: The Curse of Independence is convincing. Apart from radical ethnic unrests and a plummeting economy, the country was also being taken for granted by foreign powers. With CIA patronage, two army divisions of the Chinese nationalist, Koumintang, had even retreated into Myanmar in their fight against Mao’s communist regime. The apprehension of the nation falling apart was so intense that even the 1962 military coup was welcomed by the people, thinking it would be temporary. Power, however, works differently, and those who wield it have seldom relinquished it willingly, and Myanmar’s military regime lasted five decades. Myanmar’s struggle then is still about building trusted institutions of governance. The author is editor, Imphal Review of Arts and Politics||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-115
19-11-2020||Opinion||Telling tales||One of the things I love about old cities like Calcutta or Chennai is what I call the availability of eccentrics. These are outstanding, outspoken people who have lived a full life and now play philosophers in retirement. Unlike retired bureaucrats, they rarely invoke nostalgia. There is an openness to their conversations and questions. I especially love their questions because they raise issues I have not thought clearly of. Whenever I am a bit depressed, which is often in Covid-19 time, I call one of them. My favourite is an old scientist, a student of my father, who still goes to the laboratory regularly. I asked him what he thought of the Covid crisis and he answered, “Covid is a failure of storytelling and ethics.” The crisis stems from that. I was surprised, I asked him to explain. He smiled wryly; at least one could sense it. Science often becomes barren in these moments. It gives you facts, but facts without perspectives do not tell you much. One needs literature, the texture of a fable or a parable, to tell you that. He added, “Look at the way the government is pushing all the mush about the new normal, as if it is a mini-utopia. A Kafka could have squashed it in a minute.” He paused and said, “I know I have told this story often but it still has insight. It is, I believe, the only story Kafka wrote about India.” A group of forest people decide to hold a sacrifice. On the day of the full moon, they invite the high priest to perform the ceremony but a tiger comes and eats him up. Undeterred, they wait a fortnight and hold the ceremony and the tiger comes and eats the priest again. The village goes into a crisis and summons a meeting. One of the people attending it is the village idiot. He raised his hand and offered a suggestion. He said, ‘Why not make the tiger that is eating the priest part of the ritual?’ The old scientist said the idiot understood the new normal. No logic of numbers can capture that. In fact, numbers as narrative have been one of the first casualties of Covid. He explained, “It is not just a question of statistics being value loaded, it is the way numbers let you look at an event. When you talk about an exponential rise of casualties, talk of body counts, the fact of death acquires an indifference. You lose your sense of mourning and the sacred. Death acquires an inevitability. You begin saying, 45,000 deaths are tolerable, normal for a population like ours.” Numbers destroy the potency of storytelling where every individual counts. Even science, he said, “has lost its sense of storytelling. People talk about science as problem-solving. The philosopher, Thomas Kuhn, immortalized it in his work. Problem-solving banalizes and routinizes science. You invoke the same method, the same predictable pattern of discovery. Talking normal science, you lose your sense that science today is about risk, uncertainty, an adventure of the unanticipated. You lose your sense of exemplars like Alexander Fleming and Louis Pasteur or Robert Koch. Science as method, reiterating a normal science, loses its sense of fable.” It is the same with policy where the expert pretends to know what he does not. He loses the humility before nature and the life that science demands. But the worst casualty of Covid, he claimed, is social science. In describing Covid, social sciences lost their sense of the social, a sense of norm, of altruism. Economists forgot about the informal economy, of thousands of migrants who became visible. The State destroyed the sense of old age by treating it as a form of obsolescence. The idea of the social, which forms a grand frame of understanding in Marx, Weber, Durkheim, just disappears. “Covid becomes an abstract story of vectors without community. The social scientist had almost nothing to say about Covid, apart from playing second fiddle to the State. This is why policy is such a second-rate, voyeuristic form of narrative. Policy is not even a third-person narrative. In fact, it lacks a sense of the person and sounds like a pathologist’s report.” I told him, “For a scientist you tend to be sceptical of science.” He smiled and said, “It is my scepticism that makes me a scientist. Scepticism and faith go together. Science gives me a sense of the sacred, of the sense of the limits of a science, which still sustains a sense of mystery.” He paused and then continued. “In this age where people fetishize the scientific temper as if it is another vaccine, this might sound unfashionable. This much is clear. Method alone does not make science in this age of uncertainty. Science needs judgment, it needs a sense of character. Science without ethics is incomplete today. This ethics is more than table manners. Yet ethics can be as experimental as any science.” The sad thing is that debates on Covid rarely mention ethics. Ethics is not a catechism of dos and don’ts. “Look at it when the migrants were waiting at the bus stations, you sprayed them with chemicals with an objectivity that was frightening. It was as if you were spraying a troublesome crop. When death is treated with indifference, all you see is a corpse. Human rights should begin in an anatomy class.” He stopped, was silent, and then said, “When you managerialize a crisis, you banalize even spirituality. You create handbooks of spirituality as if it is another technology. In Covid, psychology, management and spirituality continued to create a feel-good feeling. You sensed it in the colourful succulent supplements newspapers produced. You have a science of well-being for the middle class and the affluent but you had no language of suffering, no sensitivity to pain.” Cost-benefit analysis has no sense of pain. This is the first time there was no Mother Teresa, no religious group talk of sacrifice. Stories of heroism are few and far between. Science without altruism does not go far. He then explained problem-solving. The idea is touted as activist but the concepts are routine. Problem-solving alone cannot resolve a crisis. “Any epidemic is also a crisis of values. It involves choices. The fact-value distinction breaks down in these moments where game theory does not work.” He added, “It is at this time you need storytelling, method and discourse to intersect.” He claimed the philosophy of science we read in India does not go beyond Popper, Kuhn. They are textbook science, but textbook science is too insulated to handle a crisis in all its complexity. The idea of the new normal is scientifically flawed and ethically illiterate. Yet our leaders spout it like god’s truth. The new normal reflects the mediocrity of ideas in India. He stopped, then said, “The trouble is Covid should have been a graphic novel, a moral fable, a new kind of case study like the neurobiologist, Oliver Sacks, would write. It should bring out the choices we need to face. Sadly, we operate in the new flatland called policy. We need a return to storytelling. Science and society have their roots, their creative myths, there.” I listened, spellbound. It was a fine assessment of a crisis. I merely waited to write it out as the work of an exemplar, as the articulation of a different paradigm. I felt grateful. The author is an academic associated with Compost Heap, a network pursuing alternative imaginations||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-115
19-11-2020||Jharkhand||Last minute Chhath preparations in Dhanbad||Senior officials of the Dhanbad district administration and police led by deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh visited different ponds and water bodies, including Raja Talab of Jharia, Bekar Bandh and Pampu Talab, to take stock of Chhath preparations. Singh was accompanied by Dhanbad SSP Aseem Vikrant Minz, sub divisional officer Surendra Prasad; and the municipal commissioner. The team met with the puja committee members at Raja Talab in and instructed them to ensure observance of all guidelines issued by the state government with regard to Chhath Puja. “Besides observing the rule to maintain a minimum distance of six feet, spitting in rivers, ponds and other water bodies besides public places will also be strictly prohibited” said Singh. He also warned against installation of any stall or shop on the banks of any river, pond, lake, dam or any other water body or its vicinity. “Bursting of crackers at public places will be strictly prohibited during Chhath and similarly any musical or other cultural programmes during the festival will also not be allowed,” Singh informed. “All Chhath puja committees will have to cooperate with the district administration in the strict observance of the state government guidelines,” he remarked. Surendra Prasad will coordinate with all incident commanders of the district to ensure strict observance of the guidelines. SSP Minz on the other hand said that elaborate security arrangements will be made on all the Chhath ghats during the festival tomorrow and also the day after tomorrow. Jharia MLA Purnima Singh also visited Raja Talab and took stock of the preparation for Chhath Puja scheduled tomorrow. Interacting with the media, she said, “Though the government has allowed people to observe puja at public water bodies, people should follow all the guidelines laid down by the state in order to prevent the spread of Covid.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-232
19-11-2020||Jharkhand||CISF inspector killed, another injured in road mishap at Gua mines||A Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) inspector was killed and his driver was seriously injured as an SUV they were traveling in was run over by a huge dumper at Gua iron ore mines in West Singhbhum district, about 150 km away from Jamshedpur, on Thursday. The mishap took place when the CISF inspector, Nagendra Prasad was on his way for inspection of the security personnel engaged at the mines which belong to Steel Authority of India Ltd (SAIL) at about 2.30 am on Thursday. The driver of the SUV, Akaash Lohra, was seriously injured and was rushed to the Rourkela Steel Plant hospital. The doctors who attended him declared that both of his legs were damaged beyond repair level and will have to be amputated. West Singhbhum superintendent of police, Ajay Linda confirmed the fatal mishap at the SAIL's Gua mines and added that the police and mining department is carrying out an investigation into the mishap. "In the mishap, a CISF inspector who was on the C-shift duty was killed on the spot and the driver was seriously injured after a huge dumper ran over the SUV, the victims were traveling in at the small hours on Thursday. The matter is being investigated," said Linda while talking to The Telegraph Online. Chief general manager, Gua Mines, BK Giri made a visit at the mishap spot along with the district mining officer on Thursday afternoon. "The CISF inspector, Nagendra Prasad (45) was killed in a road mishap while he was on duty. The driver has also sustained grievous injuries.  We are looking into exactly how such mishap took place," said Giri while talking to The Telegraph Online. Prasad who was originally a resident of Palamu district is survived by his widow and two children who study at DAV Gua. The victim's widow lost her consciousness as she came to know about her husband's accidental death in the morning. She has been admitted to a local hospital for treatment. According to police sources, the mishap took place on a hilly terrain inside the iron mines. "As the CISF inspector was moving on a mines road on the hill in an SUV, the driver had to negotiate a curve.  But from the opposite direction, the heavy dumper was approaching which has a carrying capacity of 100 tons of iron ore. As the dumper is about 20 ft high, the dumper's driver could not see the SUV and ran over it," said a police official requesting anonymity. The official said with the CISF inspector and driver inside, the SUV was smashed under the impact of the heavy dumper. "Having realized that a four-wheeler came under the dumper, the dumper driver put the vehicle on reverse gear and tried to rescue the victims. The management of the SAIL mines had to press gas-cutting equipment to take out both the victims," said the official while talking to this website.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-232
19-11-2020||Jharkhand||One killed, another injured in elephant attack in Chandil||A 45-year-old mahout was killed and another mahout seriously injured as a herd of wild elephants attacked them at Balidih village on Wednesday at midnight. The incident took place as a group of 18 mahouts were trying to drive the elephant herd away from the human habitat in the Chandil range, triggering fear among the local residents of Balidih and Dhunaburu villages. Those killed were identified as Haricharan Mahto and Durga Charan Mahto, both residents of Jargodih village in adjoining Ichagarh block of Seraikela-Kharsawan district. Revealing about the incident, Chandil forest range officer, Ashok Kumar said that a herd of five wild elephants had entered near the human habitats on Tuesday night, leading the residents of Balidih and Dhunaburu demanding the forest department to drive the herd away by pressing an elephant driver's team. "On the request of the local villagers, I had pressed a squad of local mahouts in the evening. Equipped with ‘mashal' and drums as well as fire-crackers, the mahouts were driving the herd gradually toward an elephant corridor leading to the Seraikela jungle from where the herd was suspected to have come. At around 11 pm, suddenly one of the elephants got berserk and started chasing the mahouts back. While 16 of them climbed on the trees to save their lives, two others, including the leader of the team who did not climb on any tree. As a result of the situation, the wild elephant first flung Durga Charan away having caught him by its trunk and subsequently trampled Haricharan to death," narrated the forest range officer, Ashok Kumar while talking to The Telegraph Online. Kumar said generally, elephants do not come closer to those who hold ‘mashals', but it was a deviation in the behavior of the elephant that killed the mahout. "From the erratic behavior of the lone tusker, we guessed that it might have consumed country-made liquor and under the influence of the liquor it had attacked the two mahouts who were even carrying ‘mashals' in their hands," explained the forest officer. Kumar revealed that after the elephant drivers were themselves attacked, causing the team leader to get killed by an elephant, the rest of the mahouts fled, leaving their work incomplete. "As I was left with no other option and without any elephant drivers around, I am trying to contact a team of mahouts from Bankura district of Bengal. I took immediate steps for contacting the mahouts in Bankura because it is not known whether the herd of elephants is still near the human habitat or has left the place," said the forest range officer. The injured mahout, Durga Charan (40) who sustained multiple injuries in his hands and legs has been admitted at the Tata Main Hospital where his condition is described as serious.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-232
19-11-2020||Jharkhand||Anindita Banerjee’s Bengali Chhath song is a social media hit||A Bengali Chhath song, sung by Anindita Banerjee, a 43-year-old Bengali semi-classical vocalist of Dhanbad, has earned tremendous popularity on social media. The song, titled Chhath mayer koto je mohima, se-kiar mukhe bola jaye, witnessed over eight lakh viewers so far on YouTube, Facebook, etc. The five-minute video song, written, sung, and later shot at the lounge of Tata Steel Sijua Bhelatand, a residential quarter, during the lockdown, was first uploaded on YouTube on November 5 and then subsequently also uploaded on Facebook by other portals like 99 news and City live Dhanbad. The song was originally composed by Sanjay Kumar. Bokaro based musician, Mritunjay Bhattacharjee has given music for the song, and mixing of the song was carried out at Higher Octave Studio of Bokaro. Talking to the Telegraph Online on Thursday, Banerjee, wife of a Tata Steel Sijua Group Mining Engineer, Barun Kumar Banerjee said, “Music is in my gene as my father, Alok Kanti Achharya was a famous sitarist of his time at Bishnupur of Bengal and I learned Rabindra Sangeet from Maya Sen in Calcutta for several years.” “Though I was not well versed with Hindi after my marriage in 1999 at Dhanbad I learned Ghazal, Thumri, and other semi-classical music under the guidance of the noted musician of Dhanbad Balkishan Singh (popularly known as Munna Bhaiya) for more than a decade and performed in several musical programs in Dhanbad and others parts of the country including, Hyderabad, Bangalore, Coimbatore, Durgapur, Raniganj, Calcutta, etc.,” said Banerjee. “Living in Jharkhand for more than two decades I developed a lot of respect for Chhath puja and the folk song tone of Chhath impressed me a lot,” said Banerjee and added that the idea for singing a Chhath in Bengali came to her mind during the lockdown. “Sanjay Kumar Nayak, a lyricist, composed the song and after making some minor changes in the words of the original composition, I sang it at my home, and the video was shot by my daughter pursuing law course at Mumbai who was at home during the lockdown,” said Banerjee. “We uploaded the song video on YouTube on November 5 and it was an instant hit as I received a lot of phone calls. Gradually some local news portals approached us and uploaded the video on their Facebook page and the total number of viewers for the song has crossed eight lakh so far,” informed  Banerjee. Banerjee is an active member of Ramkrishna Mission Group and has performed on multiple devotional songs on their platform.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-232
19-11-2020||Jharkhand||New RIMS director to focus faculty vacancies||The newly-appointed director of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) Dr Kameshwar Prasad faces a challenge of filling up nearly 100 vacancies of professors in Jharkhand’s largest state-run medical college. Prasad, a Padmashree, has been busy reviewing various departments of the medical college since taking charge as director on Sunday. On Thursday he said his top priority was to fill vacant posts of professors in the college and ensure that suitable candidates make it to RIMS. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Prasad admitted there was a vacancy of 72 assistant professors, nine additional professors and 10 professors at RIMS. “We will first try and fill the vacancies for assistant professors, and then proceed with the recruitment process for other positions,” said the renowned neurologist, who was associated with the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi for several years. Prasad has also decided to tighten the noose around doctors who indulge in private practice outside RIMS. However, he said that he did not believe in taking “coercive” steps in order to check private practice by doctors, and instead wanted the doctors to rely on their “conscience” to decide whether they wanted to dedicate their time and energy to RIMS or do private practice. “You cannot always deal with a situation with an iron fist. I am sure that the ones who are practicing in private will realise their mistake and stop repeating it on their own,” he said. Former RIMS director, Dr D.K. Singh is in the crosshairs of doctors for taking strict action against those who practiced privately. He even deducted salaries of staff members who could not mark their attendance through biometric system on time. A series of protests was held last year against the former director demanding his removal from the post. The newly-appointed RIMS director said that he would review the condition of diagnostics equipment in the hospital soon and take necessary steps to ensure their smooth functioning in future. Dr Prasad said he has asked doctors in clinical services to not get overburdened with administrative works and vice-versa. However, in case of an emergency, the ones in administrative duty may have to take clinical responsibilities, he added. “I am in administrative duty right now. But once this Covid situation ends, I will also take up clinical responsibilities in the hospital,” said Dr Prasad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-232
19-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad's unusual collector aims for Guinness record||Collection of rare things is a unique habit and a Dhanbad-based retired development officer, Amrendra Anand is gearing up to stake claim for the Guinness Book of World Records for having the highest number of around 1200 rare cheques of over 400 different banks, around 300 of which have closed down. Not only this but Amrendra Anand (66), a resident of Kusum Vihar in Dhanbad, has also a collection of over 170 Metal Bank Tokens, which are provided by the banks to the customers for security-related checks for bank-related work. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Thursday, Anand said, “While dusting my bank documents, I found personnel cheque issued by famous industrialist and capitalist of South India LT Chettiar on the occasion of Diwali in 1940 as Diwali greetings for his well-wishers." “I have been in Notaphily (collection of bank-related documents) since about 10 years ago and have a collection of a large number of passbooks, share certificates of private shareholders of these banks apart from other things like cheques, bank tokens, etc.,” said Anand and added that he is in the process of bank cheques collection of around 100 more banks after which he will approach for the registration of his collection in the Guinness Book of World Records. “My collection of bank documents date back to cheques of 1870 era when a chain of banks spread all through India,” informed Anand. “All of these banks including the Reserve Bank of India and Imperial Bank of India were private banks having private shareholders which were nationalized on January 1, 1949 and July 1, 1955, respectively,” stated Anand. He also informed that the first bank in India was established in 1906 as Bank of Bengal which was later reorganized as Imperial Bank in 1921 and finally nationalized with the merging of several small banks in 1955 and known as the State Bank of India. When asked that how he collected the rare bank documents, Anand revealed that he has purchased some of the cheques and bank tokens from some old capitalists and shareholders of these banks and other collections accumulated through exchange among each other with around 100 notaphilists of the country. The collection of Anand, a famous numismatist, includes 18 files of different varieties of coins, currency notes, cheques, hukum namas, hundi, khadi hundi, error notes, fancy notes, etc. besides demonetized currency notes, etc. His collection also includes Rs 1000 notes issued by George VI in June 1938 and demonetized in April 1946, Rs 1000 currency notes issued in 1954 and demonetized in 1978 and Rs 1000 notes issued in October 2000 and demonetized on November 8, 2016. Anand who is a member of over a dozen philatelic societies said that his pre-independence Stamp Collection includes both the Feudatory Stamps used by independent princely states and Conventional Stamps bearing the symbols of both the respective state and the British Empire. Anand has also the collection of all the postal stationeries including the envelopes, postcards, inland letters, and registered letters from 1862 to 1981 i.e. from the era of Queen Victoria to King George VI in the pre-Independence era. His postal stationeries include postcards of Queen Victoria and postcards of princely states like Jaipur and Travancore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-232
19-11-2020||Jharkhand||Steel City flouts noise norms on Diwali night||Diwali celebrations in the steel city crossed permissible noise levels this year in violation of norms, according to a report of the Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB) that had set a two-hour window for bursting crackers. If the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) limits noise levels to 65 decibel during day and 55 decibel during the night in commercial areas, Jamshedpur recorded levels above these limits during the 8 pm to 10 pm window and also after 10 pm as per the report of the Adityapur-based regional office of JSPCB which compiled data before Diwali (November 9) and on Diwali (November 14). The report was released by the regional office of state pollution control board on Thursday. The commercial hub of Sakchi was the noisiest. Sakchi roundabout registered 93.8 decibel between 8 pm and 10 pm on Diwali night, 96.6 decibel after 10 pm and 73.5 decibel between 11 pm and midnight. The readings were better than last year, when it recorded over 100 decibel. The findings of the survey revealed that on November 9, Sakchi roundabout had recorded 67.9 decibel between 8 pm and 10 pm and 91.6 decibel between 9 pm and 10 pm. Between 11 pm and midnight, it recorded 78.9 decibel. At another commercial centre, Bistupur (near Regal Ground), the decibel level recorded during 8 pm to 10 pm was 87.5, which was less than the 89 decibel recorded during Diwali in 2019. The area logged 85 decibel between 10 pm and 11 pm and 75.4 decibel between 11 pm and midnight. The silence zone near the new civil court at Bhuiyandih recorded 76.3 decibel during the window period, much less than last year’s 84 decibel. It registered 74 decibel between 10 pm and 11 pm and 62.2 decibel between 11 pm and midnight, indicating that crackers were burst after the window period. The survey carried out prior to Diwali on November 9 found 62.4 decibel between 10 pm and 11 pm and 74.6 decibel between 8 pm and 9 pm. Between 11 pm and midnight the new civil court area recorded 51.8 decibel. The residential area of Indira Chowk at Adityapur recorded 94.5 decibel during the window period against 93 decibel last year, both readings way above permissible limits of 55 decibel during day and 45 decibel at night. The area clocked 85.4 decibel after 10 pm till 11 pm and around 65 decibel between 11 pm and midnight. "We collected decibel data from Sakchi and Bistupur as they are commercial areas, from new civil court in Bhuiyandih as it is a silence zone and from Indira Chowk (in Adityapur) as it is a residential area,” said JSPCB’s regional officer Suresh Paswan. He admitted that the residents of steel city and neighbouring Adityapur had flouted directives of JSPCB. "We have sent the findings of the survey to our headquarters for necessary follow-up action," said Paswan, adding that noise pollution was less this year compared to last year but more than the permissible level for silent, commercial and residential zones. Sources said bursting of crackers this time mainly took place in lanes and bylanes instead of main thoroughfares because of the restrictions. The regional office has also collected data related to ambient air quality on Diwali. "We have got a directive from our headquarters to continue collecting ambient air quality data post Diwali till November 21. The report on air quality would be released after November 21, " said Paswan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-232
19-11-2020||Jharkhand||Devotees opt for rooftop water tanks for Chhath||Due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, many have made alternate arrangements for the arghya during Chhath festival. Vratis offer arghya to the sun god twice during this festival but first, take a holy dip into reservoirs. Due to the Covid-19 followed by warning from doctors as not to maintain negligence while offering arghya, many made arrangements at home to perform this important ritual. At many homes, water tanks have been constructed on the rooftop for the purpose. Some got a part of the land in their garden area dug to make a dobha (farm pond) like structure for this purpose. The four-day festival started on Wednesday and the vratis will perform evening arghya on Friday followed by the second one on Saturday morning which will mark the end of Chhath. Okni mohalla resident Geeta Prasad said she spent around Rs 10,000 to get a big tank constructed on the rooftop for her daughter-in-law Uma who has taken part in Chhath for the last four years. Prasad said she wanted to have this tank before as the dirty pond water leads to skin rashes which is also a common problem among all those who take a dip into it. Uma said she will do this ritual comfortably now as getting a better place on the bank of any pond was another big issue for her family. She said, from her rooftop they will also get a better view of the sunrise and sunset. Subodh Mehta, a resident of Matwari mohalla said he had purchased a children’s swimming pool made of plastic. It costs Rs 900 but it is best for this purpose. “I will keep this pool on the terrace of the house and once the festival is over, I will give it to my grandsons to play with it,” he added with a smile. One Indrani Pandey of Shivpuri mohalla said she will use the discarded plastic water tank for this purpose. A few days back, I had engaged a laborer to cut this 5000-litre capacity plastic tank into half and now it became useful for the arghya purpose, she informed. A toy shop owner on the main road, Sumit Jaiswal said he had sold 20 swimming pools of children for the arghya ritual. For whatever purpose, customers are buying it, and I am happy that it has increased my earning, he added. Meanwhile, Zilla Marwari Sammelan officer bearers including Sumer Sethi, Manoj Goyal, and Kapil Jain on Thursday announced that they will make temporary changing rooms at various Chhath ghats of the town. They said vratis face trouble while changing clothes at the ghats, so they had decided to make changing rooms for this purpose. We have obtained permission from the municipal commissioner Madhavi Mishra in this regard, they added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-232
19-11-2020||Jharkhand||Kala Utsav goes virtual this year||Secondary level students of government and private schools will have to battle it out virtually to exhibit their creative and artistic skills during this year’s Kala Utsav 2020 as the school education and literacy department of Jharkhand has decided to conduct the centrally sponsored event online in the wake of continued lockdown of educational institutions due to the coronavirus pandemic. An initiative of the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) under Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan and NCERT, Kala Utsav began in 2015 to promote arts in education by nurturing and showcasing the artistic talent of school students across the country. Jharkhand Education Project Council (JEPC) on Wednesday formally sent out communiqués to all the districts announcing the schedules of this year’s programme, which will be held in three stages—district, state and national level—all across the digital platform. JEPC project director Shailesh Chaurasia said that event is for students between class 9 and 12. “Students from all such schools between these classes irrespective of government, government aided or private entities are eligible to participate in the competition. Since schools in the state are still not unlocked, we will be holding the tournaments—right from performances to evaluation by expert jury panels via online,” he said. A total of 18 categories of events will be held covering various forms of performing arts, painting, traditional games such as puppetry, sculpture making among others. For the district level contest, district education officers have been asked to invite entries in photograph and video formats in each of the each category latest by November 29. “At the district level, a four member expert jury will evaluate the entries and pick two winners — a male and a female per category. Video entries in performing arts shouldn’t exceed more than six minute and can be in any form be it in pen drive/CD/DVD,” he said, adding that every district is mandated to send works of the district-level winners to the state committee (education department) latest by December 2. The state level meet will be held from December 7 to 12. “Here, district level winners will have to perform live before the state level jury as per their allotted time slots, which will be intimated to them in advance. Following the assessment, top three winners in each category will be awarded with a certificate and trophies,” he concluded. However, only one top winner comprising male and female each per category will proceed for the national level contests after  its schedules and format is announced by the MHRD.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-232
19-11-2020||Jharkhand||Recoveries outnumber fresh Covid cases in Jharkhand||The active cases of Covid-19 infection increased in Ranchi and Bokaro on Wednesday despite a fall in the number of active cases across Jharkhand in the past 24 hours, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Wednesday night, as many as 70 people were found infected in Ranchi in 24 hours against 56 recoveries, while Bokaro reported 53 fresh cases against 16 recoveries. Meanwhile, East Singhbhum reported 63 recoveries on the day against only 16 fresh cases. Jharkhand reported 251 fresh cases of Covid-19 infection on Wednesday, while at least 280 patients recovered during the same period, government data stated. As per government data, more than 60 per cent of the fresh cases reported on Wednesday were from Ranchi, Bokaro and Dhanbad, which reported 29 cases on the day. On Wednesday, health workers tested swab samples of 19,786 people from across the state, bringing down the number of pending tests in the state. On Tuesday, at least 18,000 samples were pending for Covid-19 tests, and the number reduced to around 16,000. Meanwhile, the Covid-19 toll in Jharkhand continued to see a spike on Wednesday as three more patients died in 24 hours, data with the health department revealed. The three deaths – one each from Deoghar, Dhanbad and Jamtara – took the Covid-19 toll in the tribal state to 934. As per government data, there were only 2,637 active cases of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand and as many as 1,03,171 patients have recovered so far. The Covid-19 recovery rate on Wednesday was 96.65 per cent. The government has so far collected swab samples of 38.62 lakh people and tested 38.46 lakh of them. Of the over 38 lakh people tested in Jharkhand, as many as 1,06,742 were found infected. On Wednesday, only Godda did not report any fresh cases of infection. Dhanbad reported at least 29 fresh cases, while East Singhbhum and Ramgarh reported 16 and 11 cases respectively. East Singhbhum reported the highest number of Covid recoveries on the day. At least 63 patients recovered in the district. As per government data, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.17 per cent against the national average of 0.37 per cent. The doubling rate of the infection in Jharkhand was 412.23 days against the national average of 186.68 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-232
