20-11-2020||Calcutta||School bus plea to CM||Representatives of the West Bengal Contract Carriage Owners and Operators Association marched from Kalighat Park to chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s residence on Thursday and submitted a memorandum at her office demanding withdrawal of road tax for over 4,000 school bus operators. The association represents school and chartered bus operators. They also sought waiver of fines on lapsed fitness certificates and road permits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-232
20-11-2020||Calcutta||Rerun fear unless police uphold law||Worshippers want to perform Chhath Puja rituals at Rabindra Sarobar, a BJP leader said on Thursday evening, hours after the Supreme Court refused to allow Chhath Puja at the south Calcutta water body. The rituals will be performed at dusk on Friday and dawn on Saturday. Bir Bahadur Singh, the president of the BJP’s Rashbehari Mandal III, said: “People want to go to the Lake (Rabindra Sarobar) to perform rituals. Which place can accommodate so many people other than the Lake?... Let us see what decision the devotees take.” “Rabindra Sarobar can accommodate lakhs of people.... The Supreme Court’s order has to be followed, but it is also true people want to perform rituals inside Rabindra Sarobar,” Singh added. Community members said a lot of people would go to Rabindra Sarobar to perform the puja. They will turn back if police do not allow them to enter the compound. Last year, the police looked the other way while worshippers broke locks on Sarobar gates and entered the compound to perform Chhath rituals. Community members said devotees would not hesitate to do the same if the police behaved the same way. Randhir Singh, an official of the Rashtriya Bihari Samaj, felt many people would try to enter Rabindra Sarobar despite the ban. “If the government and police are lax in implementing the National Green Tribunal’s order (banning pujas, picnics and other social events in the Sarobar compound), some devotees would enter Rabindra Sarobar,” said Singh. Manoj Kumar Jha, a community member, echoed Singh. “Last year, too, there was a ban on rituals inside Rabindra Sarobar, yet devotees broke locks and went inside. They gathered courage to do so because the police did not stop them and there was political support,” said Jha, the convenor of Bharat Kshatriya Samaj. Singh and Jha both said devotees would not have the courage to violate the court’s order if the police guarded the gates of the Sarobar. An official of the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA), the custodian of Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar, said the two compounds would be closed to visitors from Thursday midnight till 3pm on Saturday. Additional private security personnel have been deployed to guard the gates and the barricades put up where boundary walls are broken or are very low. Discontent was simmering among many devotees over the ban on the rituals at the two lakes. Residents of the Kurigram slum near the Kadapara-EM Bypass crossing, where Subhas Sarobar is located, vented their ire in an interview with news channel ABP Ananda. Several women said they saw no logic in not allowing Chhath Puja at Subhas Sarobar. The police fear that some vested interests could exploit this discontent to stoke violence on Friday or Saturday. “We will deploy an adequate number of personnel outside the two lakes. Some groups may try to incite trouble,” said an officer at Lalbazar. Community members in central and north Calcutta said they would not face any trouble as they performed the rituals at ghats along the Hooghly. “We never went to Rabindra Sarobar as the Hooghly is closer home. But what will happen to those who performed the rituals there? A lot of sentiment is associated with performing rituals at that place,” said S. Kapoor, a businessman in Burrabazar. There were some contrary voices, too. Randhir Singh of the Rashtriya Bihari Samaj said they had urged everyone to perform the rituals at home this year because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “We have put up banners urging everyone to do the rituals at home,” he said. Santosh Jaiswal, a resident of the Wellington Square area in central Calcutta, said he welcomed the NGT and the Supreme Court’s orders. “We need to protect Rabindra Sarobar. We, as a family, perform the Chhath rituals at home nowadays,” said Jaiswal, a businessman.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-232
20-11-2020||Calcutta||Bus catches fire on Howrah bridge, passengers safe||A minibus on the Howrah-Harinavi route caught fire near pillar No. 17 of the Howrah bridge around 5.20pm, police said. The driver spotted thick fumes coming out of the engine and asked passengers to get off the bus. The bus was headed for Harinavi, South 24-Parganas, when the fire broke out.A police team reached the spot and helped in fighting the fire. But by then the entire bus was on fire. Two fire engines brought the fire under control in 20 minutes, the police said. No one was injured. The police had to divert city-bound traffic till the bus was towed away. Forensic experts will inspect the vehicle on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-233
20-11-2020||Calcutta||Contact tracing push to contain Covid in Salt Lake||Outgoing councillors and ward co-ordinators are now being asked to stress on contact tracing. This means finding out everyone a Covid patient came in touch with and getting them tested too. According to a health department official, this directive has been communicated to the civic body headquarters as irrespective of urban or rural pockets, the number of cases in North 24-Parganas has been rising steadily. More than 700 cases are being reported everyday. On Wednesday, North 24-Parganas recorded 805 cases, trailing only behind Calcutta that recorded 875 new Covid cases. Public health specialists have stressed on the three-pronged strategy to trace, test and isolate anyone who has come in contact with a Covid-positive person. More tests would help identify asymptomatic people who would otherwise be freely mingling with others and spreading the virus. However at least two health department officials said that the number of people undergoing tests at the two government Covid-19 testing centres in Salt Lake and Rajarhat was below their expectation. In Salt Lake, the centre is the swimming pool complex opposite Mayukh Bhavan and in Rajarhat, it is at Narayanpur. Initially the civic body would send teams to different blocks in Salt Lake on weekends to set up fever camps as well as advise people on where they can get tests done. But this was stopped due to a shortage of doctors and trained personnel to conduct the tests. Despite the grave pandemic, the civic body continues to run with a single medical officer (doctor). “Many of our employees also came down with Covid after conducting these block-level camps. This is why we started operating permanent testing centres,” said an official. Many residents, however, said that these were inadequate, given the corporation now has 41 wards. Indira Samanta, a resident of IC Block, had gone to the Central Park testing centre, “but I saw a huge queue there and hurried home. I got the test done from a private lab,” said Indira, who tested positive last week and is now in home isolation. A civic official confirmed that most Salt Lake residents were getting their tests done at private facilities, fearing the crowd at the government facilities. He added that many were calling the helplines from Salt Lake and adjoining areas asking what to do in case someone was down with Covid-19 or had come in contact with an infected person. “This points to a lacuna in the workings of the civic body’s health department,” said the official. “Ideally, each urban local body should be prepared to send in a doctor to check on patients who might call for assistance.” The New Town authorities had started a Rapid Antigen Testing (RAT) centre three months ago which has examined more than 1,000 persons since then. RAT tests being quicker (but less accurate), the results are out in an hour and samples are taken everyday from 10.30am-1.30pm except on Sundays. New Town also has private facilities against payment for drive-in Covid tests near gate number 2 of the New Town Fairground near the Biswa Bangla Gate and swab collection kiosks inside the fairground. Debashis Sen, the NKDA chairman, said that all these centres were quite popular among the residents. “Many are turning up here as people are scared to go to hospitals for tests, fearing cross-infection,” said Sen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-233
20-11-2020||Calcutta||Business back on track, almost||Local trains are back. It’s been about a week now that passengers from the districts have been hitching rides to reach their workplaces in Salt Lake, Sector V and New Town by alighting at Bidhannagar Road railway station in Ultadanga. But even though trains have always been a vital mode of connectivity, nothing is quite the same in this post-lockdown world. Many employees are working from home, others have purchased bikes and cycles… The Telegraph Salt Lake speaks to various stakeholders to explore what the return of the local trains means for the locality and how it has affected the situation. A year ago, the only thing visible on the footpaths of Ultadanga during rush hour was a sea of heads. Pedestrians would walk shoulder to shoulder on the footpath and eventually spill on to the road. Traffic policemen would constantly herd autos back into their designated lanes so the majority of the road would be free for buses. Buses on their part would come from all over the city and empty out at the station. While the place is no longer as crowded as before, Ultadanga is busier now than it was a fortnight ago. Rush hour trains are once again pouring out thick crowds, even though off-time trains are going emptier. The government offices under the Metro viaduct too are seeing lots of visitors. “I’m not sure if it the effect of trains, but hundreds more have come today compared to a week ago. Many are eating my rolls and chowmein,” said Ganesh Majumdar, who runs a food stall outside Purta Bhavan, on Wednesday. The Sourav’s restaurant outside the railway station had shut in March and opened last week. “Before that, this street was deserted like a containment zone. I got the confidence to open up only after learning that trains were resuming,” said the owner Sunil Daga. Even then, the footfall isn’t enough for him to resume his Chinese and south Indian offerings. Only sweets and savouries are on sale now. “Time was when passengers used to hang like bats from crowded buses and alight in front of my shop, hungry and thirsty. Now people are working from home, are commuting by cycles and bikes or have lost their jobs altogether. They cannot afford to eat out. Even on my menu only my cheapest sodas are selling. No one is buying costly lassis any more.” Rintu Mistri, who sells tea at the exit of the station, used to open up for just a couple of hours till last week. “But now that trains are back, I’m keeping open from 7am to 8.30pm. Thereafter there is no footfall but at least I can earn a buck or two during the day.” Bikas Mullick reopened his clothes stall outside the station a week before trains resumed and has noted that sales have risen by about 10 per cent since then. “I’m selling winter clothes now. Sales aren’t great but they would have been way worse without the railway crowd,” he said. Sukanta Nayban lives in Lakshmikantapur, and had work at Bikash Bhavan that he had been putting off for months due to the absence of trains. “A bus journey would have meant an almost three-hour-long break journey. The train is much easier, although I was quite alarmed seeing the crowd at the station,” he said, having made the trip on Tuesday. Rupa Sarkar of Santipur, Nadia, said her husband had to hire cars several times before trains resumed, to reach the government offices near Karunamoyee. “It meant a four-hour drive and Rs 1,500 fare,” said Rupa. “Even though our work did not get done today at least it will be easier returning by train.” Without trains, several members of the staff at Bikash Bhavan had been staying back at the office through the week and hitching bike rides home on weekends. “With the trains back on track now we go home daily ,” said the security guard posted outside the building. The supply chain of goods sold by shops and hawkers has got smoother with the trains plying. P.R. Choudhury, who sells flowers at EC Market, is relieved with resumption in service. “So long suppliers would send 10-15kg of flowers by bus from Howrah. It was cumbersome, especially on Puja days when our demand would soar to 50 or 60kg. It wasn’t possible to carry so much by bus so they would hire taxis. The cost escalated, of course,” he said. But flowers for Kali puja could be sent conveniently by train. Large scale fruit and vegetable vendors said they ferry their products by lorries but those like Kishan Kandar, who sells bananas outside the station, can now leave aside his cycle and use the train to get his fruits from Mechhua. Chhoton Biswas would have to cycle to Fancy Market to get mobile accessories for his stall. “It would take hours, I would feel dizzy and worst of all, I couldn’t return in time to open the stall. The train has eased the process again,” said the man who sells outside the station. Auto drivers were expecting to laugh all the way to the bank ferrying passengers to and from the railway station but that hasn’t quite played out as per plan. “If we were doing two trips before the trains we are now doing five or six, but it’s still a hand-to-mouth survival,” said Dulal Das, who plies his auto from Ultadanga to anywhere in Salt Lake. “The reasons are many. Firstly, everyone is trying to cut costs.” The reason passengers preferred autos over buses is because they would be guaranteed seats. “Now when buses are near-empty why would passengers pay more and ride autos?” Das reasons. Bapi Sarkar, driver of a bus on the 201 route, said he was prepared to see a fall in passengers once trains started. “A bus ride from Belghoria to Sector V takes an hour and half whereas a train ride takes 20 minutes. Why will anyone take our bus now?” he asked. Autos and even buses at Ultadanga and Karunamoyee claim that their top destination during office hours used to be Sector V. But now, instead of luring customers by shouting: “Sector V, Sector V!” they are shouting “Bikash, Bikash!” referring to  Bikash Bhavan, the government office near Karunamoyee. “Sector V is now a ghost town,” said Gobindo Singha, a driver on the Karunamoyee-Ultadanga route. Most are working from home and some have fixed carpools on a monthly basis to and from office. The trains started mid-month and it will not be possible for these passengers to discontinue the carpool arrangements before the end of the month or maybe the year. That’s what we are pinning our hopes on.” Another auto driver Kousik Bhattacharya admits passengers have increased after trains resumed. “But drivers are still not making more money. This is because more than passengers, it is autos that have increased on the road,” he laments. For months only 10 out of the 40 autos on the Ultadanga-Salt Lake stand were plying. The rest of the drivers sold fish, fruit or returned to their villages and started farming. “But now that trains have resumed everyone wants a share of the pie and 35 to 40 autos are now hitting the road since last week,” Bhattacharya explains. “There aren’t enough passengers to fill so many vehicles.” Many auto and bus drivers said passengers had in fact reduced after trains began but there is an explanation for that too. “It’s been vacation time since the trains resumed — Kali puja, Diwali, Bhai Phonta, Chhat puja…. Government offices,  which is the most popular destination of passengers now, have been shut. We will need a couple of more weeks to assess the effect of trains on our business,” said auto driver Prasanta Mondal. Bapi Sarkar, a driver of  a 201 route bus, agrees with this holiday theory but laughs at changing fortunes. “Back in the day the concept of even weekly holidays was alien to Sector V folk. Our buses would be just as full on Sundays,” he sighs. Bishu Mondal, the starter (time keeper) of 215A bus route from Sector V to Howrah recalls how their first buses would set off at 3am. “All the seats would get occupied by the time we reached College More, a few hundred meters away,” he recounts. “Back then, our buses would set off every six minutes but now they are not filling even after 15-minute intervals.” The Sovabazar Sutanuti Metro station on their route has no draw either. The East West Metro trains from Wipro to Phoolbagan are going next to empty. Mihir Ghosh, route secretary of Karunamoyee-Phoolbagan autos, is down but optimistic. “People are now less paranoid about Covid and are gradually stepping out. They will eventually take trains and come to work,” he said. The AS 3 bus route from New Town to Garia railway station has raised its fare from Rs 13 to 20 to compensate the lack of passengers in the past months. “But with the trains returning, we believe the crowds are not far behind. Then we can reduce the fare again,” said starter Bubai Karmakar. Auto driver Raj Kumar, in between shouting “Salt Lake and Bikash!” outside the Ultadanga station, once in a while still cries out “Eco Park!” “It’s winter and sooner or later, I’m sure the crowds will return to the park,” he said. “I can ferry them there for Rs 200.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-233
20-11-2020||Calcutta||3 days on, Patuli burglar arrested||The second person involved in the burglary in Patuli’s Baghajatin Colony was arrested by officers of Patuli police station on Thursday evening. Dibas Dey, 36, a resident of Vivekananda Nagar in Narendrapur was arrested when he returned home on Thursday evening after hiding for two days, police said. His accomplice Deb Kumar Haldar, 26, had been caught trying to escape from Subhankar Mukherjee’s rented apartment in Baghajatin Colony in Patuli with his laptop bag. He is now in police custody. Mukherjee had returned home around 3.30pm on Monday to find the collapsible gate in the front broken and Dey and Haldar holding his wallet and Rs10,000 in their hands. Mukherjee, a graphic designer by profession, had been hit by the two with an iron rod. Haldar had his laptop bag and he tried to flee through the door at the back on seeing Mukherjee but he was caught by Mukherjee and another person from the neighbourhood. “We got to know of his (Dey’s) whereabouts from his associate’s statement. But he was hiding somewhere else,” an officer of Patuli police station said. “On specific information we raided his home on Thursday evening and found him there.” Of the Rs 10,000 stolen from Mukherjee’s home, the police said Rs3,000 had been found on Dey. Dey will  produced in court on Friday. Cops have seized the rod and the equipment used to break open the collapsible gate, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-233
20-11-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta metro e-pass relief||Starting Thursday, children below 15 and women can enter a Metro station without an e-pass from 11am to 5pm, officials said. An e-pass was so far mandatory for any passenger under 60 to enter a Metro station. Senior citizens can enter a station any time without an e-pass. “Children should carry an age-proof ID, like their school identity card,” said a Metro official. A smart card will remain mandatory for a train ride for all passengers. “We were having quite a few vacant slots during the non-peak hours. We wanted to give preference to women and children, like we did with senior citizens,” the official said. Metro’s passenger count was 1,00,589 on Wednesday. The count breached the 1,00,000 mark for the first time since the resumption of services on September 14 and a week into the resumption of suburban railway services on November 11. On Thursday, the count was 94,041. The Metro and suburban railway services had remained suspended since March to slow down the spread of the coronavirus. In the run-up to the resumption of suburban trains, Metro had increased the number of trains from Monday to Saturday from 152 to 190.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-233
20-11-2020||Calcutta||Woman’s body in cement bag on busy road||The body of a young woman was found wrapped inside a while plastic bag, meant to carry cement, on the busy MM Ali Road in Ekbalpore on Thursday. Morning walkers spotted the bag lying in front of a closed shop. Later, a team of officers from the nearby Ekbalpore police station reached the spot and opened the bag. A woman’s body, with the hands and legs folded, was found stuffed inside the bag. Injury marks were found on the neck and other parts of the body. The police later identified the victim as 20-year-old Saba Khatun, a resident of Watgunge. The bag was immediately removed from the spot and taken to SSKM Hospital. The body was then sent for a post-mortem. “Preliminary investigations have revealed that Saba used to live with her maternal grandmother in Watgunge till two months ago. Her mother had passed away. Relatives said she would occasionally visit her father,” a police officer said. Over the past two months, Saba had been staying as a “paying guest” with a friend in Warish Lane of Ekbalpore. Residents of the area said they had seen Saba buying biryani from a street-side shop late on Wednesday afternoon. “On Wednesday evening, she was seen leaving the house where she stayed as a paying guest while talking on his cellphone,” said a senior police officer. “Saba’s phone was switched off soon after. Relatives tried in vain to contact her throughout the night.” The phone has not yet been traced. “More than one person was involved in putting the body inside the bag. We are trying to gather her call details so that the frequent callers can be shortlisted,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-233
20-11-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta teen highlights child safety concerns||A 17-year-old girl who lives and has grown up in a red-light area became the chairperson of the state commission for protection of child rights for an hour on Thursday and said every child should be safe “both inside and outside the house”. “If a child is feeling safe at 10 in the morning, she or he should feel safe at 10pm, too,” said the Class XI student at a government school, who has a purple belt in karate. She told Metro that children in neighbourhoods like hers were exposed to unsafe environments in the house as well as outside. “The houses are small and the same space is occupied by their mothers for work. The children have to wait outside, on the landing or the staircase. And with so many people visiting, the children are exposed to risks,” she said. The teenager talked about discrimination girls from red-light districts face in school, though she has not faced it herself. “Children are judged in school not on the basis of their abilities.... Those who come from a red-light area are discriminated against.” She lost her mother a few years back and lives with her grandparents. Her grandfather runs a small shop in their neighbourhood. She narrated facts that gave officials of the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights a glimpse of what it meant to grow up in a neighbourhood like hers. Seldom do children in her locality get to enter home and sleep before 3 in the morning because their mothers remain busy entertaining clients. And going to school on an empty stomach is almost a routine. “Usually, there is only one room in the house and that is occupied till late. So, the children have no option but to while away their time outside till around 3am. There should be a mental health professional in every school to talk to them about their problems,” she said. “The mothers work till late and cannot make breakfast for the children, who are forced to go to school on an empty stomach.... They should be provided with tiffin at the beginning of a school day,” she said. Ananya Chatterjee Chakraborti, the chairperson of the commission, said the demands raised by the teenager would be placed before Shashi Panja, Bengal’s minister of state (independent charge) for women and child development and social welfare. “They have specific problems, different from other children from marginalised backgrounds. It is important that their voices are heard. When we reach out to one child, we are reaching out to the entire community. The community feels confident that they are being heard,” said Chatterjee Chakraborti. The teenager has been going to a centre run by the NGO South Kolkata Hamari Muskan, which looks after the mental health, education and livelihood of children in red-light areas and their mothers, since she was five. “She has attended multiple counselling sessions, which helped make her resilient and find a voice and make her strong enough to face the world,” said Sarbani Sarkar Neogi, the founder-director and secretary of the NGO. Commission sources said making the teenager chairperson for an hour was a first-of-its-kind move, which was part of the events lined up to mark the child rights week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-233
20-11-2020||Calcutta||Bike thief poses as good Samaritan in hospital||A man who was in a rush to meet his four-day-old nephew admitted to Calcutta Medical College and Hospital parked his two-wheeler outside the hospital and asked a stranger to look after it. An hour later he returned to find the vehicle and the stranger gone. On asking people in the area, the man learnt that the stranger had earlier cheated several people by posing as a member of the hospital staff who could get relatives of patients connected to doctors directly against a “nominal payment”. Police tracked the man down through a phone number obtained by speaking to various people. The theft occurred on Wednesday afternoon. Soon after finding his motorcycle gone, Abdul Moid, a resident of the Ripon Street area, lodged a complaint of theft with Bowbazar police station. During investigation police found a phone number from people at the hospital. Cops tracked the tower location of the phone to Chandernagore in Hooghly district. The subscriber details record of the SIM card helped the police get details of the person in whose name the SIM is registered. The person was identified as Tulsi Das Majhi, 20, a resident of Chandernagore. He was arrested on Wednesday night and produced in court on Thursday. The stolen motorcycle has been seized from him, the police said. It is advisable not to trust strangers in a government hospital, according to senior officers. There are frauds roaming around trying to cheat people taking advantage of their mental state because most have a family member or a relative or someone close admitted to the hospital, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-233
20-11-2020||Calcutta||Home fever scan to resume in Salt Lake||Health workers of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation will resume door-to-door checks in all its 41 wards to find out if someone has fever. All the wards have been reporting fresh cases of the coronavirus almost daily. Close to 250 residents of Salt Lake and adjoining areas, including Baguiati, Kestopur, Atghara, Kaikhali and Rajarhat, have tested positive for dengue. Also, there have been instances of people contracting both the coronavirus and dengue, a civic official said. The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation had stopped running door-to-door checks as many health workers had gone home for Durga Puja and many had tested positive for the coronavirus. “Also, there are no containment zones except for Duttabad. Many of our workers who were part of these teams had contracted Covid-19 and many had gone on leave because of Durga Puja,” the civic official said. The decision to resume door-to-door checks was taken after a meeting of the board of administrators on Thursday, another official said. “We have received reports of people coming down with both Covid and dengue at the same time. This is a risky combination and we do not want to take chances,” an official of the civic body’s health department said. Last year, during this time close to 1,000 people were down with dengue. In the past three years, 30 people have died of dengue and hundreds have had the disease. Krishna Chakraborty, chairperson of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation’s board of administrators, said teams had been conducting sanitisation drives and spraying larvicide in all blocks of Salt Lake and other areas. “We have taken a two-pronged approach. While the vector control and sanitisation teams will move around the blocks the door-to-door teams will check if anyone in a house has fever. Apart from this they will enter the house to check for any accumulated freshwater,” Chakraborty said. A member of a vector control team who visited several homes on Thursday said they had found freshwater in old tyres dumped in backyards, under refrigerators and vases. The Aedes aegypti mosquito that causes dengue can breed even in a little volume of water. Civic teams have been distributing leaflets to residents to spread awareness about Covid-19 as well as dengue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-233
20-11-2020||Calcutta||‘Feluda’ for faster Covid test results in Calcutta||A home-grown paper strip diagnostic test kit for Covid-19 that could cut the waiting time for results by several hours will be available in New Delhi by the first week of December and “shortly thereafter” in Calcutta. Two private entities that have commercialised the concept developed in a government laboratory made the announcement on Thursday. The paper strip-based test, developed by scientists at the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology in New Delhi, is expected to scale up Covid-19 diagnosis as it eliminates an expensive sophisticated tool used in the standard quantitative RT-PCR test. The institute has named the testing technology Feluda after the iconic Bengali sleuth created by Satyajit Ray and brought to life by Soumitra Chattopadhyay. Tata Medical and Diagnostics (Tata MD), the health care venture of the Tata group, has collaborated with Apollo Hospitals for the commercial roll-out of the new mode of testing, called TataMD CHECK. The test results should be available to a suspected patient within two hours, an Apollo Hospitals spokesperson said. The result of a conventional RT-PCR test is available within six hours of testing at many hospitals in Calcutta. But a private laboratory usually takes 24 to 48 hours to deliver the result. The paper strip test will need nasal and throat swab samples like they are needed in RT-PCR tests. Both diagnostic strategies rely on looking for genetic signatures of the Covid-19 virus after an “amplification process” that multiplies traces of viral genetic material in the swabs of patients. While the standard RT-PCR test relies on a machine that costs around Rs 20 lakh, the Feluda technology combines an enzyme that works like a molecular scissor with a paper strip to detect the amplified genetic material without the need for that expensive machine, according to IGIB scientists. “It should take no more than 60 minutes from gene amplification to test read-out,” Debajyoti Chakraborty, an IGIB scientist who developed the test in collaboration with his colleague Souvik Maiti, said. Chakraborty said the paper strip test would expand the number of Covid-19 diagnostic facilities and reduce the turnaround time from submission of a sample to the release of the result. “The paper-strip technology is expected to help deliver results faster and higher throughput of testing volumes as there are no minimum batch size limitations,” an official of Tata MD said. The RT-PCR test involves batch processing, which means a fixed lot of samples has to be fed into a reader at one go. While the IGIB has already transferred the technology to the Tata group on a non-exclusive basis, the institute, a unit of India’s Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, has received enquiries from other potential manufacturers. “Apollo Hospitals, along with its subsidiary Apollo Diagnostics, will offer the Tata MD CHECK testing in the National Capital Region from the first week of December 2020 and shortly thereafter it will be rolled out across all major centres,” the group said in an official statement. “We are happy to further the cause of AatmaNirbhar Bharat in providing the launch pad for adoption of this indigenously developed testing,” Sangita Reddy, the joint managing director of Apollo Hospitals, said. The cost of the paper strip test in each state will be fixed according to the caps placed by the state governments. In Calcutta, the state government has capped the cost of RT-PCR tests at Rs 1,500 for private hospitals. Doctors said any reduction in the waiting time was welcome. “There are sophisticated testing techniques like GeneXpert (that uses imported kits to look for genetic signatures of the Covid-19 virus after an amplification process) which produce results faster than the RT-PCR technique. But an indigenous technology will come at a cheaper price and can be the ‘test of choice’,” a city-based pulmonologist and intensive care specialist said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-233
20-11-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta lakes to be shut for all till Saturday||Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar will remain closed to all visitors from Thursday midnight till 3pm on Saturday, the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) said on Thursday. The CMDA, which is the custodian of both water bodies, will paste closure notice at the gates of the two premises. The move is the outcome of a high court order issued earlier this month, which reads: “As far as Subhas Sarobar and Rabindra Sarobar are concerned, in view of the subsisting order of the National Green Tribunal, these water bodies will be totally out of bounds for Chhath Puja celebrations. However, as the State has indicated that there is a petition of CMDA before the Supreme Court in such regard, ultimately it is the order of the Supreme Court that will prevail. However, if no order is passed on CMDA’s petition by the Supreme Court, the National Green Tribunal’s order has to be implemented without exception.” The Supreme Court on Thursday refused to interfere with the high court order. Here are what government agencies have done in the run up to Chhath Puja, to be held over Friday and Saturday. Bamboo structures were set up to close the gaps in the boundary walls on the periphery of both Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar on Thursday. The bamboo structures have been covered with tin and asbestos sheets to ensure no one could sneak into the lakes. The 15 entry points of Rabindra Sarobar, some of which witnessed gatecrashing during last year’s Chhath Puja, have got an additional layer of barricade each as reinforcement. Double the number of cops, compared with other days, will be deployed on the periphery of the two Sarobar compounds on Friday and Saturday. “We will have adequate forces on the ground to ensure no one violates the court order,” said an officer in south Calcutta. Last year, there were allegations that the cops deployed outside Rabindra Sarobar were outnumbered by Chhath worshippers, who had forced their way in after breaking locks on gates. Sources said women cops would be posted in large numbers. The high court has instructed the police to ensure its order related to Chhath Puja is enforced. “In the event the State finds any difficulty in controlling crowds or in the implementation of this order, the State is reminded of the authority at its disposal including the power under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, to restrict the number of persons in any particular area,” the court order reads. Officers said they would take stringent action to prevent violation of the court order. They are planning to stop devotees 200m from the lakes. The CMDA and the police on Thursday created several small pools in slum areas near Subhas Sarobar and urged worshippers through the public address system to perform Chhath rituals there. Police stations across the city have been campaigning over loudhailers that not more than two members of a family will be allowed to perform Chhath rituals and no big processions will be allowed because of the Covid pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-234
20-11-2020||Calcutta||Supreme Court upholds ban on Chhath at Sarobars||The Supreme Court on Thursday declined to interfere with the directives passed by Calcutta High Court and the National Green Tribunal (NGT) banning Chhath rituals at Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar and imposing restrictions on congregation of people for the festival. The three-judge bench of Justices U.U. Lalit, Vineet Saran and S. Ravindra Bhat declined to entertain appeals against the earlier directions and said they were well-reasoned and there was no need to modify the orders passed on those directions. The court was dealing with separate appeals filed by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) and the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA), which were represented by senior advocates Rakesh Dwivedi and Kalyan Banerjee. The NGT had in November 2017 imposed a ban on all pujas, picnics and other social events on the Rabindra Sarobar premises. The high court had on November 10, 2020, said the NGT’s order would stand unless the Supreme Court decided otherwise. The high court also included Subhas Sarobar among places where Chhath rituals would be barred and said no more than two persons from a family could join the celebrations in public. Bursting firecrackers and playing loud music are banned, too. On Thursday, the Supreme Court refused to interfere with the NGT and the high court’s directions. The apex court noted that the NGT had passed a reasoned order and no blanket relief could be given during the current festivities, particularly because of the Covid pandemic. “I am very happy with the Supreme Court’s decision. The NGT’s ban was flouted in 2018 and 2019 under the auspices of the state administration. If the administration does the same thing this year, it will be a very serious insult to the highest court of the country,” said environment activist Subhas Datta, whose petition against football matches under floodlights at the Rabindra Sarobar stadium had triggered a series of developments that led to the NGT’s order. “The Supreme Court on Thursday referred to an expert committee’s report that made recommendations against any puja at Rabindra Sarobar,” Datta said. Sumita Banerjee, a daily visitor to Rabindra Sarobar, said she “hoped the state government will protect both Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar”. On November 11, the apex court had affirmed the high court order banning the sale and bursting of firecrackers during Diwali, Chhath Puja, Kali Puja and other occasions in the whole of Bengal. The vacation bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee dismissed the special leave petition filed against the November 5 order passed by a division bench of the high court. “High courts know the local situation better. Of course, festivals are an important part of our culture. But we are in the middle of a pandemic. There can be no greater value than preservation of life. We understand this may involve hardship. But, look at Covid-19-affected people in hospitals, elderly people etc. Can anyone step out of the house in Calcutta, Delhi or any other part of the city today?” the bench had observed. The high court division bench of Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Arijit Banerjee, which had ordered that no more than two persons from each family would be allowed to perform the rituals because of the Covid pandemic, directed the local bodies to ensure elaborate publicity to inform Chhath worshippers about the cap. It directed that persons intending to travel to a water body to perform the rituals in vehicles must follow all Covid protocols. The high court and the NGT had passed the impug-ned directions while dealing with PILs filed by environmental activists Ajay Kumar Das and Subhas Datta, who had sought a ban on congre-gation of people during Diwali, Chhath Puja and other festivals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-234
20-11-2020||Business||Sensex jumps 282 points, closes on a high||Equity benchmark Sensex surged 282 points on Friday, tracking gains in HDFC Bank, Kotak Bank and Bajaj Finance amid positive cues from global markets and sustained foreign fund inflows. After a highly volatile session, the 30-share BSE index ended 282.29 points or 0.65 per cent higher at 43,882.25. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 87.35 points or 0.68 per cent to 12,859.05. Bajaj Finserv was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 9 per cent, followed by Titan, Bajaj Finance, Kotak Bank, Bharti Airtel, Nestle India and NTPC. On the other hand, Reliance Industries, IndusInd Bank, Sun Pharma, Axis Bank, ONGC and HUL were among the laggards. "The BSE Sensex is closing higher by about 1 per cent in this Diwali week," said Sanjeev Zarbade, VP PCG Research, Kotak Securities. "With the end of the earnings season, the focus will shift back to economic recovery and market valuations," he said, adding that risk to the markets is from a resurgence of COVID-19 infections in India. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul ended on a positive note, while Tokyo was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a positive note in early deals. Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, rose 0.41 per cent to USD 44.38 per barrel. Meanwhile, foreign institutional investors remained net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,180.61 crore on Thursday, according to provisional exchange data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-229
20-11-2020||Business||Sensex jumps over 250 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex surged over 250 points in early trade on Friday, tracking gains in index-heavyweights HDFC twins, Kotak Bank and Bajaj Finance amid largely positive cues from global markets and sustained foreign fund inflow. The 30-share BSE index was trading 282.07 points or 0.65 per cent higher at 43,882.03 in the opening session. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 78.45 points or 0.61 per cent to 12,850.15. Bajaj Finserv was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, advancing over 2 per cent, followed by Tata Steel, Titan, Bajaj Finance, HDFC twins and Kotak Bank. On the other hand, ICICI Bank, ONGC, Axis Bank, SBI and IndusInd Bank were among the laggards. In the previous session, BSE Sensex ended 580.09 points or 1.31 per cent lower at 43,599.96, while Nifty closed 166.55 points or 1.29 per cent down at 12,771.70. Foreign institutional investors remained net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,180.61 crore on Thursday, according to provisional exchange data. Despite a sharp correction yesterday, the market continues to look good in the backdrop of improved earnings visibility and improving key economic indicators, said Arjun Yash Mahajan, Head Institutional Business at Reliance Securities. US equities ended with modest gains as increasing optimism about fiscal stimulus overshadowed concerns of rising new COVID-19 cases and increasing restrictions, he stated. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul were trading in with gains in mid-session deals, while Tokyo was in the red. Meanwhile, Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, were trading 0.14 per cent higher at USD 44.24 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-229
20-11-2020||Business||YouTube updates its monetisation rules||YouTube has updated its terms of service, allowing advertisements to appear in videos from content creators that are not part of its remunerating Partner Program (YPP). Earlier, when advertisements ran on YouTube videos, creators who were part of the Partner Program, received a portion of the revenue. Under the new monetisation rules, a creator who is not a part of the plan, will also see ads on some of their videos without them earning any revenue. The move has received negative response in social media. “Ads can now appear on videos from channels not in the YouTube Partner Program (YPP), and we will begin to gradually place ads on brand safe videos. This is part of our ongoing investments in new solutions, like Home Feed ads, that help advertisers responsibly tap into the full scale of YouTube to connect with their audiences and grow their businesses,” YouTube, the online video sharing flagship of Google, said in a statement on the updated terms of service. “Because these channels are not in YPP, there is no creator revenue share, but creators can still apply to YPP once they hit the eligibility criteria, which remains the same,” the statement said. For joining YouTube’s Partner Program, one has to live in a country where it is available, the list of which includes India. Also, one has to have more than 4,000 valid public watch hours in the last 12 months and more than 1,000 subscribers, along with a linked AdSense account. Advertising is a major revenue source for Google and disclosures made by Alphabet Inc shows that $5 billion was earned from YouTube ads in the last quarter alone. Tax compliance The updated terms also said that for content creators in the US who are part of YPP, their earnings will now be treated as royalty from a US tax perspective and Google will withhold taxes from these payments if it is required by law. “For creators outside of the US, we will provide more details in 2021 as the terms become available in their countries,” YouTube said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-230
20-11-2020||Business||Mastercard partners with USAID on Project Kirana to empower women||Mastercard has partnered the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) to launch Project Kirana that aims to empower women through financial inclusion and digital adoption of payments at the kirana shops owned and operated by them. The two-year programme would be initially implemented across Lucknow, Kanpur and Varanasi covering around 3,000 women entrepreneurs and would be scaled up later. The programme will focus on building financial and digital literacy, improving basic business management skills and addressing the cultural and other barriers faced by women in becoming kirana entrepreneurs. Alison Eskesen, vice-president of Mastercard Center for Inclusive Growth, said the three cities where it will start the programme will be a testing ground and prepare a roadmap for expansion to more states. Mastercard has announced a commitment of Rs 250 crore to help reboot Indian SMEs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-230
20-11-2020||Business||India’s tech solutions have potential to go global: Modi||India’s technology solutions have the potential to go global, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday. Addressing the Bangalore Tech Summit 2020 (BTS2020) virtually, he said: “India as a country is uniquely positioned to leap ahead in the information era. We have the best minds as well as the biggest market. Our local tech solutions have the potential to go global.” Modi said his government has eased the compliance burden on the IT industry in various ways and has engaged with stakeholders in the tech industry to chart out the future policy framework. “Thanks to Digital India our nation has witnessed a more human-centric approach to development. Using technology had brought about several life changes for our citizens,” he said. RCEP stand India will explore suitable trade agreements with other countries even as it has walked away from the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership free trade agreement. “When we decided non to participate in RCEP, that was because we felt it was not going to serve the national purpose. This is not the case that we are moving into some sort of protectionism. If there are trade deals that serve our purpose, we will do them," said Sanjeev Sanyal, principal economic adviser in the Union finance ministry. He was speaking at the annual general meeting of Merchants Chamber of Commerce and Industry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-230
20-11-2020||Business||Centre to consider iron ore and pellet export ban||The Centre is looking into a proposal by the steel industry, especially from Bengal, to ban the export of iron ore and pellets from India to improve the availability of these key raw materials in the domestic market. Participating at the annual general meeting of the Merchants’ Chamber of Commerce, Union steel minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Thursday said the representation by the Bengal industry was a “good suggestion” and he would look into the matter. Admitting that there is a shortage of iron ore, Pradhan said: “We are talking to the stakeholders concerned, that can be an option.” Lalit Beriwala, director of Shyam Steel, informed the minister that there was a crisis of iron ore because of the closure of mines in Odisha. Prices of iron ore and pellets have shot up. Moreover, the supply has dried up, threatening the closure of the mills in Bengal. Pradhan suggested that central PSU OMDC should be allowed to use closed mines till the situation normalises. The minister said he had spoken to OMDC about it but the state government has to take the initiatives. The minister, however, refused to intervene in increasing steel prices, saying it is a demand-supply issue. In 2019-20, the total production of iron ore was 250 million tonnes in the country, while domestic demand was 180 million tonnes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-230
20-11-2020||Business||DGCA assessing rerunning of Boeing 737 MAX planes||India’s aviation regulator has said it is assessing the decision of its US counterpart  to let the Boeing 737 MAX planes fly again and it would take “some time ” before it gives its assent to the planes that have been grounded for more than a year following two fatal crashes. The stock markets, however, have factored in the US Federal Aviation Administration’s decision as investors hoisted the SpiceJet share up by 12 per cent on Thursday. On the BSE, the shares closed at Rs 74.35, rising 12.06 per cent over the previous close. The FAA paved the way for the MAX aircraft to return to commercial service after a comprehensive and methodical safety review process that stretched for 20 months. In the wake of the accidents  involving MAX planes, these aircraft were grounded worldwide in 2019. Joining many other regulators, India’s directorate general of civil aviation (DGCA) has grounded MAX aircraft in March last year. On the next step after the FAA cleared the path for the resumption of Boeing 737 MAX flights, a senior DGCA official said the regulator would “study and react. It will take some time”. Sources said generally FAA decisions are globally followed by other aviation regulators, though they take their own time to implement it. Only two Indian carriers — SpiceJet and now-shuttered Jet Airways — were operating MAX aircraft before they were grounded on safety concerns. SpiceJet has a fleet of 13 such planes that were grounded in March 2019. In 2016-17, the carrier had placed an order for up to 205 MAX aircraft. The FAA has also published an airworthiness directive, specifying the design changes that must be made before the aircraft returns to service, issued a continued airworthiness notification to the international community, and published the MAX training requirements.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-230
20-11-2020||Business||Amazon move questioned in court by Future Retail||Senior advocate Harish Salve, counsel for Future Retail, on Thursday said that Amazon cannot object to the deal between Future Retail (FRL) and Reliance Retail as it does not have its “skin in the game” and holds less than 10 per cent in FRL. Salve made this submission in the Delhi high court, which is hearing a petition by FRL that says Amazon is interfering in its Rs 24,713-crore deal with Reliance Retail on the basis of an interim order by Singapore arbitrator SIAC. Amazon had earlier picked up 49 per cent in Future Coupons Pvt Ltd (FCL). FCL, which is classified as a promoter in FRL, owns 9.82 per cent of the latter. By the virtue of its investment in FCL, Amazon has a 4.81 per cent stake in FRL. At the hearing on Thursday, Salve quoted the Companies Act, 2013 to say that entities holding less than 10 per cent cannot object to a scheme of arrangement between Future Retail and Reliance. “Reliance is a muscular company in India. What stops it from launching its own marketplace. It will then be Amazon versus Reliance,’’ he observed while indicating that Amazon is looking to deter RIL. Amazon had earlier taken FRL into an emergency arbitration over alleged breach of contract after the Future group entered into a deal to sell its retail assets to Reliance. On October 25, the SIAC had passed an interim order in favour of the e-commerce major barring FRL from taking any step to dispose of or encumber its assets or issuing any securities to secure any funding from a restricted party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-230
20-11-2020||Business||Moody’s: Economy contract 10.6 per cent this fiscal||Moody’s Investors Service on Thursday said the economy would contract 10.6 per cent this fiscal against its earlier forecast of 11.5 per cent contraction as the Centre’s stimulus measures announced last week would positively impact the economy. The third stimulus package amounting to Rs 2.7 lakh crore prioritises manufacturing and job creation and focuses on longer-term growth, Moody’s said. The measures aim to increase the competitiveness of the manufacturing sector, while supporting infrastructure investment, credit availability and the stressed sectors. They present potential upside to the current growth forecasts and a credit positive, Moody’s added. “As countries have increasingly looked to greater diversification in their supply chains since the coronavirus pandemic, the timely introduction of these measures could boost India’s manufacturing industry, which contributed around 15 per cent of GDP in 2019,” Moody’s said, adding that widening of the scope of the credit guarantee scheme will boost credit flow and aid recovery. “We have revised our real, inflation-adjusted GDP forecast for fiscal 2020 (April 2020-March 2021) to a 10.6 per cent contraction, from a 11.5 per cent drop previously,” Moody’s said. For the next fiscal 2021-22, Moody’s projected India to grow at 10.8 per cent against the previous estimate of 10.6 per cent. Q2 better: Icra The contraction in the country’s gross domestic product (GDP) may have narrowed to 9.5 per cent in the second quarter of the current fiscal from 23.9 per cent in the April-June quarter, says a report by Icra. The Central Statistics Office (CSO) will release the GDP data for the second quarter of 2020-21 on November 27.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-230
20-11-2020||Business||Vodafone Idea shares rise over 4 per cent||Shares of Vodafone Idea on Thursday rose over 4 per cent during intra-day trade on reports that it could see a fund infusion of up to $2 billion from Oaktree and Varde. The telco, however, gave up most of its gains to close at Rs 9.27, marking a rise of 0.76 per cent over the previous close. During intra-day trade, it hit a high of Rs 9.59. In September, Vodafone Idea had announced it would raise up to Rs 25,000 crore in fresh capital. The company has to pay Rs 58,000 crore in dues to the government over a 10-year period and it has so far paid Rs 7,900 crore. On Thursday, Bloomberg reported that a consortium backed by Oaktree Capital could provide upto $2 billion (around Rs 15,000 crore) to Vodafone Idea. The report added that Oaktree has joined hands with other firms, including Varde Partners, for the deal and the total infusion could be around $2.5 billion. The company had seen consolidated loss narrowing to Rs 7,218.2 crore in the  September quarter of 2020. It had suffered a loss of Rs 50,897.9 crore a year ago. Total income declined by about 3 per cent to Rs 10,830.5 crore from Rs 11,146.4 crore a year ago. In August, Trai data showed Vodafone Idea lost 12.28 lakh users to take its subscriber base to 30.01 crore. “Vodafone Idea’s poor balance sheet may hurt its capex and add to its loss of market share to Airtel and Jio. Any progress on floor pricing or relief measures from the Centre will be positive for the sector,’’ analysts at Axis Capital said. Tower merger The merger of Bharti Infratel and Indus Towers to create a mega tower company has been completed. Vodafone Idea has received Rs 3,760.1 crore cash for its 11.15 per cent holding in Indus, a regulatory filing said on Thursday. Vodafone Group will hold a 28.12 per cent stake in the merged entity, while the holding of Airtel Group will be about 36.7 per cent. “The board has allotted 757,821,804 shares of Rs 10 each to the Vodafone group and 87,506,900 shares of Rs 10 each to PS Asia Holding Investments (Mauritius) Limited (Providence) aggregating to 28.12 per cent and 3.25 per cent, respectively, in the post-issue share capital of the company,” Bharti Infratel said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-230
20-11-2020||Business||SC asks Centre and RBI to respond to power producers loan restructuring plea||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked the finance ministry and the RBI to respond to the plea of the power producers to restructure Rs 1.2 lakh crore of their loans in the wake of the pandemic even as the Centre said the issue of loan moratorium is a fiscal policy matter and the government has taken various proactive steps keeping in mind different sectors. The Centre also assured the top court that it would be the responsibility of banks to credit compound interest waiver for loans up to Rs 2 crore. A three-judge bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah posted the matter for further hearing to enable the power producers  place their suggestions and representations within three days to the RBI and finance ministry on the restructuring of loans for the authorities concerned to respond accordingly. The bench passed the directions after senior advocate Abhishekh Manu Singhvi appearing for the power producers association complained that no relief had been extended to the sector which was one of the worst affected during the Covid-19 crisis. The court was dealing with a batch of petitions seeking moratorium on loans till 2021 in view of the pandemic. The RBI on March 27 allowed lending institutions to grant a moratorium on payment of instalments of term loans falling between March 1, 2020, and May 31, 2020, which was extended till August 31. While apprising the apex court about the steps and measures taken so far by the finance ministry and the RBI, solicitor-general Tushar Mehta told the  bench that it is not a case of “no action” and no further indulgence may be given even if the petitioners say that there could be a better option on this issue. The solicitor-general also said that to ask for sector specific reliefs from the top court now is perhaps not a remedy available under Article 32 of the Constitution. Creditors empowered In a separate case, the Supreme Court on Thursday held that “any creditor of a company in liquidation” can become a party to the winding up petition against the defaulting firm and seek transfer of the plea from a high court to a National Company Law Tribunal set up under the new law on insolvency and bankruptcy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-230
20-11-2020||Business||Harsh Vardhan Lodha removed from five MP Birla firms||Harsh Vardhan Lodha has been removed from the boards of the five toprung investment companies of the MP Birla Group, escalating the battle over the control of the business empire spread across cement, cable and jute sectors. These companies, chaired by Justice Mohit S Shah (retired), took the step in their respective board meetings in October and subsequently informed the ministry of corporate affairs (MCA) of the cessation. The website of the MCA now shows that Lodha has ceased to be the director of these firms. The Lodha camp termed Harsh’s removal as ‘illegal actions’ and filed applications, which may come up for hearing on Friday before the Calcutta High Court. Lodha has been director on the board of these companies since 2004. Justice Shah (retired) is a member of the committee of administrator pendente lite (APL Committee), appointed by the court to look after the estate of late Priyamvada Devi Birla, till the pendency of her contested will, which had bequeathed the estate to late Rajendra Lodha, father of Harsh. The threemember APL committee had been seeking to oust Lodha from the boards of all the four listed companies of MP Birla Group, alleging that he was acting against the interests of the estate. The investment firms took note of the judgment passed on September 18 by a single bench of the high court, which restrained Lodha from holding any office of the MP Birla Group till the pendency of the probate suit of Priyamvada’s contested will. On October 1, a division bench of the HC declined ad interim stay on the single bench order but clarified that Lodha would be restrained from holding office ‘on the strength of the shares referable to the estate of Priyamvada Birla’. The Birla and Lodha camps took divergent views of the order. While the Birla side claimed that the single bench order had been upheld, the Lodha camp argued the order paved the way for his continuation on the boards, trusts and societies of MP Birla Group. Since then, Birla Corp and all three listed firms held board meetings under the chairmanship of Harsh Lodha. However, Justice Shah (retired) did not allow Lodha to join the board meets of the investment firms citing the HC order and removed him from the boards. The Birla camp on Thursday said it was in the process of filing a contempt of court order case against the listed companies and their directors for flouting the order. The Lodhas pointed out that the APL committee formed an opinion that Lodha has ceased to be a director automatically despite the division bench modification. They alleged the board meetings of the companies were conducted improperly and flouting the law and the companies were coerced to make filings to the MCA. The investment companies — East India Investment, Gwalior Webbing, The Punjab Produce & Trading Co, Baroda Agent & Trading Co and Punjab Produce Holdings — together hold around 14.23 per cent directly in Birla Corporation, the flagship of the group, having a market capitalisation of Rs 5,701 crore. They are a part of the promoter group of Birla Corp, which has 62.9 per cent in the company. They also hold significant shares in three other listed cable companies of the group, which have a combined market cap of around Rs 1,500 crore as on November 19. While late Priyamvada, and now the estate, held majority stakes in two of the investment companies — East India and Gwalior Webbing — she directly held minority stake in the rest. For instance, in The Punjab Produce Trading and Punjab Produce Holdings, the estate holds 0 per cent and 0.08 per cent directly. However, they together hold 10.63 per cent in BCL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-230
20-11-2020||India||Delhi court extends judicial custody of Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam till Nov 23||A Delhi court on Friday extended by three days the judicial custody of former JNU student leader Umar Khalid and JNU student Sharjeel Imam who were arrested under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in a case related to the communal violence in northeast Delhi in February. Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat extended their judicial custody till November 23 as sought by the public prosecutor. During the hearing held through video conferencing, Special Public Prosecutor Amit Prasad, appearing for the police, said the mandatory time period of 90 days to complete the probe in the case will be completed on November 23 and the charge sheet has to be filed. Khalid and Imam have been arrested in the case for allegedly being part of a premeditated conspiracy in the riots. When the judge asked Prasad whether the police were going to file the charge sheet on Monday, he did not give any specific date and said he will let the court know on November 23. Advocate Trideep Pais, appearing for Khalid, opposed the remand application saying it was hollow like the earlier applications. The judge then asked Khalid if he was facing the problems now in Tihar prison, as mentioned earlier by him. Khalid replied, besides curbing my liberties and a malicious investigation, I am not facing any other issues. Khalid had earlier alleged that he has not been allowed to step out of his cell or meet anyone while in judicial custody. Imam's counsel Surabhi Dhar informed the court that certain documents which he had written while in custody in Assam were taken from him when he was brought to Delhi and has not been returned yet. Imam too said the documents were taken from him at the gate of Tihar prison. The court has put up the matter for further hearing on November 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-545
20-11-2020||India||CBSE exams will happen for sure, says secretary||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) secretary Anurag Tripathi said on Friday that the board will, for sure, conduct its examinations for class X and XII and a schedule is likely to be soon announced. His remarks came amid several demands from different quarters to cancel or postpone the board examination due to the increasing cases of coronavirus. "The board exams will happen for sure and a schedule will be announced very soon. The CBSE is making plans and will soon reveal how it will do test assessments," he said during a webinar on "New Education Policy (NEP): Brighter future of school education", which was organised by ASSOCHAM. Tripathi, however, did not shed light on whether the exams will be conducted in the usual format and will be held in February or March, or will be postponed. "During March-April we were flummoxed as to how to move forward, but our schools and teachers rose to the occasion and transformed, trained themselves in using new technology for teaching purposes and within a few months conducting online classes using different apps became normal," the secretary said. Schools across the country were shut down since March to curb the spread of Covid-19 infections, and the board exams, which had to be postponed midway, were ultimately cancelled this year. The results were announced on the basis of an alternative assessment scheme as a result. However, since October 15, some states have partially opened them with many others deciding to keep them closed in view of the spiking number of cases. Several people have demanded the board exams be postponed to May as schools have not opened for months and teaching-learning activities have completely shifted online. Noting that a common aim of all education policies including the new National Education Policy (NEP) has been to shift students from rote learning to experiential learning, Tripathi said, "the entire NEP 2020's thrust and main aim is to make a shift to skill and competency based education". "We need to move students away from knowledge based education to competency and skill based learning. To implement skill-based, competency based education there is a need to transform and follow the entire pedagogy based teaching-learning process be it classroom teaching, face-to-face teaching or online teaching,” he said. "The pedagogy based teaching-learning process is more about making students more curious, innovative, creative and providing them experiential learning and this can be achieved only when schools, teachers and principals change the teaching pedagogy," Tripathi added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-545
20-11-2020||India||AG nod for contempt proceedings against Kunal Kamra over fresh tweet||Attorney General K K Venugopal Friday gave consent for initiating contempt proceedings against stand-up comic artist Kunal Kamra for his November 18 tweet, saying it was grossly vulgar and obnoxious and tended to lower the authority of the Supreme Court. The top law officer had last week granted consent for initiation of contempt proceedings against Kamra for his earlier tweets which allegedly criticised the apex court, saying they were in bad taste and it was time people understood that attacking it brazenly will attract punishment. The consent of either the Attorney General or the Solicitor General is necessary, under section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971, for initiating contempt proceedings against a person. Venugopal granted the fresh consent on a request made in this regard by Prayagraj-based advocate Anuj Singh. Kamra, in his November 18 tweet, had made an objectionable gesture while making a comment against the Chief Justice of India. I have gone through your request for consent under section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971 against Kunal Kamra in respect of the tweet dated November 18, 2020 (at 9.46 PM), the Attorney General said in his letter to Singh. The said tweet is grossly vulgar and obnoxious, and I have no doubt that it would tend to lower the authority of the Supreme Court of India as well as undermine the confidence that the litigant public has in the institution of the Supreme Court of India itself, he said. "In view of the above, I accordingly grant consent under section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1975," Venugopal said. Armed with the consent granted earlier by the Attorney General, a petition was filed in the Supreme Court on November 13 seeking initiation of criminal contempt proceedings against Kamra for his alleged scandalous tweets against the apex court. The petition has claimed that Kamra had started publishing tweets on November 11 when the top court was hearing the appeal of journalist Arnab Goswami against the Bombay High Court's order rejecting his plea seeking interim bail in the 2018 abetment to suicide case. It has alleged that after the top court had granted interim bail to Goswami on November 11, Kamra again published various tweets and thereby scandalized the apex court and further lowered its authority. While granting consent earlier, Venugopal had said today people believe that they can boldly and brazenly condemn the Supreme Court of India and its judges by exercising their freedom of speech, but under the Constitution, the freedom of speech is subject to the law of contempt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-545
20-11-2020||India||Naqvi backs BJP govt to get rid of ‘corruption clan’ in J&K||Senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said on Friday that the Narendra Modi-led government will ensure that Jammu and Kashmir gets rid of the “corruption clan”. The union minister for minority affairs said that Jammu and Kashmir is demolishing the “web dynasty” and has been marching towards a path of inclusive development. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi led-government has ended the 'corruption of clan' from the corridors of power of Delhi and now it will make Jammu and Kashmir free from 'corruption of clan', Naqvi said at an election meeting in Srinagar’s Balahama area, adding that for his party, secularism is not a "definition of vote politics". "It is the determination for inclusive development. The Modi era is an era of 'Iqbal' (authority), 'Insaaf' (justice) and 'Imaan' (integrity) where inclusive development, security and prosperity of the country are of the utmost priority," the minister said. “After several decades, the people of Jammu and Kashmir have become an equal partner in transparent democratic and development processes,” Naqvi claimed. He alleged that the "dynastic politics" had deprived the people of the union territory deliberately of their constitutional rights as well as mainstream development. "Now, the BJP is committed to take the Union Territory forward on the path of prosperity," he said. The BJP leader reiterated his party’s claim that the “Gupkar Alliance” is a conspiracy against India and its national interests. "The alliance is trying to create confusion among the people of Jammu and Kashmir but they will not succeed in their attempt. The people will never accept any such alliance which wants to throw Kashmir back into the quagmire of separatism and terrorism," Naqvi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-546
20-11-2020||India||Sebi moves SC for payment of Rs 62,600 crore from Sahara firms||Markets regulator Sebi has moved the Supreme Court seeking direction to two Sahara firms to pay Rs 62,602.90 crore in compliance with the court's earlier orders, failing which the group's chief Subrata Roy be taken into custody. Sebi said the contemnors, Roy and his two firms-- Sahara India Real Estate Corporation Ltd. (SIRECL) and Sahara Housing Investment Corporation Ltd. (SHICL) -- are in gross violation of various orders passed by the court regarding the deposit of entire monies collected along with the interest. Despite the top court granting various reliefs to Roy and his firms, they have neglected and failed to comply with various orders passed by this court, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) said. In its intervention application filed on November 18, Sebi said the "contemnors have not been complying with the orders passed by this Court despite the long rope provided to them" and their liability is increasing daily. "The contemnors are enjoying their release from custody' as granted by this court vide order dated May 6, 20l6, further extended by this Court from time to time 'without even any attempt at compliance with the orders passed by this Court, it said. The markets regulator said that it would be just, expedient and in the interest of justice that this court passes appropriate orders directing the Saharas to forthwith deposit the balance amount, which was Rs 62,602.90 crore as on September 30 this year, in Sebi-SAHARA refund account. Failing this, Sebi said, "the contemnors may be directed to be taken into custody" as was directed by the top court in its verdict on June 15, 2015. The top court on August 31, 2012, in a series of directions, had directed that SIRECL and SHICL would refund the amount collected from individual investors or group of investors, with an interest of 15 per cent per annum to Sebi, from the date of receipt of the subscription amount till the date of repayment within three months to be deposited in a nationalised bank bearing maximum rate of interest. The Sebi said that as per the statements filed by Saharas on June 14, 2012, the outstanding liability of SIRECL as on April 30, 2012, stood at Rs 16,997 crores (principal amount) and the outstanding of liability of SHICL as on April 30, 2012, stood at Rs 6352 crores (principal amount). It said, despite the aforesaid clear directions giving clear timelines, the respondents (SIRECL and SHICL) in utter disregard, disrespect and disobedience of the directions of this court deliberately and wilfully, did not comply with any of the directions and thereby committed contempt of this court. The Sebi further stated that in terms of the 2012 order of the top court Sahara firms have till date deposited Rs 15,455.70 crore which has been invested in fixed deposits of various nationalised banks and as on September 30, 2020, the total amount along with interest earned in Sebi-Sahara refund account is Rs 22,589.01 crore. It said that out of the total outstanding principal liability of Rs 25,781.32 crore, Sebi has realised only Rs 15,455.70 crore from Saharas and the sale of properties of the group. The balance amount of Rs 10,325.62 crore (principal amount) is still to be paid by Saharas. It is submitted that as on September 30, 2020, the total net liability of Saharas was Rs 62,602.90 crore taking into consideration interest at Rs 15 per cent in terms of directions of this court dated August 31, 2012, it said. On January 24, the top court had exempted Roy and two other directors from personal appearance till "further orders" in a case related to their alleged failure in depositing over Rs 25,700 crore in the Sebi-Sahara account for returning investors' money.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-546
20-11-2020||India||Gehlot: ‘Love jihad’ a term coined by BJP to promote communal disharmony||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot lashed out at the Bharatiya Janata Party on Friday saying that “love jihad” is a term coined by the party to divide the nation and hamper its communal harmony. Marriage is a personal affair and it is completely unconstitutional to bring a law to curb it, he said, adding that it will not stand the scrutiny by any court of law. "Jihad has no place in love. They are creating an environment in the nation where consenting adults would be at the mercy of state power. Marriage is a personal decision and they are putting curbs on it which is like snatching away the personal liberty," the CM tweeted. “It seems a ploy to disrupt communal harmony, fuel social conflict and disregard constitutional provisions like the state not discriminating against citizens on any ground,” Gehlot wrote in another tweet. His remarks come amid the announcements made by the BJP-led governments of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh about bringing in a law against love jihad. The term refers to the allegations that women are being converted to islam in the name of love and marriage. Reacting to his statement, BJP state president Satish Poonia said, "It is hard to believe that the chief minister will get so rattled by the plight of the Congress nationwide. We all know that marriage in the tradition of India is a religious and socially recognised rite, and is not limited only to freedom of the individual." On Tuesday, Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij said that a committee will be set up to draft a “strict law” against love jihad. "A strict law will be enacted against 'love jihad' in the state. A committee will be constituted to draft this law," he said in a statement issued by the Haryana home department. The Madhya Pradesh government, too, is working on bringing in a Bill countering the act. "The Madhya Pradesh government is working on bringing 'Dharma Swatantrya Bill' 2020 in the state assembly with a provision for a five-year rigorous imprisonment for luring a person through fraud and forcing marriage by religious conversion by making it a cognisable and non-bailable offence. Such incidents are on the rise, which you call 'love jihad', state Home Minister Narottam Mishra had told reporters. Apart from Haryana and Madhya Pradesh, governments in Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka are also mulling over enacting a law against the religious conversion of women in the name of marriage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-546
20-11-2020||India||Modi holds review meeting regarding the killing of four JeM terrorists in J&K||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday held a review meeting with top security brass in the wake of the killing of four JeM terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir, and asserted that security forces have thwarted their efforts to wreak "major havoc and destruction". Home Minister Amit Shah, NSA Ajit Doval, foreign secretary and top intelligence officials were present in the meeting, as Modi took stock of the situation. Government sources said that the terrorists were planning "something big" on the anniversary of the 26/11 Mumbai terror attack. In his tweets following the meeting, Modi said, "Neutralising of 4 terrorists belonging to Pakistan-based terrorist organisation Jaish-e-Mohammed and the presence of large cache of weapons and explosives with them indicate that their efforts to wreak major havoc and destruction have once again been thwarted." Hailing the security forces, he said they have once again displayed utmost bravery and professionalism. "Thanks to their alertness, they have defeated a nefarious plot to target grassroots level democratic exercises in Jammu and Kashmir," the prime minister added. Four Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammad terrorists were killed and two policemen injured in a gunbattle in Nagrota on Thursday after a truck carrying newly infiltrated militants was intercepted, police had said. Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Jammu, Mukesh Singh, had said after the encounter that the terrorists had come to execute a "big plan" which has now been foiled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-546
20-11-2020||India||Haryana minister becomes first volunteer to receive Phase 3 Covaxin dose||Haryana health minister Anil Vij on Friday was administered a trial dose of indigenously made potential coronavirus vaccine, Covaxin, at Ambala, as he became the first volunteer in the state to receive the dose during the third phase of the trials. He also became the first cabinet minister of any state government in India to have volunteered for taking the trial dose of Covaxin. The 67-year-old Bharatiya Janata party leader was given the dose at the Civil Hospital in Ambala Cantt, as the third phase of the human trials of the Bharat Biotech vaccine in the state began on Friday. Dr Kuldeep Singh, Civil Surgeon at Ambala, told reporters that the dose was successfully administered to Vij. The minister was kept under observation at the hospital after he received the shot, before which he had undergone some medical tests. While talking to reporters prior to reaching the hospital, the minister said if all goes well, the potential vaccine against Covid-19 will be made available to the masses by the beginning of next year. Vij, who has diabetes and underwent a surgery, said that he did not have any disease that will affect him adversely after he receives the vaccine shot. On Wednesday, the Ambala MLA said that the third phase of the human trials of Covaxin will begin on November 20 as he offered to volunteer for the same. Bharat Biotech, in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), is developing the vaccine indigenously, the first and second phases of whose trials were successfully completed last month. On Monday, the vaccine makers said that the Phase III trials of Covaxin will involve 26,000 volunteers across 25 centres in India, making it the largest clinical trial conducted for a Covid-19 vaccine in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-546
20-11-2020||India||Centre to send teams to states, UTs reporting more Covid-19 cases||The Centre is considering sending high-level multidisciplinary teams to states and Union Territories that are recording a rise in Covid-19 cases, the Ministry of Health said on Friday. This comes a day after the government had sent high-level teams to several districts of Rajasthan, Haryana, Gujarat and Manipur to assist their efforts towards strengthening containment, surveillance, testing and efficient clinical management of rising Covid-19 cases in those areas. Issuing a statement on Friday, the Health Ministry said that the Centre is also contemplating to send such teams to states and UTs experiencing a surge in the number of coronavirus positive cases. "The Union government has advised the State/UT governments to adopt aggressive and widespread testing to ensure that the missed out and undetected positive COVID-19 cases are promptly identified for timely and effective tracing, containment and subsequent treatment," the statement read. On Thursday, the ministry said that due to the increase in the number of infections and deaths in Delhi, the NCR regions in Haryana and Rajasthan are also witnessing a spillover effect with the number of positive patients rising everyday. Dr Randeep Guleria, Director, AIIMS, New Delhi is leading the three-member team to Haryana and Dr V K Paul, Member (Health), Niti Aayog is heading the Rajasthan team.The Health ministry said Dr S K Singh, Director (NCDC) will be leading the team to Gujarat while Dr L Swasticharan, Additional DDG, DHGS is heading the Manipur team. India's Covid-19 caseload surpassed the 90-lakh mark on Friday with 45,882 new cases, while the recoveries surged to 84.28 lakh pushing the national recovery rate to 93.6 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 90,04,365 and the death toll climbed to 1,32,162 with the novel coronavirus virus claiming 584 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-546
20-11-2020||India||Arrested Kerala scribe wanted to create caste divide in Harthras, UP govt tells SC||Kerala-based scribe Siddique Kappan, arrested on his way to Hathras where a young Dalit woman had died after allegedly being gang-raped, was going there under the garb of journalism with a very determined design to create caste divide and disturb law and order situation, the Uttar Pradesh government said in the Supreme Court on Friday. In an affidavit filed in the apex court, the state government has alleged that Kappan is the office secretary of Popular Front of India (PFI) and was using a journalist cover by showing identity card of a Kerela-based newspaper which was closed in 2018. Opposing the plea filed by Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) questioning Kappan's arrest and seeking his bail, the state has said it is not maintainable and the petitioner has no locus as the accused is already in touch with his advocates and relatives and he himself can file proceedings through his lawyers. It is revealed during investigation that he along with other PFI activists and their student wing (Campus Front of India) leaders were going to Hathras under the garb of Journalism with a very determined design to create a caste divide and disturb law and order situation and were found carrying incriminating material, the affidavit said. The matter came up for hearing before a bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for Uttar Pradesh, said they have filed an affidavit. "Last time there was misreporting. I am worried about the inaccurate reporting, the CJI said, adding, The reports said that the journalist was refused relief." The bench asked senior advocate Kapil Sibal, who was appearing for KUWJ, to go through the reply filed by Uttar Pradesh and file rejoinder. “You have the right to file bail and you read the reply and then we will hear you completely,” the bench said, adding that the state has no objection to an advocate approaching the accused to get his signature for availing the judicial relief. Sibal said that lawyers were earlier restrained from approaching Kappan to get his signature. Mehta countered Sibal's contention and said they were neither stopped earlier and nor there is any opposition on this. Kappan was arrested on October 5 while he was on his way to Hathras, home to the young Dalit woman who died after being allegedly gang-raped by four upper-caste men. The police had said it has arrested four people having links with the PFI in Mathura and identified the arrested persons as Siddique from Malappuram, Atiq-ur Rehman from Muzaffarnagar, Masood Ahmed from Bahraich and Alam from Rampur. In its affidavit filed in the apex court, the state government has said that Kappan is not in illegal custody/confinement but is in judicial custody. The petitioner has resorted to falsehood and has made several false statements on oath only to sensationalise the case which would become clear on perusal of the following facts, said the affidavit, filed by senior superintendent of jail, District Jail Mathura. The person in custody namely Siddique Kappan is the Office Secretary of Popular Front of India (PFI) using a journalist cover by showing identity card of a Kerela based newspaper...which was closed in 2018, it claimed. It alleged when Kappan was brought by the special task force (STF) to Delhi for probe, he misled the police by giving wrong residential address which was found invalid and he did not assist in the investigation and gave misleading details. It alleged that KUWJ has concealed the fact that a lawyer hired by them was appearing before the magistrate at Mathura on October 6 and had full knowledge of the time and place of production of the accused. "It said a completely false narrative is being made that Kappan is not being permitted to talk to relatives or lawyers as, during judicial custody, he has interacted with his family members on three occasions on phone on his written request. "It is pertinent to note that accused Siddique Kappan has never requested to meet any relative or any lawyer nor has filed any such application before the competent court/jail authorities till date," the affidavit said. The affidavit also said the STF has been conducting detailed probe and have been filing progress reports before the state government from which it has been revealed that further incriminating evidence has been found against all the four accused including the accused Siddique Kappan. It is submitted that during the investigation conducted so far, the evidence of the accused having links with banned organizations has emerged, it claimed. It said out of four persons arrested on October 5, the remaining three have filed bail pleas which were rejected by the court. The FIR has been filed under various provisions of the IPC and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) against four people having alleged links with PFI. PFI had been accused in the past of funding protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act across the country earlier this year. Hathras has been in the news following the death of a 19-year-old Dalit woman who was allegedly gang-raped on September 14, 2020, in a village in the district. Her cremation at night by the authorities, allegedly without the parents' consent, has triggered widespread outrage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-546
20-11-2020||India||Delhi air quality remains ‘poor’ as city braces for cold wave||Delhi’s air quality on Friday morning remained in the ‘poor’ category but central agencies say it is likely to improve marginally due to favourable wind speed, while the city recorded the lowest temperature in the month of November in 14 years. The minimum temperature in the city, the India Meteorological Department said, was recorded at 7.5 degrees Celsius, making it the lowest temperature of the month since November 29, 2006, when it recorded a minimum temperature of 7.3 degrees Celsius. The national capital is also on the brink to experience the first cold wave of this season. On the other hand, Delhi's air quality index was recorded at 292 at 10 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 283 on Thursday, 211 on Wednesday and 171 on Tuesday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". The Air Quality Early Warning System of the central government for Delhi said that the air quality should improve and remain in the poor category on Friday and jump to the poor to moderate category on Saturday. While the maximum wind speed is 15 kmph, the wind direction is northwesterly, it said. According to the Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR, stubble burning accounted for 20 percent of Delhi's PM2.5 pollution on Thursday. It was 8 percent on Wednesday and 3 percent on Tuesday. Pollutants are trapped close to the ground due to calm winds and low temperatures, while they are dispersed due to favourable wind speed. Delhi's ventilation index -- a product of mixing depth and average wind speed was around 12,000 m2/s on Friday and is likely to be 13,000 m2/s on Saturday. Mixing depth is the vertical height in which pollutants are suspended in the air. It reduces on cold days with calm wind speed. A ventilation index lower than 6,000 sqm/second, with the average wind speed less than 10 kmph, is unfavourable for dispersal of pollutants. The IMD further said that the minimum temperature will drop to 7 degrees Celsius in Delhi by Monday as a result of cold winds that have started to blow from hilly regions, which have received a fresh bout of snowfall. The IMD declares a cold wave when the minimum temperature is t 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches lower than normal for two consecutive days. “The criteria has been met on Friday. We will declare a cold wave in Delhi if the situation persists on Saturday,” Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said. The average minimum temperature from November 22 to November 26 is 11.3 degrees Celsius, according to the India Meteorological Department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-546
20-11-2020||India||Fourteen, including seven children, killed in a road accident in UP||Fourteen people, including seven children, died when their car collided with a stationary truck on the Lucknow-Allahabad highway, around 70 km from Pratapgarh district headquarters, an official said on Friday. The road accident took place late Thursday night when the victims were returning from a wedding function in the Nawabganj area of Pratapgarh, Additional Chief Secretary, Home, Awanish Awasthi said. He said Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath directed senior officials to reach the spot and extend all possible help. The chief minister also extended ex gratia of Rs two lakhs to each of those killed in the crash, Awasthi said. Pratapgarh Superintendent of Police (SP) Anurag Arya said the speeding SUV dashed into the truck parked by the road in the Manikpur police station area after one of its rear tyres got punctured near Deshraj Inara. While five bodies could be taken out initially, a JCB machine had to be used to pull out the SUV from under the truck to retrieve the remaining bodies, he said, adding the bodies have been shifted to CHC Kunda and will be sent for autopsy later in the day. It took almost two hours to pull the car out from under the truck, the SP said. Arya, who visited the spot, said the police have spoken to the family members of the victims and assured all possible help. A report from the district police identified the deceased as Bablu (22), Naan Bhaiya (45), Dinesh Yadav (40) and his sons Pawan (10) and Aman (7), Ram Samujh (40), Daya Ram (40), Abhimanyu (28), Mithilesh (17), Gaurav (10), Ansh (9), Sachin and Himanshu (both aged 12), and driver Paras Nath Yadav (40). All of them were residents of Jirgapur village in the Kunda police station limits and had gone to Shekhapur village to attend a wedding, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-546
20-11-2020||India||India's Covid-19 tally goes past 90 lakh mark||India's Covid-19 caseload surpassed the 90-lakh mark on Friday with 45,882 new cases, while the recoveries surged to 84.28 lakh pushing the national recovery rate to 93.6 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 90,04,365 and the death toll climbed to 1,32,162 with the novel coronavirus virus claiming 584 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate has further declined to 1.46 per cent.There are 4,43,794 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 4.92 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 12,95,91,786 samples have been tested up to November 20 with 10,83,397 samples being tested on Thursday. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29. The 584 new fatalities include 154 from Maharashtra, 98 from Delhi, 53 from Bengal, 39 from Uttar Pradesh, 26 each from Kerala, Chhattisgarh and Karnataka, 20 from Haryana, 19 from Tamil Nadu and 15 from Punjab. A total of 1,32,162 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 46,356 from Maharashtra followed by 11,604 from Karnataka, 11,550 from Tamil Nadu, 8,041 from Delhi, 7,873 from West Bengal, 7,480 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,910 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,556 from Punjab and 3,830 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-546
20-11-2020||India||Covid: First signs of immunity without vaccine||Medical researchers have documented for the first time in India fewer new cases of the coronavirus disease in urban areas with large proportions of previously infected people, a sign of emerging population-level protection without a vaccine. The researchers have cautioned that their findings report an epidemiological phenomenon anticipated to occur but hitherto unrecorded with Covid-19, and should not lead to any laxity in precautions such as masks, physical distancing and avoiding crowds. Their study in Pune comparing new cases against seroprevalence — the proportion of people with antibodies against SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19 — has found areas with the highest prevalence showing the fewest cases and areas with the least prevalence showing the highest cases. An area called Lohiyanagar-Kasewadi, for instance, with a seroprevalence level of 66 per cent reported only five cases per 1,000 people during a 45-day period after the prevalence survey. In contrast, an area called Kasba Peth-Somwar Peth with 35 per cent seroprevalence reported 20 cases per 1,000 people. “Other cities with similar large epidemics and different seroprevalence levels are likely to show similar patterns,” said Aurnab Ghose, associate professor of biology at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune, a study team member. The study, posted on a preprint server but not peer-reviewed yet, has also found neutralising antibodies targeting SARS-CoV-2 in 85 per cent of the people with antibodies to the virus, an indication of at least temporary protection from the virus. Health researchers have predicted for months that when a sufficiently large proportion of people get protected either through natural infections or through vaccines, the epidemic will slow down because each protected person serves as a barrier to further spread of the virus. Some experts have speculated that the overall decline of India’s epidemic since mid-September could be a sign of community-level protection emerging in some states — such as Maharashtra — resulting from large proportions of already infected people. “This is a well-executed study, but the correlation between antibody prevalence and new cases is as expected,” said T. Jacob John, an infectious disease specialist. who was formerly at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. “The real question is how long the protection will last.” US researchers had earlier this month reported detecting “immune memory” in over 90 per cent of a sample of infected people for five months or longer, indicating “durable immunity” against Covid-19 in most individuals. Ghose and his colleagues hope to conduct follow-up studies on the duration of immunity. “We see a very good protective response in 85 per cent of people across all age groups — even older people show this response, which is very good,” said L.S. Shashidhara, professor of biology at Ashoka University in Sonipat (Haryana) and a team member. “But our findings also raise questions — how long will the immunity last, and why do 15 per cent of people don’t show the protective neutralising antibodies? These are the questions we need to probe.” The duration of the protection has implications for vaccines — when they become available. Members of the Centre’s expert panel on Covid-19 vaccines had told The Telegraph last month that antibody profiles of people could be used to determine who needed or did not need vaccines. People who already display a strong protective immune response need not be prioritised for vaccines, one official said. Ghose said he hoped the Pune study would serve as a template for cities and states across India and for other countries with large and diverse epidemics. “Such studies provide insights into both population-level protection and individual protection,” he said. The Union health ministry on Thursday recorded around 45,000 new cases after a steady fall since mid-September, when the daily new cases had climbed to over 90,000. Around 443,000 patients are under medical supervision and 131,578 have died. The new cases from high seroprevalence areas are in line with expectations that even after a sufficiently large proportion of the population is infected and the epidemic slows or stops, a steady trickle of new cases will continue to emerge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-547
20-11-2020||India||JNU students’ union president Aishe Ghosh speaks out amid efforts to save cops||JNU students’ union president Aishe Ghosh on Thursday accused Delhi police of doing nothing to stop the January 5 campus attack on students and teachers by alleged ABVP supporters, reacting to a media report that said the force had exonerated itself of blame. Ghosh, who had suffered a severe head injury during the rampage, issued a statement condemning the police’s role on the day after a report in The Indian Express said a police fact-finding team had given the force a “clean chit” over its response to the rampage. “On the day of the violence, I had repeatedly messaged the then SHO (station house officer), an inspector of Vasant Kunj North PS (police station) and other police officials regarding the carnage and assembly of people with weapons,” she said. “Despite repeated appeals, police had given a word that everything was fine. Then how did the masked people from outside enter the university and why wasn’t it stopped?” A WhatsApp message from this newspaper to a police spokesperson seeking a reaction to the Express report and Ghosh’s claims went unanswered. The news report paraphrased an unnamed police officer to say: “The fact-finding committee, after recording their statements, concluded that the campus had been on the boil through the day but the situation was brought under control with police intervention.” On Thursday, Ghosh said: “The involvement of outsiders and their entry (through) the gate could have been averted if the police (had) acted in time. No action was taken even as stones were thrown at teachers which led to a female professor getting hit by a stone on the skull…. “The police (have) not arrested a single accused involved in that act of violence. The extent of police lethargy can be gauged from the fact that ABVP people blocked my exit route while I was to be taken to the hospital and nothing was done even after repeated pleas.” The ABVP had at the time claimed that the hostel rooms of its supporters had been vandalised, and blamed Ghosh. On January 10, the police held a news conference where they named Ghosh and eight others as suspects and released purported video grabs showing her standing near two students who had mufflers covering their faces. “Leading her masked violent comrade gang in hostels,” the police caption said. All the four Left groups that govern the students’ union — the CPM-backed Students’ Federation of India, CPIML Liberation’s All India Students Association, CPI-backed All India Students Federation and the Democratic Students Federation — were named at the media conference. But the ABVP was not named although two of its supporters were among the suspects identified. A purported sting by India Today TV had at the time seemed to indicate a planned attack. It showed a first-year BA student of French — Akshat Awasthi, previously seen at ABVP protests — appearing to claim he had been part of efforts to mobilise around 20 JNU students and an equal number from outside to attack Left supporters. Awasthi purportedly claimed that a police officer had encouraged him to attack students’ union supporters and added that the police had switched off the streetlights outside the campus so that goons could be brought in under the cover of darkness. Asked about the police’s role, Aswasthi had apparently replied with a question: “Delhi police kiski hai (belong to whom)?” Outside the campus, The Telegraph had witnessed the police standing by as goons heckled CPI general secretary D. Raja, his wife and party colleague Annie Raja, and activist Yogendra Yadav and roughed up several passers-by. The streetlights were off at the time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-547
20-11-2020||India||Art on CAA detainee gets whitewashed in BJP-ruled Assam||Four artists and a student leader were picked up in BJP-ruled Assam for painting graffiti featuring a peasants’ organisation leader who has been in jail for almost a year for protesting against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). Police released the five after four hours but made them remove the public art by whitewashing the guard wall along National Highway 37 in Guwahati. The Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS) and its students’ front, the Satra Mukti Sangram Samiti (SMSS), which espouse the cause of Assam and are against the CAA, said the police’s action did not augur well for democracy. Pranjal Kalita, assistant general secretary of the SMSS who was picked up along with the four artists, said the group had been told by the police that they could not draw anything on government property, especially images of arrested people. The mural had depicted Akhil Gogoi, the chief adviser of the KMSS, with his right hand raised in protest while being arrested by policemen. Gogoi was arrested on December 12 at the peak of the anti-CAA agitation in Assam. He is still in jail. The contentious CAA, which eases the rules for acquiring citizenship for non-Muslims from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan, is seen by many in Assam as a threat to their identity and culture. Five people had lost their lives in the state during the unrest. The mural had been painted by the Anga Art Collective, a voluntary organisation. “This wall painting was done to highlight our demand for the release of Akhilda. The police told us we didn’t have permission for the painting. We were released after about three hours but were told to remove the wall painting,” Kalita told The Telegraph. “This shows there is no freedom of expression. This is not a good sign for democracy.” Dhrubajit Sarma, 32, of the Anga Art Collective told this newspaper that the group had to whitewash the graffiti twice in the presence of police personnel. It had taken them six hours to complete the graffiti but only about five minutes to erase it, he said. The artists had chosen to draw Gogoi because he is a symbol of resistance, Sarma said. “We were not highlighting the person but what Akhil Gogoi symbolises. We do public art, among other things, to communicate with the public and talk about the reality of our times,” he said. “We were told we should not paint on government property without permission or we might land in trouble. We can do paintings of singers Bhupen Hazarika or Zubeen Garg or of the Saraighat bridge but not of arrested people,” Sarma, an assistant professor at the College of Arts in Delhi, said. Basistha police station officer-in-charge P.P. Gogoi said: “We brought them for questioning and let them off. We told them they cannot draw paintings on government property without permission.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-547
20-11-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling case: Voice tape claims coercion to frame CM||Recurring allegations that the Narendra Modi government unleashes the central agencies on witch-hunts in Opposition-ruled states when elections are round the corner found a “voice” on Thursday when a leaked audio clip surfaced overnight in Kerala. In the audio tape, a key accused in a gold smuggling case accuses unidentified investigators of coercing her to name and implicate chief minister and CPM leader Pinarayi Vijayan. The voice has been confirmed as that of Swapna Suresh, a former UAE consulate employee who had last year joined a project under the Kerala government’s Space Park, allegedly with the help of an IAS officer who virtually ran the chief minister’s office. Both Swapna and the IAS officer, M. Sivashankar, are in judicial custody after being arrested by central investigators. In the tape, Swapna does not name the agency that allegedly tried to force her to name chief minister Vijayan, nor is it clear who she is speaking to. Swapna was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate. Three central agencies — the ED, the customs department and the National Investigation Agency (NIA) — are probing the gold smuggling case and have interrogated her. In the audio tape, Swapna is heard accusing the investigators of offering to make her an approver if she implicated Vijayan in the case. “They did not allow me to read the statements since sixth (not clear which month)… (but) asked me to sign after quickly scrolling (the pages),” Swapna is heard saying in the 35-second audio clip, which surfaced late on Wednesday. Swapna said: “What my lawyer told me today is that the statement submitted before the court states that I had gone to the UAE with Sivashankar in October and did financial negotiations for the CM. “They (the investigators) are asking me to ratify that (statement in court) to make me an approver. When I said I would never do that, I was told they would come to jail and force (me) again.” Deputy inspector-general of prisons and correctional services Ajay Kumar, who met Swapna at the women’s jail in Thiruvananthapuram on Thursday, told reporters she had confirmed it was her voice in the audio clip. “It was not (recorded) in the jail for sure. She said it was from somewhere else during a casual chat. She has been to a lot of places (as part of the investigation),” Kumar said. There had been no official word till late evening from the Enforcement Directorate, which rarely comments on such matters. Swapna is one of the main accused in the attempt to smuggle 30kg of 24-karat gold from Dubai in a diplomatic bag addressed to an official in the consulate-general of the UAE in Thiruvananthapuram. The scandal has pushed the ruling CPM on the back foot at a time the state is gearing for local body elections next month. The Assembly elections are scheduled in the summer. The CPM state secretariat termed the contents of the audio clip “extremely serious”. “The details about misusing central agencies to topple the state government by targeting the chief minister are extremely serious in nature,” the party said in a statement. “Enticing and pressurising the accused by offering to make them approvers is an open challenge to the rule of law and democratic principles.” Kerala recently joined an increasing number of Opposition-ruled states that have scrapped their general consent to the CBI taking up cases within their territory.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-547
20-11-2020||India||Nitish’s education minister forced to resign hours after taking charge||Bihar education minister Mewalal Choudhary resigned over old corruption charges just three hours after assuming charge on Thursday. The lightning exit gave the Opposition a rare chance to enjoy the fruits of putting up a spirited fight during the elections and snapping at the heels of the ruling BJP-JDU coalition. The Janata Dal United, the party to which Mewalal belongs, tried to make a virtue out of necessity and spun it as an example of chief minister Nitish Kumar’s “high standards”. “See what a powerful Opposition and an awakened people can do. The people of Bihar have forced the ‘no confusion, great combination’ of Narendra Modi and Nitish Kumar to drop a tainted politician they wanted to inflict on Bihar as education minister!” tweeted CPIML Liberation general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya. The Opposition alliance had won 110 seats in the just-concluded Assembly polls, giving a scare to the ruling combine, which bagged 125 seats in the 243-member Assembly. The CPIML and the other Left parties, part of the Opposition alliance, had put up a stellar show. Mewalal, Tarapur MLA from the chief minister’s party and former vice-chancellor of an agriculture varsity, is accused in a university recruitment scam and obtained anticipatory bail in 2017. The Opposition had been pummelling the government ever since he was sworn in as a minister on Monday, mocking Nitish’s vaunted policy of “no compromise with corruption”. Mewalal, announced as education minister during Tuesday’s portfolio allocations, was summoned to the chief minister’s residence on Thursday. He stayed there for around an hour, then put in his papers. Mewalal’s mobile phone was switched off. On Wednesday evening, too, Mewalal had met Nitish, triggering speculation that he would be dropped as minister. RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav had asked whether Mewalal had been rewarded for corruption. While no official communiqué was issued on Mewalal’s resignation, JDU secretary-general K.C. Tyagi appeared to be implying that Nitish had initially been unaware of the charges against the party MLA, although the matter had been well reported. “Nitish Kumar has set a new standard in politics and governance. He (Mewalal) was administered oath as a minister. Some allegations against him came to light. The matter was probed and he was asked to resign,” Tyagi said. “Nitish Kumar has continuously upheld high ideals in public life and does not allow tainted people around him. When the then deputy chief minister, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, refused to clarify the corruption charges against him, Nitish had resigned as chief minister.” This was in 2017 when Nitish had dumped his alliance with the RJD and the Congress — which had won the 2015 election — and returned to the NDA to be immediately handed back the chief minister’s chair. JDU member of the legislative council (MLC) and former minister Neeraj Kumar challenged Tejashwi to match the standards set by Nitish. “Tejashwi too faces corruption charges and is out on bail. He is still leading the RJD and is leader of the Opposition. He should quit and allow somebody else to lead,” Neeraj said. Apart from charges of possessing unaccounted wealth, Tejashwi faces income-tax and Enforcement Directorate investigations. Mewalal is accused of involvement in a 2012-13 scam relating to the recruitment of 160 assistant professor-cum-junior-scientists to the Bihar Agriculture University in Bhagalpur, where he was vice-chancellor. He later joined the JDU and became an MLA in 2015. When the scam tumbled out in public, the Raj Bhavan took cognisance of the matter and got it probed by a retired Patna High Court judge. President Ram Nath Kovind was Bihar governor and the chancellor of state universities at the time. He sanctioned action against Mewalal and an FIR was registered against him in 2017. The JDU suspended Mewalal from the party in 2017 but reinstated him a few months later. JDU sources said Mewalal’s suspension had been revoked and he was fielded in the elections because he had not been chargesheeted or convicted. Mewalal is from the Kushwaha community, which is a conglomeration of several backward castes and is closely connected with the Kurmi caste from which Nitish comes. While the Kushwahas make up around 6 per cent of Bihar's electorate, the Kurmis account for 2 per cent. Nitish faced a compulsion to give a cabinet berth to a member of the Kushwaha community to maintain the caste balance, and he could not find a better, more educated person than Mewalal among his Kushwaha MLAs. It was BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi whose complaint to the then Bihar governor had led to the action against Mewalal. At the time, the JDU was with the RJD and the Congress. Appointing Mewalal as a minister may have been Nitish's way of defying the BJP, but it has backfired spectacularly. JDU sources said a party MP considered close to Mewalal may have misled Nitish about the potential consequences of appointing him a minister. Building construction and social welfare minister Ashok Choudhary has been given additional charge of the education department. Tejashwi said: “Just one resignation won’t do. We are going to meet over several public-related issues, like 19 lakh jobs, equal pay for equal work for contractual employees. The people’s mandate in Bihar directs us that we should keep alerting you (the government) about corrupt policies, intentions and rules.” While the BJP had promised 19 lakh jobs during the campaign, the RJD had pledged parity for contract workers. Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra described the Mewalal episode as a farce and accused Nitish of hypocrisy. “Nitish Kumar keeps saying he would not compromise on crime, corruption or communalism. But he is with the BJP --- is this not a compromise with communalism?” he said. “He made a corruption accused a minister. Was it not a compromise with corruption?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-547
20-11-2020||India||Editors Guild finally stirs on Assam attacks||The Editors Guild of India, accused of defending “celebrity” anchors while choosing to ignore the plea of one of its own members from the Northeast, on Thursday wrote to Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal expressing “deep concern” about the “growing” incidence of violence against journalists in the state. The letter, signed by Guild president Seema Mustafa, general secretary Sanjay Kapoor and treasurer Anant Nath, comes at a time The Shillong Times editor Patricia Mukhim has quit the outfit to protest against its silence after Meghalaya High Court on November 10 refused to quash an FIR filed against her. In her resignation letter, Mukhim, who has refused to reconsider her decision and floated the idea of a broad-based and inclusive journalists’ forum in the Northeast, had mentioned that the Guild had spoken up for Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami when he was arrested in a suicide abetment case. To its letter to chief minister Sonowal, the Guild has attached a list of 32 journalists killed in Assam since 1981. The Guild said journalists had been subjected to mob attacks, intimidation and threats, which is vitiating the environment needed for the functioning of an independent and vibrant media. “While we appreciate your (Sonowal’s) firm condemnation of these incidents, the situation demands your urgent intervention to assure the media that they are safe to report without fearing retribution from criminal mafia. In the absence of that, a sense of impunity could embolden attackers who may believe that they are above law,” the Guild said. It added: “We record our appreciation of your efforts in bringing monetary relief to the kin of the 32 journalists killed in Assam since 1981 with generous compensations. However, most of the cases have not been resolved with allegations of shoddy investigations. In many cases culprits roam free, intimidating the families of the slain journalists. We hope you will urge the state police to take necessary steps for rebuilding confidence in the media, so that they can operate without fear.” Mukhim, against whom a Dorbar Shnong (traditional institution) had lodged an FIR for her July 4 Facebook post following an attack on a group of non-tribal youths playing basketball in Shillong, referred sarcastically to the Guild letter. “So the conscience of the Editors Guild of India is now awakened about a periphery called Assam. A delayed letter written to Assam CM about ongoing incidence of violence against journalists and urging him to take steps to ensure their safety. Wow, so noble,” Mukhim tweeted. The letter does not mention Mukhim but refers to the November 15 assault on journalist Milan Mahanta, 42, from Mirza in lower Assam’s Kamrup district. Mahanta, who writes for vernacular dailies Asomiya Pratidin and Dainik Asom, was tied to a pole and assaulted by goons. He had named three accused but none has been arrested till date, Mahanta told The Telegraph on Thursday. The incident came close on the heels of the death of Parag Bhuyan, a journalist with the Pratidin Time channel, who was run over by a car near his home in Kakopathar under questionable circumstances. The Pratidin Time editor has alleged that Bhuyan was murdered as he had been receiving threats for exposing corruption and illegal activities of a criminal nexus in the Kakopathar area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-547
20-11-2020||India||Twitter grilled for Kamra tweets on Supreme Court||A parliamentary committee questioned Twitter on Thursday over the recent “obscene” tweets by stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra on the Supreme Court. Panel chairperson Meenakshi Lekhi said Twitter had been asked to reply within seven days. The questioning came close on the heels of Twitter apologising in writing to the same parliamentary panel for wrongly showing Ladakh in China and promising to correct the error by the month-end. Twitter India representatives deposed before the Joint Committee of Parliament on Data Protection Bill on Thursday. “It is shameful that Twitter is allowing its platform for obscene remarks like the one by stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra against the Supreme Court and the CJI,” Lekhi told reporters in Delhi. “Twitter is allowing its platform to be misused for abusing top constitutional authorities, such as the Supreme Court and the CJI,” she added. Kamra had tweeted on the Supreme Court over its decision to grant interim bail to Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami in a suicide attempt case. Attorney-general K.K. Venugopal, the country’s topmost law officer, has given the go-ahead for contempt proceedings against Kamra for tweeting that “honour has left the building (Supreme Court) long back” and “the Supreme Court of this country is the most Supreme joke of this country”, and also uploading a morphed picture depicting the apex court adorned in the saffron colour. Lekhi said members of the committee across the political spectrum, including Congress MP Vivek Tankha, BSP MP Ritesh Pandey and BJD MP Bhatruhari Mahtab, grilled Twitter representatives over the tweets. Lekhi said Twitter’s explanation on banning handles and tweets was inadequate. Kamra has refused to retract his tweets or apologise for them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-547
20-11-2020||India||‘Tactical repositioning’ by Congress over Gupkar ||The Congress has accused home minister Amit Shah of playing irresponsible politics by defaming the Jammu and Kashmir political class and asked him to stop distributing certificates of nationalism, stung by the BJP’s attempt to question its patriotism over dealings with the Gupkar alliance of Valley parties. While the Congress has formally said it is not part of the seven-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, set up to fight for the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, the move is largely viewed as tactical repositioning triggered primarily by electoral considerations. The Congress has asked the Union home minister to clarify if describing the legitimate political parties of Jammu and Kashmir as a “gang” was justified. Congress leaders wonder how these parties, including the National Conference and the People’s Democratic Party that have had tie-ups with the BJP, had turned into anti-national gangs all of a sudden. Sources said the Congress was not in favour of an alliance with the NC and the PDP for the local urban body and panchayat polls because that would help the BJP occupy the Congress’s political space in Jammu. Congress leaders deny that they were in a dilemma and had developed cold feet because of the BJP’s attacks, pointing out that the ruling party was still in alliance with the NC in Ladakh and had tasted power in Jammu and Kashmir for the first time courtesy the PDP. “Voters can see through the BJP’s hypocrisy,” a senior Congress leader said, conceding that they appreciated the core demands of the Gupkar Declaration, which seeks that there must not be any change to Jammu and Kashmir’s status. Asked about the quandary in the Congress over dealing with the Gupkar alliance and why had Shah’s attack made the party defensive, spokesperson Pawan Khera told The Telegraph: “First of all, let’s be very clear — the Congress is not defensive when it comes to the irresponsible comment made by the home minister. Why is it that when the BJP shares power with a party, that party is nationalist but the moment the BJP breaks an alliance, that party becomes anti-national?” He added: “Will Amit Shah tell us why is the BJP a part of the Gupkar alliance in Kargil? The Congress is not a part of the Gupkar alliance. We want democracy to flourish in Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh. DDC (district development council) elections will help hasten that process. Seat-sharing with regional parties is done in several states and it is being done in the DDC elections too.” The BJP is part of an alliance with the Gupkar parties in Kargil. The Congress is livid with BJP leaders’ tendency to question the patriotism of critics and opponents. “Let Amit Shah not distribute certificates of nationalism. He should acquire some knowledge of history. The Congress has sacrificed to build this nation — from  Mahatma Gandhi to Indira Gandhi to Rajiv Gandhi, and Beant Singh in Punjab and Mahendra Karma, Vidya Charan Shukla in Chhattisgarh. The RSS has a history of aligning with the British in pre-Independence days. Even after Independence, their track record is blotted,” Khera said. The Congress spokesperson added: “When did the RSS start hoisting the national flag — the Tricolour — at their headquarters in Nagpur? Wasn’t showing respect to  the Constitution and the national flag a condition for lifting the ban on the RSS after Mahatma Gandhi’s assassination? Isn’t it true that some youths who went to the RSS headquarters in Nagpur’s Reshmibag to forcibly hoist the national flag on January 26, 2001, were handed over to the police? These people are now branding others anti-national? They are targeting even students.” Told that the RSS disputes the claim that the lifting of the ban in July 1949 was conditional, Khera said: “It is well documented. It can be checked in official communiqué. Raj Mohan Gandhi has documented it in his book. And whether the three youths — Baba Mendhe, Ramesh Kalambe and Dilip Chatwani — along with others allegedly faced trial that ended in 2013 or not can be checked in police records. These enthusiastic, patriotic youths had only questioned the RSS decision not to honour the Tricolour and gone there to hoist the national flag. They were arrested.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-547
20-11-2020||India||ICMR sets rules for plasma therapy||India’s health research agency has cautioned against “inappropriate” use of convalescent plasma therapy on coronavirus patients, setting rules for who should be donors and recipients, but some doctors fear indiscriminate use might continue. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), in an advisory released on Tuesday, pointed out that its clinical trial had not found any benefit of plasma in preventing severe disease or death from Covid-19 and said “indiscriminate use is not advisable.” Convalescent plasma, isolated from patients who have recovered from Covid-19, contains antibodies against SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. The Union health ministry has included plasma as an investigational therapy in its Covid-19 treatment guidelines and hospitals across the country have been offering plasma therapy to Covid-19 patients. The ICMR advisory has specified criteria for donors and recipients – setting minimum concentration thresholds for antibodies and neutralising antibodies in the plasma and directing that any potential recipient should be in early stage of the disease and not already have antibodies against the virus. But one doctor who was associated with the ICMR trial pointed out that few hospitals in the country have the equipment to measure concentrations of antibodies or neutralising antibodies and will likely continue using plasma without prescribed measurements. The advisory acknowledging the lack of benefit of plasma while simultaneously prescribing rules for its use has surprised sections of clinicians, particularly because the ICMR director general Balram Bhargava had last month indicated that plama might be pulled out of treatment guidelines. “This (plasma) may be deleted from the national (treatment) guidelines,” Bhargava had said, pointing to the negative results of the ICMR trial conducted on 464 Covid-19 patients across the country. However, some doctors and immunologists had expressed concern that although the ICMR trial was the world’s largest, it was still not large enough or comprehensive enough to fully discard plasma from the list of investigational therapies. “The advisory takes into account the study’s findings and is intended to curb arbitrary or indiscriminate use of plasma,” a senior medical researcher who was associated with the trial told The Telegraph. “It is now up to doctors and patients on whether to follow this advisory.” The researcher also pointed out that the new rules should shrink the pool of recipients. The advisory specifies that a potential recipient should be in early stage of disease – between 3 and 7 days after onset of symptoms and no later than 10 days. Senior doctors and ICMR officials have been concerned at what they view as the indiscriminate use of plasma in hospitals across India that, in some places, has even given rise to a plasma market. “If this advisory is strictly followed, plasma use should reduce drastically,” the researcher said. But others investigating plasma therapy have welcomed the ICMR’s advisory. “I agree with the ICMR’s advisory, specifying rules for who should donate and who should receive plasma,” said Dipyaman Ganguly, a doctor-turned-immunologist at the Indian Institute of Chemical Biology, Calcutta, who has independently evaluated plasma therapy on patients in Calcutta. The study by Ganguly and his colleagues is yet to be published.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-547
20-11-2020||India||‘Child-molester’ UP government engineer sent to judicial custody||A government junior engineer who allegedly abused 60-odd children sexually over a decade and filmed the acts for uploading on the Internet was on Thursday sent to judicial custody in Banda till November 30. Police sources said that Ram Bhawan Singh, posted in Chitrakoot with the Uttar Pradesh irrigation department, had abused some 66 children, aged between 5 and 16 years, over 10 years. However, the matter came to light only when a CBI team from Delhi, from a wing that regularly scours the Internet to unearth child pornography, arrested Singh from his office on Wednesday. The government has suspended Singh. A police source said that while the family of the accused had been in the dark about his alleged crimes, many of his colleagues knew but kept quiet. “The CBI is also questioning a man from Allahabad who they believe uploaded the material on the Dark Web,” a police officer in Lucknow said. “There’s evidence that Singh sent the videos physically or via email to this man, and he deposited money in the engineer’s accounts.” According to the investigators, Singh lured the children by promising them new electronic gadgets, and that he had gifted mobile phones to several of his victims to buy their silence. Most of the victims belonged to Chitrakoot, Banda and Hamirpur districts of Bundelkhand, the Lucknow officer said, adding that many of them had been abused  online rather than face to face. “The CBI has recovered Rs 8 lakh in cash from Singh’s possession besides a webcam, a laptop and several mobile phones in which child pornography material had been stored,” the officer said. Banda superintendent of police Siddharth Shankar Meena said Singh had been booked under a penal code section dealing with “unnatural” sex and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. Banda upper sessions judge Rizwan Ahmad will hear Singh’s bail plea on November 24. Singh is from Sonbhadra district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-547
20-11-2020||India||Airbnb campaign for an overnight stay at SRK’s Delhi home||Come February 13, the “mannat (wish)” of at least two Shah Rukh Khan fans will be somewhat fulfilled. The superstar and his wife Gauri Khan will open the doors of their Delhi home, not the Mumbai mansion where they live, to a couple for an overnight stay. The house in Delhi has been newly redesigned by Gauri, an interior designer. The redecorated pad is filled with personal keepsakes and mementos from Shah Rukh and Gauri’s many travels around the world. Gauri said the home, where her family still resides, is a reflection of her and Shah Rukh’s journey together as a couple and as a family with their children Aryan, 23, Suhana, 20, and AbRam, 7. “This home of ours is where my parents live, where my mom lives. It’s all about that.… We have made this ‘nostalgia wall’, where we have these collectibles, like Aryan’s first badminton racket, Suhana’s make-up brushes, AbRam’s first birthday gift,” Gauri said in an interview with PTI. “There are too many lovely memories of all these years and they are all in that room and I have displayed it over there. This house has been designed over the years, so it is exciting. Whenever I go back, there are so many cherishable memories,” she added. The campaign by Airbnb, the American vacation rental online marketplace company, is titled “Home with Open Arms”, a nod to Shah Rukh’s signature pose. It was launched on November 18, and Indian fans can apply for a chance to win the overnight stay on February 13, 2021. To win the campaign, guests have to share what an “open arms welcome” means to them by November 30 on Airbnb’s website. The winners will be announced on December 15. During their stay, the guests will experience a curated itinerary developed by Gauri, enjoy a meal, including Shah Rukh’s favourite dishes, watch the superstar’s favourite films and his biggest hits as well as receive personalised souvenirs from the family. Both Shah Rukh and Gauri spent a significant time of their growing up years in Delhi before they moved to Mumbai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-548
20-11-2020||India||Modify, Centre tells Sudarshan TV||The Centre on Thursday informed the Supreme Court that it had “cautioned” Sudarshan TV against airing attacks on “religion” and “communities” and had asked the channel to suitably “moderate” and “modify” its series on the alleged infiltration of the civil services by jihadi elements. The Centre’s affidavit, placed in the court by solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, also stated that the government was empowered to withdraw licence under Rule 6 of the Cable Television Networks Rules, 1994, framed under the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995, if its directive was violated by the channel. A bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and Indu Malhotra adjourned the matter to December 9 to enable the petitioners, Firoz Iqbal Khan and others, besides Sudarshan TV to respond to the Centre’s affidavit. The court was dealing with a batch of petitions seeking a ban on the telecast of the serial by the channel as part of the show Bindas Bol, which according to the petitioners branded an entire community as “anti-nationals”. Earlier, the apex court had halted the telecast of the series after a few episodes had been aired. Another bench headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde had on Tuesday pulled up the information and broadcasting ministry after it filed a report that made no mention of the television coverage of the Tablighi Jamat gathering in the capital in March that had been subjected to a vilification campaign and blamed for the initial spread of the coronavirus in the country. The ministry had focused largely on the print media and news portals to give a blanket clean chit to the reporting and claiming that there had been no communalisation. The CJI-led bench had suggested that the government consider setting up a regulatory mechanism under the Cable Television Network Act to deal with such content on news channels. However, in the Sudarshan TV matter, the information and broadcasting ministry has informed the Supreme Court that it is empowered under the cable TV rules to rein in channels and had on November 4 directed Sudarshan TV to moderate its content and submit its compliance before going ahead with the remaining four episodes. The ministry’s order is subject to what the Supreme Court finally decides. “The ministry of information and broadcasting, after examining all facts and circumstances of the case and balancing the fundamental rights of the broadcaster, hereby ‘CAUTIONS’ Sudarshan TV Channel Ltd. to be careful in future. It is further directed that if any violation of the Programme Code is found in future, stricter penal action would be taken,” the affidavit said. The ministry has also directed Sudarshan to “review the content of the future episodes of the programme ‘Bindas Bol — UPSC Jihad’, and the audio-visual content should be suitably moderated and modified so as to ensure that there is no violation of the Programme Code. The ministry has asked Sudarshan TV not to indulge in the following: The apex court had earlier on September 23 deferred hearing on the matter after the Centre agreed to consider suitable action against the channel. According to the Centre, Sudarshan TV had stoutly defended itself, taking the stand that it was exercising the right to express its views and that the form and manner of expression could not be reviewed by the government. The channel had submitted that the findings of an inter-ministerial committee that the Programme Code and cable TV rules had been violated were “erroneous” and not based on proper records or materials. The channel had defended the programme thus: “Investigation into the UPSC Jihad series has highlighted huge lapse of national security which prima facie needs investigation by various agencies of the government of India. Issues raised in the programme expose an existential threat for the sacred values enshrined in the Constitution.” According to the information and broadcasting ministry, it had examined the contentions of Sudharshan TV in the channel’s written submissions on September 28 and October 8 and 15, and oral submissions during a hearing before the ministry secretary on October 8 and 15, and also the depositions made before the inter-ministerial committee. The ministry said it had gone through the videos of the four episodes telecast by the channel from September 11 to 14. Quoting the cable TV rules, the government stated in the affidavit that there was “…no ambiguity over the proposition that every private TV channel which has been granted permission by the central government under the Uplinking and Downlinking Guidelines, 2011, is bound to abide by the Programme and Advertising Codes laid down under the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995”. “Accordingly, the contention of the Sudarshan TV Channel Ltd is without any basis.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-548
20-11-2020||India||Militants killed, arms haul in Jammu suburbs ||Security forces killed four suspected militants on Thursday in an early morning gunfight in Jammu city’s suburbs that shattered a month’s lull. The encounter threw up a sizeable arms haul, hitting the Pakistan-based militant leadership’s attempts to offset an increasing shortage of weapons in the Valley. The forces recovered 11 AK-47 rifles, 29 grenades, three pistols and a huge cache of ammunition, prompting Jammu inspector-general of police Mukesh Singh to claim the largest arms seizure in the Jammu region in years. Singh said the gunfight had begun after the police intercepted a truck at Nagrota on the Jammu-Srinagar highway at 5am. The operation lasted three hours, during which traffic was suspended on the highway. While the truck was being searched, Singh said, “the hiding militants” had unleashed “heavy” fire. “Two policemen suffered injuries but both are stable,” he said. The CRPF and the army joined the encounter midway. A hunt is on for the truck driver, who fled before the firing began. Police sources said the militant leadership in Pakistan had been making concerted attempts this year to send arms to rebels in the Valley. A beefier border vigil and an increased reliance on technology to prevent infiltration have forced Pakistan to use drones to airdrop weapons, they said. Many among the dozens of militants killed this year carried only pistols. The weapons shortage, sources said, was hobbling militant recruitments. Singh told reporter: “There had been general intelligence inputs about fresh infiltration bids by the Jaish-e-Mohammad and the Lashkar-e-Toiba. We were on the alert.” He said intelligence reports had warned about militant plans to disrupt the District Development Council elections, which begin on November 28. Singh said the large weapons haul indicated the militants were planning something big. “Their plan stands foiled,” he said. Police sources said the militants appeared to have infiltrated into Jammu from PoK sometime on Wednesday night or early Thursday morning. In January, three militants had been killed near the same spot and they too had been heading towards the Valley. Later on Thursday, stone-throwing mobs allegedly helped two Jaish militants escape a security cordon at Parigam village in Pulwama, Kashmir. Stoning around encounter sites has been increasing in the Valley, fuelled by anger at the constitutional downgrade of Jammu and Kashmir last year, the clampdown that accompanied it and subsequent government decisions. Valley protesters had in the past too used stones to disrupt security operations and help militants escape, but the trend had largely been checked during past year or two. On Thursday, the forces used tear gas and fired in the air to disperse the protesters. The operation was continuing in the evening despite the suspected escape by two militants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-548
20-11-2020||India||Puri custody death fuels tension||Tension gripped the pilgrim town of Puri following the death of a person in police custody on Wednesday night. While the local residents are demanding a judicial probe into the incident, Puri police have denied having committed any excesses. Another alleged custodial death was reported from Biramitrapur police station in Sundergarh district. DGP Abhya assured a fair probe into the matter and said the investigation, including the post-mortem of the two bodies, were being held in accordance with the guidelines of the National Human Rights Commission. “Both the deaths are unfortunate. We have started a probe as per the NHRC guidelines,” the DGP said. According to the allegation, a person named K. Ramesh was whisked away by the police from his house in Puri on Wednesday night. He was later found dead in the district headquarters police hospital. Puri SP Akhileswar Singh told reporters, “Ramesh, 33, had criminal antecedents. He was released from the Talcher-Angul jail recently. When we got a tip-off that he was a planning a crime, we raided his place. However, the accused got into a scuffle with the cops during his arrest and sustained injuries. Later, we admitted him to the district headquarters hospital where he passed away while undergoing treatment.” However, the locals refused to buy the police theory. Demanding a judicial probe, they organised a protest rally at the Puri Medical Square on Thursday and submitted a memorandum to the district collector. The agitators also had a scuffle with the cops deployed at the hospital when they tried to forcibly enter the premises to see the post-mortem. Puri’s BJP unit and Congress also organised rallies protesting alleged police excesses. “We don’t support criminals. But the way the district police have started picking up people from their homes and are trying to create terror is not acceptable. Cases should be filed against the police officials involved,” Congress leader Binyak Das Mohapatra said. Puri Bar association members staged demonstrations demanding a judicial probe. Puri Bar association secretary Ashok Kumar Das said, “The police officer involved in the crime should be suspended and a judicial probe should be ordered.” A delegation of BJP MLAs on Thursday evening met the deceased’s family members. In the Sundergarh custodial death case, SP Sagarika Nath said, “The accused Tariq Salim had been involved in the kidnapping of a businessman a few days back. Following complaints of uneasiness, he was shifted to the hospital where he died. An inquiry is on in accordance with the NHRC guidelines.” Sources said Tariq, who worked at a garage, had allegedly been picked up by the police on Wednesday evening and brought to Biramitrapur police station for questioning in connection with a kidnapping case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-548
20-11-2020||India||No Question Hour in winter session of Odisha Assembly||Odisha Assembly Speaker Surjya Narayan Patro on Wednesday said there would be no Question Hour during the winter session of the House scheduled to begin from November 20. The session will continue till December 31. After presiding over the all-party meeting on Wednesday, Patro said, “It has been decided that the House will run for four-and-a-half hours every day adhering to Covid-19 guidelines. There will be sittings on Saturdays and Sundays as well. The members of the House are also allowed to participate in the proceedings through videoconferencing. There will be no Question Hour during the session.” However, the BJP and the Congress protested against the decision and said at least half an hour should have been devoted for questions and answers. Temple budget The Puri Shree Jagannath Temple Management Committee has approved an annual budget of Rs 154 crore for the 2020-21 financial year. The committee said its income has been badly hit because of the lockdown. “We have decided to launch an online donation system,” said temple chief administrator Krishan Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-548
20-11-2020||India||Prod to Naveen Patnaik to solve border disputes ||Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan has urged Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik to seek the Centre’s support to resolve the state’s boundary disputes with its neighbours and form a committee of the Odisha Legislative Assembly to make a detailed study of these issues. The winter session of the Odisha Assembly is scheduled to begin from Friday. Fourteen out of the state’s 30 districts share borders with Andhra Pradesh, Bengal, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand. Odisha has a long history of border and water-sharing disputes with all these neighbouring states owing to historical, cartographic and geological reasons. Pradhan’s letter has come at a time Odisha and Andhra Pradesh are locked in a serious boundary dispute. The minister pointed out how tension had flared up again along the Odisha–Andhra Pradesh border in the Patnagi block of Koraput district following unilateral demarcation of certain portions of Sunabeda Mauza and digging of a pond by Andhra Pradesh, which was unacceptable to Odisha. “The matter has now escalated to blockage of Pottangi-Arku road by villagers on the Andhra Pradesh side. This comes a few months after a dispute along the Odisha-Bengal border in the Jaleswar block of Balasore district due to unilateral sand mining by Bengal on the Subernarekha river bed,” Pradhan said. Underscoring the need for a solution, Pradhan urged the chief minister to convene an all-party meeting and involve the intelligentsia and civil society members in finding a way out. “It is essential that we collectively arrive at a comprehensive and long-term solution for these conflicts. Therefore, I also request your initiation in forming a House committee in the Odisha Legislative Assembly comprising members from different parties for undertaking a detailed study of these issues and presenting their learned findings along with their recommendations,” Pradhan said. Stating that it’s prudent to arrive at an effective and comprehensive resolution of Odisha’s ongoing and longstanding border disputes, Pradhan said, “In the spirit of cooperative federalism and brotherhood between states, I believe Odisha should take the lead in initiating these discussions. However, it must be ensured that socio-economic interest of the people of Odisha is not compromised in any way and, if necessary, the state should also consider legal remedies for resolution of these disputes.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-548
20-11-2020||West Bengal||Provisions in Constitution to deal with TMC’s ways: Babul Supriyo||Union Minister and Member of Parliament from Bengal’s Asansol Babul Supriyo said on Friday that the ruling Trinamool Congress should repair its approach and refrain from "intimidating voters", warning that there are provisions in the Constitution to deal with such things. He alleged that over 130 workers of the Bharatiya Janata Party have been killed in the state. "The TMC should mend its ways. Only a few months are left for the elections. If the TMC members think they can intimidate voters and engage in political violence, then there are provisions in the Constitution to take care of such things," Supriyo told a local news channel. The MP also claimed that the people of Bengal have decided to vote for his party, the BJP, in the next assembly elections, which is scheduled to be held in April or May next year. "We want the people who voted TMC to power to topple the present government through a democratic process," he said. The ruling party alleged that Supriyo was hinting at forcing President’s rule in the state. "If he was hinting at the imposition of Article 356 in Bengal, then he should first talk about the imposition of President's rule in Uttar Pradesh where rule of law has ceased to exist," said TMC MP Sougata Roy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-304
20-11-2020||West Bengal||CMC construct several makeshift ghats in waterbodies for Chhath Puja||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) has set up several makeshift ghats in water bodies across the city for members of the Bihari community to perform the Chhath Puja ritual. Civic authorities in Calcutta have set up several temporary ghats near 16 water bodies to avoid crowding during Chhath Puja celebrations on Friday. At least 44 temporary ghats have been erected along the water bodies in Kasba, Anandapur, Jadavpur, Patuli belts of the metropolis, a KMC official said. Apart from that, three large artificial brick-made pools have been arranged in Deshapriyo Park, Chetla-Rashbehari Avenue and Kadapara-Beleghata areas to enable devotees to perform rituals on the occasion of Chhath there instead of going to large lakes, he said. Another official of the Bengal Pollution Control Board said two other waterbodies in Dumdum area, on the northern outskirts of the city, have also been readied. As per the orders of NGT, Calcutta High Court and Supreme Court, to disallow Chhat rituals on Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar, the Calcutta Municipal Development Authority prevented the entry of people from November 19 midnight to 3 pm November 21 at both lakes. The KMDA has also locked the gates of both lakes and a large contingent of police has been posted, an official said. Unfenced portions along the boundaries of both lakes, were also barricaded with metal shades, the official said. Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in a tweet said "Heartiest greetings to the people of Bengal, India and all over the world on the auspicious occasion of Chhath Puja. May Lord Surya fulfill all your wishes." Banerjee in a separate video message appealed to devotees to offer the Chhath Puja either from home or at neighbourhood ponds. If the devotees live near the river, they can go to ghats but without processions and in small groups, she said urging everyone to cooperate in the COVID-19 situation and honour the orders of the judiciary in this regard. Banerjee said around 1,300 waterbodies are there all over the state which have been kept ready for Chhat devotees in different areas. Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar in a tweet offered warmest greetings to everyone on Chhat puja. "Warmest greetings to everyone on the auspicious occasion of Maha Parv #ChhathPuja. May positivity of Chhath Puja spread in our life and fill it with good health, peace, prosperity and happiness as also well being of all. Let purest thoughts guide all our actions," Dhankhar posted on microblogging site. Environmentalists S M Ghosh and Sumita Bandyopadhyay, crusaders for 'Save Rabindra Sarobar' movement, said they were happy with the measures taken by state so far "but keeping fingers crossed about how things turn up in the afternoon, the time of Chhat puja." "We are apprehensive going by last year's experience when thousands broke open the locks and stormed inside the lake premises. We hope that won't be repeated this year," he said. A spokesman of Bihari Samaj said: "We urge our community members not to venture into Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar. Please either offer rituals at your respective homes by creating a basin on your rooftop or terrace and offer puja standing in water, or go to designated water bodies set up by the administration or to river ghat in small groups."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-304
20-11-2020||West Bengal||Include Dooars in solution: GNLF||Mann Ghisingh, president of the Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF), now the largest ally of the BJP-led NDA in the hills, on Thursday said his party would reject any political solution that excludes the Dooars. Ghisingh told journalists after meeting Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankar in Darjeeling: “If the Dooars is excluded and the solution is only for the hills, we will not accept (the solution). It has to be together; if we are to be happy, everyone, from the Dooars, Terai and hills must be happy, or else we will protest.” Ghisingh’s statement has the potential to complicate the permanent political solution. All political solutions discussed for an administrative body for the hills left out the Dooars and big parts of Terai. The Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council was formed with Darjeeling, Kurseong and Kalimpong subdivisions in 1988. The Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, formed in 2007, started a statehood agitation and the Morcha’s map of the proposed Gorkhaland demand included the Dooars and Terai. However, when they accepted the GTA in 2011, they excluded the plains but sought a way out by agreeing to the state’s demand to form a committee to look into the demand for inclusion of Gorkha-dominated mouzas from the plains. Of the demand for 399 plains mouzas, the committee recommended inclusion of only five mouzas in the GTA after which the issue went to the backburner. The GNLF is relying on the BJP to fulfil its two election promises to find a permanent political solution for the region and grant tribal status to 11 hill communities. The GNLF has said that the political solution should not be anything “less than the Sixth Schedule” provisions (under the Constitution for the administration of tribal areas in border states Assam, Meghalaya, Tripura and Mizoram). However, Gorkhas are not in a majority in the plains unlike in the hills. Political analysts believe that demand to include major parts of the Dooars in a new political settlement would come under immense pressure from the plains given this demography. Ghisingh, however, seems to be trying to convince the Gorkhas in Dooars to remain with the BJP. The statement probably is a fallout of the recent tie up between Bimal Gurung and Trinamul. The GNLF leader said that this was the right time to seek a political solution and that the party believes that BJP can solve the issue but for that the public must be “conscious” and “united”. The Gorkhas in the plains can influence about six to seven Assembly seats. “I am especially telling the people from the Dooars. They should remain united as they had done (earlier)…during the MP (Lok Sabha) election,” said Ghisingh. The BJP had won from Dooars in the last Lok Sabha election. Ghisingh did point out that there were “grievances” (over the exclusion) of the Dooars and Terai region when the DGHC and GTA were formed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-304
20-11-2020||West Bengal||Left outfits rally for local trains||The SFI and DYFI— CPM’s student and youth wings — on Thursday took out rallies and gave memorandums to station managers of nine important railway stations in Birbhum demanding the restart of local and express trains in the district. Halted in March because of the pandemic, local train services in Bengal have recently resumed under Howrah and Sealdah divisions, but don’t extend beyond Burdwan. Commuters in districts such as Birbhum are left out of the loop. There are at least 45 pairs of local and express trains ran on the Burdwan-Sahibganj loop line in the area. However, Nikhil Kumar Chakraborty, the chief PRO of Eastern Railway, said he did not know when train services on this loop line route would resume. SFI and DYFI leaders said Birbhum had two important tourist destinations — Santiniketan and Tarapith — and students and workers need to travel to Burdwan and Calcutta frequently. Without local trains, commuting is costly and tough, they said. Sources said there were at least a hundred villages and six towns in Birbhum dependent on train services. “Several Visva-Bharati students need to call on their teachers for issues related to research. Thousand have to travel to Burdwan and Calcutta to attend tuition classes for competitive exams. Lack of trains affects all of them and there is no talk about resumption of the facility,” said SFI Birbhum unit secretary Wasif Iqbal. “Hundreds of hawkers, traders and professionals are dependent on trains. They used to go to Burdwan or Calcutta regularly. Now they are paying Rs 500-1,000 to hire cars,” said Birbhum DYFI secretary Manotosh Majumder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-304
20-11-2020||West Bengal||BJP bandh on eve of Chhath irks residents||The SFI and DYFI— CPM’s student and youth wings — on Thursday took out rallies and gave memorandums to station managers of nine important railway stations in Birbhum demanding the restart of local and express trains in the district. Halted in March because of the pandemic, local train services in Bengal have recently resumed under Howrah and Sealdah divisions, but don’t extend beyond Burdwan. Commuters in districts such as Birbhum are left out of the loop. There are at least 45 pairs of local and express trains ran on the Burdwan-Sahibganj loop line in the area. However, Nikhil Kumar Chakraborty, the chief PRO of Eastern Railway, said he did not know when train services on this loop line route would resume. SFI and DYFI leaders said Birbhum had two important tourist destinations — Santiniketan and Tarapith — and students and workers need to travel to Burdwan and Calcutta frequently. Without local trains, commuting is costly and tough, they said. Sources said there were at least a hundred villages and six towns in Birbhum dependent on train services. “Several Visva-Bharati students need to call on their teachers for issues related to research. Thousand have to travel to Burdwan and Calcutta to attend tuition classes for competitive exams. Lack of trains affects all of them and there is no talk about resumption of the facility,” said SFI Birbhum unit secretary Wasif Iqbal. “Hundreds of hawkers, traders and professionals are dependent on trains. They used to go to Burdwan or Calcutta regularly. Now they are paying Rs 500-1,000 to hire cars,” said Birbhum DYFI secretary Manotosh Majumder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-304
20-11-2020||West Bengal||Poll target set for BJP leaders  in north||so been deputed as party’s co-observer in Bengal, set the the target after assessing Assembly seat-wise position of the party across all eight districts of north Bengal. According to party insiders, they have spoken with portfolio holders and elected representatives of all districts and have collected information from them on various issues. Among the issues are the current political scene in the hills after Bimal Gurung’s exit as an ally, the status of the BJP’s support base among Rajbanshis and tribals, demands which have remained unfulfilled  so far and political activities taken up by other parties. A few days back, the BJP leadership has assigned fresh responsibilities to some of their national portfolio holders, keeping in mind the 2021 Assembly elections of Bengal. “The leaders were very specific about the hills and the Dooars and thoroughly inquired about the prevailing situation, while asking the local leaders to mull over prospective strategies which can help the party draw support from people dwelling in these areas,” said a source. In course of the meeting, discussions were also held on the minority population in the region, particularly in districts like North Dinajpur and Malda, and leaders from these districts were quizzed to know as to what extent the BJP could garner support from these areas. “We have been asked to be in touch with state leaders and follow specific guidelines to build up support. It has been made clear that there should not be any internal differences, right from the district to the booth level,” said a leader based in Jalpaiguri district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-304
20-11-2020||West Bengal||Roadblock against NH ‘health hazard’||Irate villagers, mostly women, in Nadia’s Santipur blocked NH12 at a railway crossing in Govindapur in the town for an hour on Wednesday to protest the damaged road adjacent to tracks that connects their town with Krishnagar. Accusing the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and the railways of negligence, villagers said the road adjacent to the railway crossing had turned into a muddy stretch full of rubble. They said apart from frequent accidents, the dust from the damaged stretch had become a public health hazard. “We have breathing troubles because of the dust,” said a villager who lives close to the road, and added that a few months ago an elderly woman living near the road allegedly died of respiratory distress. Subhash Mudi, brother of the deceased woman, said: “My sister was suffering from breathlessness and doctors said it was because of the dust she was forced to inhale.” The blockade lifted after the police convinced people that they would take up the issue with authorities of the railways and NHAI. For the past one year, the  100m stretch of NH12 from Barasat to Krishnanagar, which includes the railway crossing, is damaged. The NHAI recently started widening a 67km stretch of NH12 between Krishnagar and Jagulia. The damaged stretch at Govindapur remains unaddressed, with authorities of the NHAI and railways passing the buck. NH12 project director in Krishnagar Soutam Pal said: “At least 50m of land adjacent to both sides of any railway tracks is the property of the railways. The onus of maintenance rests with them. We are not authorised to undertake work on such stretches even if they are part of the NH.” Anil Karwan, assistant engineer of the railways in Ranaghat, claimed ignorance. “I have joined recently and am not aware of the issue. I will look into the matter soon and try my best to solve the problem.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-305
20-11-2020||West Bengal||Families of workers  ripped apart ||The death of Abdul Rehman, 17, in the plastics crushing factory blast on Thursday afternoon, rendered his mother Daloni Bibi and sister Rahima Khatun virtually dumb. The teenager was the sole breadwinner of the family. At their dilapidated hutment in Sujapur, around 12km from Malda, both cried inconsolably as their neighbours crowded around them. Abdur, his neighbours said, gave up his studies four years back after his ailing father Sariful Momin stopped working. The boy started working at the plastic crushing unit, barely 700 metres away from his house. “Only two hours before the explosion, I went to the factory and served him roti and vegetables. He gave me money to buy foodgrains and vegetables. I had no idea it was our last meeting,” Daloni wept. His sister Rahima said that Abdur had stopped going to school, but would encourage her to continue her studies. “He was the lone earning member of our family. We got a cheque of two lakhs from the minister but we really don’t know how to run the family,” said brother Rahim, a Class VIII student. Neighbour Monirul Islam said only a regular pension could help the family. Sariful Hoque, 25, another blast victim, went to the factory after promising his four year old daughter Ishana Parvin that they would have lunch together during his break. “My husband did not keep the promise made to his daughter. Ishana was his life,” wept his wife Shiuli Bibi. Villagers were shocked and stupefied as occasional wailings rent the air. Rupali Bibi, another resident, held her 14-year-old son Manzarul Sheikh tightly. The boy, who suffered multiple injuries on his face and limbs from the blast, was found shivering in fear. “On Wednesday, my son went to the factory alone and urged the owner to give him a job. It was decided that he would sort scrap plastics and be paid Rs 100 a day. Today (Thursday) was his first day at work. I am lucky he escaped with injuries,” said Rupali. Musha Sheikh, another injured, was discovered at the spot by his son Mustafizur Rahaman, a Class VIII student, and is under treatment at the MMCH now. “My father was a trader but started working at the unit after a major loss in his business. He works hard to ensure that I and my younger sister continue with our studies. All we can do now is pray.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-305
20-11-2020||West Bengal||BJP wants reversal of CRPF plan||The Union home ministry’s decision to withdraw two battalions of the CRPF from the Jungle Mahal has prompted BJP leaders in the region to send a mass petition to the party’s state president Dilip Ghosh seeking the reversal of the order as they feared the move would have an adverse impact on the performance of the organisation in next year’s Assembly polls. Senior state BJP leaders have already spoken to Union home minister Amit Shah and requested him to reverse the order. “We will write to him (Shah) soon to compensate the withdrawal of the CRPF from the Jungle Mahal,” Dilip Ghosh said. BJP leaders in Jhargram and West Midnapore said the resurgence of Maoist violence in the region would be seen as a fallout of the decision to pull out CRPF battalions. “Withdrawal of CRPF battalions at this point of time will adversely affect (BJP’s chances in the Assembly polls) … in Jungle Mahal from where seven MPs got elected (in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls),” the petition stated. BJP leaders in Jhargram and West Midnapore said the presence of the CRPF battalions had kept a check on Maoist activities and helped them strengthen the party’s organisation. “The people of the Jungle Mahal are fearing an increase in Maoist activities. If the extremists get control over the area, we will not be able to hold our organisation together. This will be detrimental to our interest as Trinamul’s induction of Chhatradhar Mahato in the area has become a major challenge for us,” said a BJP leader in Lalgarh. Intelligence sources said Maoist cadres had already started holding meetings at various pockets of Jhargram, Purulia and West Midnapore ahead of the death anniversary of Maoist leader Kishenji, who was gunned down by cops on November 24, 2011. “We have intelligence inputs that Maoists could try to prove their presence in the area on the death anniversary of Kishenji,” a police source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-305
20-11-2020||West Bengal||1 lakh Covid recoveries since Dashami||Bengal on Thursday reported a drop in its total active Covid-19 cases for the 24th consecutive day since the end of Durga Puja, recording 1,01,673 recoveries during this period that outweighed the 91,683 new infections found. On Thursday, the state logged 3,990 recoveries, 3,620 new cases and 53 deaths, among which 12 each were reported from Calcutta and North 24-Parganas. The state’s total active cases, which was 37,190 on Vijaya Dashami (October 26), is 25,873 now, back almost to where it was on September 27. The state’s recovery rate, currently on an unbroken spell of rise for 28 consecutive days, rose to a new high of 92.43, nudging the national rate of 93.59 per cent. “Over a lakh recoveries in a short span is a huge morale boost, as is the total of active cases falling to the region of 25,000. We hope to be able to continue with this turnaround...,” said a state minister. The state’s total caseload is over 4.45 lakh now, including nearly 4.12 lakh recoveries and 7,873 deaths. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja. The numbers of infections from Puja showed that the intervention was effective. The high court issued a similar set of instructions for Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. “Prior to this post-Puja turnaround were those six relentless weeks of major spike in infections and relatively fewer recoveries. We hope we won’t see another such spell this pandemic,” said the minister. With 44,263 tests on Thursday, the state’s total test count is nearly 53.9 lakh, at 59,888 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate remained 8.27 per cent. Of the total death toll, 6,577, or 83.5 per cent, were attributed to co-morbidities. The state’s mortality rate is 1.76, still less than the national rate of 1.46 per cent. “In the 24 days since the end of Puja, there have been 1,327 deaths, including 1,063 (80.1 per cent) co-morbid deaths. The mortality rate has improved from 1.85 to 1.76,” said the minister. The state reported 28.97 per cent occupancy in the 13,508 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 101 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 4.6.3 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-305
20-11-2020||West Bengal||Machine explodes at plant, 6 die||An explosion ripped through a plastic crushing unit at Sujapur near Malda on Thursday afternoon, killing five workers and a partner of the plant, besides injuring 10 persons. The blast, which according to the state home department was related to “manufacturing process”, happened when a crusher weighing around 45 tons exploded. The tin-roof building was destroyed almost completely and the machine was blown into pieces, some of which fell in nearby areas. Malda district BJP president Gobinda Mondal said the party suspected bombs were being manufactured illegally at the unit and only the National Investigation Agency could unravel the truth. Police sources said the factory, located around 12km from the district headquarters, had a crusher in which scrap plastic items used to be smashed. “The crusher weighing around 45 tons is in the middle of the unit and it exploded, killing people,” said a police source. Around 100 labourers, mostly local residents, work at the unit in shifts. According to the police, work was going on in full swing when the machine exploded around 12 noon. Abu Sayed, one of the two partners of the unit, died while he was being taken to Calcutta for treatment. The other deceased, administrative sources said, were Abdur Rahaman, 17, Sariful Hoque, 25, Azizur Rahaman, Rajib Khan and Mostafa Sheikh. The age of three deceased persons could not be confirmed till late evening. “The injured are under treatment at the Malda Medical College and Hospital and some of them are in critical state,” said a doctor. Senior police officers reached the spot and started an investigation. The state government announced compensation for the family of the deceased. Senior minister Firhad Hakim took a chopper from Calcutta and reached Malda later in the afternoon. “Five persons have died and few others have been injured as a plastic crusher has exploded here. The state has announced a compensation of Rs 2 lakh each for families of the deceased and Rs 50,000 for the injured. We have handed over the cheques to the families,” said Hakim. Abu Sayed succumbed to the injuries after the minister’s arrival. Hakim rejected the BJP’s demand for an NIA probe and said the state police and intelligence agencies were competent enough to conduct the investigation. “The police are probing the case. Some other state departments like power, panchayat and fire services will also separately submit reports to the state government on the explosion,” he said. Sources said a forensic team would examine the site of the blast on Friday. “The Malda Sujapur plastic factory accident today is related to the manufacturing process and has got nothing to do with illegal bomb making, as suggested non-responsibly by some quarters. DM and SP on spot have been reporting to state officers after urgent inquiries and compensation steps have been taken,” the home department said in a tweet. “…..it is time to be factually correct. Government is helping the victims and their families,” said the tweet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-305
20-11-2020||West Bengal||Matuas prod Centre on CAA||The All-India Matua Mahasangha, which enjoys the BJP’s support, has urged the Narendra Modi government to announce a timeframe to implement the provisions of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), the request belying the community’s restlessness over its delay. “We had taken up the issue with the government before... Now we are again contacting the Prime Minister’s Office,” said Santanu Thakur, the BJP MP of Bongaon. The Matua Mahasangha raised the demand for implementation of the CAA as its leaders have been facing embarrassing questions from the community on whether the Act, billed by the saffron camp as a one-stop solution for citizenship issues faced by Hindu migrants from Bangladesh, would be implemented or stay on paper. On Thursday, Bongaon MP Santanu, with his brother Subrata, held a meeting in Nadia’s Bogula to reassert the demand for the rollout of the Act before some 10,000 members of the Matua community. Santanu earlier this year had written to home minister Amit Shah for an early implementation of the CAA. What could further embarrass the BJP is the Matua Mahasangha’s decision to launch a pan-Bengal campaign for the implementation of CAA. The Mahasangha will hold over a dozen meetings in south and north Bengal districts covering some 10 Lok Sabha seats. “The CAA was used as a major plank by the BJP to win over Matua voters in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls...the party won both the Bongaon and Ranaghat parliamentary seats (with a significant Matua population). Now, people want its implementation,” said an insider in the Mahasangha. The Mahasangha’s move comes close on the heels of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s recent outreach bids, such as the Matua Development Board with a grant of Rs 10 crore and pattas for Matuas to ensure their land rights, a move she said would eventually benefit 1.25 lakh families. At the Mahasangha rally, Santanu said only the CAA could solve the problem of refugees. “Some people are misleading refugees by offering patta, but that can never ensure them citizenship. We want the Centre to take initiative to implement CAA fast,” he said.  “The delay has made people restless,” he added. Mukutmani Adhikari, the Mahasangha’s Nadia south committee president, said a large number of community members are frustrated over the delay in implementing the CAA. “It has become tough for us to answer their questions on the issue. The promise to implement the CAA had helped the BJP win seats in Matua-dominated areas in the 2019 polls. The delay has embarrassed us. The Centre should announce when the process for implementation will happen.” Adhikari added that it would be difficult to hold back the support base if the CAA is delayed “since political rivals can misinterpret and misguide the Matuas”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-305
20-11-2020||West Bengal||Uncertainty hits irrigation projects||Several important irrigation projects in the state are on hold because of unavailability of funds amid speculation that the uncertainty over the political future of irrigation minister Suvendu Adhikari has cast a shadow over the schemes. “Files of important irrigation projects, which need to be started right now to complete them before next monsoon, have been gathering dust for about two months while funds for projects put forward by other departments are being released. It seems speculation about the minister’s political future has held his department hostage,” said a senior government official. According to a source, proposals to strengthen the Durgapur Barrage and restore and repair its sluice gates were sent to the finance department recently, but despite the emergency, required funds have not been released. Similarly, funds needed to strengthen some river embankments in the Sunderbans and restoration of the Muriganga have not been released either. “Projects worth a total of Rs 190 crore have been sent to Nabanna considering their importance. But the department has received no response yet even though only about seven months are left to complete the projects before the next monsoon,” said an official. Sources said the strengthening of the Durgapur barrage and repairing its sluice gates were of paramount importance as a large area depended on the reservoir for water supply. Besides, it also plays a vital role as water from Maithan and Panchet dams in Jharkhand are released into the barrage, which, in turn, is released in a calculated manner during the monsoon to prevent floods in several districts in south Bengal. The irrigation department officials are worried because the finance department has started releasing funds for projects like repair of roads and bridges which were put forward by the PWD. Projects related to water supply and solid waste management proposed by the municipal affairs and urban development department are also getting cleared by Nabanna. “It is a cause of concern that Rs 110 crore for the Durgapur barrage is not cleared. The department can wait for other projects for a few months, but projects related to Durgapur barrage need to be cleared immediately,” said an official. Sources in the government said while it was true that there was a crisis of funds because of the Covid-19 pandemic, important projects must be taken up without any delay. “ It seems the growing distance between the minister and the ruling party is the reason behind the sudden drying up of funds for the department,” said a source. Adhikari has not been attending cabinet meetings or party programmes since May amid murmurs that he is all set to chart a different political course for himself. A section of the officials said the top brass of the government were perhaps waiting to see the next steps of Adhikari before allocating funds. “The government wants proper utilisation of funds. If confusion remains on the minister’s political future, the utilisation may suffer and that’s why the funds are not getting cleared,” a senior official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-305
20-11-2020||West Bengal||‘She has not tossed me out’||Amid swirling speculation over his political future, Trinamul heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari on Thursday said he was still part of the Trinamul Congress and the Mamata Banerjee government. “Unio taranni, amio chharini (Neither has she thrown me out, nor have I quit),” said Adhikari, referring to the Trinamul supremo, to loud cheers from a 20,000-plus-strong audience at an event at Ramnagar in East Midnapore. “I am still a primary, active member of a political party. I am still a member of a cabinet. The chief minister has kept me as a minister…. Political statements cannot be made while being in the party, while remaining a member of the cabinet…. I am the son of the same soil as Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar. I will never do anything unethical,” added the 49-year-old state transport minister. Speculations over his possible switch to the BJP or creating a political party aligned with the NDA have been doing the rounds for years, intensified by the rise of Mamata’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee in the party as her political successor. Adhikari didn’t say anything about his plans at the rally, but did seem to admit there were rajnoitik mawtantawr (differences of political opinion) and bibhed (disintegration), which could lead to bichchhed (separation). “There are times, once in a while, when there are differences of political opinion, disintegration… from that disintegration, there can be separation. But for as long as one is in that party, in that cabinet… for as long as decision-makers have not thrown you out, or you haven’t quit yourself, till then statements like that cannot be made from such platforms (like these),” he said. His address, however, dripped with sarcasm. “All the posts I hold, to all of them I was elected, neither selected nor nominated, mind you. I have been in politics since 1996, from a very young age… as a passion, not as a profession,” said Adhikari. “I am not a seasonal bird. I am not here for a day or two, but 24x7. I have a relationship of the soul with the masses. I am there for them during Covid-19. I am there for them during lockdown. I am there for them after Cyclone Amphan. I am with each one of them, all the time, not confined to a room, I am found in the fields,” he added. “I hope this gamchha-clad, panta-fed village boy will continue to get your love and blessings.” Trinamul sources said it was clear that he referred to party strategist Prashant Kishor as seasonal bird and to Abhishek when he said he (Adhikari) was not selected. But the party welcomed Adhikari’s statements. “He has not decided on leaving the party…. If he stays, it is a matter of happiness,” said Saugata Roy, a Trinamul vice-president and Dum Dum MP. Roy on Thursday admitted he has been negotiating with Adhikari under Mamata’s instructions, that the two met on Monday evening and are likely to meet again next week. Sources said Roy’s talks with Adhikari are part of a last-ditch effort from Kalighat (read Mamata) to keep the heavyweight in the party ahead of a crucial perform-or-perish Bengal election. “He doesn’t have demands, he has some concerns. Those have been conveyed to the chief minister, who has some things to say as well. There will be more talks. Both sides are, as of today, willing to discuss and open to possibilities,” said a source, adding that Trinamul MP Sudip Bandyopadhyay was also negotiating with Adhikari over the phone. He said Adhikari is “bitterly displeased” with the loss of control as the party’s observer over six key districts of Bankura, West Midnapore, Jhargram, Murshidabad, Malda and North Dinajpur, other than his own. The post of observer was abolished in a major reshuffle on July 23. “Although she (Mamata) made the announcements, the designs were that of Prashant Kishor and Abhishek…. That Suvendu did not like. He made it clear that he would not take instructions from PK and Abhishek,” said the source. Rivals are keeping close watch on developments. Congress MP and state unit chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, who welcomed Adhikari to join his party, mocked Trinamul. “Mamata Banerjee should go to him and fall at his feet, begging him to stay,” said Chowdhury. BJP state unit chief Dilip Ghosh iterated that Adhikari was welcome to join his party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-305
20-11-2020||North East||Mizoram celebs spread Covid message||Mizoram is tapping into the power of its celebrities to ensure the success of the publicity blitzkreig on Covid-appropriate behaviour that it launched on Wednesday to break the chain of transmission of the novel coronavirus. As many as 72 short messages on Covid-19 behaviour were posted by as many celebrities at 9am on social media platforms as part of the ongoing Jan Andolan campaign, which was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in October. These are simple messages like requesting people to wash their hands frequently, use masks and sanitiser, adhere to social-distancing norms, government directives and standard operating procedures and calling helplines to prevent the spread of the virus. For effective dissemination, Mizoram’s information & public relations department recorded the messages in all the languages spoken in the state — Mizo, Lai, Mara, Hmar, Paite, Nepali, Bru and Chakma —apart from English and Hindi. Mizoram has been strictly enforcing Covid safety rules with the support of community volunteers to break the chain of transmission. Social media influencers, singers, artists, sports persons, athletes and footballers have been engaged for the social media campaign. Leading personalities/celebrities who have been roped in include national woman hockey player Lalremsiami, footballers Lalthuammawia Ralte (Bengaluru FC), Lalrindika Ralte and S. Malsawmtluanga, Miss Mizoram Zirsangpuii, singer Vanlalsailova, Drew Pachuau, one of the most followed Mizo youth on Instagram, and boxers N.T. Lalbiakima and John Kenty. Till Wednesday evening, Mizoram had 3,481 Covid cases of which 496 are active. There have been five deaths of which the first was reported on October 28, 219 days after the detection of the first positive case on March 24. Dr Pachuau Lalmalsawma, state nodal officer of integrated disease surveillance programme and health department spokesperson on Covid-19, told The Telegraph that the recent lockdown helped bring down the daily cases from 38 to 29. “We hope the awareness drive along with the ongoing zero Covid-19 tolerance drive will further bring down the cases,” Lalmalsawma said. For a long time, the state did not have any Covid deaths or serious cases. Most cases were mild or asymptomatic. “But with winter closing in, five Covid deaths in the last one month and an increase in symptomatic cases, the challenge will increase. Hence the campaign to break the chain of transmission of the virus,” senior information & public relations  official Pratap Chetri said. The state’s information & public relations department has been at the forefront of the publicity and awareness drives on Covid-19 since the onset of the pandemic in the state. The department’s social media accounts are widely followed, Chetri said. According to the IPR department, concerted efforts by the government, NGOs and the civil society, including the local/village level task forces, have paid dividends. It said the daily updates and bulletins on Covid-19 released by the department are the most shared posts over various WhatsApp groups and other social media platforms. The Covid situation in neighbouring Manipur and Nagaland is also worrying following a fresh spike in cases. Several key offices, including the Nagaland State Civil Secretariat, have been sealed for a couple of days. Manipur, too, saw a spike in cases, sparking off concern because most did not have a travel history. Manipur chief minister N. Biren Singh had tested positive on Sunday. The worst-hit is Assam, which has had 2,10,000 positive cases. Though the number of active cases has dropped to 3,329, there are fears about a spike given the non-adherence to Covid-19 safety measures during campaigning for December’s Bodoland Territorial Council polls and public functions. Assam has seen 966 deaths till Wednesday morning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-35
20-11-2020||Opinion||Two faces: Manipulating press freedom||When the Supreme Court nudged the Centre to exercise its powers under the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act to rein in rogue television channels disseminating objectionable content, it appeared that the apex court — it has a long and honourable tradition of upholding freedoms — was apparently endorsing a culture of regulation. The Bharatiya Janata Party-led government, a dispensation known to be allergic to media with a spine, seemed — inexplicably — to be speaking up in support of an unfettered press. But appearances in New India are inevitably deceptive. This reversal of roles is a case in point. The highest court’s endorsement of regulatory oversight had a context. The Supreme Court was expressing its displeasure at the Centre’s response to a petition that alleged — not without reason — that precious little had been done to stop a section of the media’s sustained vilification of the Tablighi Jamaat during the early part of the pandemic. The court’s unhappiness may have something to do with the Centre’s cherry-picking of facts. In its response, the Union government stated that newspaper and web portals had reported the chain of events in a responsible manner, without conceding that it had done nothing to stop the witch hunt against a particular community that was unfolding on television screens. It is this chicanery — a case of selective anguish — that lies at the heart of the BJP’s rhetoric on the freedom of the media. On the one hand, the government has no moral qualms about mouthing homilies on press freedom even when some television channels — Sudarshan News’s content on ‘UPSC jihad’ is an example — it is evident, are misusing their powers. On the other hand, the government conveniently forgets its own commitment to the cause of freedom when it orders crackdowns against journalists and media houses challenging, or critical of, the official narrative. Two of the most common weapons employed to this end are the archaic law of sedition and arrests; both phenomena, worryingly, are on the rise. It is not a coincidence that India’s poor ranking in the Press Freedom Index has corresponded with the political ascendancy of the BJP. The glaring gap between what the BJP says and what it does on the matter of press freedom is unlikely to make the party get hot under the collar. Muzzling comes naturally to muscular ideologies. Surprisingly, the nation’s sole ‘patriotic’ party remains equally blasé about the concomitant erosion in India’s democratic credentials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-114
20-11-2020||Opinion||Right way: Article 32 petitions||When the Chief Justice of India expresses the Supreme Court’s decision to discourage petitions under Article 32, the reason must be weighty. For Article 32, which B.R. Ambedkar felt was the Constitution’s ‘soul’ and ‘heart’, allows citizens to approach the Supreme Court with appropriate proceedings in order to have enforced the fundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution. This Article, ensuring the right to constitutional remedies, enshrines a fundamental right too, like the right to life and personal liberty. Its importance cannot be emphasized enough at a time when dissidents and protesters are being arrested and bail is rare. The Supreme Court can always ask why petitioners should approach it under Article 32 without going first to high courts for the enforcement of rights under Article 226, a constitutional right. The managing director of a television channel who was given interim bail was an Article 32 petitioner; he had approached the high court first. The Supreme Court reportedly said in an allied context that deterring a citizen from approaching it under Article 32 was a serious interference in the administration of justice. It is in response to the petitions of a journalist arrested on his way to report on the Hathras rape and another person arrested for alleged defamation of the Maharashtra chief minister that the Supreme Court expressed its wish to discourage Article 32 petitions. If everyone went to the Supreme Court under Article 32 in this season of continuing arrests, the court would be hard pressed for time to hear other cases. Yet it is also true that in high courts hearings are delayed because of piles of waiting cases. When the issue is of a violation of the right to personal liberty, the importance of which the Supreme Court reiterated recently, delay makes the petition meaningless. That the Supreme Court has found a spate of Article 32 petitions lately is, perhaps, a sign of the times. It would be reassuring to know that the Supreme Court, the supreme guarantor of fundamental rights, would consider each case in order to decide which needs to be heard directly, and that not all Article 32 petitions would be discouraged. The right under that Article cannot be suspended unless there is an Emergency or “except as otherwise provided for” by the Constitution. Neither has happened yet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-114
20-11-2020||Opinion||How ideas are born through research||When Socrates starts questioning you in the middle of a busy Athenian street, you wouldn’t generally turn to him and say that whatever he is trying to teach through his dialectical method is all but a waste. It would be anything but a waste. On the other hand, Sophist schools and teachers would try to teach in a method that is almost the same, even today: teaching what needs to be learnt in order to be skilled, to grab a good position in society. The long-drawn debate about these methods is still pertinent when it comes to higher education or research. So, while we try to answer which is more important or whether we were wrong to judge the Sophists too soon, we have to understand the nuances of both a Socratic dialectic or pursuing research and a Sophist-like training equivalent to pursuing education just to be skilled enough for a job. As a philosopher once said, do not presume that you have ten fingers, perceive it, check it and then testify. Similarly, we need to ask ourselves why we go for research? This question can be answered in a sentence or two. While newspapers are often flooded with interviews and ideas of Nobel laureates, what is forgotten is the research that they have done. Research would help the nation and society, but does it really fare well in the life of an individual? Although it is difficult to speak for everyone without generalizing, there seems to be a steady trend of young employees opting out of decently-paying jobs and going back to the classroom to do research. It is the quest of an otherwise unsatisfied intellect. That is what higher education can do: allow one to delve deeper. Dialogue and debate When one chooses to take up research, one takes up the process of asking questions and seeking answers, leading to new discoveries and inventions. Contrary to public opinion, in Indian philosophy, debate has played a very important role. This is not just theorized in Charaka Samhita but in almost every Indian philosophical school. In Charaka Samhita, it has been argued that debate has two forms: constructive and destructive. This was later on developed and enhanced by Debiprasad Chattopadhyaya in What is Living and What is Dead in Indian Philosophy. ‘Constructive’ in a debate not only deals with clarification and a good understanding of knowledge, but it also questions our presumptions and removes existing doubt. This is just on the Indian front. On the other side of the globe, we have people like René Descartes who have taught us that even to know ourselves, we have to first know that we can doubt or we have the capacity to think (Cogito, ergo sum). Such is the primacy of our thinking and reasoning abilities. Descartes believed in learning from “the great book of the world”. A conversation overheard at the local chaiwala’s shop will seem ordinary to one at first. But if we listen carefully, we realize that these conversations may contain in them the seeds of major academic research projects (largely pertaining to social science). Does this not imply that research is something we all do in our everyday lives? Research acts as a dialogue which happens between public spaces and academic discourses. We think, we come up with hypotheses, we deliberate and discuss and then conclude with new theories. Most social research, taking shape in this manner only reiterates our claim that research is a necessary part of our lives, a part that does not limit itself to gaining knowledge and learning a skill. In his text, The Myth of Sisyphus, Albert Camus talks about how The Rebel could be a way of understanding the absurdity of the world. Research acts as a ‘dent’ in the feudal understanding of the world. We need research precisely because we have the social and moral imperative of sustaining ideas and giving them life. We need research to get rid of errors and omissions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-114
20-11-2020||Opinion||Faith matters||Twelve days ago, a sixty-six-year-old man died in Birmingham, the United Kingdom. He had been raised in the picturesque hill town of Kalimpong, where, when still a student at the Scottish Universities Mission Institution (typically abbreviated to SUMI), he had had the temerity to approach one of the giants of Indian Nepali literature, Parasmani Pradhan (1898-1986), with a rather strange request. Would the great man consider translating a scholarly Urdu book on the fundamentals of Islam into Nepali for the benefit of those who wanted to know about the faith but lacked Urdu? Not surprisingly, the busy scholar did not take the uniformed schoolboy seriously, and sent him away. But the lad was not to be discouraged so easily. He kept coming back day after day until Dr Pradhan finally gave in, agreed to read an English translation of the text, and then took on the task of translating it into Nepali; which he did with a little help from the boy’s father, the imam of the only mosque in town, Maulana Muhammad Sibghatullah Siddiqui. The book was published in 1974, in Nepali, as Islam Darshan, and Dr Pradhan would later confess that it wasn’t until he had undertaken the project of translating it that he discovered just how many words of Urdu, Farsi and Arabic origin had entered the everyday vocabulary of Nepali speakers. This incident — narrated to me by his nephew, Professor Rafat Ali, a friend and colleague — sums up the qualities that went into the making of Professor Ataullah Siddiqui, a remarkable man who passed away in his prime, with his life’s mission of bringing about inter-faith understanding and harmony still incomplete. These qualities, recognized by students, colleagues and friends across several continents, included doggedness, strength of conviction, an ability to bring others around to his way of looking at the world, creating bonds through accepting diversity and difference; and an unflinching faith in the essential goodness of human beings. From the time he left for the UK in the early 1980s as a Research Fellow in the Islamic Foundation, till his death, when he was Professor of Christian-Muslim Relations and Inter-Faith Understanding at the Markfield Institute of Higher Education in Leicestershire, having picked up numerous awards and accolades along the way (including an honorary doctorate from the University of Gloucestershire), Professor Siddiqui remained both a devout Muslim as well as a person who believed in logic, reason, compassion and understanding to build a world where all faiths could exist in harmony. His 2007 report to the British Parliament, Islam at Universities in England: Meeting the Needs and Investing in the Future, better known as the Siddiqui Report, begins by invoking “the changed dynamics of relations between Muslims and policymakers in Western countries” post 9/11 and 7/7 (the July 2005 bombings in London), then bluntly stating that “it is now equally important that different experiences and expressions of Islam are explored outside the needs of diplomacy and the exigencies of the situation in the Middle East”, before going on to make a set of ten policy recommendations which have unfortunately, as far as I am aware, still not been implemented in full within the British higher education system. But that did not deter Professor Siddiqui from his task of trying to bring about dialogue among individuals from different faiths (or of no faith). In a 2019 talk at the conference on “Leadership, Authority and Representation in British Muslim Communities” at Cardiff University, Professor Siddiqui had asserted that since it was enjoined that a mufti (an Islamic jurist) needed to know the urf and adat, that is the customs and practices of the people, this meant knowing about the Enlightenment, European history, as well as the religious beliefs and practices of Judeo-Christian traditions “as part of Islamic Studies” in Europe. Translated into the Indian context, this would require students of Islam to know about Indian history, Hinduism, Christianity and other local traditions to become true alims (scholars) — a point echoed by the imam of Calcutta’s Nakhoda Masjid, Maulana Shafique Qasmi, at a memorial meeting held for Professor Siddiqui a few days ago, where he asserted that only people who have not read their scriptures properly fight over religion and that, in his opinion, the Gita and the Bible, along with the Quran, ought to be read by madrasa students as part of their curriculum. Such has been Professor Ataullah Siddiqui’s influence. Yet I was unable to find mention of the man and his work in any major newspaper of the state where he had been raised and educated. Which is a pity for through his life and work — and I do not have the space to write about his many books and articles here — Ataullah Siddiqui had demonstrated that a devout Muslim was not only not an enemy of other faiths, but rather that it is part of a true Muslim’s calling to understand, respect, and cooperate with members of the nation/region/community/locality who hold beliefs that differ from her/his own. As we seem to sink ever deeper into bubbles inhabited exclusively by those who think and act and react like us — a process accelerated by the ongoing pandemic — it is perhaps even more vital to remember the likes of Ataullah Siddiqui; or, for that matter, his fellow travellers in faith like Swami Agnivesh and the shamefully still-imprisoned 83-year-old Father Stan Swamy: three individuals whose deeply-held religious beliefs encouraged them to fight — in very different ways — on behalf of precisely those individuals whose beliefs did not match their own. Their journeys tell us that one can be a true believer without necessarily demonizing others who are not; that one can pray to a particular god or gods and still respect those who pray to others or none; that all of us are, beneath our superficial differences, human beings after all. In so doing, they encourage us to hold on to that fast-depleting commodity, without which it is difficult to imagine a civilization worth the name — hope. The author is professor of Comparative Literature, Jadavpur University, and has been working as a volunteer for a rural development NGO for the last 30 years||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-114
20-11-2020||Jharkhand||Devotees observe Chhath following Covid-19 norms||A large number of people celebrated Chhath in tanks on their terrace or small water bodies in their locality itself observing the social distancing norms. However, there was some rush on the public tanks or water bodies, where the majority of people have witnessed sporting masks but the social distancing norms of maintaining a minimum six feet distance could not be observed. The maximum numbers of multi-storied buildings or apartment dwellers were those who celebrated Chhhath on their terrace and offered Arghya to setting sun in tanks or large tubs, etc. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Friday, Kajal Sinha, housemaker and resident of Shivshakti Apartment of Tapovan Colony under Saraidhela police station about 7 km from district headquarters said, “We used to observe Chhath in Raja Talab about 500 meters away from our locality but this year we chose to celebrate Chhath on the apartment terrace." "All the 30 flat owners in our apartment cooperated with us. Our next-door neighbor, Shilpi made rangoli at the terrace and decorated the water tub in which we offered Arghya to Sun god," said Sinha. "Being educated and well aware of the Covid-19 situation which is likely to spread during the winter, we couldn't have compromised with our health and others in the family. Thus we decided to celebrate Chhath on the terrace itself," said Sinha. Echoing sentiments Vikash Singh, a sales representative of Hirapur, said, "We used to celebrate Chhath in nearby Loco tank but this year taking the social responsibility of preventing the spread of infection we decided to construct a small water body in our colony itself in order to celebrate the festival while observing all the government guidelines. We offered arghya to the god in the three feet tank dug up in colony with the local youth," said Singh. Meanwhile, Chhath committee members at different ghats distributed mask and sanitizers among the devotees and appealed the people observing Chhath to follow the social distancing norms. Dhanbad, Sub Divisional Officer, Surendra Prasad who himself inspected many of the public water bodies where Chhath was being celebrated, said , "We visited different water bodies and appealed to the people to observe Chhath following the social distancing norms this year so that we can celebrate Chhath normally next year."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-230
20-11-2020||Jharkhand||Police seize illicit liquor, brown sugar and marijuana in Adityapur and Chandil||In a major breakthrough against illicit liquor and drugs, the police recovered a huge quantity of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL), brown sugar, and marijuana by conducting raids in different places in the Seraikela-Kharsawan district on Friday. While a truck-load consignment of illicit IMFL was seized from Khokrodih village under Chandil thana area in the small hours, a considerable amount of brown sugar was recovered from a house at Adityapur Muslim Bustee early on Friday morning. In a spree of the raid against the liquor and drugs, the police also swooped over a field at Barad village under Ichagarh thana area under Chandil sub-division and destroyed a huge quantity of marijuana plantations developed by one Lal Singh Munda on Friday morning. Revealing about the breakthrough, Seraikela-Kharsawan district superintendent of police, Mohammed Arshi said that the drive against illicit liquor and drugs was carried out following the instruction of director-general of police, Jharkhand, MV Rao and became a huge success. "Following the instructions of the DGP, we had made separate teams of police officers for carrying out raids at different places of the district on Thursday. Having gathered intelligence inputs from the different sources, the teams started raiding the places in Adityapur and also Chandil sub-division area throughout the night and finally succeeded in unearthing the illicit liquor, brown sugar and destroyed marijuana plantation by Friday morning," said Arshi while talking to the newsmen at Adityapur. Speaking about the capture of IMFL liquor, the SP said they had got a tip-off that there was an illicit liquor godown at Khokrodih in Chandil. "Acting on the tip-off, the police team did not get any liquor godown at Khokrodih, but found a stationary truck loaded with cartons of liquors at that village about 30 km away from here. In the truck, there were 205 cartons containing 2430 IMFL bottles of a popular brand. The cost of the confiscated liquor consignment was estimated to be worth Rs 5 lakh," said the senior police officer. Arshi said another team that was acting on a tip-off against illegal plantation of marijuana raided at a field in Barad village in Ichagarh about 45 km away from Jamshedpur early on Friday morning. "As the police team swooped over the illegal marijuana plantation, the owner of the field, Lal Singh Munda appeared at the scene for the protest. The police team immediately arrested him under the relevant sections of the NDPS Act," he stated. Another team which had gathered information about the brown sugar being sold at the Adityapur Muslim Bustee, raided the house of one Abdul Karim and recovered 66 packets of the narcotic drugs from the house of the accused about three km away from here this morning," said Arshi, adding that Karim was also arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-230
20-11-2020||Jharkhand||Chhath puja celebrations in full swing with restrictions||The banks of river Subarnarekha and Kharkai witnessed a large turnout as devotees (chhath vratis) along with their families and friends gathered to offer the first arghya of Chhath Puja on Friday evening. The first arghya is offered to the setting sun while chhath vratis will offer the second arghya (also known as bihaniya) to the rising sun on Saturday that brings to an end of the four-day Chhath festival. The Subarnarekha ghat in Sakchi and Domuhani ghat in Sonari drew maximum devotees, while Sati ghat/Kapali ghat in Sonari and other ghats in Bhuiyandih, Birsanagar, Bagunnagar, Baridih and Bagbera also thronged with devotees. There were over 20 ghats in the city where Chhath was celebrated. Due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and safety reasons, many preferred to celebrate the festival at their homes. Be it Mango, Ghorabandha in Telco, Baridih, or Sakchi several devotees made rooftop tanks or made temporary tubs with knee-deep water at their gardens and courtyard of their homes for performing the Chhath rituals. The traditional Chhath songs reverberated different localities and roads leading to various river ghats as women devotees followed men with the dalia (bamboo basket) perched on their heads. The offerings included 'thekua' (balls made of rice powder), sugarcane, radish, sprouted gram, kidney bean, turmeric, coconut, orange, sweet lime, banana, sugarcane and other fruits. The Surya Mandir in Sidhgora also witnessed a good turnout of devotees who had come to offer arghya at the two artificial reservoirs. Every year the temple committee organizes a musical concert in the evening. But, this year the musical event did not take place due to the pandemic. “This year was different because of the Covid-19 pandemic. We had taken all safety precautions and appealed to devotees to follow the safety norms. Chhath festival at the Surya Mandir has become one of the major attractions of late,” said a member of the Surya Mandir Committee. The cleaning of ghats was done by Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) and Jusco. Jusco also provided adequate lighting, barricading of the road leading up to the ghats, preparations of roads leading to all ghats, shamiyana and sitting arrangement for government officials, public address system for announcements and changing rooms for chhath vratis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-231
20-11-2020||Jharkhand||Drone surveillance at 5 Ranchi ponds on Chhath days||Five Chhath ghats of the state capital have been put under aerial surveillance using drone cameras for the key two key days of puja starting with Friday evening’s arghya, according to the district administration. Deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said drones were being used at Dhurwa Dam, Kanke Dam, Bada Talab, Chadri Talab and Buton Talab. “Besides law and order maintenance, the idea is to also keep a constant tab and intervene when there is over-crowding. All magistrates and officials on Chhath duty have been tasked to ensure that all Covid safety protocols are followed,” he said. The five water bodies, located in different parts of the city, are the ones that draw maximum crowds every year. Overall, Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) has notified 76 ghats for Chhath. While the state government has allowed puja at public water bodies after initially banning it in the wake of Covid-19, authorities in the district administration are worried about maintenance of social distancing and other safety measures. “Chhath puja this year is being held amid immense challenge. Although we have alerted all Chhath puja samitis, briefed officials about crowd control and law and order management, enforcing Covid safety protocols will be difficult. We hope and expect the public to be responsible,” remarked another official, adding that over 1,000 officials, including policemen and sector and area magistrates, have been deployed across the city.  The traffic police have notified a ban on entry of heavy vehicles in the city from 8 am to 10 pm on Friday and 2 am to 10 am on Saturday. As per the notification issued on Thursday night, heavy vehicles bound for Hazaribagh from Pisko More will have to take a diversion from Kathithand, Kathal More and take Ring Road. Similarly, vehicles from Hazaribagh will have to take the same route to reach Piska More for heading towards Gumla and Daltonganj. Vehicles from Jamshedpur will have to take a diversion from Durga Soren Chowk in Namkum to reach Tatisilwai and Dipatoli army camp via Khelgaon to go to Hazaribagh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-231
20-11-2020||Jharkhand||Seventh edition of Samvaad ends on a high note||Samvaad, a one-of-its-kind pan-India tribal conclave organized by Tata Steel Foundation, concluded on Thursday evening, ushering in an online format that brought together tribal communities from across the world. More than 3,000 people belonging to 114 tribes from 23 states, 5 union territories, and 17 countries including Sri Lanka, South Africa, Nepal, Kenya, Philippines, Thailand, and Tanzania among others participated in this year's annual conclave. The Samvaad Fellowship was bagged by six participants for various tribal projects including the initiatives to conserve the tribal culture and heritage. On the last day, a musical evening by Samvaad’s musical collection – Rhythms of the Earth – took the viewers into a melodious journey. On the occasion, two compositions created in collaboration with the folk-rock band – Atript – were also released. The first song, Ekta – The Power, highlighted the strength that the tribal communities derive from their unity, while the second song, Ansuni Kahaniyan, spoke of those unheard stories of courage from the tribal lands that the world is yet to listen to. Musical band Salem, known for their Adhunik Nagpuri songs, also performed on the occasion. During the five-day conclave that kicked off on November 15, experts and tribal leaders came together to recognize how traditional models of governance have worked during challenging times, to explore innovative ways of governance to bring communities together and to understand sync between parallel governance systems in resolving the crisis. Screenings were held at 23 locations across 8 states. These screenings were especially facilitated in rural tribal hamlets to ensure that more people got an opportunity to join the conclave. “We set out in this quest to ensure that the dialogue continues despite the pressing times and also wanted that the people of Jamshedpur who look forward to the conclave do not miss out this year. We were finally able to continue the dialogue and experts and tribal leaders from very far-off places joined us. We would like to extend our heartfelt gratitude to everyone who has helped us in making this a success,” said Sourav Roy, chief (Corporate Social Responsibility), Tata Steel. The many offshoots of Samvaad such as tribal handicrafts, tribal film screenings, tribal cuisine, and the cultural performances from various tribes that contribute significantly to the essence of Samvaad brought the traditional practices and rich heritage to the common masses through its YouTube channel. Art enthusiasts got a chance to attend masterclasses on Oraon, Sohrai, Saura, Gond, Warli, and Rajwar Bhittichitra art forms that were hosted by eminent tribal artisans. Each day concluded with cultural performances from celebrated tribal artists. As a part of the film screenings, Samuday ke Saath, Ashok Veilou’s ‘Look A The Sky’, Chentai Khiamniungan’s ‘Strength in Diversity’, and ‘Johar’ by Abhijit Patro were screened. The Samvaad ecosystem has brought together more than 30,000 people from 117 tribes across 27 states and 18 countries in the last six years and is also an event that the people of Jamshedpur keenly look forward to every year. Samvaad encourages tribal communities to take the lead in initiating a discourse on issues that govern their social sustenance and development.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-231
20-11-2020||Jharkhand||Unseasonal rainfall in several districts across Jharkhand||Rain brought by an ‘anti-cyclonic’ circulation over the state resulted in unseasonal showers in several districts from Thursday morning till Friday morning. Weathermen said the circulation coupled with a trough stretched from Bihar to southeast Madhya Pradesh resulted in an adverse weather condition in the state. “The anti-cyclonic circulation caused by convergence of westerly and north-westerly wind resulted in heavy moisture incursion into the lower levels of the atmosphere, bringing rain. The condition also resulted in an abrupt rise in minimum temperatures,” said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre. Met statistics revealed that while Ranchi recorded 1.8mm rain, Jamshedpur received 8.6mm. Kharsawan and Latehar topped the rain chart with 20 mm of rain recorded in each of the places. Daltonganj, the Palamu headquarters recorded 6.2 mm of rain while Bokaro and Dhanbad recorded around 4 mm of rain. Light showers were also reported from West Singhbhum, Koderma, Khunti and Giridih. Weathermen said light rain due to the impact of the circulation is likely to take place in isolated pockets till midnight, especially in southern and central Jharkhand. The adverse weather resulted in a rise in minimum readings in most districts across the state. Ranchi, on Friday, recorded a minimum reading of 18.5 degrees Celsius, five notches above normal while the minimum temperature in Jamshedpur rose to as high as 20.2 degrees Celsius, five points above normal. The minimum reading was also five notches above normal at Daltonganj, the headquarters of Palamu which recorded 19.1 degrees Celsius on Friday. Even as the minimum temperatures rose, maximum temperatures in several districts fell due to cloud cover. A duty officer at the Regional Meteorological Centre at Alipore in Calcutta said that the anti-cyclonic circulation was prevailing about a kilometer above sea level. He added that the condition would persist for another 24 hours. In its long-range forecast, the Patna Met Centre predicted that the weather condition would improve only after 24 hours. “The minimum reading is expected to witness a fall of 2-3 degree Celsius from December 21, bringing back the chill,” said a weather analyst.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-231
20-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad rail division enforces measures to avoid passenger rush||Dhanbad Railway Division has enforced special measures on around 140 stations and halts of the division to avoid the congestion of passengers on platforms during Chhath and also post Chhath during the return of a large number of passengers from Bihar to their respective places in Jharkhand. Special measures have been taken to ensure a safe and comfortable passenger movement. Instructions have been given by the Divisional Railway Manager of Dhanbad, Ashish Bansal through an advisory to all concerned railway officers of division and respective stations to avoid simultaneous parking of two trains side by side on adjoining platforms to evade heavy rush on the platforms during disembarking on passengers from trains. “If exit gate at the station is getting congested respective control should not hesitate in even holding a train outside for a few minutes till the congestion is reduced,” reads the advisory. The advisory further instructs the railway officials of the concerned station to make arrangements for an adequate number of wheelchairs in workable condition for the senior citizens. In order to make a special arrangement at stations, Central divisional control officials have been instructed to issue period alert notices for the days when an extra rush is anticipated. Apart from this, the station staff dealing with the passengers have been asked to inform the divisional control officials in case they find any extra rush during stations and platforms. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Friday, Senior Divisional Commercial manager of Dhanbad, Avinash Kumar Pandey said, “We have already enforced all the measures as per the advisory since yesterday and specific care will be taken to avoid the simultaneous arrival of two such trains each carrying a large number of passengers.” “Though the advisory was meant for November 19 to 21, we may extend it further as per the ground situation as passengers may arrive in large numbers from different parts of Bihar after performing Chhath,” informed Pandey. Notably, a heavy rush of passengers is expected on different prominent railway stations of the divisions including Dhanbad, Gomoh, Koderma, Barkakana, etc. during the return journey of passengers post Chhath from November 21 to 24. Divulging more details, Avinash Karosia, in charge of Railway Protection Force post at Dhanbad said, “Indeed, handling of such large number of passengers during their return journey will be a challenge and we will ensure deployment of extra personnel on station and stranding of passengers at the platform will be strictly avoided. We will ensure the speedy departure of passengers from the platform and station.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-231
20-11-2020||Jharkhand||State anticipates surge in Jharkhand Covid cases post-Chhath||Anticipating a possible second surge of coronavirus infections in Jharkhand post the Chhath festival, the state health department has asked all the 24 districts to be adequately equipped with the availability of beds in its dedicated covid hospitals and care centres along with sufficient stocking of medicines and testing kits for early detection and cure. State health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni has shot letters to all the deputy commissioners asking them to be prepared for a possible resurgence citing directives from the chief secretary Sukhdev Singh. The letter, made available to The Telegraph Online on Friday by the health department, mentioned that festivals and winter season coupled with multiple unlocks have already led to a resurgence of infection in some of the states and union territories in the country. Jharkhand too must now be ready for the second surge, noted Kulkarni asking deputy commissioners and civil surgeons to review the covid preparedness in their districts, availability of medicines for next two months and send details of the required assistance from the state government at the earliest to address the shortcomings. The letter read, “Ensure availability of isolation beds and oxygen supported beds in the districts as per the earlier issued protocols. Analyse the requirement of covid related medicines available with the district for the next two months and in case any shortfall or extra requirement, convey the same at the earliest.” The letter also mandated districts to keep excess beds on standby which can be operationalised within 24 hours. “Ensure sufficient ICU capacity as per the protocols and keep sufficient availability of PPEs, gloves, N-95 masks and testing kits for sample collections,” noted the letter, asking civil surgeons to ensure completion of all civil works and modifications of the hospitals/health centres regarding the Covid-19 case that is in progress, by the first week of December. The health department has also called for revisiting the established standards for contact tracing protocols to be done within the 72 hours of each positive case for early curb of the spread of the virus and mandated all the districts to ensure the proper functioning of post covid cares and counselling centres to keep chances of reinfection under control. While Durga puja which passed off in October not leading to any surge in covid-19 cases in Jharkhand, the state is yet to face consequences of Diwali which was on November 14. However, since the last two days, Ranchi has witnessed a spike in the cases as new infections reported more than the daily recoveries in the capital even though the overall cumulative of the caseload in the state continues to be on a downward trend. However, after the state government’s u-turn over its Chhath guidelines by allowing devotees access public water bodies for performing puja (arghyas) following protests by political and social outfits, the health department is wary about the upcoming situation fearing spurt in the cases. “We can’t rule out a second surge in the state after Chhath after weeks of a lull because of several emerging factors,” Kulkarni commented. Chief Minister Hemant Soren too sounded concerned over the situation after the Chhath due to excessive movement of people between Jharkhand and Bihar for the festival, appealing public to perform Chhath at homes as much as possible. Soren’s party—Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) on the other hand had warned opposition BJP to own up the responsibility in case of crisis accusing the saffron camp of playing ‘cheap politics’ by raking up religious sentiments over Chhath guidelines ignoring the threats posed by the pandemic. JMM’s general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee said, “BJP incited religious sentiments by orchestrating protests in the state to mislead public over state government’s earlier Chhath guidelines banning the use of water bodies despite Soren government issuing the guidelines in accordance with the norms set by the Union government. BJP must be held accountable if the covid situation goes out of hands now.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-231
20-11-2020||Jharkhand||Congress showcauses Furkan over his remarks on Rahul Gandhi||Jharkhand Pradesh Congress Committee (JPCC) has issued a showcause notice to former Godda MP and a senior Muslim veteran of the party Furkan Ansari over his alleged comments against party’s central leaders on Monday and questioning the leadership and its style of functioning after party’s poor performance in the recently concluded Bihar assembly polls. Congress, which fought on 70 seats as part of grand alliance in Bihar, had managed to win only 14 seats, emerging as the weakest link for RJD’s Tejaswhi Yadav led coalition, making way for BJP-JDU alliance to form government after the high decibel elections. Following the verdict, voices of dissent emerged from Congress camp nationally with many veterans including former union minister Kapil Sibal raising questions over the party leadership. Speaking to reporters in Bokaro on Monday, Ansari had grossly blamed former AICC president Rahul Gandhi for the loss and advised him to change his advisers. “All his advisers are MBA graduates who can’t understand real political situation on the ground,” he said. He also took a dig at party’s Jharkhand in-charge RPN Singh for his political acumen stating that if he had been at the helm, he wouldn’t have even considered Singh for the post of a block president. Ansari also came down heavily on Ajoy Kumar, former state Congress president, who rejoined the party in Delhi before the Bihar polls and was tasked to look after the electioneering in Bihar. Rajesh Thakur, one of JPCC’s co-working president, confirmed the showcause. “On the directions of state party president Rameshwar Oraon, another co-working president Keshav Mahto Kamlesh on served him the showcause notice on Thursday asking to reply within seven days,” said Thakur. Rameshwar is currently in a city hospital recuperating from covid-19. Ansari’s son, Irfan is currently an MLA from Jamtara and also happens to be one of the five co-working presidents in JPCC. Both father and son had been at loggerheads with the state and central units since 2019 Lok Sabha polls after JPCC then led by Ajoy Kumar gave Godda parliamentary seat, considered as stronghold of the Ansaris, to now defunct JVM-P as part of the grand alliance in Jharkhand. BJP-AJSU-P combined ended up winning from Godda and 11 other seats out of the total 14 parliamentary seats in Jharkhand while JMM-Congress-RJD-JVM-P alliance won on the two. The loss led to exist of Ajoy, who later joined AAP ahead of Delhi assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-231
20-11-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi sees spike in Covid cases, 66 patients test positive in a day||The trajectory of active cases of Covid-19 infection saw an upward trend in Ranchi for the second consecutive day as only 32 patients recovered from the infection in the state capital against 66 fresh cases reported on Thursday, figures compiled by the state health department highlighted. While the number of active cases of the viral infection jumped to 960 from 926 on Wednesday, the count of active cases reduced in almost all the other districts in Jharkhand, including East Singhbhum, Dhanbad and Bokaro, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. As per government data, as many as 230 fresh cases of Covid-19 infection surfaced in Jharkhand on Thursday, while 264 patients recovered, bringing down the total active cases in the state to 2,600. Godda and Dumka did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection on the day, while none of the districts saw a three-digit-spike in the Covid caseload. Bokaro reported 35 cases against 55 recoveries, while East Singhbhum reported 33 fresh cases against 51 recoveries. At least 17 people were found infected in Dhanbad and 34 recovered there. Meanwhile, the Covid-19 toll rose to 937 after three more patients died during treatment in 24 hours, the NHM bulletin revealed. Bokaro, Dhanbad and East Singhbhum reported one Covid casualty each on the day, taking the toll in East Singhbhum alone to 349 – the highest among all districts in Jharkhand. The government on Thursday tested swab samples of 18,543 people and more than 1 per cent of them were found infected. While the government claims to have intensified Covid testing in the state, around 16,000 swab samples were still pending for lab test on Thursday, the NHM bulletin showed. So far, health workers in Jharkhand have collected swab samples of around 38.82 lakh people and tested 38.66 lakh of them. Of the over 38 lakh people tested so far, as many as 1,06.972 were found to be Covid positive. At least 1,03,435 of Covid patients have recovered from the infection, taking the recovery rate in Jharkhand up at 96.69 per cent against the national average of 93.60 per cent. As per government data, the growth rate of Covid-19 in Jharkhand was 0.16 per cent against the national average of 0.37 per cent. The doubling rate of the viral infection in the state was 433 days against the national average of 186.90 days. The mortality rate in Jharkhand was 0.87 per cent against the national Covid-19 mortality rate of 1.50 per cent, the NHM bulletin stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-231
20-11-2020||Jharkhand||2 Jharkhand institutes ink research pact||Two prestigious institutes from different fields located in Jharkhand have joined hands for collaborative research. The 94-year-old Indian School of Mines, Dhanbad, now known as IIT-ISM, Dhanbad, and the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Deoghar, that started functioning in 2019, have signed a memorandum of understanding for the purpose. “We signed an MoU earlier this month for working together in research and development in certain fields,” said IIT-ISM director Rajiv Shekhar. “Both the institutes will work for research and development in the field of drug design, medical instrumentation and alternative materials such as bone substitute,” he said. Drug design or an innovative process for finding new medications often involves computer modelling techniques. Also known as computer-aided drug design, it provides a scope for medical and engineering institutes to work together. Medical instrumentation, on the other hand, is used for diagnosis, treatment and prevention of diseases in humans with the application of knowledge and technologies. The other fields the two institutes plan to work together are alternative materials for devices and implants. “We are likely to work on alternative materials used as bone substitute,” the IIT-ISM director said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-231
20-11-2020||Jharkhand||Free martial arts training for Jamshedpur women||Mahila Vikas Manch (Kolhan), a women’s rights outfit, has decided to provide free self-defence training in the form of martial arts to women in Jamshedpur in the wake of rising instances of sexual assault and stalking. “We had been receiving complaints from girls and also women going to office about being stalked. There have been instances of molestation on lonely stretches of roads, too. Recently, there has been a spurt in chain snatching in city areas. After a lot of deliberation, we decided to hold discussions with a Jamshedpur-based outfit giving training in karate and form a special weeklong module on basic self-defence techniques for women to thwart such attacks. It would be completely free of cost. Participants will have to fill up a registration form costing Rs 10. They will get a certificate after completing the training,” said Nishat Khatoon, president of the Mahila Vikas Manch’s Kolhan unit. According to data released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) in September this year, the country on an average recorded 87 rape cases daily in 2019 and overall 4,05,861 cases of crime against women during the year, a rise of over 7 per cent from 2018. In Jharkhand, between January and October, there have been nearly 180 rape cases. Mahila Vikas Manch, which been raising women’s rights issues in the region for over a decade, will take the help of Jamshedpur-based Jharkhand Martial Art Training Centre instructors Sunil Kumar Prasad and Shilpi Das (both black belts). “We decided to have a tie-up with Jharkhand Martial Art Training Centre as they have been organising similar training camps for women in the past and has a module ready. Based on their suggestion, we will be organising a weeklong camp beginning from November 27 (till December 4) for two hours (between 2.30pm and 4.30pm) daily,” Khatoon said. There is no limitation on the number of participants as the training sessions would be organised near the sprawling area close to Sir Dorabji Tata Park and near Sacred Heart Convent in Bistupur. “We decided to begin with Jamshedpur, and based on the feedback, hold similar camps in the mining belt of Chaibasa and forest areas of Chakradharpur and small-scale industrial areas of Adityapur and Gamharia in neighbouring Seraikela-Kharsawan district. Our units in Ranchi and Dhanbad will hold similar camps soon,” Khatoon added. Mitali Choudhary, a homemaker from Jamshedpur, welcomed the idea. “The state police had last month released a WhatsApp number for each district. There is also the emergency number 100. But in the spur of the moment, one finds it difficult to call the emergency numbers, especially in cases of chain snatching and groping, which happen all of a sudden. In such situations, self-defence techniques are a must. I will be registering for the camp,” the middle-aged homemaker said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-231
