21-11-2020||Calcutta||Career tips and skill show||St Augustine’s Day School Barrackpore and Shyamnagar recently organised a two-day e-career fair, in association with The Telegraph Young Metro. Around 25 guest speakers and 15 colleges came together to guide Augustinians in Augusto e-Career Fair 2020. “Our career fair is for Class VIII upwards to enhance awareness of the possibilities and opportunities out there and how to understand themselves better to choose the right subject combinations that lead to the career of their dreams,” said St Augustine’s Education Society president Janet Gasper Chowdhury. Stalwarts from various fields such as journalism, banking, entertainment, civil services and information technology spoke about their journey to the top. Journalist Monideepa Banerjie, career specialist Amrita Dass, Mrinal Desai from Silicon Valley, California, Malavika Banerjee of the sports management company, GamePlan, and ex-police commissioner of Mumbai D. Sivanandhan were among the guest speakers. “After the pandemic, we have seen that technology has become integral to our existence. So, students would know how to combine liberal arts and technology and have a high-yielding career,” said A.D. Gomes, the principal, St Augustine’s Day School Shyamnagar. Jhuma Biswas, principal, St Augustine’s Day School Barrackpore, said: “It is important to organise such career fairs, so that students can make informed choices about their careers instead of just opting for things which they are not much sure about.” Technology met empathy and released a whole lot of creativity at ExeBit 2020, the annual inter-school IT fest organised by Lakshmipat Singhania Academy recently. The fest went virtual this year with students from around 28 schools showcasing their tech skills, including film-making, mixing music and even designing games, apps and Gifs within a deadline. The students were divided into two categories — classes VI-VIII and classes IX-XII. The opening ceremony was streamed live on social media. Chief guest and a cyber security consultant Rakshit Tandon spoke about ethical hacking and the need to create good digital footprints. “Please protect your digital identity and practise information-distancing along with social distancing in times of coronavirus,” he told the audience. School director Meena Kak said: “The students need to build on their resilience quotient along with intelligence quotient and emotional quotient during these disturbing times.” Krishnagar Public School, Nadia, has tied up with the local cable operator to show subject enrichment content on television for students of classes X and XII since September. This enterprise would involve subject-related videos that would help underprivileged children from the rural areas get access to education. The teachers of the school are directly involved in this initiative. The institution was one of the first schools in Nadia to start online education, that is, from the end of March. They started it with the students of classes X and XII and eventually all the students of the school were brought under the ambit of virtual teaching. The school will also address the overall mental health and wellness issues in both students as well as parents. They have introduced co-scholastic activity sessions to help them use their time in a meaningful way. “Even a small contribution can go a long way in helping the community at large. We wanted to bridge the digital divide, which has cropped up as a major concern in these tough times, hence we are taking every measure to the best of our ability so that no child is deprived of either education or values. Efforts to serve the parents are also taken up, so that they too do not feel the heat of the pandemic much,” said principal Sankar Prasad Dutta. Julien Day School, Ganganagar, organised a host of online events to keep the students in high spirits during this pandemic. The school undertook the initiative to ensure the physical and mental well-being of the students. Apart from just concentrating on academics and following online classes, the school also focused on honing the creative skills of the students. The school held online events on music, cooking, magic, debate, elocution and fashion. Class XI student Sreejib Pal, who took part in the online debate competition, said: “Taking part in such an event gave me immense happiness and an escape from the panic created by the pandemic.” “It’s an initiative to take school home with online classes, workshops, and competitions. This has motivated the students to hone their talents and regain confidence in them,” said principal Bobby Baxter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-231
21-11-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta's landmark edifices illuminate in blue||Some of the city's landmark edifices were illuminated in blue on Friday to show support for child rights and to raise awareness about the impact of the Covid pandemic on children’s lives. The #Goblue campaign is an initiative of the Unicef, in association with governments across the globe, to mark World Children's Day on Friday as a global day “of action for children, by children”. The day marks the adoption of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child on November 20, 1989. The Howrah bridge, Nehru Children’s Museum, Birla Industrial & Technological Museum and the office of the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights are some of the buildings that went blue on Friday. The illumination in blue will remain on Saturday, too. “This day holds significance as we reinforce our commitment to children’s rights and reimagine a world where children are heard and can lead. Today, in the midst of the pandemic, we need to collectively work around issues affecting children to ensure a sustainable future for every child,” said Mohammad Mohiuddin, the chief of the Unicef field office for Bengal. “We would like to extend acknowledgement to various government departments that came forward to support the #GoBlue campaign in which iconic structures, landmarks  and public buildings across Calcutta will join in the global campaign in solidarity for child rights and the impact of Covid-19 and climate change on their lives.” The Covid pandemic raging across the globe has made it necessary for everyone — adults and children alike — to wear masks. But being masked does not mean one should be muted. “Children will be masked but not muted. Children have a right to learn and go to school and they have a right to lead and participate in forums where their issues are being addressed and decisions taken. That is what we are working on in the state, India and globally,” said Suchorita Bardhan, communication specialist 1, Communication Advocacy Partnerships, at the Unicef office in Bengal. “Children’s voices need to be heard both in the school and the community,” she said. The pandemic has forced children to stay indoors and it has detached them from school as well. While students in urban areas have access to online education, many of those in remote areas are deprived of that as well because of circumstances and financial challenges. Bardhan said the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, signed by nations across the world, brought together all initiatives of child rights on one platform. “The blue colour came to be used successively and has come to become synonymous with child rights and  hence the #GoBlue campaign,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-231
21-11-2020||Calcutta||Schools shut, trains see low passenger count||Closed schools and colleges and the absence of casual travellers are the main reasons behind the low passenger count on local trains, rail officials said on Friday. Suburban train services resumed in the state on November 11. Also, government holidays for festivities have led to a lower count on trains and at stations, the officials said. The Sealdah division saw close to 632,000 passengers on Thursday and around 660,000 on Wednesday, roughly a fourth of its average daily passenger count before the pandemic, an official said. The Howrah division saw close to 460,000 passengers on Wednesday, less than half its usual daily count before the pandemic. The Telegraph has been doing the rounds of Sealdah and Howrah stations for the past few days. During rush hour, every now and then, a packed train arrives at one of the stations. Trains and stations are emptier otherwise than what they used to before the pandemic. In rail parlance, rush hour means 8am to 11am and 5pm to 8pm. “The seating capacity of a local train is 1,200. Even during rush hour, the average passenger count on a train is between 1,800 and 2,000,” an official in the Sealdah division said. “The average count throughout the day is around 1,150.” The number was 3,000-4,000 on a train before the pandemic, he said. Schools and colleges are shut; which means absence of students and their guardians on local trains. Thousands of students from the suburbs and many from rural areas used to get off trains at Sealdah and Howrah to go to their colleges. Streams of students walking down towards College Square from Sealdah were a recurrent sight every morning. Lake Gardens, Ballygunge, Dum Dum and some other stations used to see a sizeable student crowd. Guardians used to often accompany their schoolchildren on trains. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said towards the end of July that the government might reopen schools and colleges on alternate days in September “if the situation improved in August”. The plan had to be scrapped as the Covid situation continued to remain grim. In the first week of November, Mamata said that schools would remain closed at least till the first week of December and a decision on reopening them would be taken after that. Colleges are likely to resume from December, government officials have said. Casual travel has taken a back seat for fear of the virus. The trend suggests only those who have to go out are the ones travelling on local trains. October-November is the festive season and government offices are closed on several days. In this week, for example, only Wednesday was a working day. Most private offices are following the work-from-home model. The result — the number of office-goers on local trains is lower than usual. Rail officials expect the crowd to go up once the festive season is over. The additional load of students will have an impact once schools and colleges reopen, especially during the morning and evening rush hour. The Sealdah division has been running around 550 trains every day and Howrah around 360. But in both divisions, rush hour trains are nearing their pre-pandemic capacity. That will be tested once the crowd count goes up in the coming days, a rail official said. A festive special train from Howrah to Jammu Tawi, which was scheduled to leave Howrah on Saturday, has been cancelled because of the ongoing farmers’ agitation in Punjab, a railway official said on Friday. The train was supposed to depart at 11.55pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-231
21-11-2020||Calcutta||Assaulted over parking, says Xavier’s teacher||A St Xavier’s College teacher has alleged that acquaintances of his neighbour thrashed him, his wife and two children after an argument over parking of vehicles in their New Town cooperative housing society. Ankur Roy, the head of the chemistry department at St Xavier’s College, lodged a complaint with New Town police station on the night of November 17 against a teacher of a Barrackpore college. Roy alleged that relatives of the teacher were involved in the attack on him and his family earlier in the evening. An officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said police had started investigating the matter. “We are trying to get the CCTV footage… we will speak to the neighbours,” the officer said. Another officer said Roy and the other teacher had been embroiled in arguments over parking their vehicles for the past few years. “There is an ongoing case at the Barasat court over their parking dispute. We are investigating from every angle,” the officer said. In his complaint, Roy has said that he returned home with his wife, son and daughter after a medical check-up and parked his car at “the usual spot in the parking lot of his AL Block flat”. After parking the vehicle as his wife and children began walking towards the lift, at least five men attacked them with iron pipes, he has said in the complaint. “I heard my wife and children scream... as I went towards the lift lobby the men attacked me,” Roy said. “The blows left my wife with a broken arm; I, too, received multiple injuries.” The men fled as neighbours came to their rescue. Roy’s neighbours took him to the Salt Lake Sub-divisional Hospital where he was given first aid, after which he and his family went to a private hospital off the Bypass.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-231
21-11-2020||Calcutta||Week-long course in Covid care||Bengal’s health department has sought a list of junior doctors and young nurses from the superintendents of hospitals in districts close to Calcutta who can be trained in handling Covid-19 patients in high dependency units (HDUs). Since most of these hospitals lack nurses and doctors trained in critical care, the government has decided to run a week's course so that a pool of trained personnel is ready by the time HDUs are opened in some of these hospitals. A team of senior doctors and nurses is conducting the crash course across medical colleges  and other hospitals in Calcutta, including MR Bangur Hospital in Tollygunge and SSKM Hospital. “Doctors and nurses are being trained. Soon after they complete training, they will be sent to hospitals where high dependency units will be opened,” a health department official said. “While there is a dip in the number of Covid patients with moderate symptoms opting for hospitalisation, an increasing number of patients with the coronavirus disease are turning up at hospitals in a critical state. It is of utmost importance that we have a pool of trained health-care workers for critical care and high dependency units, especially in suburbs,” said a member of the team of experts set up by the health department to suggest Covid management policies. Officials said nurses and junior doctors were being trained in hemodynamic monitoring, putting patients on mechanical and non-invasive ventilator, airway management and infection control. Hemodynamic monitoring, doctors said, refers to measurement of pressure, flow and oxygenation of blood in the cardiovascular system. There are different types of hemodynamic monitoring, including invasive and non-invasive. In case of Covid patients who are critically ill, hemodynamic monitoring is a vital exercise that requires adequate knowledge and training, experts said. “Sasthya Bhavan (the headquarters of the state health department) has sought a list of energetic nurses who need not be very experienced but are ready to take the challenge of attending to patients in HDUs,” said a senior official of the health department in North 24-Parganas. “A similar list of doctors has been sought, too.” With critical care beds filling up fast in all Covid hospitals, including medical colleges, the state government has decided to create more facilities closer home, especially in suburbs. The health department has drawn up a plan to open a 40-bed high dependency unit at Balaram Seva Mandir State General Hospital in Khardah, in North 24-Parganas and around 19km from the heart of Calcutta, by next week. This will be followed by a 40-bed high dependency unit at Naihati State General Hospital and a 30-bed unit at Ashoknagar State General Hospital, both in North 24-Parganas. Health department officials said each batch would comprise around eight-10 nurses and seven doctors. The number of training sessions are scheduled to go up with more participants being pooled in from other districts close to Calcutta. Officials said those who have undergone training would be regularly monitored for their performance at the HDU units. “Setting up an HDU involves capital investment. We would like to understand if the facility that has been created is being fully utilised,” an official said. "The participants are being told not to worry. In case they have any question while on duty, they can always contact a group of experts who will be ready to answer their questions," another official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-232
21-11-2020||Calcutta||Sigh of relief – Sarobars saved||Calcuttans from all walks of life expressed happiness and relief that Chhath Puja rituals were not allowed at Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar on Friday. Subhas Dutta, environmentalist whose petition led to the Sarobar ban The real devotees, who strictly follow the rules of Chhath Puja, never violate any government rules. The real trouble is caused by organised trouble-mongers. I am happy because today we have been able to save the city’s lungs…. Strong lights and firecrackers that burst on the occasion disturb the beautiful migratory birds that start arriving at the lake from October. Anuj Sharma, Calcutta police commissioner Calcutta police have taken all necessary steps to comply with the instructions issued by the government and the learned courts. It is good to see that the citizens are conscious of the need to be cautious during the Covid period and did not come out in large numbers during the festive season. I would again iterate the necessity of wearing a mask, sanitising hands and maintaining social distance. Stay safe. Stay healthy. Abin Chaudhuri, architect and morning walker at Rabindra Sarobar It is great that people have understood the value of the environment and obeyed the government's and the courts' orders. I would like to see the same level of compliance in the next 10 to 15 years and on other environmental issues as well. I think collective pressure, media’s role, government’s actions, super-active courts, which have been enforcing rules during the pandemic to make sure that what had happened last year did not recur, culminated in what we saw today. Parthib Basu, professor of zoology, Calcutta University I am happy that the government complied with the NGT’s order. But the government was goaded into action by courts. I would want the government to take actions to protect the environment on its own. Safeguarding the environment is as much the responsibility of the state as the judiciary. Article 48A of the Directive Principles of our Constitution says that it is the state’s responsibility to protect the environment. I also wish that a general consciousness to protect and preserve nature develops among the people. Sumita Banerjee, environment activist and Rabindra Sarobar regular I have been working for years for this cause. It was such a relief to see the police execute the order today. There was a court order in the last two years, too, but there was no political will to execute it. This year, I was shocked to see that the CMDA had filed a review petition to allow devotees celebrate Chhath Puja here. But much to my relief, the court rejected the plea. I always had faith in police - if they are given a free hand, they will be able to execute it just the way they organised Durga Puja and a noiseless Diwali this year. Naba Dutta, environmentalist What happened today is another proof of what we have been saying all these years. If the government and administration have the will, they can execute an NGT order just the way they did today. From my survey along the areas near the Lakes, I have always felt that the majority of the Bihari samaj has understood and accepted the court order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-232
21-11-2020||Calcutta||Call for fresh IISER probe||A couple of former and present students at IISER Kolkata have termed the investigation that led to the suspension of two research scholars “kangaroo court-like proceedings”. The scholars had questioned the institute’s handling of Covid tests on its campus in Kalyani. In their petition to institute director Sourav Pal, the students have said such proceedings raised concerns about the well-being of students and the atmosphere on the campus. They have said they want the matter reinvestigated because how can “asking pertinent questions about the institute’s handling of Covid-19 testing facilities on the campus lead to the suspension” of the two research scholars. The two scholars — one pursuing PhD and the other MSc-PhD (integrated) — were suspended on November 13 after they wanted to know from the authorities why members of the canteen staff were not asked to undergo Covid tests on the campus. The suspended scholars have been barred from entering the campus and denied fellowship for two months. “But their suspension notice or email communication that they have received does not mention the reason for suspension. Such kangaroo court-like proceedings within a premier academic institution raise certain concerns about the well-being of students and the atmosphere of the campus itself,” the students have said in their petition to director Pal. The petition has been signed by 106 students, former and present. A former student of IISER who is pursuing PhD in California Institute of Technology (Caltech) created an online forum urging students and research scholars to enlist themselves in the petition. The petition was submitted at director Pal’s office. Director Pal refused to say anything on the matter. One of the suspended scholars, a regular face in the protests against the new citizenship matrix within and outside the campus, said the “arbitrary punishment was an attempt to strike fear among students so that they don’t dare to question anything”. “The petitioners have correctly said that the shoddy investigation raised concern about the well-being of students and the atmosphere on the campus,” the scholar said. The events date back to October 19 when all students of the institute had received a mail from the students’ affairs council (food, health and hygiene) about Covid tests to be conducted on the campus the next day. On October 20, a canteen employee who had given samples for a Covid test at a facility outside the campus learnt that he had the disease. The same day, seven students, including the suspended two, met the professor supervising the on-campus tests and asked her why canteen employees had not been asked to undergo the tests and why many of the students who had volunteered for the tests had not been called for the tests. A committee was formed in the next few days and the committee pronounced the suspension of the two research scholars. The institute’s students have found support from IIT Kharagpur. The students’ association, Science Education Group (SEG), at the IIT issued a statement on Friday, condemning the punishment. “The suspended IISER-K students are facing harsh punishment for mere exertion of their right by asking legitimate questions. We feel that such kind of authoritarian action taken by the IISER-K administration will destroy the campus democracy and the possibility of healthy student-faculty relations on the campus,” the association statement read. “A COVID testing endeavour within the campus; that, too, at a time when infection had started spreading to campus staff, should have been utilised as a golden opportunity. While none of the canteen staff or the students who had volunteered… were asked to submit their samples, asking pertinent questions about the same led to the sudden suspension of two graduate students,” the students have said in the petition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-232
21-11-2020||Calcutta||US consulate launches course for NE women||A woman from Assam counsels those in need of mental health support and provides them with a “non-judgemental platform” to share their stories and challenges. A woman from Arunachal Pradesh produces organic kiwi wine. She has set up a facility in the Ziro valley to produce 60,000 litres of the wine in a year and she employs more than 25 people in the Ziro valley. A woman from Manipur has returned to her state after travelling to several countries to start a business of making herbal and fruit infusions from indigenous plants. On Friday, women entrepreneurs from five Northeastern states — who have been selected for a entrepreneurship training programme by the US Consulate Kolkata in association with Asian Confluence, a non-profit think tank based in Shillong — shared their business ideas. Celebrating the global entrepreneurship week 2020, the US Consulate and Asian Confluence on Friday launched the White House-led “Academy for Women Entrepreneurs (AWE)” project through an online event “Unlocking the North East — building resilience and entrepreneurship capacity in the face of Covid-19”. “The US believes strongly in women’s empowerment through entrepreneurship and stands firmly for women’s equality and inclusion in all public endeavours.... This year the Covid-19 pandemic has unleashed a complex... global crisis with long-term implications for public health, economic security, political stability and international relations,” the US Consulate’s acting consul general Monica Shie said at the launch. Marie Royce, assistant secretary of state, bureau of educational and cultural affairs, US department of state, said in a video message: “Your AWE cohort represents the highest number of applications” for an entrepreneurship programme in the Calcutta consulate district in the past decade. “On the business front the pandemic has led to disruptions in commerce, supply chains, transportation, cross-border travel and international trade, all resulting from necessary measures taken to control the pandemic. These are challenging times indeed but an opportunity for us to show the strength and depth of our bilateral relationship,” Shie said. “Keeping in mind women, in particular, face increased challenges during these times… we have stepped up our effort to support and mentor women entrepreneurs.” The 150 women have been selected from 253 applicants from the Northeast. Given the present economic slowdown, it is important to find ways to bounce back with effective policies, projects and initiatives, K. Moses Chalai, the secretary of the North Eastern Council, said. The two-year project’s maiden launch in the country brought together 150 women entrepreneurs and early-stage business owners from Nagaland, Meghalaya, Assam, Manipur, and Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-232
21-11-2020||Calcutta||‘BJP worker’ at Rabindra Sarobar gate ||About 20 youths, mostly from Lake Gardens, tried to approach a gate of Rabindra Sarobar on Friday morning to find out whether Chhath Puja would be allowed inside, despite a ban that the Supreme Court had upheld on Thursday. One of the youths in the group, Niraj Singh, said he was a BJP worker. He was angry that a custom of several years — performing Chhath rituals at Rabindra Sarobar — was stopped. Deepak Thakur, another person in the group who said he was not associated with any party, said they would approach the National Green Tribunal (NGT) with a submission that the rituals would not harm the water body and the surroundings if held in a restricted manner. The men, still hoping that the puja would be allowed at the lake, got involved in pushing and shoving with another group that was shouting slogans at the Sarobar. Police acted promptly and separated the two groups. “We were standing near gate number 4 of the Sarobar for a long time. We requested officers to allow us in but they declined. We had no intention to violate the court’s orders, we just wanted to check whether the puja could be performed inside the Sarobar,” said Singh. He admitted that what some devotees did last year -- enter the compound after breaking locks on gates -- was wrong. “We were not represented well before the NGT. The Bihari community is responsible for the ban on Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar. We did not hire a good lawyer,” he said. Bir Bahadur Singh, the president of the BJP’s Rashbehari Mandal III who had said on Thursday that “people want to go to the Lake (Rabindra Sarobar) to perform rituals”, said heavy police presence forced the devotees to go elsewhere. “The police made it clear that no one would be allowed inside the Sarobar, which is why the devotees went to other ghats,” he said. Singh said he did not go close to the Sarobar on Friday, but was in touch with the people who went. “Those who went were all from our area,” he said. The refrain among the worshippers who turned up near the Sarobar’s gate number 4 was that they would have to prepare for a legal battle. “If Chhath Puja is not allowed at Rabindra Sarobar, we will ensure that the clubs and other structures along the lake do not discharge their waste into the waters of the Sarobar. We will move court and the NGT with this appeal. We should not suffer alone,” Thakur said. A man arrested with a gun and bullets near Eco Park on Thursday night has said he wanted to kill one of his neighbours in Baranagar for raping his wife. On seeing a police patrol, he started running. Cops gave chase and caught him near the Akanksha crossing in New Town. The gun and bullets were found on him but he couldn’t produce an arms licence, police said. He told cops that he had bought the gun and the bullets from a man near the park and was headed home when he was picked up. “He said one of his neighbours had raped his wife and that he wanted to kill him. He did not lodge a police complaint as it would taint his wife’s reputation in the locality. We are verifying the claim,” an officer said. A search is on for the seller.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-232
21-11-2020||Calcutta||Sarada Math nun breathes her last||Pravrajika Vedantaprana (Sumitra), a senior sannyasini at Sri Sarada Math, Dakshineswar, passed away on Friday. She was 77. She had been admitted to Ramakrishna Mission Sevapratishthan Hospital, where she breathed her last at 10.50am. A disciple of Swami Vishuddhananda Maharaj, she had joined the order in 1966. She served at Sister Nivedita School, Vivekananda Vidyabhavan and the Ramakrishna Sarada Mission centre in New Delhi. Pravrajika Vedantaprana received brahmacharya in 1971 from Bharatiprana Mataji and sannyasa from Mokshaprana Mataji in 1978. In 1987, she became the first editor of the “Nibodhata” — the Bengali journal of Sri Sarada Math. The word “Nibodhata” means “learning about the self” and comes from a well-known verse of “Katha Upanishad”, which Swami Vivekananda used to often quote. Pravrajika Vedantaprana remained editor till her last breath. A talented writer, speaker and an editor, she served the Sangha to her utmost capacity, not only in the literary field but also as an adept pujari and a tantradharak. With her deep knowledge of Sanskrit and the shastras, she used to teach novices and brahmacharinis. She also sang devotional songs, played the tabla and several other musical instruments and was an expert in the culinary art.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-232
21-11-2020||Calcutta||Steps that saved lakes from damage||Multiple layers of barricades and three times the number of cops, compared with other days, in the compounds of Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar as well as outside kept Chhath devotees from violating the ban on the rituals at the two water bodies. Thousands of citizens offered their prayers but there was not a single case of violation reported till Friday evening, police sources said. In the last two years, the city had witnessed scenes of people breaking locks and crashing into Rabindra Sarobar to perform Chhath Puja despite the court order prohibiting them from doing so. Police had been outnumbered and silent, too. This year, the scene was the reverse. The telegraph reports on what the police did this year to encourage people to follow the court order without defiling any of the two lakes. Anyone trying to enter Subhas Sarobar on Friday would have to jump over nearly 5ft-high iron and bamboo barricades along the periphery of the lake. All roads and lanes leading to the lake were sealed. Cops were deployed outside each of the barricades. At Rabindra Sarobar, the gates were not just locked but guarded by four to five uniformed men and women to ensure no one tampered with the locks. The gates were further guarded by a layer of barricade. Around 200 men and women were posted on Chhath duty at the two lakes round the clock in shifts. “It has been a peaceful day till now. But we will remain equally alert at night as well to prevent any kind of mischief,” said an officer of Rabindra Sarobar police station on Friday evening. Chhath devotees traditionally reach the lake compound by afternoon and start offering their prayers at sunset. Those who come from a distance camp inside the lake at night and start their day offering their prayers to the Sun God. On Friday, only policemen on cycles and motorcycles were seen inside the lake. The civic bodies and the police had ensured that those who would not be allowed to pray at the lakes had an alternative place to offer their prayers. Small cemented knee-deep water reservoirs – lined with polythene - have been built to accommodate those who would not be allowed inside the lakes. “We had to think of both sides. Stopping someone from offering their prayers at a particular location without offering an alternative was not a good idea. This (building the reservoirs) helped us convince people (to not visit the lakes),” said a senior officer of Phoolbagan police station. The government agencies had made arrangements for illumination and announcement systems to guide the devotees at the alternative venues. A section of cops feels repeated meetings with citizens with the help of local councillors helped them execute the court order in its true spirit. Both Subhas Sarobar and Rabindra Sarobar are located close to neighbourhoods where a large number of Chhath worshippers live. Around 6,000 people live in the Kurigram, Ghore Bibi Lane, Motilal Basak Lane and Kadapara areas, near Subhas Sarobar, most of whom are Chhath worshippers. Near Rabindra Sarobar, too, a large number of worshippers live in the Panchanantala and railway colony areas. “Civic teams played a crucial role in persuading people to stay away from the two lakes and perform the rituals elsewhere,” said an officer in south Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-232
21-11-2020||Calcutta||Chhath devotees rise to occasion||Calcuttans showed on Friday that Chhath Puja could be celebrated without defiling Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar, as devotees who used to visit these two places performed the rituals at home or alternative sites this time. Barring a handful of people who had gone to the gates of Rabindra Sarobar on Friday morning, no Chhath Puja devotee turned up at either of the Sarobars. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) and Calcutta High Court had issued directives on Chhath Puja, which included a ban on the rituals at these two places. The state government took steps to ensure that the orders of the NGT and the high court were complied with. Police personnel were posted at most gates of the two lakes, especially the ones that are used more. A senior Calcutta police officer said 60 cops had been deployed around Subhas Sarobar and a little more than that around Rabindra Sarobar. The police had counselled Chhath worshippers at Kurigram slum, opposite Subhas Sarobar, to not visit the lake, said an officer of Phoolbagan police station. On Friday, none of them tried to come towards Subhas Sarobar. Subhas Datta, an environment activist whose petition against allowing football matches under floodlights at the Rabindra Sarobar stadium led to a series of developments and a ban on all pujas on the banks of the south Calcutta water body, said he was happy. “There are two major factors behind the success in implementing the NGT’s ban. The Supreme Court’s decision to uphold the ban imposed by NGT by not issuing an interim order to allow Chhath Puja at the Sarobar had a psychological impact on people. Worshippers realised that it would not be right to violate a ban upheld by the highest court of the country,” he said. “Secondly, the state administration showed its intent to implement the NGT’s ban, which was missing in previous years. This could be achieved after years of struggle. I am happy.” The Supreme Court on Thursday declined to interfere with the directives passed by Calcutta High Court and the NGT banning Chhath rituals at Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar and imposing restrictions on congregation of people for the festival. The bench of Justices U.U. Lalit, Vineet Saran and S. Ravindra Bhat declined to entertain appeals against the earlier directions and said they were well-reasoned and there was no need to modify the orders passed on those directions. The Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA), the custodian of the two Sarobars, had pleaded for an interim order to allow Chhath rituals at Rabindra Sarobar. The CMDA built bamboo barricades outside each of the gates of the two complexes. The bamboo barricades were not built last year. The narrow gap between two bamboo poles made it difficult for anyone to pass through and reach a gate. All the gates of both lakes were locked. Last year, a group of worshippers broke the locks on some gates of Rabindra Sarobar and entered the compound to perform the rituals, while the police looked the other way. Deepak Thakur, a devotee who went to Rabindra Sarobar in the morning to find out whether the rituals could be performed there, later took his family to a water body in Golf Green for the puja. Another devotee, a resident of Lake Gardens, said he had built a temporary pool on the terrace of their apartment for the rituals. Bir Bahadur Singh, a BJP leader in the Tollygunge-Rashbehari-Lake Gardens belt who claimed on Thursday that people wanted to perform the rituals at Rabindra Sarobar, said a large police presence was the reason why it did not happen. “The police made it clear that they would not allow anyone to go inside, which is why people went to other places. But they wanted to perform the rituals at the Sarobar,” he said on Friday. An official of the CMDA said the footfall at the temporary ghats they had built as alternative puja venues was more than double compared with last year. “Double the number of devotees visited ghats in Anandapur and at the Jodhpur Park lake than last year. There was a large turnout at the ghats built at a water body near Bengal Lamp in Jadavpur,” the official said. Metro visited the Jodhpur Park lake, where the CMDA had built five wooden platforms for devotees to perform the rituals. A life-saving boat was doing the rounds. Bio-toilets and changing rooms were set up. Sanja Jha, who performed the rituals at Rabindra Sarobar last year, was at the Jodhpur Park lake on Friday. He, however, complained that the water body was dirty. “It does not feel good to perform rituals in dirty water,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-232
21-11-2020||Business||Strong start by Gland  Pharma||Shares of Gland Pharma on Friday made a sizzling debut on the bourses, rising 23 per cent over its issue price during intra-day trade. Though the counter gave up some of its gains, it still ended strong with an over 7 per cent rise. On the BSE, the shares opened at Rs 1,701 apiece, a gain of over 13 per cent compared with the issue price of Rs 1,500. The stock touched an intra-day high of Rs 1,850 and ended the day at Rs 1,820.45 — a rise of 7.02 per cent over the opening price. Similar trends were witnessed on the NSE where the scrip listed at Rs 1,710 and touched an intra-day high of Rs 1,850. The opening price was 14 per cent higher than the issue price. It closed at Rs 1,828. Compared to the issue price, the scrip ended the day with a gain of more than 21 per cent on both the bourses. The price band for the initial public offer (IPO), which closed earlier this month, was fixed at Rs 1,490-1,500 per share. The company’s promoters are Fosun Singapore and Shanghai Fosun Pharma. Gland Pharma now has a market cap of Rs 29,724.82 crore, which places it among the top ten pharma stocks. The offer comprised issuance of fresh shares worth up to Rs 1,250 crore and an offer for sale (OFS) of up to 3,48,63,635 shares. OFS consisted of sale of up to 1,93,68,686 shares by Fosun Pharma Industrial Pte Ltd, 1,00,47,435 shares by Gland Celsus Bio Chemicals, 35,73,014 shares by Empower Discretionary Trust and 18,74,500 shares by Nilay Discretionary Trust. Ahead of the IPO, various brokerages had recommended investors to subscribe to the offering given its strong pipeline in the injectables segment. Gland Pharma had raised Rs 1,944 crore from anchor investors by selling shares at Rs 1,500 apiece. The government of Singapore, Nomura, Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, SBI Mutual Fund, Axis Mutual Fund, SBI Life Insurance Company and Fidelity were among the anchor investors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-228
21-11-2020||Business|| Delhi high court order reserved in Future retail deal||The Delhi high court on Friday reserved an order on an application by Future Retail seeking to prevent Amazon from interfering in the deal with Reliance following an interim order passed by the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC). Justice Mukta Gupta asked the parties to give written submissions, if any, by November 23. During the hearing, senior advocate Gopal Subramanium, representing Amazon, said under the SIAC rules, an emergency award is binding on the parties subject to a challenge. He argued that until the parties get it set aside, it is like an order of the court. Subramanium said all the defendants except Reliance were party to the arbitration. Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for FRL, said an arbitrator is one who is entitled to decide the dispute and an emergency arbitrator cannot act as an arbitrator.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-228
21-11-2020||Business||CCI clears Future Retail deal||The Competition Commission of India has approved Reliance’s Rs 24,713-crore offer to acquire Future Group’s retail assets. In a tweet on Friday, the regulator said it has approved the “acquisition of retail, wholesale, logistics & warehousing businesses of Future Group by Reliance Retail Ventures and Reliance Retail and Fashion Lifestyle Limited”. Deals beyond a certain threshold require the approval of the Competition Commission of India (CCI), which keeps a tab on unfair business practices . In August, Mukesh Ambani-led Reliance Industries had announced the acquisition to add to its fast-expanding retail business. The clearance of the deal by the CCI is a setback to US giant Amazon, which had argued that a 2019 agreement it inked with Future prevented the Indian group from selling its retail assets to certain parties, including Reliance. Recently, Amazon secured an injunction from an Emergency Arbitrator of the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) against the enforcement of Reliance-Future group deal. Amazon had requested the CCI and Sebi to consider the SIAC order and block the deal. The Singapore arbitrator had passed an interim award in favour of Amazon barring Future Retail and Future Coupons from taking any further steps on a board resolution of August 29, 2020 with respect to the transaction with Reliance Industries or its group entities. The Future Group entities have also been barred from filing or pursuing any application before any agency in India with respect to the said board resolution. However, Future Retail challenged the injunction of the arbitrator in the Delhi high court. According to the notice submitted to the CCI, there are at least seven target entities. They are Future Enterprises, Future Consumer, Future Lifestyle Fashions, Future Retail, Future Market Networks, Future Supply Chain Solutions and Future Bazaar India and its subsidiaries. “The transferor companies consist of several listed and unlisted companies, primarily engaged in retail, wholesale, logistics and warehousing businesses. These businesses operate on a pan-India basis, and include retail operations across segments such as food and grocery, apparel, footwear and accessories,” the notice said. Last year, Amazon bought a 49 per cent stake in one of Future Group’s unlisted firms, with the right to buy into the listed Future Retail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-228
21-11-2020||Business||KTM 250cc bike for Rs 2.5 lakh||KTM, a premium motorcycle brand, on Friday launched the KTM 250 Adventure — a 250-cc adventure motorcycle that follows its elder sibling the KTM 390 Adventure, which was launched a few months back. The KTM 250 will retail at Rs 2,48,256 (ex-showroom Delhi). The bike is powered by a 248cc four-valve single cylinder liquid cooled engine. It sports a six-speed gearbox. Since its entry into India in 2012, KTM has expanded its network to over 365 cities with 460 stores. KTM has a customer base of over 2.7 lakh bikers, making India the largest global market for KTM. Bajaj Auto owns 48 per cent of KTM AG, the division that deals with the manufacture and sale of KTM Motorcycles, with some motorcycles being produced in India through their association with Bajaj. Sumeet Narang, president (probiking) at Bajaj Auto, said: “The recent years have witnessed an increasing trend in adventure touring. Our Adventure range was conceptualised to address this trend.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-229
21-11-2020||Business||Toyota dealers cross 400 with the latest inauguration in Karnataka||Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) has inaugurated its 401st dealership in Bellary, Karnataka, thus taking its footprint to new markets in the country. The new dealership in Karnataka will provide sales, service and spare parts. In order to make the brand more accessible to consumers, the company has also launched its first regional stock yard in northeastern India. Besides, TKM has added more than 100 sales and service touch points over the last two years across all four zones. TKM recently expanded its service network with the launch of multiple PRO Service centres. These centres are dedicated service facilities that are equipped to service any Toyota car for all kinds of service. Naveen Soni, senior vice-president, TKM sales and service, said, “It gives us immense pleasure on surpassing the milestone of 400 outlets in the country.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-229
21-11-2020||Business||Chanda Kochhar gets arrest shield||The Supreme Court on Friday recorded an undertaking from the Enforcement Directorate (ED) that no coercive action would be taken without the prior consent of the court against former ICICI Bank CEO and MD Chanda Kochhar in connection with the ICICI Bank-Videocon money laundering case probe. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy recorded an undertaking to this effect from solicitor-general Tushar Mehta who appeared for the ED and assured the court that “…no coercive step would be taken against the petitioner”. The ED, therefore, is not going to effect Chanda Kochhar’s arrest at least without the top court’s prior permission. The bench after recording an undertaking posted the matter for further hearing to November 27. Chanda Kochhar has filed three separate petitions in the Supreme Court. The first petition relates to preventing any coercive action against her by ED. The second petition is an interim bail for her husband Deepak Kochhar and the third, her own termination from the post of ICICI chief executive officer. All these matters are expected to come up for hearing next week. The Supreme Court bench also recorded in its order  that the trial court in Mumbai would be uninfluenced by the proceedings with regard to the interim bail proceedings in the Supreme Court relating to Deepak Kochhar. The trial court will be taking up on Monday the bail proceedings of Deepak Kochhar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-229
21-11-2020||Business||SBI revises forecast for the second quarter||The research wing of State Bank of India on Friday said the economy was expected to contract 10.7 per cent in the second quarter of the fiscal against its earlier estimate of 12.5 per cent contraction. The revision comes at a time there are conflicting projections about the growth rate  from various institutions. While Moody’s Investor Service has projected a contraction of 10.6 per cent in FY21 GDP growth rate against its earlier estimate of a decline of 11.5 per cent, Barclays has projected the contraction at 6.4 per cent against its earlier estimate of 6 per cent. The GDP contraction estimates for the second quarter by various economists are in the range of 8-16 per cent, an overall improvement compared with a decline of 23.9 per cent in the first quarter. “The SBI business activity index shows continuous improvement and Q3 numbers could be even better. However, the extent of recovery can only be gauged after the actual Q2 numbers are published,” SBI said in its report Ecowrap. Sectors such as electricity, gas, water supply; financial, real estate and professional services; and public administration, defence and other services will reverse their negative growth of the first quarter  to positive growth in the second quarter. Agriculture will maintain a positive growth rate in the second quarter. The report also said corporate results have remained good and growth in corporate GVA of 3,640 listed entities is at 22.06 per cent year-on-year for the second quarter of FY21 Reform measures announced by the Narendra Modi government to deal with Cthe ovid-19 pandemic has the potential to push economic growth in the medium term, rating agency Fitch said. However, there are also downside pressures to growth and it will take time to assess whether the reforms are implemented effectively The rating agency said the pandemic will slow medium-term growth as damaged corporate balance sheets are expected to dampen investment for years. “Renewed asset-quality challenges in banks and fragile liquidity for non-bank financial companies could also constrain growth prospects,” it said in a release. For the current fiscal, Fitch Ratings has projected a 10.5 per cent contraction in the Indian economy. Raising medium-term growth rates under these circumstances will require reforms to support investment and boost productivity, Fitch said, adding it expects the government to remain generally reform-minded over the next few years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-229
21-11-2020||Business||L&T Finance invokes Essel shares||L&T Finance has invoked shares of three Essel Group companies — Zee Media Corporation, Zee Learn and Siti Network — and appropriated them against outstanding loans. L&T Finance invoked and appropriated 1.24 crore shares constituting 2.65 per cent stake of Zee Media Corporation on November 18. Around 96.02 lakh shares, constituting 2.94 per cent stake, of Zee Learn was also appropriated on the same day in November. Siti Networks’ 5.73 crore shares, constituting 6.58 per cent stake, were also taken over. Another L&T group company L&T Infrastructures Finance Company said it has acquired from the security trustee and had appropriated against loan outstandings 1.29 crore shares constituting 2.74 per cent stake of Zee Media Corporation on November 18. This was done through off market transfers. Zee Media Corporation (formerly Zee News) is a network with 10 news channels in six different languages. According to Bombay Stock Exchange data, in the quarter ended September 30, 2020, shareholding of promoter and promoter group firm in Zee Media Corporation stood at 25.85 per cent, of which a 99.65 per cent stake is pledged or encumbered. Meanwhile, Essel Group has sold its fledgeling cruise line brand Jalesh Cruises to Waterways Leisure for an undisclosed sum. Essel Group was running the business under Zen Cruises.                        .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-229
21-11-2020||Business||Corporate finance heads to re-imagine debt solution in realty ||Corporate India can shed long -term debt of $341 billion by monetising real estate, according to JLL, a real estate and investment management firm. An uncertain economic scenario has forced corporate finance heads to re-imagine real estate assets as sources of funds to reduce debt. The aggregate financials of approximately 2.45 lakh non-government, non-financial companies indicate that debt accounts for less than 50 per cent of their net worth. RBI data on economic financial position in 2018-19 reveals that the value of land stood at $52 billion and that of buildings at $89 billion. This total of $141 billion is 41 per cent of the outstanding long-term debt of $341 billion. One of the probable reasons for this situation is lower profits generated from the assets they had invested in. Samantak Das, chief economist and head of research & REIS India, JLL, said: “With the fall in economic activity, Covid-19 has impacted asset utilisation and profitability tremendously. “In the current circumstances, sale and lease-back of assets is likely to provide long term steady rental yield... monetisation of these assets could reduce substantial debt. Funds generated from the sale of these assets could be high enough to cover the entire debt.” However, one of the biggest challenges is the mindset of corporate houses, who feel that owning real estate is of utmost importance. In many cases, since land is allocated under various state industrial policies, the option of sale and leaseback is not even considered. However, in today’s uncertain economic environment, corporate finance heads are likely to look at options of using real estate as a source of liquidity. Investors may face challenges on account of ownership titles and valuation. Such deals could take longer to close because of documentation and taxation issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-229
21-11-2020||Business||Fuel prices jacked up after nearly  60 days||The prices of petrol and diesel were raised in Calcutta by 20 and 25 paise, respectively, as firming international oil prices broke a nearly two-month-long hiatus in price revision. In Calcutta, the price of petrol rose to Rs 82.79 a litre from Rs 82.59 per litre, while diesel rates stood at Rs 74.24 per litre against Rs 73.99 earlier. Petrol price in Delhi was hiked to Rs 81.23 per litre from Rs 81.06, according to a price notification from oil marketing companies. Diesel rates went up from Rs 70.46 to Rs 70.68 per litre. This is the first revision in petrol prices since September 22. Diesel rates hadn’t changed since October 2. Public sector oil marketing companies — Indian Oil Corporation, Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd — revise rates of petrol and diesel daily based on the benchmark international oil price and foreign exchange rate. They have, however, restored to calibrating the rates since the pandemic broke out with a view to avoiding volatility in retail prices. The 58-day hiatus in petrol price revision and 48-day status quo on diesel rates was preceded by no change in rates between June 30 and August 15 and a 52-day status quo between March 17 and June 6. In Mumbai, the petrol price on Friday was raised to Rs 87.92 per litre from Rs 87.74, while diesel rates went up from Rs 76.86 to Rs 77.11. In Chennai, petrol now costs Rs 84.31 and diesel Rs 76.17 per litre. Fuel demand posted its first annual increase in October  since February as a spurt in diesel demand ahead of the festival season pushed consumption to pre-Covid-19 levels. Demand for petroleum products rose 2.5 per cent in October to reach 17.77 million tonnes compared with 17.34 million tonnes a year back. While petrol had reached pre-Covid levels in September itself, diesel consumption returned to normal in October.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-229
21-11-2020||Business||RBI panel makes proposal: business barons may run banks||An internal working group of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has proposed the entry of corporate houses into banking and higher promoter stakes in the long run. It has also recommended that large non-banks with an asset size of Rs 50,000 crore, including those which are owned by a corporate house, be allowed to convert to banks. Some of its other recommendations include doubling the minimum initial capital requirement for new universal banks to Rs 1,000 crore  and small finance banks to Rs 300 crore from Rs 200 crore. The panel has also said the voting rights of any single non-promoter be limited to 15 per cent of the voting equity capital. The central bank should also continue with the present structure of a non-operative financial holding company (NOFHC) for all new licences issued to universal banks. The RBI had constituted the internal working group (IWG) in June, chaired by its central board director P. K. Mohanty. The panel in its report submitted on Friday made more than a dozen recommendations, but three are significant. The first one related to the entry of corporate houses into banking. The central bank had toyed with the idea in the past but stayed away from allowing any large industrial house to enter banking because of governance concerns and the risk of conflict of interest with the fear being that group firms or associate companies could stand to gain if an entity in the same group sets up a bank. The panel said large corporate or industrial houses be permitted to promote banks only after necessary amendments to the Banking Regulations Act, 1949 to deal with connected lending and exposures between the banks and other financial and non-financial group entities . It also called for strengthening of the supervisory mechanism for large conglomerates, including “consolidated supervision” which means that the RBI could supervise other entities in a group as well to ensure that banking norms are not violated. “Notwithstanding the merits of permitting large corporate/industrial houses to own banks, certain pre-requisites may be necessary before considering the same in view of valid concerns,” the panel said. According to the current rules for universal banks, minimum 40 per cent of the promoters holding is locked in for five years. Thereafter it has to be brought down to 30 per cent within 10 years and 15 per cent within 15 years. In 2016, the voting rights cap was raised by the RBI to 26 per cent. The panel said there is a need to harmonise the rules. It recommended that while the current rules relating to promoters’ shareholding in the bank being at least 40 per cent in the initial five years of operations of a new bank should stay, the cap on promoters’ stake in the long run (15 years) be raised from the current 15 per cent to 26 per cent of the paid-up voting equity share capital of the bank. The committee recommended that well-run large NBFCs with an asset size of Rs 50,000 crore and above, including those which are owned by a corporate house, may be permitted to convert to banks provided they have completed 10 years and meet due diligence criteria.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-229
21-11-2020||India||Delhi court grants bail to activist Gulfisha Fatima||A Delhi court on Saturday granted bail to student activist Gulfisha Fatima in a case related to communal violence in north east Delhi in February. Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat granted the relief to Fatima on furnishing a bail bond of Rs 30,000 with one surety of like amount in the case related to rioting in the Jafrabad area in which one Aaman died due to gunshot injuries. The court granted her bail on the ground of parity as co-accused JNU students and Pinjra Tod members Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal have already been granted relief in the case. "The co-accused Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal have been granted bail in this case and their role is stated to be similar to the present applicant/accused (Fatima). The witnesses for all of them are almost the same. "Considering the period of the custody of the applicant/accused in the present case, the ground of parity as regards co- accused Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal and in the totality of the facts and circumstances of the case, the present bail application of applicant/accused is allowed," the court said in its order. It further said there was nothing to suggest that the witnesses were under threat from Fatima. "In any case, two public witnesses are protected and their identity has been concealed. The rest are police personnel," it said. The court said co-accused Tafsil has been declared a Proclaimed Offender, but Fatima cannot be refused bail for his act and conduct, who will face consequences under the law. "The present stage is of bail and not acquittal or conviction. Nothing is shown to suggest that the applicant (Fatima) is a flight risk," it added. The court directed her not to tamper with evidence or leave the jurisdiction of NCT Delhi with its permission. It also asked her to attend the court on every date of the hearing or as directed. Noting the prosecutor's submission that she should be denied bail on the ground that she was an accused in a separate case related to the larger conspiracy in the riots, the judge said the case was being investigated separately and the court will "cross the bridge when we come to it". Fatima has been arrested under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in a separate case related to premeditated conspiracy in the riots. She is currently lodged in Tihar prison in the matter. During the hearing, advocate Mehmood Pracha, appearing for Fatima, said she was falsely and maliciously implicated in the present case without any evidence. Pracha further claimed that no role has been attributed to her except vague and unsubstantiated allegations which have no nexus with the alleged crime. Special Public Prosecutor Rajeev Krishan Sharma, appearing for the police, opposed the bail plea saying Fatima allegedly conspired and has been constantly instigating the local inhabitants since December 2019, under the garb of peaceful protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), National Register for Citizens (NRC) and National Population Register (NPR). He said some of the protected witnesses have allegedly said that Fatima and her associates of the Pinjra Tod group used code words to convey secret messages regarding further lines of their protests in front of common people. The public prosecutor alleged that she was physically present at the protest site at 66 Foota Road, under Jafrabad metro station, Delhi, from February 22, 2020, till late evening on February 24 and the roadblock there, which spiraled into a huge communal riot. Kalita was granted bail in the case by the Delhi High Court on September 1 and Narwal was granted relief by the trial court on September 17. Pinjra Tod (Break the Cage) was founded in 2015 to make hostels and paying guest accommodations less restrictive for women students. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiraled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-543
21-11-2020||India||Comedian Bharti Singh arrested by NCB in drugs case||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested comedian Bharti singh on Saturday after recovering cannabis from her residence at suburban Andheri, an official said. The search was conducted as part of the ongoing probe by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) into alleged drug use in the entertainment industry. A team led by NCB's zonal director Sameer Wankhede carried out a search at Bharti Singh's residence at Lokhandwala Complex in Andheri based on specific information, a release said. The team recovered 86.5 grams of marijuana during its probe, the release added. "Both Ms Bharti Singh and her husband Harsh Limbachiya accepted consumption of ganja. Bharti Singh was placed under arrest under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and examination of Mr Limbachiya is underway," it further said. According to an NCB official, the quantity of cannabis seized from Singh’s residence is considered a small amount under the act, but goes against the “commercial quantity”. Upto 1,000 grams of cannabis comes under the category of “small quantity” and attracts a fine of Rs 10,000 and/or a jail term of up to six months. Possession of commercial quantities -- 20 kg or more -- can attract upto 20 years in jail. For the quantity in between, the punishment can be as much as 10 years in jail. "Singh's name had cropped up during the interrogation of a drug peddler," he added. The agency had also carried out searches at two other locations in the metropolis, the official added. Bharti Singh has appeared in many comedy and reality shows on TV. She has also hosted a few such shows. The NCB has been probing the alleged drug use in Bollywood after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June on the basis of WhatsApp chats involving drugs. The central agency had earlier arrested Rajput's girlfriend, actress Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, some employees of the late film star and a few others under various sections of the NDPS Act. Rhea Chakraborty and some other accused are currently out on bail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-543
21-11-2020||India||Shah breaks protocol, walks on busy Chennai road to greet supporters||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday sprang a surprise in Chennai when he virtually broke protocol to get out of his vehicle and walk on the busy GST Road outside the airport to greet supporters, minutes after he landed here for a two-day visit of the city. Shah, who thanked the metropolis for its love, said it was "great" to be in Tamil Nadu. Shah is scheduled to attend a Tamil Nadu government event later in the day, where he will inaugurate and lay the foundation stone for projects worth over Rs 67,000 crore, including phase II of Chennai Metro Rail. Soon after he arrived from Delhi, Shah was received by Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami, his deputy O Panneerselvam, senior cabinet members and BJP State President L Murugan among others, before proceeding to a city hotel. However, after exiting the airport, Shah's car suddenly stopped and the BJP veteran got out started walking, waving at scores of BJP and AIADMK workers who had gathered to receive him with their respective party flags. Accompanied by BJP National General Secretary and party in-charge of poll-bound Tamil Nadu, CT Ravi, and Murugan, the Home Minister warmly waved at the overjoyed supporters who had thronged the airport since the morning. A heavy security cover has been provided in the city following Shah's visit, during which he will meet state BJP functionaries and possibly discuss Tamil Nadu elections, due next April-May, before leaving on Sunday morning. Meanwhile, Shah took to Twitter to thank the city for its love and support. "It is always great to be in Tamil Nadu. Thank you Chennai for this love and support," he said in a tweet accompanying a video clip of his walk on GST Road. Shah had earlier been here in August 2019 to release a book on Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu's two years in office then. In a sharp criticism of the DMK and its ally, the Congress, Shah said that the two parties must not talk about corruption, asking "under whose leadership did the 2G (spectrum allocation scam) happen." Dedicating a fifth reservoir for the supply of drinking water in Chennai and laying the foundation stone for multiple infrastructure projects in Tamil Nadu, Shah said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has started a war against dynasty politics, casteism and corruption in India. "Under his leadership when we fought state polls, dynasty parties had to face defeat,” Shah said in his address. “It is now the turn of a dynasty party in Tamil Nadu, which doesn't function on democratic values but only takes forward dynasty politics to lose elections,” he said in an apparent reference to the DMK. The party has often faced criticism for practising dynasty politics from several parties, including its arch rival AIADMK. "But I am sure such forces will come to an end in this election and democratic forces will progress," Shah said. "I am very surprised when friends from DMK and Congress speak of corruption. Under whose leadership did 2G happen, where corruption to the tune of lakhs of crores of rupees happened? What right have they got to speak about corruption? Before making charges of corruption, see what had happened in your family," the minister said. The Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu are scheduled in April-May 2021, where the AIADMK has declared its continued alliance with the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-543
21-11-2020||India||India summons Pakistan envoy over JeM attacks in J&K||India summoned the Charge d’Affaires of the Pakistan High Commission on Saturday and expressed strong protest with him over attempts by Pakistan-based terror outfit Jaish-e-Mohammed to execute attacks in Jammu and Kashmir ahead of the local body polls in the Union territory. The external ministry, while referring to the recent attacks at Nagrota, said that the huge number of arms, ammunition and explosive materials suggest extensive planning for the "major attack to destabilise the peace and security" in the UT and derail the ongoing democratic action to organise the local district development council polls. "Pakistan Cd'A was summoned by the Ministry of External Affairs, and a strong protest was lodged at the attempted attack, which was only prevented from happening by the alertness of the Indian security forces," the ministry said. In a statement, the MEA said India is "firmly and resolutely" committed to take required measures to safeguard the country’s national security in the battle against terrorism. "It was demanded that Pakistan desists from its policy of supporting terrorists and terror groups operating from its territory and dismantle the terror infrastructure operated by terrorist outfits to launch attacks in other countries," the statement read. Security forces nabbed and killed four suspected JeM terrorists who were hiding in a truck at Nagrota on Thursday morning. "A major terror attack was foiled by Indian security forces in Nagrota, Jammu and Kashmir on November 19. Initial reports indicate the attackers to be members of Pakistan based JeM, a terrorist organisation prescribed by the United Nations and several countries," the ministry said. The MEA said serious concerts were also expressed over continued terror attacks against India by JeM, adding that the terror organisation has been part of several attacks on the country including the February 2019 Pulwama attacks. The MEA said India reiterated its long standing demand that Pakistan fulfill its international obligations and bilateral commitments to not allow any territory under its control to be used for terrorism against India in any manner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-543
21-11-2020||India||Punjab farmers to lift ‘rail roko’ stir from Monday||Punjab farmers’ associations, who were protesting the three Central farm laws by setting up rail blockades across the state, announced on Saturday that they will allow passenger trains to pass from November 23. The decision to lift the blockade came following a meeting of Chief Minister Amrinder Singh with representatives from the outfits after he had invited them for talks at Chandigarh. "Punjab farmers to completely lift their rail blockade from Monday (November 23) to allow all goods and passenger trains, in response to impassioned appeal by the chief minister at a meeting with Kisan Unions," media advisor to the chief minister Raveen Thukral tweeted. The farmers’ associations met each other to deliberate the issue prior to holding talks with Singh. The organisation, which had resorted to the ‘rail roko’ movement over the newly enacted farm laws, had already agreed to allow freight services to operate in the states and clear the tracks and vacate the platforms. But the standstill continued to be in force as the farmers and the Railways did not seem to come to terms. The farmers’ outfits maintained that they will allow passenger train services in Punjab if the Centre resumes the freight trains. However, the Indian Railways had refused to operate just goods trains, saying it would either operate both or none. The Railways has demanded full guarantee from the state government that no service would be disrupted and both passenger and freight trains would be allowed to run peacefully.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-543
21-11-2020||India||Maharashtra mulls halting of Delhi trains, flights amid rising Covid  cases||The Maharashtra government is contemplating the suspension of flight and train operations from Delhi amid the surging cases of Covid-19 in the city, a senior official informed on Saturday. This is one of the several measures being considered by the state to curtail the spread of coronavirus in Maharashtra, he said. "Various measures are being discussed in order to curb the virus spread in the state, and suspension of train and flight operations to and from Delhi is one of them," said Principal Secretary Sanjay Kumar. "However, no decision has been taken so far on this," he added. According to sources, a recent meeting in Mumbai discussed the steps that could be taken to avert the spread of Covid-19 from people entering Maharashtra from states that are reporting a spike in the number of infections. The state’s Covid-19 caseload shot up to 17,68,695 on Friday with 5,640 new cases being reported during the day while the death toll stood at 46,511. On the other hand, Delhi recorded 6,608 new infections on Friday, taking the tally to over 5.17 lakh. The death toll went up to 8,159 with the addition of 118 more fatalities during the day. In a recent report, the National Centre for Disease Control had said that Delhi should prepare itself for about 15,000 new daily cases in view of the respiratory problems related to the upcoming winter season, festive gatherings and the huge influx of patients from outside states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-544
21-11-2020||India||NCB raids Bharti Singh's house, recovers cannabis||The NCB on Saturday conducted a search at the residence of comedian Bharti Singh and her husband Harsh here and recovered a small quantity of cannabis from the place, an official said. The search was conducted as part of the ongoing probe by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) into alleged drug use in the entertainment industry, he said. "A team led by NCB's zonal director Sameer Wankhede carried out a search at Bharti Singh's residence at Lokhandwala Complex in Andheri based on specific information. A small quantity of cannabis was recovered from her place," the official said, adding that Singh's name had cropped up during the interrogation of a drug peddler. The agency is also carrying out searches at two other locations in the metropolis, the official added. Bharti Singh has appeared in many comedy and reality shows on TV. She has also hosted a few such shows. The NCB has been probing the alleged drug use in Bollywood after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June on the basis of WhatsApp chats involving drugs. The central agency had earlier arrested Rajput's girlfriend, actress Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, some employees of the late film star and a few others under various sections of the NDPS Act. Rhea Chakraborty and some other accused are currently out on bail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-544
21-11-2020||India||J&K: Soldier killed, another injured as Pak violates ceasefire ||An Indian Army official was killed on Saturday in an unprovoked firing by Pakistan on villages and forward posts in two sectors along the International Border (IB) and the Line of Control (LoC), said representatives. The incident comes hardly a week after 11 people, including five security personnel, were killed in north Kashmir as a result of multiple ceasefire violations by Pakistan along the LoC on November 13. Havaldar Patil Sangram Shivaji, who was operating at a forward post, was gravely injured in the Pakistani firing in the Lam area of Rajouri district's Nowshera sector around 1 am, officials said. He later succumbed to the injuries, they added. Another soldier, who also suffered injuries, is currently admitted to a military hospital where he is undergoing treatment, the officials said. In a Twitter post, the general officer commanding (GOC) of the Jammu-based White Knight Corps and every other rank saluted the havaldar and offered their condolences to his family. A defence spokesman said in a statement that Havaldar Shivaji, a native of Nigave village of Kolhapur in Maharashtra, was a sincere, brave and highly motivated soldier. "The nation will always remain indebted to him for his supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty," he said. Pakistani Rangers also took to unprovoked firing along the IB in Hiranagar sector of Kathua district, said officials. “The firing on Satpal, Manyari, Ladwal and Karol Krishna border outpost areas started around 10 pm on Friday, prompting strong and effective retaliation by the Border Security Force”, the officials said. “Cross-border skirmishes continued till 5.25 am on Saturday, and there was no report of any casualty or damage on the Indian side”, they added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-544
21-11-2020||India||Mukesh Ambani urges country to not let its Covid guard down||Reliance Industries Chairman and Managing Director Mukesh Ambani on Saturday said India has entered a crucial phase in its fight against coronavirus and cannot afford to let the guard down at this juncture. He said the bold reforms undertaken by the government will lead to a swift recovery and rapid progress in the years to come. The remarks come amid a growing number of COVID-19 cases in certain pockets of the country, which has led authorities to re-introduce restrictions on movements like in the case of Ahmedabad and also mull restricting travel to cities like the national capital. "India has entered a crucial phase in the fight against COVID-19 pandemic. We cannot afford to let our guard down at this juncture," Ambani, who is also the president of the Pandit Deendayal Petroleum University (PDPU), said at the institute's eighth convocation. He added that India is an ancient land which has faced many adversities in the past and has emerged much stronger each time because resilience is deep-rooted in the people and the culture. Ambani, who addressed the gathering virtually, said he sees "explosive and exponential growth" in the post-COVID era and asked the graduating students to venture out with hope and confidence without being anxious. Growth will create unprecedented opportunities and in the next two decades, India will be among the top three economies of the world, he said. Ambani, whose company is heavily invested in the oil business and runs one of the largest refineries in the world, said the challenge facing the world currently is whether we can produce energy to sustain our economies without harming the environment. By the middle of the century, the world will use twice as much energy as we do today and India's per-capita energy needs will be more than twice in the next two decades, he said. India needs to simultaneously pursue twin goals of becoming an economic superpower and to become a clean and green energy superpower, Ambani added. "We need disruptive solutions in renewables, low carbon and carbon recycling technologies to achieve this goal. We need breakthroughs in new energy sources such as green and blue hydrogen. We also need great innovations in energy storage, saving and utilisation," he said. Over 2,600 students, including 284 pupils from 39 countries, graduated at the ceremony.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-544
21-11-2020||India||Marginal improvement in Delhi's air quality, stays in 'poor' category||Delhi's air quality recorded a marginal improvement on Saturday morning due to favourable wind speed but remained in the "poor" category. Government agencies said the air quality index (AQI) was likely to improve to the "moderate" category later in the day. The city's AQI was 263 at 9 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 296 on Friday. It was 283 on Thursday and 211 on Wednesday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". The central government's Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said the air quality in Delhi-NCR was likely to improve further to the "moderate" category on Saturday. The predominant surface wind direction is northwesterly, and the maximum wind speed was 20 kmph on Saturday, it said. The central agency said the AQI is likely to deteriorate to the upper end of the "very poor" category between Tuesday and Friday as "unfavourable meteorological conditions" are predicted during that period. Around 800 farm fire counts were observed over Punjab, adjoining Pakistan and Haryana on Friday, it said. According to the Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR, stubble burning accounted for 15 per cent of Delhi's PM2.5 pollution on Friday. The figure was 20 per cent on Thursday, 8 per cent on Wednesday and 3 per cent on Tuesday. SAFAR also said "energetic" surface winds were likely to influence the AQI positively on Saturday. The minimum temperature settled at 8.5 degrees Celsius on Saturday. It was 7.5 degrees Celsius on Friday the lowest in the month of November in 14 years, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion. Delhi's ventilation index -- a product of mixing depth and average wind speed was around 13,000 square metre per second on Saturday and is likely to be 6,000 square metres per second on Sunday. Mixing depth is the vertical height in which pollutants are suspended in the air. It reduces on cold days with calm wind speed. A ventilation index lower than 6,000 square metres per second, with an average wind speed less than 10 kmph, is unfavourable for dispersal of pollutants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-544
21-11-2020||India||India's Covid tally closing in on the 91 lakh mark||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 90.50 lakh, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to over 84.78 lakh pushing the national recovery rate to 93.67 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data on Saturday. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 90,50,597 with 46,232 infections being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 1,32,726 with 564 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of active cases remained below five lakh for the eleventh consecutive day. There are 4,39,747 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country as on date, which comprises 4.86 per cent of the total caseload, as per the data. The total recoveries have surged to 84,78,124 pushing the national recovery rate to 93.67 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.47 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29. According to ICMR, over 13.06 crore samples have been tested till November 20 with 10,66,022 samples being tested on Friday. The 564 new fatalities included 155 from Maharashtra, 118 from Delhi, 50 from West Bengal, 28 from Kerala, 25 from Haryana and 20 from Uttar Pradesh. The total 1,32,726 deaths reported so far in the country includes 46,511 from Maharashtra, 11,621 from Karnataka, 11,568 from Tamil Nadu, 8,159 from Delhi, 7,923 from Bengal, 7,500 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,920 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,572 from Punjab and 3,837 from Gujarat. The health ministry said more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-544
21-11-2020||India||Labour draft ignores database provision for migrants||A new labour law’s provision for a database of inter-state migrant workers has been ignored in the rules drafted to implement it, prompting questions about the government’s commitment towards some of the worst sufferers of the lockdown. While the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, passed by Parliament in September, endorses the existing upper limit of eight hours’ work a day, the draft rules have controversially increased the possible spread-over time from the current 10-and-a-half hours to 12 hours. The government has sought comments from the public over the next 45 days before the rules are finalised. Section 21 of the Code says: “The central government and the state governments shall maintain the database or record, for inter-state migrant workers, electronically or otherwise in such portal... provided an inter-state migrant worker may register himself as an inter-state migrant worker on such portal on the basis of self-declaration and Aadhaar.” But the draft rules unveiled by the labour ministry on Thursday mention no such database. A 1979 law that is among 13 labour laws that the Code seeks to subsume had made it mandatory for labour contractors to register with the labour department all the migrant workers they take outside their state. But the state labour departments never implemented the Inter State Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Services) Act, 1979 — and the consequences of the neglect were seen after the lockdown began from March 25 this year. The lockdown left migrant workers stranded without jobs, money or transport, with most of the labour contractors having fled without paying them their dues and virtually all modes of travel suspended. After near-starvation for days or weeks, millions of the workers chose to walk the hundreds of kilometres to their homes, many dying on the way. Some others bicycled, or hitched rides on trucks and buses paying exorbitant rates. When special trains began running, some of them were able to beat the rush and buy tickets. Independent researchers have counted the deaths of 972 migrant workers from lockdown-related causes. One reason the Centre and the state governments failed to do more for the stranded migrants was that they had no data on how many of them were living and working in which state, and at exactly which worksite. Had the 1979 law been implemented, the governments would have had this data on the workers as well as on the labour contractors who had hired them. The first version of the Code, introduced in Parliament last year, was silent on the registration of migrant workers. The government inserted the provision for the database after facing criticism. Labour economist K. Shyam Sundar, professor of human resource management at XLRI, Xavier School of Management, Jamshedpur, said the database was unlikely to be created without the rules covering the provision. He said the government seemed to have introduced the database provision as “a crisis-tackling measure”, to ward off criticism. “The rules do not specify how this can be implemented,” Sundar said. The draft rules provide for a journey allowance for employees who have worked for 180 days in the last 12 months. It’s a once-a-year payment by the employer covering the worker’s travel home and back, and is expected to benefit migrant workers the most. Sundar, however, said this provision could force a worker to stick to the original employer and forgo new opportunities. The draft rules mandate annual medical check-ups for workers aged 45 or above. Sundar said this would exclude a sizeable proportion of workers. Former labour welfare commissioner G.P. Bhatia said that young factory employees engaged in hazardous work were likelier to develop health problems. Medical check-ups should be provided to all the workers, he said. The draft rules mandate safety committees and safety officers at establishments employing more than 500 workers in non-hazardous work, and at those employing over 250 workers in hazardous work. All factories engaged in hazardous processes now need to have safety officers. The new provision too would exempt most production units from having to appoint safety committees or safety officers. Work hours The increased spread-over time of 12 hours, compared with the 10-and-a-half hours mandated in the Factories Act, 1948, has sparked controversy. Bhatia supported the measure, arguing that workers in the eastern and southern states would benefit from four hours of rest during the hot afternoons. Sundar, however, said factories might misuse the provision and force workers to work longer hours without overtime pay. Workers who don’t live near their factory will have to spend the entire four-hour recess at the workplace, which would make them vulnerable to pressure to do extra work, he said. And 12 hours at the factory plus the travel time to and from home will severely restrict their family time and social lives. “The employers will be incentivised to keep the workers on the worksite for the entire period. But one doesn’t know what the workers will be expected to do during the extra (period),” Sundar said. “If the employers keep the workers (at the site) for the full 12 hours, and if we include travel time which in the metros would easily be another 60 minutes, then the workers’ work-life balance will be adversely affected.” The draft rules say that no worker shall work more than five hours before having had a break of at least half an hour, a PTI report said. The working hours in a day can be modified subject to the weekly cap of 48 hours, a flexibility provided also by the Factory Act. According to the draft rules, while calculating overtime on any day, any period between 15 and 30 minutes will be counted as 30 minutes, PTI said. At present, any period of less than 30 minutes does not count as overtime, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-544
21-11-2020||India||UP govt says journalist in custody belongs to Popular Front of India||The Uttar Pradesh government told the Supreme Court on Friday that Siddique Kappan, in custody for over 45 days after being arrested on his way to Hathras where a Dalit girl was brutalised and murdered, had been travelling under the “cover” of a journalist and held a post in the Popular Front of India (PFI). The PFI, which describes itself as a socio-political movement that seeks to empower Muslims and other marginalised sections, is accused of indulging in violence but it has not been banned. The Narendra Modi government has been considering a ban since its first term. In the absence of a ban, which has been sought by some BJP-led state governments, the PFI remains a legitimate organisation. Kappan’s wife Raihanath Kappan said he had no links with the PFI. For arguments’ sake, even if he had, “will they go and arrest journalists who have links with the RSS or the BJP?” Raihanath told The Telegraph over the phone from Kerala on Friday evening. The Supreme Court on Friday recorded the Uttar Pradesh government’s undertaking that Kappan would be allowed access to his lawyer and its denial of the charge that he had not been allowed to do so till now. Kappan has been booked for sedition and under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act and is lodged in a Mathura jail. The Uttar Pradesh government accused Kappan, 41, of showing an identity card issued purportedly by a now-defunct Kerala-based newspaper called Thejas. The editor of azhimukham.com told this newspaper that Kappan had informed the Malayalam news portal he was travelling to Hathras to file a report for it. K.N. Ashok, the editor of azhimukham.com, said Siddique had joined the portal as a Delhi-based retainer in January this year. The portal had submitted an affidavit along with the habeas corpus petition filed before the Supreme Court a day after the arrest. “The purpose of the affidavit was to prove his credentials as a journalist who wrote for us,” said Ashok. The Supreme Court is hearing a habeas corpus petition filed by the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ), of which Kappan is the Delhi unit secretary, alleging he was being illegally detained and denied legal and family access. On Friday, when the matter came up before the bench of Chief Justice S.A. Bobde and Justice A.S. Bopanna, the court noted that though the Uttar Pradesh government had claimed to have filed an affidavit on Kappan, it had not received any such document. The court asked the registry to verify the claim so that the KUWJ, represented by senior advocate Kapil Sibal, could file a counter-affidavit. “List the matter after one week. Shri Tushar Mehta, learned solicitor-general appearing on behalf of the respondents, states that he has filed a counter-affidavit. We find there is no such affidavit on record. Mr Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner, states that he has also not been served the copy of the counter-affidavit,” the bench said. “The registry is directed to verify the same. If such affidavit is on record, as prayed for, the petitioner is allowed to file rejoinder affidavit in the meanwhile. Shri Tushar Mehta… further states that the advocate can meet the accused in the jail where he is lodged to take instructions and the signature in the vakalatnama. This statement is recorded and it is ordered accordingly.” The Uttar Pradesh government claimed that none from Kappan’s family had come to meet him despite the family being informed several times. According to the government, family members had spoken to Kappan only over mobile phones. “The person in custody, namely Siddique Kappan, is the office secretary of the Popular Front of India (PFI) using a journalist cover by showing the identity card of a Kerala-based newspaper named ‘Tejas’ which was closed in 2018. It is revealed during investigation that he along with other PFI activists and their student wing (Campus Front of India) leaders were going to Hathras under the garb of journalism with a very determined design to create a caste divide and disturb the law-and-order situation (and) were found carrying incriminating material,” the Uttar Pradesh government said in an affidavit. Sources said on Friday that the affidavit was filed on Thursday and it was possible that it had not moved through the official channel and reached the judges during the hearing. “When he was brought by the STF to Delhi, he misled the police by giving a wrong residential address…. He did not assist in the investigation and gave misleading details. His flat mate who is also a member of the PFI and its various wings denied access. Finally, armed with search warrants, when the premises were searched by the police, further incriminating material has been recovered, all of which is the subject matter of investigation.” In Kerala, Kappan’s wife questioned the logic of describing her husband as a member of the PFI. “I have been saying from the beginning that he has absolutely no links with the PFI or any such organisation. He is just a journalist trying hard to take care of his family,”Raihanath said. “But the point that I want to make is regarding the rationale of arresting a man and accusing him of being a member of the PFI. For argument’s sake, let’s say he is from the PFI. First, it is not a banned organisation. Second, will they go and arrest journalists who have links with the RSS or the BJP?” Raihanath asked. “I’m sure the logic that applies to my husband will not apply to journalists who are part of the RSS, BJP and such other organisations.” The Supreme Court on Friday orally expressed anguish about “inaccurate reporting” in the media about the last hearing despite the court directing the Uttar Pradesh government to file an affidavit. “There was unfair reporting about this matter when it was adjourned on the previous occasion,” the CJI remarked. However, the bench did not elaborate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-544
21-11-2020||India||Survey on profiles of Bangladesh border residents||Central security agencies have been conducting an analysis of the demographic and economic profiles of populations along the Bangladesh border, especially pockets with sizeable concentrations of Muslims in Bengal, sources in the Union home ministry said. An Intelligence Bureau official described it as a routine exercise, dismissing questions whether the survey might trigger fears of religious profiling ahead of the Bengal Assembly elections next year. “Such analysis is done routinely to keep a close watch on the presence of radical elements in border towns,” he said. Asked, Union home ministry spokesperson Nitin Wakankar declined comment on the purported survey along the Bangladesh border. Another home ministry official, however, said such a survey was bound to send a wrong signal to the minority community because of the prevalence of a sharp anti-Muslim narrative and could trigger apprehensions of being systematically spied on and investigated. “If such surveys are so essential, they should be conducted in Hindu-dominated pockets too,” the official said, requesting anonymity. Another official wondered if the analysis was politically motivated, citing the upcoming elections in Bengal. Union home minister Amit Shah has set the BJP a target of winning over 200 of Bengal’s 294 Assembly seats. The BJP had been accused of fomenting religious polarisation during its campaign in Bengal for last year’s Lok Sabha elections. It had focused on issues such as the NRC, infiltration from Bangladesh and Mamata Banerjee’s perceived appeasement politics. “These issues had paid dividends for the BJP, which bagged an unprecedented 18 seats in the Lok Sabha elections. All these are again going to be among the main issues during the party’s Assembly poll campaign. I hope the latest survey based on religious profiling is not part of a bigger strategy of polarisation along religious lines,” said a retired Intelligence Bureau director. In 2018, the Border Security Force had triggered a controversy by preparing a report highlighting an unexpected increase in the Muslim population living along the India-Pakistan border areas of Jaisalmer in Rajasthan. The report, prepared by the BSF's intelligence wing and sent to the Union home ministry, had expressed concern about an increase in places of Islamic worship. The report had pointed to the presence of some radical elements suspected to be luring locals into passing on information related to military movements in the region. The BSF is also the border-guarding force along the India-Bangladesh frontier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-544
21-11-2020||India||Congress signals resolve to fight laws against ‘love jihad’||The Congress has signalled a resolve to fight BJP-ruled states’ plan to enact laws against “love jihad”, with Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot saying any curbs on citizens’ freedom to choose their life partners would be unconstitutional and would not stand in a court of law. Gehlot accused the BJP of propounding the scurrilous theory of “love jihad” — which portrays Hindu women who marry Muslim men as victims of a larger conspiracy to convert and radicalise them — “to divide the nation & disturb communal harmony”. “Marriage is a matter of personal liberty, bringing a law to curb it is completely unconstitutional and it will not stand in any court of law,” he tweeted. “Jihad has no place in love. They are creating an environment in the nation where consenting adults would be at the mercy of state power. Marriage is a personal decision & they are putting curbs on it, which is like snatching away personal liberty. “It seems a ploy to disrupt communal harmony, fuel social conflict and disregard constitutional provisions like the state not discriminating against citizens on any ground.” Senior ministers in Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana have spoken of criminalising “love jihad” through legislation although junior Union home minister G. Kishan Reddy told Parliament in February that “love jihad” was not defined in law and the central agencies had reported no such instances. While the emotive issues that the BJP so effectively deploys to further its majoritarian politics have often found the Congress on the defensive, the “love jihad” legislation controversy appears to have set the stage for a political and legal battle. Soon after Gehlot’s comments, T.S. Singh Deo, a senior minister in Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh, tweeted: “Love jihad an exhaustingly bigoted term coined by BJP carried forward through the media propagandists has now reached levels of severity. The hatred and intolerance has crept so deeply that they are now brazenly planning laws against consensual interfaith marriages.” He added: “A marriage is a personal and domestic matter, affecting chiefly the two parties concerned and partly their families — Pandit (Jawaharlal) Nehru had the most practical analysis for the sacred institution, which is now being compartmentalised with bigotry and hatred towards certain sect. “Marriage is and has always been a personal choice for consenting adults — socially and constitutionally. Try all they can to attack the sovereignty of India, we shall stand strong to uphold the integrity of our Constitution and this great nation.” Congress sources confirmed that Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh too would oppose the BJP-ruled states’ plan to restrict inter-faith marriages. Article 21 of the Constitution allows every citizen to marry according to their choice. The Hindu Marriage Act and the Special Marriage Act too allow consenting adults to marry across castes and religions. In a recent case from Kerala that had attracted national spotlight, the Supreme Court had ruled: “The right to marry a person of one’s choice is integral to Article 21 (which defines right to life and personal liberty) of the Constitution.” The apex court had set aside a Kerala High Court order that had annulled the marriage of Hadiya, a Hindu woman who had converted to Islam and married a Muslim man, on a complaint from her father. Justice D.Y. Chandrachud had said: “The choice of a partner whether within or outside marriage lies within the exclusive domain of each individual. Intimacies of marriage lie within a core zone of privacy, which is inviolable. The absolute right of an individual to choose a life partner is not in the least affected by matters of faith. “The Constitution guarantees to each individual the right to freely practise, profess and propagate religion. Choices of faith and belief as indeed choices in matters of marriage lie within an area where individual autonomy is supreme…. Neither the state nor the law can dictate a choice of partners or limit the free ability of every person to decide on these matters. They form the essence of personal liberty under the Constitution.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-544
21-11-2020||India||Day after stick, burst of CAA detainee graffiti||Let a hundred flowers bloom, Mao Zedong had exhorted the Chinese in the 1950s, only to crack down when a hundred schools of thought did sprout. Let not a single mural of Akhil Gogoi be painted without permission, declared Assam police on Thursday, only to wake up to a burst of public art on the peasant organisation leader. Gogoi has been in jail since December 12 last year when protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) were raging. Graffiti, posters and slogans demanding the release of the Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS) leader surfaced in several parts of BJP-ruled Assam on Friday. The Satra Mukti Sangram Samiti (SMSS), student wing of the KMSS, had given a call on Thursday night for a protest through public art after one of its members and four artists were detained by the police in Guwahati for painting without permission wall graffiti demanding Gogoi’s release. The detainees were made to paint over the mural following their release after four hours. On Friday, graffiti, slogans, posters and banners were painted or put up on government properties, including walls and bridges, demanding “justice” for Gogoi. One picture had Gogoi asking from behind bars: “Why are you afraid of releasing me?” One case after another has been slapped on Gogoi to keep him behind bars even as he kept obtaining bail. Both the KMSS and the SMSS espouse the cause of Assam and see the CAA as a threat to their identity and culture. “The call has evoked a good response. Nobody took permission today. Thursday’s was an attack on freedom of expression. How long can you keep us shut?” SMSS assistant general secretary Pranjal Kalita told The Telegraph on Friday evening. Sitanath Lahkar, an educationist, said the movement had sparked two things. “One, protest against Thursday’s action trying to trample on the freedom of expression and, second, the demand for Akhil’s release. Akhil’s detention is not justified as far as public opinion is concerned,” Lahkar said. Dewan Dhrubajyoti Maral, convener of the state BJP media department, said there was no bar on the democratic expression of protest with permission. “If somebody wants to draw or paint on government property, they need to have permission. It is an issue of law. Moreover, the person (Gogoi) is in jail,” Maral said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-545
21-11-2020||India||Kerala HC refuses to change judge in actress assault case||Kerala High Court on Friday dismissed petitions seeking a change of trial court judge in a case related to the kidnap and sexual assault of an actress allegedly masterminded by superstar Dileep. The actress and the prosecution had filed separate applications in the high court citing lack of confidence in the woman judge presiding over the trial court since she had remained a “mute spectator” when defence lawyers repeatedly asked uncomfortable questions about the sexual assault the actress had to endure. A singe-judge bench of Justice V.G. Arun also lifted a stay on the trial and ordered its resumption from Monday. In dismissing the petitions, the court ruled that there was “no sustainable ground to allow the prayer for transfer”. The high court had on November 2 stayed the trial that was underway in the court of additional sessions judge Honey M. Varghese after the actress and the prosecution sought a change of court. Justice Arun said that unless the court and the prosecutor work in sync it results in the guilty escaping the clutches of law and innocent being punished. The judge said he was confident that in the endeavour to seek the truth and render justice, the special prosecutor and defence lawyer shall work in tandem. The judge also rejected the prayer of the state and the counsel for the actress for a stay of the judgment for a period of one week to file an appeal before the Supreme Court, observing that he had become “functus officio” after the pronouncement of the judgment. Functus officio roughly means that having performed his office, once an arbitrator renders a decision regarding the issues submitted, he lacks any power to re-examine that decision. The case pertains to the kidnap and sexual assault of the popular actress by a gang of men allegedly hired by Dileep, one of the top Malayalam actors. Dileep has all along maintained innocence. The gang had waylaid and hijacked the car in which the actress was returning to Kochi after a film shooting from Thrissur on the night of February 18, 2017. They had filmed the entire sequence. During the hearing of the case, senior lawyer S. Sreekumar, who appeared for the actress, had submitted that she was forced to undergo the “ordeal” of cross-examination for nine days when defence lawyers raised questions about her character. The counsel had submitted to the court that the survivor frequently broke down when the defence lawyers asked uncomfortable questions and made her narrate the incident on several occasions. The petitioner had alleged that at one point there were 17 lawyers, eight of them representing Dileep, during the in-camera hearing. “Most of the time I was weeping. I was compelled to speak about the horrific details before a large group of advocates,” the actress had stated in the petition seeking change of judge. Sreekumar had apprised the high court that the trial court judge had no control on the proceedings and that no court would allow lawyers to ask such questions. The actress had also alleged that the trial court judge directly contacted the Central Forensic Science Laboratory for its report on a memory card that contained the video of the sexual assault. The judge allegedly gave a copy of the video to the accused and not the prosecution. In its arguments, the prosecution had submitted before the high court that the Supreme Court had made it clear that such evidence should be handed over to the prosecution as well. The trial court had on October 30 rejected the prosecution’s petition seeking a halt on the trial until the high court decided on the transfer application. While the assault was initially suspected to be part of a plot to blackmail the actress, police eventually arrested Dileep who was granted bail after spending 88 days in jail. Additional reporting by PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-545
21-11-2020||India||Marrying first cousin is illegal: Punjab and Haryana HC||Punjab and Haryana High Court has said that marriage between first cousins is illegal. The court said that the marriage, which the petitioner wants to perform with a girl, who is his first cousin, was also per se illegal. “The submission in the present petition that as and when she (the girl) attains the age of 18 years, they will perform marriage is also per se illegal,” the judge said on Thursday while hearing the petition. The assertion came after a 21-year-old man moved the high court against the state of Punjab seeking anticipatory bail in a case registered under Sections 363 (kidnapping), 366A (procuration of minor girl) of the IPC at Khanna City-2 police station in Ludhiana on August 18. The state counsel, while opposing the bail plea, contented that the girl was a minor and her parents had lodged the FIR as she and the man were first cousins and their fathers were brothers. The man’s counsel told Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan that the petitioner had also filed a criminal writ petition, along with the girl, for protection of life and liberty. The court file of the criminal writ petition was summoned during the hearing and as per its memorandum of parties, the girl was stated to be 17 years of age and the petitioner had submitted that both of them were in a “live-in-relationship”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-545
21-11-2020||India||Fresh AG consent against Kunal Kamra||Attorney-general K.K. Venugopal on Friday said stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra’s latest tweet on November 18 indicating that his “middle” finger was meant for the Chief Justice of India was “vulgar and obnoxious” and lowered the authority of the Chief Justice and the Supreme Court, and hence amounted to criminal contempt of court. “The depiction of the two fingers, with the legend that he means the middle one, is to deliberately insult the Chief Justice of India which would equally be an insult to the Supreme Court of India itself, which the Chief Justice heads. The said tweet is grossly vulgar and obnoxious, and I have no doubt that it would tend to lower the authority of the Supreme Court of India as well as undermine the confidence that the litigant public have in the institution of the Supreme Court of India itself,” Venugopal said while granting consent to Allahabad-based advocate Anuj Singh who sought permission to prosecute Kamra. “In view of the above, I accordingly grant consent under Section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1975,” Venugopal said. Kamra is already facing criminal contempt charges over earlier tweets he had refused to retract.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-545
21-11-2020||India||Former Waqf Board chairman and BJP critic-turned-supporter booked||Waseem Rizvi, former chairman of the Shia Central Waqf Board who went from being a BJP critic to an avid supporter of the party’s leaders and policies after the change of guard in Uttar Pradesh, has been booked by the CBI for financial embezzlement and misappropriation of properties. The Lucknow unit of the CBI on Thursday evening filed two FIRs against Waseem Rizvi; Ghulam Saydain Rizvi, former administrative officer of the waqf board; Waqar Raza, a former employee of the board; and businessmen Naresh Krishna Somani and Vinay Krishna Somani. The CBI’s case is based on two FIRs registered in 2016 and 2017 in Allahabad and Lucknow. Waseem Rizvi had allegedly allowed illegal constructions at Imambara Ghulam Haider in the Tripolia area of Allahabad and another board property off GT Road. The government had stopped the work but constructions resumed without its knowledge after a few months. An engineer in the public works department filed an FIR on August 26, 2016, under Indian Penal Code Sections 447 and 441, which deal with criminal trespass. The second FIR was registered in Lucknow on March 27, 2017, accusing Waseem Rizvi and a few others of accepting a bribe of Rs 27 lakh to illegally hand over waqf land in Kanpur to the Somanis, Saydain Rizvi and Raza. Waseem Rizvi claimed that the cases were politically motivated and he would emerge unscathed. “Whatever happened was done during the previous (Samajwadi Party) government without my knowledge. The inquiry will exonerate me,” he said on Friday. A critic of the BJP and admirer of the Samajwadis before 2017, Waseem Rizvi had done a volte face overnight when Yogi Adityanath took over as chief minister of Uttar Pradesh and handed over the case related to the waqf leader to the CBI. Waseem Rizvi became a hardcore supporter of Hindutva, Ram temple, Adityanath and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and a critic of madrasa education and Islamic customs. While he used to earlier avoid the media, he began attending TV debates frequently and openly admired everything that the BJP and the RSS propagated. He also wrote and produced a Hindi film titled Ram Ki Janmabhoomi in 2019 to support the Ayodhya temple issue. The movie also spoke against several Islamic customs including nikah halala and instant triple talaq and supported the demolition of Babri Masjid. Adityanath reopened the cases against Waseem Rizvi on the request of Mohsin Raza, the minister of state for minority affairs. Waseem Rizvi had earlier accused Mohsin Raza of selling waqf properties and suspended him from the post of caretaker of the revered Alia Begum Mosque in Unnao.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-545
21-11-2020||India||Economy finger at Modi's ‘incompetence’||The Congress on Friday wondered whether Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “incompetence” was responsible for one of the world’s fastest-growing economies becoming one of its worst performers. “It is true Narendra Modi handled Gujarat. But in states, financial management is all about expenditure and revenue. At the Centre, you have to oversee macroeconomic management, which is an altogether different game,” Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said. “But Modi cannot hide behind inexperience as he has spent over six years in office now. It is incompetence.” Shrinate said the government had “messed up” the economy and “presided over the death of various sectors”. “The economic managers and advisers of this government seem to lack basic understanding of how the economy works. There is no strategic thinking,” she said. “The government is still in denial of the grave crisis. We were among the three fastest-growing economies. Now we are at the bottom; among the seven worst-performing countries.” Shrinate said blaming the coronavirus alone was incorrect as the downslide had begun with the November 2016 demonetisation. Further mismanagement had led to the GDP growth rate falling for eight consecutive quarters, she added. “There is no concerted effort to boost investment, lift exports, push consumption and create more jobs. Empty promises and divisive social agenda will not help in economic revival,” she said. As if to flaunt the talent within Congress ranks in contrast to the government’s alleged incompetence, Sonia Gandhi has formed a committee to keep a watch on the economy and periodically prepare reports on its various aspects. The committee includes former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, former finance minister P. Chidambaram, former railway minister Mallikarjun Kharge, former rural development minister Jairam Ramesh and former chief minister Digvijaya Singh. Sonia, who has travelled to Goa on medical advice as extreme pollution worsens her chest congestion, also formed two other committees on foreign affairs and national security. The first is made up of Manmohan, Anand Sharma, Shashi Tharoor, Salman Khurshid and Saptagiri Ulaka. The national security committee includes Manmohan, Ghulam Nabi Azad, Veerappa Moily, Vincent Pala and V. Vaithilingam. The formation of these committees also sends out a conciliatory signal to dissenters within the party who felt they were being sidelined for questioning the drift in the Congress. Azad, Sharma, Moily and Tharoor were among 23 signatories to a letter to Sonia that had spelt out the organisational problems and alleged a leadership crisis. By engaging them under the leadership of Manmohan, Sonia has tried to contain resentment before the upcoming Congress plenary. The party will use these committees’ reports and assessments to corner the government. The Congress has consistently criticised the government’s handling of the economy over the years, alleging wrong measures were being taken and expert advice was being ignored. On Friday, the Congress questioned the move to freeze the dearness allowance of public sector unit employees instead of cutting wasteful expenditure on vanity projects like the Central Vista and bullet trains. “Food inflation has crossed 11% but Modi government is freezing DA of central PSUs instead of increasing it,” Rahul Gandhi tweeted. "While crony capitalists are making profits, government employees are in distress." Rahul accused the government of crushing the rights of the poor, first through an ill-planned lockdown and then by bungling with the rural job guarantee scheme. Shrinate said: "In yet another move that will hit incomes, through a circular dated November 19, the government has frozen additional instalments of DA for PSU employees till June 30, 2021. "This impacts over 14.5 lakh employees across 339 central PSUs. It follows the retrospective cut in DA for 113 lakh central government employees and pensioners, including our armed forces, that was done in April 2020." Shrinate said one could only imagine the plight of unorganised-sector workers when even government employees were suffering so much. "Instead of extending income support to revive demand (among) those who are the most vulnerable, the government is foolishly denting consumption even for those who have an assured income," she said. "Does the government not understand that reducing the income of middle-class employees and pensioners is not just immoral but fiscally imprudent because it further squeezes demand?"||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-545
21-11-2020||India||Left tells Congress: Get your house in order||With Bengal elections round the corner, the Left parties are piling pressure on the Congress to get its house in order, develop ideological clarity and do a reality-check even as the two sides have had one round of preliminary talks on poll strategy. After the Bihar elections, where the Congress pulled down the Mahagathbandhan (MGB), the Left parties want the Congress to be realistic in its demands as far as tickets are concerned. In Bihar, the Congress could only win 19 of the 70 seats it contested whereas the RJD and the Left parties recorded a good strike rate. The Congress, as always, began by demanding 100 seats and had to go hunting for candidates for some of the 70 it had to settle for after seat-sharing talks. Of the view that the Congress did not have the capacity to contest even the 70 seats it got in Bihar, the CPI in the editorial of its party organ, New Age, said: “Had the grand old national party been a bit more realistic, the result in Bihar might have been different. Unfortunately, even after the failure of the MGB, for which its contribution was not insignificant, the Congress response was disappointing. Till date, it is not in a soul-searching mood to make the necessary corrections.” “They fail to understand the gravity of the present situation and the role their party is supposed to play in facing the challenges. In fact, the Congress is going through a crisis which is not only organizational but more ideological,” said the New Age, edited by CPI Rajya Sabha MP Binoy Viswam. “Replacement of somebody from inside or outside the family will not solve the crisis. It is cut off from the masses even in traditional strongholds. The Dalits, the minorities and the poor lost their confidence in Congress due to obvious reasons. Since they embarked on the neo liberal policy of global capital, the Congress party began to deviate from its Gandhi-Nehru legacy. If the Congress is serious about its coming back, it has to fight the RSS-led Parivar ideologically and politically. Secular India expects Congress to rediscover the Nehruvian ideology and fine tuning of it to the present needs. Bihar results call upon Congress to open their eyes before it is too late.” The CPM, in the editorial of its party organ, People’s Democracy, last week had held a similar view while dwelling on the Bihar election results and the performance of the MGB. “There is also the fact that such electoral alliances require partners not to demand and fight seats out of proportion to their strength and influence.  The 70 seats that the Congress fought proved to be a weakness for the alliance; it could win only 19 seats.” While the Congress is drawing flak from within and outside for the inability to shed its sense of grandeur despite successive defeats and reinvent itself to the changed political landscape, there is debate within the Left parties, too, on the Bengal strategy. After the CPI-ML’s good showing in the Bihar elections, general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya has become more vocal in arguing that the BJP should be identified as Enemy No. 1 in Bengal while the CPM views the BJP and Trinamul as twin evils. The CPM’s contention is that the Left parties cannot afford to go soft on Trinamul as it would then leave the anti-incumbency vote for the BJP to tap. In an interview to party newspaper Ganashakti, CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury said: “In the concrete situation of West Bengal, to defeat the BJP, we have to isolate and defeat TMC. TMC had prepared the road of entry for the BJP in Bengal.... There is very deep discontent and anti-incumbency against TMC government.… “Any urge to defeat the BJP encompassing everybody, including TMC, is self-defeating. In that case, all anti-incumbency sentiments will only favour the BJP as the only opposition. Such a tactic will ensure the victory of the BJP. What is required in Bengal is maximum possible polling of anti-BJP, anti-TMC votes. The CPM central committee has decided to pursue this objective.” The Left and the Congress had their first preliminary meeting to explore an electoral understanding at RSP leader Manoj Bhattacharya’s house in Calcutta earlier this week. The CPM’s central committee had green-signalled an electoral understanding with the Congress at its last meeting in October-end and the Left Front is now waiting for the Congress to finalise its strategy for the Bengal elections due next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-545
21-11-2020||West Bengal||‘Bohiragawto’ BJP vs ‘Bhoomiputro’ Trinamul||The Trinamul Congress on Friday intensified its attack on the BJP over the theme of alleged bohiragawto (outsider) being sent to dictate terms to the bhoomiputro (son of the soil), which is likely to be a leitmotif of Mamata Banerjee’s campaign against the saffron camp in Assembly polls next summer. Trinamul spokesperson Bratya Basu held a news conference, adding a new dimension to the line of offensive launched against the BJP’s appointment of central leaders — Sunil Deodhar, Vinod Tawde, Vinod Sonkar, Harish Dwivedi and Dushyant Gautam — to handle affairs of its five organisational zones. “Outsiders are being brought in to attack Bengal. Some people with no understanding of Bengal or its culture, with no feeling of its pulse have been roaming our great state. This tandawb (rampage) by the bohiragawto is a follow-up to the smashing of Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar’s statue, by those with no idea of Rabindranath Tagore and his legacy,” said Basu, state science and technology minister, who is also a theatre and film director, playwright and actor. “Even US president-elect Joe Biden is likely to include a Bengali — Arun Majumdar — in his cabinet. Even Biden understands the significance of Bengalis and Bengaliyana. But Delhi does not. The Centre does not. Narendra Modi does not…. Not one Bengali was ever an RSS chief…. Not one Bengali is a full-fledged minister in the Modi cabinet,” he added. Since the Lok Sabha polls last year, Trinamul chief Mamata has been trying to counter the saffron camp’s allegedly communal polarisation agenda with a “BJP versus Bengal and Bengali” spin. Gaffes or alleged excesses by the BJP have helped the chief minister reinforce the perception. In May 2019, people allegedly from Amit Shah’s road show in Calcutta barged into a college and vandalised a bust of Vidyasagar. Earlier this month, the Union home minister offered flowers to a roadside statue in Bankura wrongly identified by his party as that of foremost tribal icon Birsa Munda. Since Shah’a five-man army was given the charge of different BJP zones in Bengal, Mamata’s party has hurled at the saffron camp a barrage of volleys. “Since the time of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, there have been attempts to corner Bengalis with people from north and west India…. People of Bengal will never accept subjugation by non-Bengali outsiders…. History bears testimony to the fact that these attempts never succeed,” said Basu, going on to pepper his diatribe with a string of instances from India’s history over the past century to substantiate his core argument. The BJP, unsure of the impact this line of attack might have on the electorate, has asked whether poll strategist Prashant Kishor — a consultant to Trinamul now — is also not an outsider and whether Indians from other parts of the country are unwelcome in Mamata’s Bengal. The Vidyasagar statue incident came increasingly to be viewed as an inflection point in the Bengal chapter of the general election. The BJP won none of the nine seats that went to the polls after the incident. But the party bagged unprecedented 18 of the 33 seats where elections had already been held. “Trinamul and its supreme leader believe in taking everybody along, leaving none behind… unlike the BJP…. Non-Bengalis are loved and respected here, they thrive here, but the same courtesy isn’t accorded to Bengalis in other states,” said Basu. Later in the day, Mamata too broached the subject at a Chhath Puja event in the city. “There are some who come from outside only ahead of elections, deliver lofty speeches and leave…. Unlike them, we stay with the masses 24x7, 365 days a year,” said the chief minister, going on to pray for defeat of those who allegedly try to divide to rule.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-303
21-11-2020||West Bengal||Darjeeling’s beloved professor dies||Dipankar Basu, a professor who had spent his lifetime in the hills and worked hard for the betterment of students, breathed his last in Calcutta on Friday morning. Basu, who was loved and revered in Darjeeling, was 79. His love affair with Darjeeling started in the autumn of 1968 when he came to join as lecturer of political science at Darjeeling Government College(DGC), and he made the Queen of the Hills his home. “During his career he was transferred four times — twice to Presidency College and to Maulana Azad and Chandernagore College. But he appealed against the transfers and managed to stay back in Darjeeling on all the four occasions,” said Uday Mani Pradhan, a student-turned friend of Basu. “His love for Darjeeling and his zeal to help young people in their career is legendary,” said Pradhan. Even after his retirement in 2001, he chose to stay at his two-room apartment at Judge Bazar here and continued to counsel students without taking a penny as remuneration. Basu was the first to start an “IAS coaching centre” at the DGC in 1975. Pradhan was a student in the second batch. “The government college centre died a natural death but he soon set up another coaching centre in Darjeeling,” said Pradhan. In 1990, Basu brought in Pradhan, Sunirmal Chakravarthi (former principal of La Martiniere for Boys) and other educationist C.B. Rai and Enos Das Pradhan to start Career Information Counselling and Coaching Centre (CICACC) in town. Amar Singh Rai, former Darjeeling MLA as well as the vice-principal of Loreto College, first met Basu through an organisation called Orchid. “This was an organisation formed by Bengali professors working in Darjeeling and they would involve themselves in theatre and other cultural activities,” said Rai. Basu’s wish to die and be cremated in Darjeeling was something well known in his friend circle. “He always wanted to die and be cremated in Darjeeling,” said Rai. Basu had left for Calcutta to meet his family members in June this year. “In fact, he had a November 17 ticket to Darjeeling. When he started coughing recently, he refused to see the doctors as he feared his family members would not allow him to travel to Darjeeling,” said Pradhan. On November 12, Basu collapsed at his Jadavpur residence and had to be rushed to hospital. “Darjeeling would have given him a grand farewell but alas,” said Rai. He is survived by his younger brother and three sisters, who all live in Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-303
21-11-2020||West Bengal||Blast bares flout of all rules at plastic crusher units||The blast at the plastic-crusher plant in Sujapur near here on Thursday brought under the scanner around 100 such units that mushroomed in the area fluting all safety and labour norms. Six persons had died when a machine had exploded at a plastic crushing unit on Thursday. A visit to some of the units, where plastic scrap is crushed for reuse, revealed that they lacked basic safety measures and employed children who work in difficult conditions. Although these units deal with combustible materials, barely 10 per cent of them have fire extinguishing mechanisms and abundant water supply. “Pollution control measures, proper safety and wages and insurance cover are distant dreams for the labourers,” a social worker said off record. “Still, such plants have an abundant labour supply.” Mofizul Sheikh, a Trinamul leader and the president of the Plastic Prakiyakaran Byabsayee Samiti (an association of the owners of plastic crusher units in the Malda district), said: “Sujapur alone has 100 plastic processing units. Around 30 of them have crushers (like the one that exploded on Thursday) on their premises. On an average, 30 to 100 workers serve at each unit on contract, depending on the scale of operations.” Sheikh as well as Hazi Ketabuddin, who is the president of the association and a member of the Trinamul-run Malda zilla parishad, admitted that only a handful of the units adhered to safety norms and measures. Some local people this correspondent spoke to said the units had come up as the returns were high. “Most of these units just obtain a trade licence from panchayats and start operations. Legislations like factory act and labour laws are not followed,” said a teacher at a local school. The residents of Sujapur said they feared more such accidents as some plastic-crushing units operated out of small enclosed spaces. “They don’t even have space to store the plastic scrap. Those are dumped just beside the national highway (NH12) for days and weeks,” said a resident. The Sujapur panchayat said it would check the plants before issuing trade licences. “The terrible accident has taught us a lesson. From now on, we will visit such units to confirm that all regulations have been met,” said Arif Ali, head of the Trinamul-run panchayat. The panchayat, however, can do little to monitor these units, many of which are owned by local Trinamul leaders. The teacher said there should be regular inspection of the plants and the state labour department should find out whether the workers were provided with adequate wages and proper working conditions and social security. “Some of the workers get just Rs 100 a day, which is a major violation of labour law.... The highest daily wage here is Rs 350,” said a source. Rajarshi Mitra, the district magistrate, said a minimum wages inspector had been asked to inspect the units and furnish a report within 15 days. The proprietors’ association, sources said, has also decided to hold a meeting soon and ask all the units to bring the workers under group insurance cover. Another schoolteacher said one or more person from every third poor family at Gayeshbari in Sujapur worked in the plants. “People here are so poor that they do not dare to lose the job by raising any demand. In fact, many workers do not even know about their rights. That is why the administration and local bodies should try and regularise the units, instead of taking any harsh steps like closing those down,” the teacher said. Officials of a number of state agencies like police, special task force (STF) and the intelligence branch (IB) visited the site of the explosion at Sujapur on Friday as part of their investigation. A team of STF officers inspected the spot around 2.30pm and found a piece weighing around 25kg and believed to be of the exploded crusher about 100m from the unit. After an hour, a team of the intelligence branch shot the video of the entire area, including splinters which were strewn all around. The investigating agencies declined comments. “In the initial probe, they have ruled out electrical short circuit triggering the blast,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-303
21-11-2020||West Bengal||Murshidabad police rear up for mounted force||Bengal’s tryst with mounted police will travel beyond Calcutta for the first time since 1840 if the state’s seat of power, Nabanna, gives the go-ahead to Murshidabad police to raise a force consisting of horses for crowd management. “We will shortly send a proposal to the state government to allow us to raise a mounted police force similar to the one in Calcutta. If we get the Nabanna’s nod, Murshidabad will become the first district to have a mounted police force outside Calcutta,” a senior officer of the district police told The Telegraph on Friday. Murshidabad police have taken the first few steps towards achieving its goal by procuring six horses to train cops in horse riding. The police have set up a horse-training academy on a 40 bigha plot on the outskirts of Behrampore. The academy has become the first police-run horse riding unit outside Calcutta. The Meghdoot Training School, an initiative of the district police and local non-government organisation Ashray, was inaugurated at Choapur on Sunday. The NGO will look after the maintenance of the horses. The district police had last month acquired four adult horses from Calcutta breeders at a price of Rs 1 lakh each. They are currently housed at the academy and have already been named Bhim, Arjun, Rani and Munni. Two more horses had been purchased from local sources and named Black  Diamond and Red Diamond. The police have appointed ex-army man Surinder Shekhawat, 55, from Rajasthan, to train students in horse riding. A police officer said Shekhawat was chosen for his experience in training army personnel in horse riding. “We had a plot lying with us on the outskirts of the town and thought it would be a good idea to set up a horse riding facility here as the area has a long history with the prized animal dating back to the time of the Nawabs,” said a district police officer, alluding to Murshidabad’s former status as the capital of the Bengal. The training session for cops will start from December 1 and the police have decided to throw open the facility to the public also. “Police personnel and their families will have access to this facility, as well as ordinary citizens looking to learn horse riding,” said a source. The source added that the current offering for a three-month-long, five-days-a-week training course had been priced at Rs 3,000 for adults, who are not associated with the police. Children can avail themselves of the same course at Rs 2,000 a month. “Such a venture will help keep police and populace safe and fit and will aid immensely in community building measures,” said district superintendent of police K. Sabari Rajkumar, when asked about the intention behind the initiative. Other police sources in the district force said though Murshidabad, as with other districts barring Calcutta, did not have a mounted police force, the initiative had been started with an eye on raising a horse-riding team of cops to manage crowds at bus terminus and other major events. “Our police will be learning the ropes here as to how to ride horses, and if needed, we can also support Calcutta Police if need arises,” said a source. The Calcutta Mounted Police, fabled at one time for its peace-keeping in tandem with mounted forces of other colonial and 19th century cities in the West, serves these days as a welcome relic, and is seen mainly in central Calcutta’s Maidan area for crowd control and as a fixture in parades and ceremonial visits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-303
21-11-2020||West Bengal||Video helps ease Nadia porter’s burden ||A viral video of an old man tugging sacks full of rice and food grains on his tricycle van has stirred a social organisation to arrange an alternative livelihood for Bishu Sarkar, a resident of Jugpur in Nadia’s Nakashipara. Sarkar, 72, who was struggling to stay afloat despite his ill health, had been delivering sacks of rice and food grains from the main market at Jugpur, near Bethuadahari, to retail shops. Before going out on his tricycle van to deliver the consignments, Sarkar had to carry the heavy bags on his back to load them onto his vehicle. He would earn around Rs 200 per day. A video of Sarkar struggling to carry a sack on his back to load it onto his van was shot by a resident of Jugpur last month and uploaded on social media. The video prompted members of the Chapra Manab Kalyan Sanstha to come forward in the aid of the old man. “After speaking to him, we realised that at 72 he was not in a position to continue his job as a porter-cum-delivery person anymore. As he needed to earn a living, we thought of an alternative job that does not involve too much physical labour. We asked him if could make tea and once he gave his nod, we offered to convert his tricycle into a mobile kiosk,” said Devdulal Biswas, secretary of the Chapra-based organisation who, along with other members, handed over the customised tricycle van to Sarkar on Friday. “I never expected such a gesture. Today, it appears that I can survive a bit longer,” said Sarkar in an emotional tone who took over the tricycle van that had been converted into a mobile tea kiosk at a cost of Rs 20,000. The kiosk has been equipped with an LPG cylinder, oven, utensils and cups. Local sources said Sarkar had two sons who live elsewhere and do not take care of their parents. “It often hurt us to see Bishu da toiling hard to carry heavy loads just for a living. But ill-health was not permitting him to undertake the job anymore. His problem had aggravated because of the lockdown as he had no work. Even in his worst times, Bishu da never sought help from anyone,” said a trader at Jugpur market. Biswas said: “We offered Bishu da our support only to ease his physical labour and ensure that he lived with dignity. We are happy that he agreed to accept our support. He will run the shop at the Jugpur market where he has toiled all his life.” “We have arranged all necessary utensils so that he can also go beyond selling tea and add bread toasts, fried eggs and other snacks to the menu. For a start, we expect him to earn around Rs 150 every day,” said a member of the organisation. Local resident Dhiren Biswas said: “The organisation has done a splendid job. This will help the man to live without stress further in life.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-303
21-11-2020||West Bengal||Drop in active Covid cases continues in Bengal||Bengal logged a drop in total active Covid-19 cases for the 25th consecutive day as number of patients fell from 37,190 on Vijaya Dashami on October 26 to 25,599 on Friday, lifting the recovery rate to a new high of 92.54 per cent. The total of active cases on Friday is almost back where it was 55 days ago, on September 26. The state reported 3,850 recoveries, 3,626 new infections and 50 deaths on Friday. In the 25 days since the end of Durga Puja, Bengal recorded over 1.05 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 95,309 cases found. “We now have a total of 4.49 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was recorded on March 17. But they include nearly 4.16 lakh recoveries, which is very good,” said a Bengal minister. The total also includes 7,923 deaths. The state’s recovery rate, currently in an unbroken spell of rise for 29 consecutive days, since the 87.44 of October 22, is bridging the gap with the national rate, now at 93.6. “We have to watch out over the next few days, to see if the Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath celebrations did considerable damage. There were all sorts of pessimistic estimates ahead of Durga Puja, but we saw it off with not only little damage but also this remarkable turnaround,” said the minister. The 50 deaths of the day included 10 in Calcutta. Of the total deaths, 6,620 (83.6 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities. The state’s mortality rate is 1.76, still less than the national rate of 1.46. “This is one area where we haven’t been able to meet our goals. The aim was to take it to less than 1.5 months ago, but the climbdown from 2 has been very sluggish,” said the minister. With 44,159 tests on Friday, the state’s total test count went past 54.34 lakh, crossing the milestone of 60,000 tests per million people, to touch 60,379. The positive confirmation rate remained at 8.27 per cent. The state reported 28.48 per cent occupancy on 13,508 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 101 dedicated hospitals. Over 4.66 lakh telemedicine consultations have been provided on the pandemic so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-304
21-11-2020||West Bengal||Probe agencies survey site of explosion in Malda||Officials of a number of state agencies like police, special task force (STF) and the intelligence branch (IB) visited the site of the explosion at Sujapur near here on Friday as part of their investigation. Six persons had died when a machine had exploded at a plastic crushing unit on Thursday. A team of STF officers inspected the spot around 2.30pm and found a piece weighing around 25kg and believed to be of the exploded crusher about 100m from the unit. After an hour, a team of the intelligence branch shot the video of the entire area, including splinters which were strewn all around. The investigating agencies declined comments. “In the initial probe, they have ruled out electrical short circuit triggering the blast. Some of the agencies are waiting for the findings of the forensic team,” said a source. A team of forensic experts is scheduled to arrive at the site on Saturday. All six Congress MLAs of Malda district, including local legislator Isha Khan Chowdhury, visited the spot on Friday and demanded higher compensation for the blast victims’ kin. On Thursday, state minister Firhad Hakim had handed over cheques for Rs 2 lakh and Rs 50,000 to the families of the deceased and the injured. “The amount of compensation is too low. There should be much higher compensation for the deceased and the injured. A proper probe should be ordered to find out what exactly led to the explosion,” said Isha. Sreerupa Mitra Chaudhury, a state vice-president of BJP’s farmers’ front, was prevented from visiting the blast site by a section of local people. They demonstrated and alleged that the BJP was trying to create a fear of environment over the incident. Sreerupa, who was being accompanied by supporters,  left in a hurry, but reiterated the BJP’s demand for an NIA probe. Trinamul leader Moazzem Hossain, who surveyed the blast site, slammed opposition parties. “The state government has taken all possible steps. A minister came all the way from Calcutta within four hours of the incident and stood by the affected families. Those who are treated at the Malda Medical College & Hospital are being provided with best possible treatment. Also, the police and some other state agencies are conducting investigations and anybody found responsible will have to face legal steps. The Congress and the BJP leaders are trying to reap political dividend out of this unfortunate incident,” said Hossain. One of the two partners of the plant were among the deceased.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-304
21-11-2020||West Bengal||North Bengal tour operators’ plea on trains||Stakeholders of tourism industry in north Bengal have requested the state government to take up their demand for re-introduction of more trains in north Bengal and resumption of toy train service in the hills. On Friday, a delegation of the Himalayan Hospitality & Tourism Development Network (HHTDN) — a common forum of the stakeholders — met Nandini Chakravorty, the principal secretary of state tourism department here, and requested her to take up the issue with railway authorities. Samrat Sanyal, the general secretary of HHTDN, said after the lockdown, the railways had introduced only one train between Calcutta and north Bengal. Ahead of Durga Puja, two more special trains were introduced but those are supposed to run till November 30. “It seems that from December 1, only one train will be available for tourists who intend to reach north Bengal from southern parts of the state. Unless the number of trains is increased, the inflow of tourists will not rise. That is why we have urged the principal secretary to mention the issue before senior state officials and then take up the matter with the railways. It is also necessary to resume the toy train services in the hills to draw tourists,” he said. This is because the railways have time and again clarified that the state government will have to make the approach for introduction of more trains and for resumption of services, including that of the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR). Due to the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown, the tourism industry here has taken a beating. Veterans associated with the sector have mentioned that the industry has faced a loss of around 21 crores per day from March to September. “Now that the restrictions have been relaxed, the industry must explore all options for its revival. There are tourists visiting the hills and the Dooars but the number is abysmally low as compared to other years. At this point, absence of adequate number of trains should not act as a deterrent,” Sanyal added. Sources said there are indications that some of the toy train services might reopen from next week. It is considered as one of the major attractions for tourists visiting Darjeeling hills. HHTDN has also planned to launch an extensive campaign to perk up the inflow of tourists in this region, said the representatives. “We have signed two memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Association of Domestic Tour Operators of India (ADTOI) and Association of Buddhist Tour Operators (ABTO) to promote the destinations across the country. Also, there is a plan to promote the Dooars region during the winter seasons,” said Raj Basu, a senior advisor to HHTDN.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-304
21-11-2020||West Bengal||Boat rallies for erosion fix in Nadia||The CPM on Friday took to the waterway in Nadia to demand a permanent solution to the erosion of embankments along the Hooghly and the Ganga which created a survival crisis for thousands of people in several districts of south Bengal. The party organised at least two river rallies on the Hooghly that has been marked by incidents of erosion along 119km at several places in Nadia, rendering thousands of people homeless. The boats, which were decorated with CPM flags and placards, sailed on the river that touched some of the erosion-hit stretches of Santipur, Chakdah, and Kalyani. The CPM activists, aboard the boats and those standing on the riverbanks, raised slogans demanding permanent solution to the erosion. Addressing a rally, which was attended by over 1,000 erosion victims, at Santipur’s Balagarh ghat, CPM MLA Rama Biswas said: “Erosion is merely not an election issue. It has become a permanent issue as it has put at stake the survival of many people living near the banks of the Hooghly and the Ganga. These people have lost their land and properties a number of times. They have shifted their bases more than once but their plight remained the same because of sheer apathy and negligence of the state and central governments.” “It is high time that both central and state governments acted to offer a permanent solution to the erosion,” said Biswas, who represents Ranaghat (South) in the Assembly. CPM leader and former chief of Nadia zilla parishad Meghlal Sekh pointed fingers at the sand mafia for triggering the erosion and aggravating the situation. “While erosion has made the life of people uncertain with fear of losing everything, illegal lifting of sand from river has doubled the impact. Nevertheless, the state administration has preferred to remain silent,” Meghlal said. In the districts of Malda, Murshidabad and Nadia, erosion of the embankment has remained a persistent problem. Experts have attributed erosion to the obstruction of natural flow of the Ganga following the construction of the Farakka Barrage. CPM leader said the erosion, which started in the early 60s with the inception of the barrage project, was often viewed as a long-term natural disaster with both the Centre and the state government shying away from coming out with a permanent solution. Sufal Biswas, a resident of Santipur Choudhuripara ghat, said: “We have lost all hopes. In the past five years, I shifted home three times. I have lost over two bighas of agricultural land. I am now landless and try hard to earn by working as a farmhand.” An official of the Nadia administration said: “Erosion is a natural phenomenon and we are helpless. Nevertheless, we try our best to reduce the vulnerability of those living adjacent to the river during the monsoon. We undertake preventive measures and work is underway at many stretches.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-304
21-11-2020||North East||Assam children prepare manifesto for parties||Over 4,000 children from 17 districts of Assam have recommended political parties to include promises like affordable and accessible education, protection from violence and gender equality in their manifestos for the 2021 Assembly elections. The Children’s Manifesto, raising a clarion call to invest in an Assam that is better for children, was released at Guwahati Press Club on World Children’s Day on Friday. Kuldeep Narayan Borah, 16, from Majuli district said, “Through this manifesto we present our recommendations to political parties who are preparing their respective manifestos for the upcoming elections.” The manifesto initiative is led by PratYek, a national NGO that convenes the NINEISMINE campaign under the Wada Na Todo Abhiyan. Unicef provided technical support to PratYek. As part of the process, 40 organisations from Upper Assam, lower Assam and Barak Valley were sensitised on child rights, participation, climate change and sustainable development goals, among others, through a series of online workshops between June and September. On Friday, 18-year-old Vandana Urang, hailing from Namroop tea estate in Dibrugarh, took over the chief minister’s office Twitter account between 9am and 11am and shared her opinion using the hashtag “Reimagine Education”. Unicef has globally initiated the “Reimagine” campaign, calling on partners, governments and all of its supporters to build a better post-pandemic world. The Twitter campaign is part of this Unicef initiative. The Reimagine campaign also calls on children and young people to contribute to the efforts to make it a better post-pandemic world. “And that is where the Children’s Manifesto comes in this World Children’s Day,” the Unicef said. In one of her tweets, Urang said, “On #WorldChildrensDay, I am taking over the CM Office twitter account to talk about my journey & share my opinions on how we can reimagine education in a post-pandemic world.” She studies at Namroop College but she feels “many children are not as lucky as me to get the chance to continue their education”. In another tweet, she said, “I feel that the environment in schools plays an important role — a good environment and innovative teaching methods, along with awareness on things like the ill-effects of use of addictive substances — will encourage children to continue and complete their education.” Now that schools and colleges have reopened in Assam, I hope that we focus on these issues so that no child gets left behind, Urang said. The Children’s Manifesto will be presented to the political leadership, including the chief minister, the Assembly Speaker, leader of the Opposition as well as all major political parties of Assam to include them in their manifestos. “Unicef hopes that not only political leadership, but also bodies like State Innovation and Transformation Aayog (Sita) and commissions such as Assam State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (ASCPCR), take cognisance of the children’s recommendation and use the survey data as a baseline for working upwards and differently,” said Dr Madhulika Jonathan, chief of Unicef Assam. For preparation of the manifesto, a survey was conducted using both online and offline scorecards, wherein field coordinators from different organisations reached out to children and young people using digital platforms, and in some cases where digital engagement was not possible, via face-to-face interactions, while adhering to safety protocols. The outcomes of the survey, among others, showed 70 per cent of the children articulate the need for vocational training and career counselling, another 70 per cent wanted mental health to be included in their syllabus, while 92 per cent pushed for inclusion of gender sensitivity and awareness about sexual and reproductive health in the syllabus. The children also felt that most people in rural areas don’t have access to affordable healthcare and access to nutritious food, while 64 per cent identified violence as the most pressing concern for themselves and their peers. The issues of substance abuse, child trafficking, protection and promotion of human and child rights also figured in the survey which found that 85 per cent children believe that leaders should speak to children and take their experiences and ideas into account when making decisions on the environment. The Children’s Manifesto recommendations:||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-35
21-11-2020||Opinion||Cows first: Madhya Pradesh 'gau cabinet'||Sir — Sometimes one wonders whether the news one is reading is nothing more than a prank in poor taste; but then, if it involves the actions and decisions of the Bharatiya Janata Party, then it is far more likely to be a real event. This is especially true where cows are involved. As such, the announcement by the Madhya Pradesh chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, that his government has decided to set up a “gau cabinet” for the protection of cows, ought not to be surprising (“MP to set up a ‘cow cabinet’”, Nov 19). This must, however, serve as cause for great alarm among reasonable, forward-thinking citizens. The formation of a ‘cow cabinet’ will involve the needless diversion of funds that should otherwise have been used for the uplift of the people. How is the government planning to justify the money that will be used for the ‘protection’ of cows? Where will funds for education, housing and healthcare — especially in the middle of a raging pandemic — come from? More important, will the cabinet actually work for the welfare and protection of cows? Is it going to scrutinize the cruel practices of the dairy industry, where cows are impregnated and forced to give birth year after year and regularly injected with harmful hormones for milk production, only to have their calves taken away from them? Or will its job be to look the other way when cow vigilantes go about lynching members of minority communities on the suspicion that they consumed beef? Koyel Mukherjee,Calcutta Sir — I am amazed at the state of affairs in the country at present. It seems that the BJP government — at the Centre as well as in the states  — is more worried about cows than it is about people. The bizarre consequences of fallacious beliefs and superstitions are there for all to see: instead of a state cabinet focusing on the needs of citizens, a cabinet for the welfare of cows is being formed in Madhya Pradesh. The level of the political discourse in India has truly hit rock bottom if these are the concerns that politicians and leaders are focusing on. We are only pushing India back into the Middle Ages. How will the people themselves react to such a move? Moreover, I have not seen any Opposition party comment on the matter yet, perhaps because they think that opposing such a decision may alienate a crucial chunk of their vote bank. But it is in our interest to raise our voices against such travesties of justice. Otherwise the welfare of the people will truly become secondary to that of cows in our country.  Abhijit Chakraborty,Howrah Sir — The proposed formation of the ‘cow cabinet’ in MP is just another way for the government to divert public attention away from its own failures. The saffron party has no real intention of taking care of cows. Rega Kamath,Bhubaneswar Lost cause Sir — Is the Bharatiya Janata Party out to destroy every last vestige of India’s democracy? It was appalling to read that the Madhya Pradesh home minister is planning to introduce a ‘love jihad’ bill in the state assembly. It will include five years of rigorous imprisonment for ‘violators’, if passed. The BJP governments in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh are also said to be mulling similar provisions. It is the BJP that is in violation of the Constitution. How can elected representatives be allowed to disrespect individual freedoms in such a blatant manner? Indians have the freedom to marry whoever they wish. No government should be allowed to take that right away from the people. Divya Chaudhary,Calcutta Parting Shot Sir — Delhi is in the middle of a serious public health crisis. The recent period of festivities has enhanced mass interactions, and there has been reckless behaviour on the part of citizens, either on account of complacency or because of the fatigue brought about by isolation. The Centre and the Delhi government have worked well in dealing with the pandemic in the past. They have to ensure greater testing and infrastructure, but it is also the responsibility of citizens to reform their behaviour. B. Ahsanullah,New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-114
21-11-2020||Opinion||Good riddance: Donald Trump defeated||With Donald Trump defeated in the 2020 presidential elections, joyous parades spread on to the streets across the United States of America. Happiness and the sense of a burden being lifted were felt strongly, less because of the Biden-Harris victory and more because Trump was finally going to be out. In Washington DC, people flocked to the Black Lives Matter Plaza across from the White House as soon as news networks called the race for Joe Biden. People were banging pots and pans in joy while the crowds sang the song, “YMCA” — previously danced to by Trump in one of his closing campaign rallies (he was ridiculed for it by liberal media outlets). In Philadelphia people cheered from streets, cars and fist-bumped through their windows. There was a popular ‘Good Things Happen in Philadelphia’ sign that people posed with — a jab at Trump’s statement from the presidential debate where he stated that “bad things happen in Philadelphia”, alluding to baseless claims of election fraud. In Trump’s home town, New York City, a crowd gathered outside the Trump International Hotel and Tower chanting: “No More Trump!” In Times Square, a man was playing “Hail to the Chief” on the trombone. Hundreds of people (mostly in masks) cheered on the streets with Biden-Harris signs, American flags, and homemade signs with slogans like ‘Best Break Up Ever’. While champagne was popped in Biden’s name, last week thousands of Trump supporters showed up in DC for the ‘Million Maga March’ to support Trump’s unproven claims of voter fraud. Members of the far-right white supremacist group, Proud Boys, and the Oath Keepers militia group were among the marchers. Supporters carried placards which read ‘Stop the Steal’ and ‘Trump 2020’. They were also mostly mask-less, garnering immediate criticism. Remember them November is Native American Heritage Month, now in its 30th year in the US. Different states use this time to celebrate the historical and cultural achievements and contributions of the Native American community, a minority group in the US that faces discrimination and hardship. This year has seen the greatest sensitivity to their issues manifested in the form of much-needed changes. After years of petitions and activism calling for change, the Washington, DC NFL football team chose to stop using a racial epithet as their mascot and team name. Last year, the District of Columbia adopted Indigenous People’s Day, replacing Columbus Day. The governor of Arizona set forth a proclamation declaring November to be Native American Heritage Month for the state. Arizona is home to 22 tribal nations and communities, including the Navajo Nation, which is the largest Native American reservation in the US. Tribal lands make up 28 per cent of Arizona’s land base. In DC, the Smithsonian’s National Museum of the American Indian unveiled a new memorial honouring the military service of Native Americans on Veteran’s Day. The National Native American Veterans Memorial opened with virtual programming, including a tour and video tribute, on November 11. It honours American Indians, Alaska Natives and Native Hawaiians who have served in the armed forces at a higher rate per capita than any other ethnic group and in every major conflict since the American Revolution.Time to be mindful Holiday shopping season has kicked off online and in retail stores far earlier than usual this year. Given the struggle of business owners on account of Covid-19 as well as the Black Lives Matter movement, businesses and individuals are finding ways to show their support for black- and minority-owned ventures in this holiday season. Many big brand retailers have taken the pledge to allocate 15 per cent of shelf space to products bought from black-owned businesses. This ‘15 Percent Pledge’ grass roots initiative is aiming to lobby major retailers in the US on the ground that black people make up 15 per cent of the country’s population and yet are under-represented in the retail sector. The make-up giant, Sephora, revealed that only seven of their 290 products are black-owned. Other retailers that have adopted the pledge include Vogue, West Elm and Rent the Runway. Macy’s also revealed it is taking steps to collaborate with black designers for its private labels. Yelp! has also added a new black-owned business attribute, making it easy to find and share such businesses with one’s community so that support can be extended to them.Chart toppers November 3 was Election Day, but this year it changed to Election Week. Most Americans were glued to CNN, ABC, Fox and other major cable news channels. By the end everyone had the US map memorized, demarcated by red and blue, as news anchors dexterously manoeuvred touch screen maps and ended up winning the hearts of Americans. As major states were waiting to be called, the big names such as CNN’s Anderson Cooper and MSNBC’s Rachel Maddow had their moments, but those who really stole the show were the “chartthrobs” tirelessly offering analyses of electoral maps. The chief national correspondent for CNN, John King, and a national political correspondent for MSNBC and NBC News, Steve Kornacki, were constants during the election coverage and were lauded as the real winners of the election. Social media was flooded with tweets of people’s admissions of having crushes on anchors such as Kornacki, Chris Cuomo, Jake Tapper and Don Lemon. By Friday of Election Week, #SteveKornacki had more than 6,60,000 views and #JohnKing had 4.3 million views on TikTok. Footnote Transgender Awareness Week is a celebration leading up to Transgender Day of Remembrance, which memorializes victims of transphobic violence. Human Rights Campaign hold events such as film screenings and panel discussions to raise awareness of the abuse faced by transgender and non-conforming folk. This year at least eight transgender, non-binary and gender-non-conforming state candidates were voted into power, including the US’s first-ever openly transgender state senator.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-114
21-11-2020||Opinion||Sacred and profane: SC upholds Rabindra Sarobar ritual ban||Keeping order and implementing the rule of law was once the responsibility of the administration. But this is an outdated idea in New India. This administrative indifference has forced courts and tribunals to redress issues — the environment, public health, humane treatment of species and so on — that should be integral to the public consciousness in any civilized order. The Supreme Court has lived up to its reputation of being the guardian of the environment, rejecting pleas by the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority and the Calcutta Municipal Corporation to interfere with the directives passed by Calcutta High Court and the National Green Tribunal banning festive rituals at Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar while imposing restrictions on the congregation of people. The signal from the highest court has come as a relief. Last year, in flagrant violation of the ban by the NGT, devotees thronged these premises under the very nose of the police and the CMDA. This collective defiance would not have been possible without tacit support from the powers that be. Institutional lethargy is the fruit of a populism that is inimical to the health of both citizens and their environment. India, thanks to its politicians, is well versed in the chapter of toxic populism. A relevant, curious anomaly, one that is often ignored by policy and public discourse, is the blurring of the lines between the sacred and the profane. Some of India’s most consecrated entities are also the most defiled, often beyond redemption. Consider the Ganges, India’s holiest river. In spite of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s repeated pledges to cleanse the river — an entire ministry has been at work for years now — the Ganges, on many stretches, is being choked with industrial effluents, excrement, and several other kinds of pollutants. Countless devotees remain indifferent to its fate. Ironically, any attempt to stop the contamination — rituals are not known to be environment-friendly — elicits loud protests about the violation of rights. Inventive interventions — the courts have, in the past, declared rivers to be living entities, investing them with the same legal rights as people — have not made a difference. This kind of desecration of not just rivers but also nearly every element of the wilderness seldom evokes a massive public response even though academic curricula have accommodated environmental sciences as a discipline. There is no dearth of awareness campaigns either. The environmental challenges confronting India are manifold. The administration, reading the political tea leaves, is often complicit in this destruction. Agencies tasked with environmental protection — the CMDA is an example — become violators. There is also a sustained attempt to weaken the legislative edifice that acts as a bulwark against transgressions. All of these must be addressed. What must change additionally is the public attitude towards polluting rituals. Such a transition is not impossible. In Calcutta, water bodies are increasingly being earmarked and cordoned off with synthetic lining to allow de-sludging and treatment during immersions to arrest pollution. Such inventiveness must be encouraged. Reason and faith must coexist to save the environment and lead towards an ecological renaissance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-114
21-11-2020||Opinion||Adani after Gandhi||A recent article in the Financial Times narrates, with scrupulous detail and objectivity, the astonishing surge in fortunes of a businessman from Gujarat in the years and months since Narendra Modi became prime minister in May 2014. One paragraph in the article runs: “When Mr Modi took office, he flew from Gujarat to the capital New Delhi in Mr Adani’s private jet — an open display of friendship that symbolised their concurrent rise to power. Since Mr Modi came into office, Mr Adani’s net worth has increased by about 230 per cent to more than $26bn as he won government tenders and built infrastructure projects across the country." While I have never met Mr Modi, reading this article brought back memories of when — had I so wished — I could have met and even worked with Mr Adani. The background was as follows. In September 2013, I published a book called Gandhi Before India, which dealt with Gandhi’s upbringing in princely Kathiawar, his education in imperial London, and his career as a lawyer and activist in South Africa. In December of that year I spoke about my new book at a literary festival in Mumbai. After my talk, a young man came up and introduced himself as an aspiring writer. He said he wanted to discuss something important. However, I had to leave immediately for the airport to take a flight back to Bangalore. Since I couldn’t stay back to chat, I gave the young man my email address so that he could write to me about whatever it was that he wanted to talk about. A few days later the young man mailed me, saying he was working with a consultancy firm “to put together a project — Biography of Gautam Adani”. His firm, he said, “has been in discussion with Mr. Adani on the biography”. He added that “a well-known literary agent has indicated that multiple top publishers are keen on the project”. My correspondent told me that since both his firm and the Adani Group were “very keen on a high-quality, in-depth exercise, we have been looking for someone who could be a mentor and an advisor on the project”. They hoped that this ‘mentor’ and ‘advisor’ would be me. So my correspondent now proposed a meeting between a representative of the firm, “Mr. Gautam Adani and yourself”. Since I visited Gujarat often (to do research on Mahatma Gandhi), even back in December 2013 I had some idea who Gautam Adani was. I knew him to be a businessman very close to the man who had been chief minister of Gujarat since 2001, Narendra Modi. Even back then, Mr Modi sometimes flew in Mr Adani’s private plane. Friends in Ahmedabad had told me of how the Gujarat government had fast-tracked approvals for Adani projects along the coast, which had displaced fisherfolk and destroyed mangrove forests. By December 2013, it was overwhelmingly likely that Mr Modi would become the next prime minister of India. When that happened, Gautam Adani would perhaps be bestowed with more favours still. Sensing that he would grow more influential and important, he was now contemplating having a Life published of himself, in whose writing (or ghost-writing) his advisers thought this biographer of Gandhi should play a key role. The offer to write a Life of Gautam Adani was by no means the only unsolicited commission that I had received. Many years before I began working on Gandhi, I wrote a biography of Verrier Elwin, the British-born anthropologist who was the foremost authority on India’s tribal peoples. Published in March 1999 by Oxford University Press, under the title, Savaging the Civilized, my biography of Verrier Elwin got decent reviews and sold moderately well for a work of scholarship. A month or two after the book appeared in print, I got a telephone call from a senior and well-respected librarian in New Delhi, whom I knew slightly. Would I, said the librarian, be interested in writing a Life of the prime minister, Atal Bihari Vajpayee? Mr Vajpayee’s family had asked him for names, and the librarian, seeing notices of my Elwin book, had thought of me. He had already spoken to OUP, and they were keen on the project. The librarian told me that apart from the wide general interest in a book on the prime minister, no doubt every government department and sub-department would buy multiple copies as well. It would be translated into Hindi for many state governments and all the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh shakhas to order copies. The (financial) rewards would be substantial. But I was not persuaded. For one thing, a ‘commissioned’ biographer would not be able to write frankly and freely about a politician in power. For another, although Mr Vajpayee himself was a man of intelligence and charm, I intensely disliked his party, the Bharatiya Janata Party, whose brand of Hindu majoritarianism was so radically opposed to Gandhi’s own pluralistic and inclusive form of Hinduism. I did not know the librarian well enough to tell him my frankest feelings, so I instead muttered something about Verrier Elwin being essentially a minor figure, an ex-missionary turned amateur scholar. While I could perhaps write on Elwin, I did not, I said, consider myself qualified to write on such an esteemed personage as our honourable prime minister. The offer to write a Life of Atal Bihari Vajpayee was the first time I was asked to write a ‘commissioned’ biography. It would not be the last. After I published a book on cricket in 2002, two cricketers, one still playing, the other recently retired, asked whether I would collaborate with them on telling their life stories. After I published a history of independent India in 2007, the son of a recently deceased Congress politician asked me to help with a book about his father, while a still-serving Congress politician asked me to write a book about himself. Along the way, the acolytes of one of India’s most famous scientists asked me to write a book on their living hero for his 80th birthday, while the family of one of India’s most respected economist-administrators asked me to write a biography of their recently deceased patriarch. There were unsolicited offers to write lives of other famous, powerful or wealthy Indians as well. I refused all these commissions. Some I turned down because I had writing commitments of my own; others because I knew I was not qualified for the task. I had no desire to help in massaging a retired cricketer’s ego; and absolutely no competence or credibility to write about the research interests or intellectual achievements of a distinguished scientist. In any case I had an aesthetic aversion to the idea of a ‘commissioned’ or ‘authorized’ biography. I would want to write a Life of an individual because of my own inner urges, my own interest in that person, not because someone with deep pockets had asked me to. I wrote a book on Verrier Elwin because it was Elwin who changed my life. I was an indifferent student of economics when I came across his work; it was reading Elwin that inspired me to do further studies in sociology and social history. I wrote on Gandhi because I had been interested in his life and legacy from the time I was a student. Later, as a working historian, I had found masses of rare materials on Gandhi in archives around the world, and this inspired me to embark on a two-volume biography of the man. By the time the offer to work on a biography of Gautam Adani arrived in my inbox in December 2013, I was a practised hand in turning down such assignments. So I sent off a reply to the young man and his consultancy firm saying that I couldn’t be ‘a mentor and an advisor’ on their Adani project since I was busy working on the second volume of my Gandhi biography. I shared the original letter of solicitation with some friends, adding: “I suppose the only reason to accept would be so that I could title my memoirs: ‘A Biographer’s Journey: From Gandhi to Adani’.” One friend suggested a crisper and better title for that prospective (but happily never to be written) book: ‘Adani After Gandhi’. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-114
21-11-2020||Jharkhand||Naxals beat up workers, torch vehicles at construction site ||A naxal squad of 9-10 members thrashed laborers and torched earthmovers (JCB, mixer machines), generator, motorbike and motors at a bridge construction site in Giridih on Friday night. The incident occurred at a bridge construction site on the river Tondoya between Dharampur to Chitakharo of Khedwara Panchayat under Birni police station area. Amit Renu, superintendent of police (SP), Giridih said, “Following the incident, Giridih police have launched a massive search operation in the area. An FIR based on the complaint of supervisor of the Samridhi Construction, to which bridge construction work was awarded, has been lodged with the Birni police station.” The laborers were assaulted with sticks and punches by the attackers, however, no one was badly injured. Rohit Kumar, eye-witness and supervisor of Samridhi Construction, said, “We were relaxing after completion of work when the naxals descended there. One was in a naxal uniform holding a gun while others were in normal dress and had sticks in their hands. They first introduced themselves as ‘partywala (Maoist)’ and then asked for a contractor.” “They came to me asking the contractor, who I said was not here. Then they asked for a supervisor, which I refused saying he is also not present. They asked about me to which I said I am an operator. Then they said to provide them with diesel and thrashed the laborers and snatched their mobile phones. They poured diesel on the JCB, mixer machine vehicle, generator, motorbike parked outside along with water motors and other equipment inside the storeroom and set them ablaze,” said Kumar who is a resident of Gomo of Dhanbad. The SP, however, is skeptical about the triggering of crime by naxals. “While conducting the investigation we noticed that the majority of naxals were not in naxal uniforms and were holding sticks. In such incidents, naxal squads strike in uniform and have weapons. They also returned through the same route, through which they came to the spots. Naxals never do that and there are other notable points. We are taking it as a naxal incident, but will investigate from different angles.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-229
21-11-2020||Jharkhand||Kisan special with veggies and fruits to go via Tatanagar||South Eastern Railway's first Kisan Special cargo express left on its maiden journey from Sangola in Maharashtra on Saturday, carrying vegetables and fruits to Shalimar in Bengal via Tatanagar. The train which will transport perishable agricultural products such as vegetables and fruits to the market in a time-bound manner will travel till Shalimar via the Tatanagar railway station. The train, with refrigerated containers for perishables like fish, meat and milk, will help reach the food items to the market in a time-bound manner. "The train was introduced with the objective to fulfil the commitment towards farmers. The train will run till December 31, " said Sanjay Ghosh, chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway. The 00123 Sangola-Shalimar Kisan Parcel Cargo Express left Sangola at 12.15 am on Saturday. It will run on Tuesdays and Saturdays. It will arrive at Shalimar at 3pm on Wednesdays and Sundays. The Shalimar-Sangola Kisan Parcel Cargo Express will leave Shalimar at 12.15 am. It will run from November 23 to December 31. The train will run on Thursdays and Mondays and reach Sangola at 11am on Fridays and Tuesdays. The train will stop at Tatanagar, Rourkela, Jharsuguda, Bilaspur, Durg, Nagpur, Bhusaval and Manmad enroute. Maharashtra’s Bhusaval and Nagpur areas produce fresh fruits, vegetables, flowers and other perishables in abundance. Railway officials explained that these commodities would be transported to Rourkela (Odisha), Tatanagar (Jharkhand), Durg/ Bilaspur (Chhattisgarh) and Shalimar  (Bengal), among others. "Movement of freight trains in these areas is expected to offer relief to farmers struggling to sell their produce amid the pandemic," explained an official of South Eastern Railway's commercial wing. The train comes months after Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s budget speech in which she said that the national transporter would set up  Kisan Rail via public private partnership (PPP) to facilitate a seamless  nation-wide cold supply chain for perishables like milk, meat and fish.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-229
21-11-2020||Jharkhand||Notorious coal trader nabbed on rape charges||Controversial coal trader of Dhanbad, Badal Gautam was sent to jail in an old case of rape of the married daughter of a former Director Technical of BCCL after being produced in the court of chief judicial magistrate, Arvind Sao. Gautam who is also accused of several other cases of extortion, threatening etc, was absconding. He was arrested by Dhanbad police with the help of Railway Protection Force of Mughalsarai from Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay Railway Station (also known as Mughalsarai Railway Station)  while travelling in Down Secunderabad-Danapur Covid special train last night. Before being produced in court, he was brought to Bank More Police station today and later taken to Govindpur Police station. Senior police officers including City SP, R Ramkumar and Additional Superintendent of Police were present when he was taken to the court. Notably, the 32-year-old victim, married in 2009 to a Calcutta based engineer, who is also the mother of a 10-year-old daughter and a three-year-old son lodged a rape, abduction, threatening and loot case against Gautam in Bank More police station on September 21. Her statement was later recorded before the court of 1st class judicial magistrate of Dhanbad, Pratima Oraon on September 23 under section 164 of CrPC. The victim, who left her in law's place at Calcutta on July 11 after an estranged relationship with her engineer husband, in her FIR at Bank More police station charged Badal Gautam of raping her several times during her stay in Delhi in July-August this year. Notably, the victim revealed that she went to Delhi along with her childhood friend Sanket Krishnani, her driver Satpal Yadav and Badal Gautam (Sanket Krishnani’s friend) via car where Badal Gautam made arrangement for their stay at the flat of one of his friend Abhishek Rai. "Badal, however, one day sent Abhishek and krishanai out of the Abhishek's flat in Delhi on the pretext of bringing something from the market but used the opportunity to outrage my modesty (rape me)" claimed the victim in her complaint. She further charged that Badal also threatened her in name of kidnapping her friend Sanket Krishnani due to which she was afraid of lodging case against him. "Badal also demanded ransom worth Rs 25 lakh from the family members of my friend, Sanket Krishnani by calling them and claiming that he has kidnapped Krishnani" claimed the victim in FIR. Repeated efforts to contact Dhanabd SSP, Assem Vikrant Minz in this regard failed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-230
21-11-2020||Jharkhand||Bengal mahouts reach Chandil to drive away elephants ||A 14-member team of elephant-drivers has arrived at the troubled Chandil forest region to drive away a herd of elephants that killed a local mahout in the area on Wednesday night. Haricharan Mahato, a 45-year-old mahout was killed while his associate, the 40-year-old Durga Charan Mahato was seriously injured as one of the elephants of a five-elephant herd attacked them near Balidih village on Wednesday. The herd once again entered the human settlement near Balidih village to destroy a mud-house partially on Friday night, after they hid in a nearby jungle following the killing of the mahout on Wednesday. This led the Forest Department to bring in the Bankura-based elephant drivers, who are considered experts at the job, after a team of local elephant drivers abandoned its job and fled in view of their leader’s death. Revealing the development, Forest Range Officer, Chandil, Ashok Kumar said that they had to bring in the mahouts from Bankura as the people of Dhunaburu and Balidih villagers were frightened after the marauding elephant herd attacked the local elephant driver. "The villagers were so frightened that they did not come out of their homes and refrained from bursting crackers on getting to know about the invasion of the elephant herd in the human habitat.  As a result of it, the herd partially destroyed a mud-house at Balidih village, but fortunately no loss of life took place," Kumar said while talking to The Telegraph Online. He informed that the Bankura-based team started off with their job on Friday night itself after it arrived in the evening, although they  planned to start work on elephant driving from Saturday evening. He also revealed that the locals were provided with an adequate number of crackers by the Forest Department for driving away the elephants. "The cracker is provided to the villagers for driving the elephants when they try to enter the village, but they tend to burst them at the sight of the elephants in the paddy fields with the crops grown up  which are situated a little away from the village. On being exposed to the cracker bursting, the elephants get excited and irritated, and subsequently attack the cracker-bursters. The villagers tend to burst the crackers when the herd is still away from the village, because they want to save their paddy crops from getting destroyed by the invading herd," elaborated the officer. The team from Bankura will drive the elephant herd either toward Tamar in Ranchi district or to the adjoining Seraikela jungle in the Seraikela-Kharsawan, from where the herd is supposed to have come.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-230
21-11-2020||Jharkhand||Early morning fog likely across state on Sunday||The Ranchi Met centre has issued an alert for fog and mist over Jharkhand during the next 24-hours. Weathermen said on Saturday that the prevailing anti-cyclonic circulation was resulting in heavy moisture incursion in the atmosphere. "This would result in mist and foggy conditions, especially early in the morning for the next 24-hours," said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. He went on to say that Saturday's satellite pictures also indicated a cyclonic circulation over interior Odisha which would impact Jharkhand's weather. Surface visibility was poor in various parts of the state, including Jamshedpur and other districts of Kolhan and the Santhal Pargana region due to heavy mist since Saturday morning. Jamshedpur and several other places, including Bokaro, Giridih and Chaibasa in West Singhbhum, also experienced rain on Saturday. The local IMD observatory in Jamshedpur recorded 4.6 mm rain while Bokaro recorded 8 mm. Neighbouring Kharsawan recorded 7mm rain while Chaibasa in West Singhbhum recorded 21.2 mm in the last 24 hours ( 8.30 am of Friday to 8.30 am of Saturday ). Several places on the outskirts of Ranchi, Giridih, Jamtara and Khunti experienced light showers too. Minimum temperatures also rose in most parts of the state due to the cloud cover.  As per Met statistics, most places recorded minimum readings of four to five notches above normal. IMD's Patna Met Centre also issued an alert of early morning fog in Jharkhand during the next 24 hours which would reduce surface visibility. The forecast from the Patna office indicated dry and clear weather in most parts of the state from Monday, November 23. It predicted a fall in minimum temperatures by 3 to 5 degree Celsius during the next four days in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-230
21-11-2020||Jharkhand||Rain mars final day of Chhath Puja for devotees||The four-day long Chhath festival came to an end today with vratis ( devotees ) breaking their 36-hours fast after offering the bihaniya arghya in various river ghats, lakes, ponds rooftop terraces and other public water bodies, early this morning. But, because of the bad weather the Sun God remained elusive. Cloud cover and light showers deprived the devotees of getting a glimpse of the rising Sun. The Sun rose at 6.03 am today. At several places, Chhath vratis waited till 6.30 am to get a glimpse of the Sun. But, as they couldn't, they completed the necessary rituals. Almost all the river ghats witnessed a good turnout of  Chhath vratis who along with their families offered the bihaniya arghya by standing in knee-deep water. Right from the two major venues- Subernarekha ghat in Sakchi and  Domuhani in Sonari, devotees also flocked to various other ghats of both the lifeline rivers - Subernarekha and Kharkai. Former chief minister Raghubar Das too offered the morning arghya to the Sun God along with his family members at the Sidhgora based Surya Mandir. Local legislator Sarayu Roy did some social work, distributing milk for offering arghya on the premises of the Surya Mandir. Both of them greeted people on Chhath, the biggest festival of Jharkhand and neighbouring Bihar. Compared to previous years, this year saw a low turnout of devotees in almost all ghats and other venues because of the prevailing pandemic. Many preferred to celebrate the festival at their homes -- on terraces and gardens in artificial tubs. The Mahakaleshwar ghat on the banks of river Kharkai in Jugsalai had one of the best arrangements in terms of its management and facilities. Managed by the Mahakaleshwar Chhat Ghat Samity, this ghat in the city was equipped with changing rooms for vratis along with two makeshift toilets each for men and women. "We performed the rituals at Subernarekha ghat. The morning scenario was breathtaking. We every year make it a point to offer the arghya at that ghat. But, because of cloud and drizzling rain, we failed to get a glimpse of the Sun this year,`` said Anita Sharma, a Chhath vrati. The district administration was on their toes to ensure the festival was conducted peacefully. "The festival went off without any untoward incident. We had made adequate security arrangements in all river ghats and other venues" said Nitish Kumar Singh, the Dhalbhum SDO, who is in charge of the law and order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-230
21-11-2020||Jharkhand||Police bust extortion racket in Hazaribagh, arrest 7||Police on Saturday busted a racket, which used photos of women to extort money out of them, in Kapka Village under Barkatha police station and arrested seven involved while seizing eight mobile phones from their possession. The cops were hunting for them following complaints that they were posting photographs of women on online pornographic sites and later demanding money from them to remove those. The photographs of the women belonging to well-to-do families were being taken without their knowledge from social media platforms. Revealing details of their modus operandi, the Superintendent of Police Karthik S said the accused had registered themselves as sex service providers on sites such as Oklute and Skokka. Once somebody asked them for service, they would take the money in advance and block their numbers. Meanwhile, they used pictures of women available on their social media accounts. He added that they posted the photos on the two websites and later called the girls’ families to extort money out of them in exchange of removing those pictures. According to sources in the police department, the families, who did not even know that the pictures were taken from the social media handles, transferred the amount out of fear. However, few of them resorted to the police, following which the investigation kicked off. Karthik said that the gang had made more than Rs 8-10 lakhs over the past six months in this manner, adding that details of the victims and trail of money is being traced and further investigation is underway. Sources said as complaints started coming, Karthik formed a team led by Barhi sub divisional police officer Manish Kuma,r who investigated the case taking help of the technical team and arrested seven people. Seeing the sensitivity of this case, Karthik kept supervising the case till the end.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-230
21-11-2020||Jharkhand||Maoists gun down coal trader at Chhath ghat in Chatra||CPI (Maoist) insurgents shot dead a coal trader while he was offering Chhath prayers at a ghat in a nondescript village of Chatra’s Simariya block, about 150 km north of capital Ranchi, on Saturday morning, triggering panic among villagers on the last day of the festival. Eyewitnesses claimed that bike-borne, masked rebels fired three rounds of from a close distance at the coal trader and fled shouting slogans glorifying their organisation. The incident led to a stampede at the Chhath Ghat. Police recovered three used cartridges and two CPI (Maoist) posters from the spot. The victim, identified as one Mukesh Giri, was rushed to a local hospital in Simarya from where he was referred to Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi. Giri succumbed to his injuries on way to Ranchi in an ambulance, police said. The rebels went on a rampage on Saturday in other districts too. In Giridih, they unleased violence and pasted posters in Khunti and Saraikela. Through the posters, the rebels threatened industrialists to either pay levy or perish. A poster recovered from the crime scene in Chatra warned local residents against becoming police informers and threatened them of dire consequences if they passed on information to law enforcement agencies. In Giridih, CPI (Maoist) rebels set ablaze a JCB, a bike, a miller machine and a generator at a road construction site on Saturday, police said. They also set afire to a house where construction workers were staying temporarily. However, no casualties were reported. DGP M.V. Rao rushed to Chatra after the coal trader’s murder and held a meeting with the Chatra SP Rishav Kumar Jha. Talking to the media later, the DGP said that CPI (Maoist) rebels had invited their own demise by indulging in such activities and they won’t be able to survive for long. “They have lost the ideological support of villagers. Their (Maoists) end is not far,” said Rao. While the purpose behind the cold-blooded murder in broad daylight is not confirmed, police suspect the coal trader may have been murdered for refusing to pay a levy to the insurgents. Other sources in the police department said that the CPI (Maoist) killed Giri as they suspected him to be a police informer. As per records with the ministry of home affairs (MHA), at least 19 of 24 districts are Left Wing Extremism affected in Jharkhand. The CPI (Maoist) is the most dreaded outlawed group in the state among around 17 LWE outfits, say police. Opposition parties in Jharkhand, including the BJP, have been targeting the Hemant Soren-led UPA government in the state over the deteriorating law and order situation. The government has faced the ire of Opposition leaders over rise in crimes against women and lynching incidents lately.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-230
21-11-2020||Jharkhand||Chhath puja celebrated with fervour, enthusiasm and devotion||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-230
21-11-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi MP opens book bank for poor students||Ranchi MP Sanjay Seth opened a book bank for underprivileged students at his office in Argora in the Jharkhand capital on Friday. The book bank, which will function from Seth’s office, on the first day had around 400 books of various subjects, mostly school and intermediate level, donated from various areas in and around Ranchi. “During my visit to rural areas, I have interacted with talented students hailing from underprivileged backgrounds who despite having the potential are not able to study due to lack of resources to purchase books. Some are not able to attend the online classes and in the process miss out on notes due to the lack of smartphones. We had been discussing with our supporters in recent months and decided to start the book bank concept on the auspicious day of Chhath festivity. “I only hope that this effort would help students from poor financial backgrounds facing problems in accessibility of reading materials. They can take the books free of cost and can return the books after finishing their studies,” said the first-term MP elected on a BJP ticket. Seth, buoyed by the first day donations, has set a target of collecting nearly 1 lakh books on various subjects by December. “We want to have a collection of nearly 1 lakh books. We are thankful to several organisations who came to deposit books in our bank after the announcement was made on Thursday. “We have also floated two landline numbers (0651-2240060 and 2240054) which would be open between 10am and 5pm daily (even on holidays). Anybody can call to deposit their books. If they are not able to come to the book bank, our staff would go to them to collect the books. Similarly, any student can contact us on the phone numbers and give us details about the required books. We would arrange to deliver the books at the doorstep of the student for free,” said Seth. The MP also said that sansad samadhan kendras (MP grievance centres) opened in each of the six Assembly constituencies can also be used to keep the books. “We would like to appeal again to NGOs, academicians, writers, researchers and even students to help poor students and donate the books in their possession after they have used it, at the nearest sansad samadhan kendras. Needy students can also get in touch with the kendras mentioning their requirements and we will arrange to provide the required books after searching in the book bank,” added Seth. Ranchi parliamentary constituency has under it six Assembly constituencies — Ranchi, Kanke, Ichagarh, Hatia, Silli and Khijri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-230
