22-11-2020||Calcutta||CMDA cleans most alternative ghats||About 500 people have been engaged to clean the ghats in south and southeastern Calcutta that were built as alternatives to Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar, Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) officials said on Saturday. The CMDA, custodian of the two Sarobars, had built more than 55 ghats in Kasba, Jadavpur, Anandapur, Nonadanga, Golf Green, and Patuli. Most of these ghats were temporary ones with wooden steps and a platform. They were built for devotees to take a dip in the water or immerse the flowers and fruits in the water. A few permanent ghats with concrete steps going down into the water were built at Nonadanga, a CMDA official said. “We have cleaned most of the ghats. Waste materials floating on the water or dumped on the land have been cleaned. We took the solid waste to the nearest compactor station of the CMC,” the official said. “There were 10-odd people cleaning each of the ghats. In some places like Jodhpur Park, the CMC has cleaned the place.” More than 50,000 people had visited the ghats that had been built as alternatives to the two Sarobars. The turnout was more than double of last year, the official said. The CMDA had campaigned and urged Chhath Puja devotees to visit the alternative ghats instead of Rabindra Sarobar. “Most of these ghats were built to accommodate the crowd that used to visit Rabindra Sarobar. The ghats were built close to the places from where people went to Rabindra Sarobar,” the official said. Metro found two ghats along the Hooghly dirty on Saturday afternoon. Earthen pots, garlands, flowers and leaves were found floating in the water close to the banks. At Babughat, the sides of the steps leading to the Hooghly were filled with plastic bags. The water near the bank had waste materials floating, mostly banana leaves and earthen containers. At Baje Kadamtala ghat, too, plastic bags, plastic bottles, flowers and garlands were found floating in the water near the bank. People from Tollygunge, Kankulia, Lake Gardens and Rashbehari used to go to Rabindra Sarobar in large numbers, a devotee said. “In some of the water bodies built as alternatives to Rabindra Sarobar, we fitted nets surrounding the platform that was built for devotees. The nets did not allow anything left in the water to go out of the enclosed zone. This helped in the cleaning,” the official said. The nets served as a safety tool as no devotee could move beyond the nets, which marked the boundary of a zone that was 3.5-4ft deep. The CMDA could not give any quantity of the volume or weight of waste (paper cups, plates, flowers and ropes) that had been cleaned from the ghats. Metro visited two of the ghats at Jodhpur Park and close to Fortis Hospital in Anandapur on Saturday afternoon. Both the ghats looked reasonably clean. Some flowers were strewn near the gates of the Anandapur ghat. At Jodhpur Park, the wooden platforms and steps were still to be dismantled. “The wooden structures will be removed by Sunday or Monday,” a CMDA official said. On Friday, a CMDA official had said that the ghats at Jodhpur Park and near Fortis Hospital recorded the highest turnout. The picture was similar on Saturday morning, too. Chhath Puja rituals are performed at dusk and at dawn. “We started cleaning the ghats soon after all devotees had left. Our teams had been kept ready near the ghats,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-230
22-11-2020||Calcutta||Met spies mercury  dip from today||After a warm and cloudy spell that culminated in rain, the mercury is set to dip in Calcutta from Sunday, the Met office has said. The minimum temperature had been several notches above normal for the past few days. On Friday, the minimum temperature reached 23.8 degrees Celsius, four degrees above normal. The moisture content in the air was above normal for this time of the year. The result: sweaty conditions had returned. A Met official attributed the rise in temperature to a cyclonic circulation over interior Odisha and a high-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal. Together, these two systems had led to cloud formation over the city and a rise in the moisture content, stalling the northwesterly winds that bring the chill, the official said. The clouds triggered a spell of sharp rain in the early hours of Saturday and a drizzle or two throughout the day. Till 8.30pm, the Met office had recorded around 25mm of rain in Alipore. Most of Saturday was cloudy. The sun hardly came out. The systems have lost strength and will dissipate by Sunday, paving the way for the fresh entry of cold and dry northwesterly winds from the upper reaches of India. “The temperature is expected to slide by four or five notches in the next two days,” a Met official said. The sky is expected to start clearing from Sunday. A clear sky will accelerate the dip in temperature, the official said. “By Monday, the minimum temperature is expected to reach 17-18 degrees Celsius. The bite of the northwesterly winds will be felt in the city,” he said. The cold spell is tipped to last till Thursday by when a depression will reach the Tamil Nadu coast, the official said. “The system is a low-pressure area over the Equatorial Indian Ocean and adjoining central parts of South Bay of Bengal now. It will intensify into a depression by the time it reaches the Tamil Nadu coast. The system will trigger the flow of moisture-laden easterly winds into south Bengal, which will again stall the northwesterly winds.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-230
22-11-2020||Calcutta||Wings at ease at Rabindra Sarobar||Rabindra Sarobar looked fresh on Saturday; its waters without any solid waste or layer of oil and birds chirping and flying around the place. The state pollution control board will collect water samples from Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar on Monday for tests. The results will be available after a fortnight, an official said. A birdwatcher who visited Rabindra Sarobar on Saturday afternoon said he noticed 19 species of birds either flying or in their nests. “There were Cormorants, Paradise Flycatchers, Taiga Flycatchers — long-distance migratory birds — and Painted Storks,” Sudip Ghosh said. Another birdwatcher said Painted Storks were a threatened Indian species and that they were seen in Rabindra Sarobar after many years. Birdwatchers had earlier complained that birds used to leave the Sarobar after Chhath Puja celebrations every year and some of the species never returned. Taiga Flycatcher is a long-distance migratory bird, with its origin in Russia, Ghosh said. Rabindra Sarobar is home to three species of turtles, Common Toads, Bullfrogs, Cricket Frogs, Skittering Frogs, squirrels, about 60 species of butterflies, about 30 species of dragonflies, and snakes. “The noise of music and firecrackers used to scare away the birds. Last year, a dead turtle was found floating in the waters after Chhath Puja. It was suspected that it died because of the polluted water,” a daily visitor said. Thousands of Chhath Puja devotees used to enter both the complexes, which are home to multiple birds and other animals, to perform rituals every year. The rituals include taking a dip in the waters, pouring milk into the water, and floating lamps. Oil spills from the lamps and form a film above the water, which is difficult to remove. Besides, some people burst firecrackers and play loud music. “The oil impedes the mixing of atmospheric oxygen into the water, which is required by aquatic animals… it can severely affect aquatic animals,” an ecologist said. This year, Chhath Puja was not performed in Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar as the Supreme Court has upheld the high court’s ban on pujas at the two places. Rajesh Kumar, the member secretary of West Bengal Pollution Control Board, said on Saturday “water samples would be collected from both Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar on Monday”. A board scientist said the analysis of the water samples would show the dissolved oxygen, the biological oxygen demand and the water’s coliform count, among other parameters. “The dissolved oxygen (DO) will show if there is adequate presence of oxygen in the water for aquatic organisms. The biological oxygen demand (BOD) will show whether there is too much material in the water that will consume the dissolved oxygen to get decomposed. More the BOD, more is the threat of aquatic organisms finding it difficult to get oxygen from water,” the scientist said. The coliform count suggests whether the water is fit to drink, the scientist said. “We had taken samples before Chhath Puja. The two samples can be compared to see if the water has been tampered with.” Both Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar, which were closed to visitors from Thursday midnight, reopened at 3pm on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-230
22-11-2020||Calcutta||Covid turns musician into guard||This time last year an octapad player had been playing in front of boisterous crowds in musical soirees that would roll late into the night four days a week. This year, he has been spending the nights as a guard manning an Alipore apartment. A 50-year-old percussionist shifted seamlessly between a djembe and a conga drum during musical shows, keeping up the tempo with fellow musicians. Two months ago, he had to sell both to sustain his family. The pandemic has brought to a halt the musical evenings synonymous with this season, posing a livelihood challenge to hundreds of musicians and singers. For musical troupes, the “season” used to start with Ganesh Puja in September and last till March. Post Kali Puja to New Year used to be the “peak time”. Troupes used to perform in and outside Calcutta, some travelling outside the state as well during the festive season. The budget of a modest open-air performance in Calcutta — with a singer and basic musicians playing the guitar, bass guitar, keyboard and drums — would start from around Rs 20,000, organisers said. With more established singers and specialised instruments, the budget would go up. A “mega event” with “singers from Bombay and reality shows” would cost more than Rs 1 lakh. Hundreds of musicians and singers who performed in such events are out of work now. Some of them have been forced to look for other ways of income. Some have been selling their instruments. Most have loaned money, some by mortgaging or selling jewellery. Biswajit Das — a Kishore-kanthi (the ubiquitous term for aspiring singers who have modelled themselves on Kishore Kumar) — used to get “12 to 15” monthly contracts on average between September and March. In November and December, he did the maximum number of shows, often back-to-back ones. In the first week of March, he had done two shows — in Uluberia and Diamond Harbour. Since then, there has been none. Das, a freelancer, used to earn more than Rs 30,000 a month during the peak season by performing with multiple troupes. “I used to spend the entire year with my income of six months. The income has so far been zero this year. I have had to borrow money to meet my expenses.” Das lives with his wife and seven-year-old daughter. Stanley Anthony, 50, has spent close to three decades as a percussionist, dabbling in a range of instruments from the Indian dhol to the African djembe. A freelancer, Anthony used to “work non-stop” from September to March and “practise non-stop” from March to September. “I am getting old and I have stiff competition from younger performers. This year, there is no show and no competition,” Anthony who has raised three daughters with the money he made from music said. When the shows dried up, he dug into his savings and took a loan against an insurance policy for the first few months. In August, he had to sell two instruments because he needed more money. “A djembe and a conga drum together fetched Rs 30,000, good enough for the next few months. I don’t know what will happen after that,” Anthony, who lives in Mominpore, said. In an order issued on November 1, the state government had said the assembly size in open areas maybe fixed “keeping the size of the ground/space in view and with strict observance of social distancing, mandatory wearing of face masks, provision of thermal scanning and hand wash or sanitiser”. Since then, a handful of places in Calcutta has seen resumption of musical programmes as part of Bijoya Sammilani. But the number is miniscule. Most organisers said they were still to get their first contract of the season. Sanjay Seal, founder of Swan Musical Tour, had travelled to Hyderabad with his troupe during Diwali last year. “We had enthralled the Hyderabad audience,” Seal, who plays the bass guitar, said. His last performance was on March 16, at a “musical night” in Sarisha, South 24-Parganas. “It is painful to look at the members of my troupe. Some of them are finding it hard to earn two square meals a day,” Seal, who in the past had to turn down many organisers because of his packed schedule, said. Some of the city-based groups have started getting their feet back on ground since the resumption of live performances — through a government order — in the run-up to Durga Puja. These groups were regular performers at prominent clubs in Calcutta. Live performances at clubs are still to take off but the groups have been getting contracts for private parties with a curtailed audience. The wedding season has boosted their prospects. But even then things are not what they used to be. “Performances have been reduced to half the usual number this year. Clubs are shut. Many corporate events that used to happen around this time of the year have stopped. But marriages, sangeet ceremonies and other private occasions have kept us afloat. Considering the situation from March to September, I cannot complain,” Imran Qaisar, a singer and leader of a musical troupe that used to play regularly at the Dalhousie Institute, said. But many others are still to find something they can hold on to. One of Seal’s troupe members, who used to play the octapad, took up the job of a guard at an Alipore apartment in August. “I was sitting at home without earning anything. I could not say no to Rs 6,000 a month,” the man in his late 40s, the sole earning member in a family of five, said. He requested not to be named. Another organiser, Prashanta Dey Sarkar, has been making ends meet by brokering on small-time real estate deals in the Behala and Tollygunge areas. “We can only pray that the situation improves,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-231
22-11-2020||Calcutta||Assault on Xavier’s teacher: 1 arrested||The brother of a resident of the cooperative housing society in New Town where a St Xavier’s College teacher stays has been arrested in connection with the assault on the teacher and his family. Ankur Roy, the head of the chemistry department at St Xavier’s College, had lodged a complaint with New Town police station on the night of November 17 against one of his neighbours, a teacher of a Malda college. He had alleged that the teacher’s relatives were involved in the attack on him and his family over parking of vehicles. Murshed Alam, in his late 20s, the brother of the Malda college teacher, was arrested on Saturday based on Roy’s complaint. Alam hails from Raghunathganj in Murshidabad and he had been staying at his brother’s fourth-floor flat in the housing society in AL Block, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. Roy is the head of the chemistry department at St Xavier’s College. His wife is a teacher at another college. Roy knows Alam and he had named him in the complaint, police said. In his complaint, Roy had said that he returned home with his wife, son and daughter after a medical check-up and parked his car at “the usual spot in the parking lot of his AL Block flat”. After parking the vehicle as his wife and children began walking towards the lift, at least five men, led by Alam, attacked them with iron pipes, he had alleged in the complaint. The men fled as neighbours came to their rescue. They had taken Roy and his family to the Salt Lake Sub-divisional Hospital where he was given first aid. He later went to a private hospital off the Bypass with his family. On Saturday, Roy told Metro that he was happy as the police had arrested the man who had led the attack on him and his family. “The brutality of the attack still haunts me. They had hammers, iron pipes… they did not even spare my children. My wife has been left with a broken arm; both of us cannot walk properly as we were hit repeatedly on our legs. I hope the other men are arrested soon,” Roy said. Alam’s family members have filed a counter complaint alleging they were assaulted by Roy and his family at New Town police station, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. Cops are questioning Alam and a search is on for the other men who were part of the attack, another officer said. Alam has been charged with various sections of the IPC, including 307 (attempt to murder), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman to outrage her modesty), 341 (wrongful restraint), and 326 (causing grievous hurt using weapons). The charges carry a maximum punishment of 10 years in jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-231
22-11-2020||Calcutta||Central Modern School head passes away||Central Modern School principal Nabarun De, who was an executive committee member of the ICSE council for close to a decade, died early on Saturday at his Salt Lake home. He was 55. De suffered a cardiac arrest. He is survived by his wife, daughter and son. He took over the reins of the Central Modern School, Baranagar, as principal in 2005 after the death of his father. The executive committee is the decision-making body of the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE). “He was one of the five members of the executive committee and the only representative from Bengal. He played a pivotal role in taking decisions with regard to the council,” said Sujoy Biswas, national president of the Association of Schools for the Indian School Certificate Examinations. De was the joint secretary of the  all-India chapter of the association and a former secretary of the Bengal chapter. On Saturday, teachers, staff, former students and parents went to the school to pay their tributes. “He had granted over 20 per cent fee waiver to some parents in the initial days of the pandemic. Many of them came today,” said vice principal Sangeeta Basu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-231
22-11-2020||Calcutta||Milind Soman to  join hill run today||The hills will be alive with the sound of running shoes. The Darjeeling Hill Marathon, the largest run in north Bengal will be held on Sunday. Celebrities like supermodel-actor and fitness promoter Milind Soman and singer Kailash Kher have reached the town, along with a host of runners from across the country. “Cold weather, warmest hospitality,” tweeted Soman on reaching Darjeeling. The event, now in its seventh year, has been classified into two categories — 21.1km and 10km. The run will be flagged off at 7am on Sunday. It will start and end at Chowrasta. Police in Darjeeling, the organiser of the event, have put up a number of traffic curbs in the hill town from 6am to 10am on Sunday for a smooth run. “We won’t issue any token for sightseeing to Tiger Hill on Sunday. All vehicles, including two-wheelers, except those on medical emergency duty will not be allowed to ply between Singamari and Jorebungalow for four hours from 6am on race day,” Dorjee Sherpa, office-in-charge, Darjeeling traffic, said. The 21.1km run will begin from Chowrasta and take the Mahakal Baba temple route to reach Singamari before turning to Darjeeling town to reach Jorebungalow and hitting the INA Bypass Road to reach Clubside, Robertson Road and Chowrasta. “For the 10km run, the route will be the same except that runners will take DB Giri Road for Kakjhora,” Sherpa said. Those who park their vehicles by the roadside along this route have been asked to remove their vehicles from Saturday evening. Around 1,500 runners have signed for the 10km run while 500 more participants will compete in the 21.1km run. Soman, who is the brand ambassador of the run, will participate in the 21.1km run. The police have promised to make the run a lively affair. The route of the run has been internationally certified and the run will feature in the international marathon calendar from this edition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-231
22-11-2020||Calcutta||Two-year-old drowns in canal while playing||The body of a two-year-old boy was fished out of the Bagjola canal near Polenite on the outskirts of Sector V on Saturday, police said. Sujay Biswas was playing with his 10-year-old brother and two other boys from the locality when he went missing, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. Unable to find him, his brother alerted their parents and neighbours. Together they launched a search for the toddler, the officer said. His parents alerted Sector V police station. Multiple police teams fanned out in various directions and cops on motorcycles went looking for the boy near Hatgachha in Rajarhat and in the Calcutta Leather Complex area, another officer said. A sniffer dog was taken to the spot. Cops started a door-to-door search of all houses in the area but they could not find the toddler. Polenite, a 15-minute drive from Sector V, comprises a cluster of tenements along the banks of the Bagjola canal. Most residents work as domestic helps, plumbers and electricians. When every search drew a blank, the police cast fishing nets in the canal and found the toddler’s body. Cops alerted the family and some members identified him, an officer said. “We are investigating the death from every angle. Preliminary investigations have shown the boy probably got detached from the group and wandered towards the canal. He might have slipped and fallen into the canal when nobody was looking,” an officer of the commissionerate said. The place from where the toddler’s body was fished out is around 200m from his house, the police said. The police have started a case of unnatural death though the family hasn’t lodged any complaint so far. The body has been sent for post-mortem, an officer said. A piece of concrete fell from the second floor of a five-storied building on NS Road around 2.15 pm on Saturday. The building from where the chunk fell is abandoned. Habibul Sattar Khan, a worker at a garment shop nearby, was injured on his left leg. Police admitted him to a hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-231
22-11-2020||Calcutta||The lessons we must learn from the pandemic||The coronavirus suddenly sprang into our daily consciousness with the beginning of 2020. It has become our agonising obsession, the killer of our joys of life, the single devastating destroyer of our liberty of movement, the ruthless demon to incarcerate us within the confinement of our homes, the mindlessly cruel snatcher of millions of jobs. It is nothing short of never-ending darkness, though a day dawns every morning with ill-concealed gloominess in our benighted globe. Every child is taught to wear masks and observe social distancing. Heaven does not get a chance to dance around him or her infancy, as the shadows of the prison house darken. The undying hope of an effective vaccine is still a faint light at the end of the long tunnel. The horror of the pestilence is still raging. We have perhaps unlearnt everything we have assiduously learnt from our childhood. We have been oblivious of the oft-taught virtues of good neighbourliness. We no longer care for remaining socially close and helpful, for repaying our debts to parents and ageing grandparents, to our society and mother earth. The coronavirus is perhaps wielding her furious lash to punish our self-centredness and foolish shortsightedness. Where coronavirus appeared as a swift moving, quick-killing demon and our fragile economy started falling like a house of cards, the heart-rending sight of helpless, famished men, women and children in thousands trying to trek back home after losing their jobs and shelter, facing the fury of the pitiless sun, walking with weary legs, was too deep for our tears. The all-knowing God and the governing authorities had been busy otherwise with little time for alleviation of this inhuman plight of man. Political bickerings on failure of administration to prevent this human tragedy on our roads, even rail tracks and national highways, brought no succour to the distressed walkers. The destination they reached at long last did not prove to be EL Dorado. The unfortunate migrant labourers deserved a warm welcome and more assistance, government and private, to meet their minimum human needs. Our GDP is fast falling. Government treasury is depleting menacingly. Private business is yet to pick up to regenerate employment. Those who are attacked with this virus are under a panic about getting hospital beds for effective, clean and caring treatment at affordable cost. The surge in the pandemic, again and again, had its toll on the lives of the frontline workers like medical and nursing staff and police personnel. Our failure to eradicate this pandemic should not provide an occasion for mudslinging among rival parties. If Covid-19 wins and people continue to fall victims, no political or electoral victory will be a real and lasting one. When will humanity, irrespective of caste, colour and creed, find glory in the eradication of this pandemic and in creating a mutually assisting war-free, hate-free economy when an arms race will not suck away funds, but generate funds for creation of jobs, supplying food and shelter for all and education for all children. A lasting, prosperous and peaceful time with benediction for all will be a real bastion against the invasion of Covid-19. The roar of cannon balls, the blast of bombs and persecution of people holding opposite and different political opinions should have been stopped by now to meet the challenge of the pandemic. Then this pandemic would have been a blessing in disguise and will peter out if united we stand determined to win over this global menace. The pandemic has placed us in the tragic situation of helplessly witnessing our near and dear ones become casualties. Death of a friend, relative or neighbour, because of Covid, worsened by preexisting comorbidity or not, is simply a number added to rising mortality. The so-called celebrity among them receives the eager attention of the otherwise complacent TV watchers with an insatiable hunger for sensational news. As the day of the availability of vaccine recedes, let us not sink in despair. Let us find glory not in personal agrandisement but in non-egoistic embracing of a simple, internally rich lifestyle shining with love and service to the poorest of the poor and the lowliest of the low. A vaccine-protected long life sans these human developments will be a tinsel glory only. It is said that coronavirus has changed the world and the worst hit are the students. The schools and colleges have perhaps shut their classrooms to old — fashioned traditional mode of learning and teaching. The catechetical method of teaching, the inspiring and edifying talks of the teachers, the lively queries of the inquisitive learners, made more expressive with their body language, are perhaps lamentably things of the past.  Eyes glued to the screens of computers or smartphones, ears turned to the torrents of words coming through the videos, devoid of warm human surroundings, are all that is needed to pursue scholarship in accordance with the syllabus. There is no chance for the wavering eyes to look askance through the window of the classroom at the dancing parrots in the neighbouring foliage or at the white pieces of clouds. The wonderful diversity of the world has been forced to reduce itself to a small instrument with a screen which relentlessly demands undivided attention of the young learners. Only the future will tell whether this system has begotten brilliant men who are eager to follow knowledge beyond the utmost bound of human thoughts. The office spaces are awfully empty as the employees are allowed to work from home. Though the empty spaces may pinch the purse of the companies, this has to be tolerated. The employers must have sustainable dividend or revenue to keep the system going without perpetual indebtedness. Our economy and business must respond quickly to this shock of lockdown so that no employee is cashiered or dismissed. Human ingenuity and will must overcome this global crisis with real success before which all military triumphs of the mighty warlords will fade. We are not yet sure why this deadly virus has appeared. We must be more ecologically, scientifically and morally concerned to adopt the best practices when utilising our natural resources of air, sunshine, water, energy, mines, fields, forests, hills and also obviously our flora and fauna, to avoid disaster. All our projects, government and private, must be transparently made with concern for permanent benefit with dignity for all men, especially the vulnerable and the marginalised in our community. The community spread of Covid-19 will surely stop; but the above noted virus of criminal unconcern about anybody but my own opulence seeking self may survive to spread venom. Just waiting and waiting for the vaccine with bated breath, keeping in abeyance all endeavours for socio-economic, morally sound humanitarian and altruistic improvements of our growing human families, above caste, colour, race and nation, will not bring an end to the all-devouring illness. The war to end coronavirus should demand the end of all military wars that divide and destroy human society. A global human society united in peace and brotherhood will be more than sufficient to rebuild our shattered economy for the good of all human beings. May our victory over Covid 19 usher in such a brave new world. Dilip Kumar Ghoshal is a retired IAS officer||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-231
22-11-2020||Business||Harley Davidson dealers miffed with compensation package||Dealers of Harley Davidson, the American motorcycle company that has pulled out of the Indian market, are cut up about the compensation package being offered to them. Harley Davidson had entered the Indian market in 2009 and had established a dealer network of 33 before pulling out of the market in October 2020 as part of its global restructuring programme. The company has entered into a distribution and licence agreement with Hero MotoCorp, the largest two-wheeler manufacturer in India. Of the 33 dealers, about 10 to 15 might continue with Hero. Most of them are unhappy with the compensation package offered by the company and might take the legal route. Adarsh Tulsyan, who runs the sole Harley dealership in Calcutta and another one in Ranchi, said: “I have to close the Ranchi dealership for which I invested Rs 2 crore. Harley is offering Rs 1,500 per square feet with a 10 per cent depreciation year-on-year and six months sales support. My dealership is nine years old. That means they will deduct 90 per cent as depreciation.” As Tulsyan will be continuing his Calcutta dealership with Hero, he may lose this compensation package as the company has said it will not pay dealers who are going to continue with Hero. “We are still negotiating but time is running out,” said Tulsyan. Harley-Davidson on Saturday issued an official statement. Sajeev Rajasekharan, managing director — Asia emerging markets & India, said: “Harley-Davidson motorcycles, parts and accessories and general merchandise sales, as well as after-sale services and warranty will continue from January 2021 onwards.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-228
22-11-2020||Business||RBI initiates special audit of Srei firms||The Reserve Bank of India has initiated a special audit of Srei Infrastructure Finance and its subsidiary Srei Equipment Finance. Srei Infrastructure Finance in a statement to bourses on Friday said the RBI in exercise of its powers under section 45 MA(3) of RBI Act, 1934 has initiated a special audit being undertaken by an auditor appointed by the regulator. A special audit is typically undertaken if there is a deterioration in the quality of the lender’s book and the regulator is of the opinion that it is necessary to do so in public interest or in the interest of depositors. Last week, Srei Infrastructure Finance had reported a consolidated profit after tax of Rs 4.72 crore in the September quarter of 2020 against Rs 23.01 crore in the June quarter of 2020.  The assets under management also shrank to Rs 43,339 crore from Rs 44,213 crore as on June 30, 2020. In the first six months of the ongoing fiscal, the consolidated net non performing assets also increased to 6.6 per cent compared with 6.2 per cent a year ago. The consolidated net worth as of September end was Rs 4,064 crore with borrowings of Rs 31,435 crore. Industry observers pointed out that the move comes at a time the NBFC sector has been facing a double whammy of Covid-19 related business disruption and market access constraints in the aftermath of the IL&FS crisis. Both Srei Infrastructure Finance and Srei Equipment Finance are classified as Systemically Important NBFCs. Fitch group firm India Ratings & Research has estimated the growth in assets under management for NBFCs to remain flat in 2020-21. “Although the liquidity and funding environment has improved for better rated entities post July, there would be asset quality issues impacting overall profitability in FY21 and beyond. Thus, NBFCs have increased their focus on collections and have tightened underwriting standards; portfolio growth would take a back seat,” the ratings firm said. Last year, Srei had decided to consolidate the lending business with a focus on equipment finance and prepare the grounds for an eventual foray into banking.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-228
22-11-2020||Business||Former Bank of India boss joins Indiabulls||The board of mortgage lender Indiabulls Housing Finance on Saturday approved the appointment of Dinabandhu Mohapatra as an independent director of the company with effect from November 23. Mohapatra was the former managing director and CEO of Bank of India (BoI). The latest appointment could reflect its banking ambitions and it comes just a day after an RBI panel chaired by its central board director P.K. Mohanty recommended that large non-banks with an asset size of Rs 50,000 crore, including those which are owned by a corporate house, be allowed to convert to banks. Last October, the RBI had rejected a proposal to merge Indiabulls Housing Finance with Lakshmi Vilas Bank, following allegations that money worth thousands of crores were siphoned off by its founder and the directors. Subsequently, the petitioner who had approached the Supreme Court alleging the misappropriation of funds withdrew the plea made against the founder. In August this year, Indiabulls Housing Finance had announced the appointment of former RBI deputy governor Subhash Sheoratan Mundra as its non-executive chairman. Dinabandhu Mohapatra is a seasoned banker with a career spanning over three decades, during which he held various high level positions, including executive director of Canara Bank and CEO of the Hong Kong and Singapore centres of BoI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-228
22-11-2020||Business||Mukesh Ambani pitches for reforms in renewable energy||Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) chairman Mukesh Ambani on Saturday said India needs disruptive solutions in renewable, low carbon and carbon recycle technologies as well as breakthroughs in renewable energy and innovations in storage and utilisation to achieve  the twin goals of becoming an economic and a clean-and-green energy superpower. “By the middle of the century, the world will use twice as much energy as we use today. In the next two decades, India’s own per capita energy needs will be more than twice as much as today,” Ambani said. Speaking at the 8th convocation of Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay University (PDPU), the RIL chief forecast an “explosive and exponential growth” in the Indian economy in the post-Covid era. Ambani, who is also the president of the board of governors of PDPU, said India had entered a crucial phase in its fight against coronavirus and cannot afford to let the guard down at this juncture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-228
22-11-2020||Business||Big goals for oil refining, gas use||The country plans to nearly double its oil refining capacity in the next five years and reduce carbon footprint by 30-35 per cent by increasing the use of natural gas by four times this decade, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday. Setting an aggressive timeline for the energy sector despite the Covid-19 pandemic, Modi, who was speaking at the convocation ceremony of Pandit Deendayal Petroleum University (PDPU), said, “In the oil and gas sector alone, crores of rupees are going to be invested during this decade, so you (students) have a lot of opportunities in this field.” Modi’s comment on doubling the refining capacity seems to suggest that the government hasn’t quite dropped its plans for a massive 60-million-tonne per annum refinery in the west coast in which Aramco of Saudi Arabia and Adnoc of Abu Dhabi had agreed to partner public sector giants such as IOC. The project had appeared to run aground after facing land acquisition problems in Maharashtra’s Ratnagiri district a couple of years ago and some talk of disagreements between the partners. Further, given the government’s natural gas ambition, India may conclude lucrative long-term LNG contracts now at a time the world is facing an LNG glut. Petronet LNG had struck LNG supply contracts with RasGas of Qatar and Exxon for gas from Australia’s Gorgon project that have proved to be exorbitant. New LNG deals at substantially reduced prices might enable Petronet LNG to renegotiate the Qatar and Australian deals after overcoming strong resistance from those countries. Modi also expressed confidence that the country will achieve its renewable energy generation target “before time”. “Today, the per unit cost (of solar power) has come down to less than Rs 2 from Rs 12-13 earlier. Today, solar power has become the country’s priority. We have made a commitment to generate 175 gigawatt renewable energy and I am confident that we will achieve this before 2022,” he said. “Also, our renewable energy target of 450 gigawatt by 2030, a big aim, will be achieved before time...I am confident of that,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-228
22-11-2020||India||Senior operator dies on duty at steel city||A senior operator at Tata Steel's LD-1 plant died in the early hours of Sunday, while he was on duty. The 51-year-old Bhaiya Lal, a resident of Jugsalai was on C-shift ( night shift ) duty during the wee hours of Sunday when he collapsed suddenly on the ground at around 5:30 am. He was rushed to the Tata Main Hospital (TMH) immediately after receiving emergency treatment, along with the doctor on duty. The TMH emergency ward declared him ‘brought dead’ when they reached the hospital. While doctors suspect cardiac arrest as the reason of death, the cause will be clear only after post-mortem of the body. Lal’s body was later sent to the morgue, from where it will be taken at MGM Medical College in Dimna for post-mortem, as part of necessary medical protocol. Members of the Tata Workers Union (TWU), the INTUC-affiliated union of the company, reached the hospital soon after receiving the news of Lal’s death. Kulvin Suri, Chief of Corporate Communications, Tata Steel, also expressed grief at the news. “We are extremely sorry over the sudden death  of the employee.The family has been informed and the company expresses deep sense of grief and stands by the family in this difficult moment,” he said in a statement. He added that the bereaved family will receive aid as per company policy. “Tata Steel is committed to the health and safety of its employees and continuously strive towards ensuring a safe workplace for all its employees,” Suri said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-542
22-11-2020||India||Delhi air quality remains poor, likely to decline further||The air quality in Delhi remained in the ‘poor’ category on Sunday when government agencies said it might witness a further decline as a result of unfavourable meteorological conditions. The 24-hour average Air Quality Index of the national capital was recorded at 274 on Sunday. It was  251 on Saturday, 296 on Friday, 283 on Thursday and 211 on Wednesday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". The Centre’s Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi informed that the air quality of the Delhi-NCR is likely to slip into the “very poor” category on Monday because of unfavourable meteorological conditions. “The predominant surface wind direction was northwesterly and the maximum wind speed 12 kmph on Sunday,” adding that the wind speed may drop to 8 kmph on Monday. It said that the AQI may remain at the upper ends of the “very poor” category on Tuesday and Friday. The Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR, said on Saturday, 649 farm fire counts were recorded over Punjab, Haryana and adjoining regions. Stubble burning accounted for 12 per cent of Delhi's PM2.5 pollution on Sunday. It was 13 per cent on Saturday, 15 per cent on Friday, 20 per cent on Thursday and eight per cent on Wednesday. The minimum temperature settled at 6.9 degrees Celsius on Sunday, the lowest in the month of November in 17 years, according to IMD. Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion. Delhi's ventilation index -- a product of mixing depth and average wind speed was around 6,500 m2/s on Sunday and is likely to drop to 1,500 m2/s on Monday and Tuesday. Mixing depth is the vertical height in which pollutants are suspended in the air. It reduces on cold days with calm wind speed. A ventilation index lower than 6,000 sqm/second, with the average wind speed less than 10 kmph, is unfavourable for dispersal of pollutants. Earlier in the day, Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai said the Public Works Department has installed 23 anti-smog guns and deployed 150 tankers for water sprinkling at key intersections and construction sites to reduce dust pollution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-542
22-11-2020||India||Vaccine:  Govt scouting for modalities of emergency approval ||The Centre is exploring modalities of providing emergency authorisation and license to use Covid-19 vaccines pending phase III clinical trials and regular licensure. In a recent meeting attended by NITI Aayog Member (Health) Vinod Paul, Principal Scientific Advisor to the government K VijayRaghavan and Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan, issues relating to advance purchase commitment for vaccines were discussed as well. The matter of pricing of the vaccines was also tabled at the meeting. "It was decided that the PMO-constituted Vaccine Task Force (VTF) will lay down the principles for emergency use authorisation while the National Expert Group On Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 (NEGVAC) should take the lead in setting the principles for advance market commitment, including vaccine pricing," a source said. This comes amid a time when companies like Moderna and Pfizer have sought emergency use authorisation of their Covid-19 vaccines from the US regulators. In India, five vaccines are under different phases of trial. The Serum Institute of India is conducting the phase-three trial of the Oxford-AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine, while Bharat Biotech and ICMR have already started the phase-three trial of the indigenously developed COVAXIN jab. An indigenously developed vaccine by Zydus Cadila has completed phase-two clinical trials in the country. Dr Reddy's Laboratories will soon start the combined phase two and three trials of the Russian COVID-19 vaccine Sputnik V in India. According to the source, an urgent meeting of the vaccine task force (VTF) with experts will be convened to review the scientific status of vaccines globally and whether, if so how and when should the decision on emergency authorisation of vaccines be taken. The terms of references for two major bodies dealing with vaccine introduction -- the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) and the Central Drug Standards and Control Organisation (CDSCO) -- will be set and their roles clearly defined for authorisation and emergency authorisation. “It was also agreed at the meeting that one point of contact will be responsible for examining and responding to authorisations given (or in the pipeline), globally”, the source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-542
22-11-2020||India||Central teams going to 3 more states to help tackle Covid-19 ||The Centre rushed high-level teams to states including Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh on Sunday for Covid-19 response and management support in the states. These states have been reporting either a rise in the number of active coronavirus cases or a spike in the number of fresh cases, the Union health ministry said on Sunday. "These three-member teams will visit districts reporting a high number of COVID-19 cases and support the state efforts towards strengthening containment, surveillance, testing, infection prevention and control measures, and efficient clinical management of the positive cases,” the ministry said. "The central teams shall also guide in effectively managing the challenges related to timely diagnosis and follow up," it added. Days earlier, high-level multidisciplinary teams were sent to Rajasthan, Haryana, Gujarat and Sikkim. At the moment, India’s active Covid-19 caseload stands at 4,40,962 and makes up for 4.85 per cent of the total cases as the national recovery rate has jumped to  93.69 per cent. Over the past 24 hours, the country has reported 43,493 new recoveries taking the total recovered cases to 85,21,617. "The gap between recovered and active cases is steadily increasing and presently stands at 80,80,655," the health ministry said on Sunday. It highlighted that 26 states and Union Territories have less than 20,000 active cases as of today while  7 states and UTs have active cases between 20,000 and 50,000. On the other hand, Maharashtra and Kerala have more than 50,000 active cases of Covid-19. While Delhi saw 6,963 patients recovering from the disease, Kerala and Maharashtra reported 6,719 and 4,088 new recoveries respectively. Meanwhile, 10 states and UTs contribute to 77.68 per cent of the new recovered cases. On Sunday, health ministry data showed a spike of 45,209 new cases of Covid-19 over the last 24 hours, of which 10 states and UTs contributed to 76.81 per cent. Fifteen states and UTs are reporting less than the national average of cases per million population. Besides, 76.45 per cent of the 501 case fatalities that have been reported in a day are from ten states and UTs. Of the new fatalities, 22.16 per cent are from Delhi which reported 111 deaths. Maharashtra saw a fatality count of 62 while West Bengal reported another 53. Thirteen states and UTs are reporting higher than the national average of fatality rate (1.46 per cent), the ministry said. Twenty-one states and UTs are reporting lower than the national average of deaths per million (96). Fourteen states and UTs have more deaths per million population than the national average (96). India's COVID-19 caseload mounted to 90,95,806 with 45,209 infections being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 1,33,227 with 501 new fatalities, health ministry data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-542
22-11-2020||India||NCB arrests comedian Bharti Singh’s husband Harsh Limbachiya||A day after the arrest of comedian Bharti Singh, her husband Harsh Limbachiya was also arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau on Sunday following the seizure of drugs from their house here, NCB officials said. Following the incident, Singh and Limbachiya were remanded to judicial custody till December 4 by a Mumbai court on Sunday. The couple was produced before a magistrates court in Mumbai this afternoon, after the NCB arrested Singh on Saturday evening and Limbachiya on Sunday morning in connection with the ongoing probe regarding the use of drugs in Bollywood and the entertainment industry. "The court has remanded both the accused to judicial custody till December 4," NCB prosecutor Atul Sarpande said. The court will hear their bail pleas, which the couple filed soon after the hearing, on Monday. The NCB searched the house and office of Bharti, who plays the character of Titli Yadav in The Kapil Sharma Show, on Saturday morning as part of its probe into alleged drug use in the Hindi film industry. The NCB recovered 86.5 grams of ganja during the search, the agency said in a release. The team that searched Bharti’s residence at Lokhandwala Complex, as well as her production house based on a tip-off, was led by Sameer Wankhede. "Both Ms. Bharti Singh and her husband Harsh Limbachiya accepted consumption of ganja," an NCB release earlier said. The couple along with two others arrested in the case were produced before the court here after their medical examination. "Singh's name had cropped up during the interrogation of a drug peddler," the official said. The quantity allegedly seized from Singh's possession is considered as "small quantity" under the Act, as against "commercial quantity", an NCB official said. Up to 1,000 gm of ganja is considered a small quantity, which attracts a jail term of up to six months and/or a fine of Rs 10,000. Possession of commercial quantity – 20 kg or more – can attract up to 20 years in jail. For the quantity in between, the punishment can be as much as 10 years in jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-542
22-11-2020||India||Delhi records coldest November morning, cold wave hits parts of the city ||Delhi's minimum temperature dropped to 6.9 degrees Celsius on Sunday, the lowest in the month of November since 2003, as a cold wave swept parts of the city. The national capital had recorded a minimum of 7.5 degrees Celsius on Friday, the lowest in the month in 14 years, according to the India Meteorological Department. "The Safdarjung Observatory which provides representative data for the city recorded a minimum of 6.9 degrees Celsius. It is Delhi's lowest minimum temperature in the month since November 2003, when the city recorded a minimum of 6.1 degrees Celsius," said Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting center. The mercury dropped to 6.1 degrees Celsius at the Palam weather station, he said. For the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than normal for two consecutive days. However, for small areas such as Delhi, a cold wave can be declared if the criteria are fulfilled even for a day, Srivastava said. Delhi had recorded the lowest minimum temperature of 11.5 degrees Celsius last year, 10.5 degrees Celsius in 2018 and 7.6 degrees Celsius in 2017 in the month of November. The all-time record for the lowest minimum temperature in November is 3.9 degrees Celsius recorded on November 28, 1938. Srivastava said icy cold winds blowing from snow-laden western Himalayas have led to a dip in the mercury. However, the minimum temperature will rise by two to three degrees Celsius in the next four to five days under the influence of a fresh Western Disturbance. The minimum temperature this month, barring November 16, has remained 2-3 degrees Celsius below normal in the absence of a cloud cover, according to IMD officials. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground. The month of October was the coldest in 58 years in the national capital. The mean minimum temperature in October this year was 17.2 degrees Celsius, the lowest since 1962 when it was 16.9 degrees Celsius.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-542
22-11-2020||India||Surgery nod for postgraduate doctors in Ayurveda||Postgraduate doctors in Ayurveda may now be trained for and practise as many as 58 surgical procedures including abdominal, cataract and nasal surgeries and excisions of certain benign tumours under a central government directive that has surprised sections of modern surgeons. The Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM), the apex regulatory body for traditional medicine, has in a notification said MS (Ayurveda) scholars may receive practical training to “independently perform” 39 general surgery procedures and 19 procedures involving the ear, nose, throat and eye. Some of these procedures were already being conducted by Ayurveda doctors holding MS (master of surgery) certificates. But this is the first time that the 58 procedures have been specified and codified in a gazette notification. The notification adds a subsection to the existing Postgraduate Ayurveda Education Regulations 2016, which lists the 58 procedures MS Ayurveda postgraduates can perform independently. Some allopathic doctors said that if such would-be Ayurveda surgeons had been receiving training for years and already practising their skills after the training, the purpose of the notification was not clear. But two CCIM members said the gazette notification was a legal requirement. The notification has angered the Indian Medical Association (IMA), the country’s largest body of modern medics. The IMA has questioned what its members view as backdoor entry of traditional medicine practitioners into modern medicine. The IMA issued a statement on Saturday questioning the notification and urging the CCIM to “develop their own surgical disciplines from their own ancient texts” and not claim surgical disciplines of modern medicine. “The Council has the dubious distinction of prescribing modern medicine textbooks to its students,” the IMA said, adding that the IMA would “resist all efforts to mix (different) systems (of medicine)”. The two members of the CCIM board of governors said the notification was considered necessary because it would allow trained postgraduate Ayurveda surgeons to perform these procedures without hindrance. “The notification was a legal requirement,” said Sanjeev Sharma, director of the National Institute of Ayurveda, Jaipur. The notification specifies that MS (Ayurveda) “shalya tantra” or general surgery scholars may be trained in amputation of gangrenous parts, appendectomy, traumatic wound management, excisions of certain benign tumours and breast abscesses, surgical incisions in the abdominal cavity, skin grafting, surgical removal of testicles and other procedures. Scholars pursuing MS in “shalakya tantra” (specialised surgery) may receive training in cataract and glaucoma-related surgeries, endoscopic sinus surgery, septum surgery to straighten the nasal bone and cartilage, loose teeth extraction, root canal treatment and other procedures. The CCIM board members said some procedures would require modern medical tools. “Surgery is surgery -- when we need to, we take the help of anaesthetic agents, painkillers, antibiotics,” Haridra Dave, professor of shalya tantra at the J.S. Ayurveda Mahavidyalaya in Nadiad (Gujarat) and member of the CCIM board, told The Telegraph. But the notification has triggered concern among sections of modern surgeons who say some of the listed procedures are complex, require extensive surgical training and carry the risk of complications. “General surgery is part and parcel of modern medical science — it can’t be mainstreamed with Ayurveda,” said P. Raghu Ram, a Hyderabad-based surgeon and president of the Association of Surgeons of India. “Introducing training modules to the postgraduate curriculum of Ayurvedic studies could potentially disrupt and jeopardise basic standards of care and safety for patients,” Raghu Ram told this newspaper. A senior surgeon at the Tata Memorial Centre Hospital in Mumbai said the skills for some of the procedures — such as wound management or removal of abscesses or benign fat deposits on the skin — could be acquired through relatively quick training. “But some of the listed procedures such as laparotomy (surgical incision in the abdomen) are extremely complex and require high levels of training,” the surgeon said. “I don’t know what training such scholars would receive and I don't know the content of the curriculum.” Many surgeons have decried the notification as a misguided attempt to merge traditional medicine practices with modern medicine. “Surgical procedures cannot be separated from principles of modern medicine such as pharmacology,” said K.V. Babu, a senior ophthalmologist in Kerala. “Surgical procedures on the eyes sometimes carry the risk of infection and we use modern antibiotics. Will Ayurvedic surgeons do the same?” But Ayurvedic doctors say that knowledge can flow both ways across traditional and modern medicine. “We also study anatomy, physiology, dissections and other aspects of medicine,” said Bhavana Prasher, a postgraduate Ayurveda medicine doctor in New Delhi. “Ayurveda has vivid descriptions of many surgical procedures.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-542
22-11-2020||India||Lit fest pulls plug on Noam Chomsky||A Tata-sponsored online literature festival in Mumbai cancelled a session by Noam Chomsky and Left thinker Vijay Prashad on Friday night hours after they had hinted at speaking out against the Tatas. They later said they had decided to flag concerns over the “erosion of democracy” in India and the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). “Since we do not know why Tata and Mr (Anil) Dharker (the festival director and veteran journalist) decided to cancel our session, we can only speculate and ask simply: was this a question of censorship?” Chomsky and Prashad said in a statement on Left news site Peoples Dispatch. They said the subjects they would have broached at the session included how governments like the BJP’s and corporations like the Tatas were “hastening humanity towards a deeper and deeper crisis”. Dharker said on Saturday night that the festival owed “its success to a free expression of ideas, not a free expression of someone’s specific agenda”, adding that the decision to cancel the session was necessary to protect the integrity of the lit fest. Chomsky, 91-year-old laureate professor of linguistics at the University of Arizona, is also a scholar of repute in philosophy and cognitive science and is known for his criticism of US foreign policy and unbridled capitalism. Prashad, author and journalist, heads Tricontinental: Institute for Social Research, a global Left-leaning think tank. They were to appear at the Tata Literature Live! The Mumbai Litfest at 9pm on Friday at a session titled “On the edge of a precipice”, where they were to discuss Chomsky’s latest book, Internationalism or Extinction. The revised schedule of the festival, of which the Tata group is the main sponsor, had “The thrill and challenges of writing a first book” from 8.30pm to 9.30 pm on Friday. The change in schedule came hours after Chomsky and Prashad had responded to a public statement by activists who demanded that the duo boycott the festival to avoid becoming “a tool in the Tatas’ propaganda against the Adivasi people of India”. In their response on the website Countercurrents.org, Chomsky and Prashad had said: “We will start the programme with Vijay reading a statement written by the two of us. This statement makes it very clear how we feel about corporations such as the Tatas, and the Tatas in particular.” On Saturday night, Dharker said in a statement: “I do not wish to comment on their reasons for accepting an invitation to participate in an event and using the platform to air adverse views about the main sponsor. What I do want to state as strongly as possible is that the festival which I founded and run with a dedicated team owes its success to a free expression of ideas, not a free expression of someone’s specific agenda. The expression of such an agenda -– whether against a specific organisation, a corporation or an individual -– is therefore misplaced in the discussions at our festival. “In conclusion, cancellation of the session is a considered decision I have taken in my capacity as Festival Director. Much as I deeply respect and admire the work of Prof. Noam Chomsky, this decision was necessary to protect the integrity of the festival.” Roshan Ali, author of Ib’s Endless Search for Satisfaction and scheduled to chair a session on Saturday evening, tweeted earlier in the day that he would not be participating because of the abrupt cancellation of the session by Chomsky and Prashad. “I cannot in good conscience take part in a festival that lets its sponsors dictate who can or cannot speak or what can and cannot be said,” Ali said. Ashok Swain, who teaches international relations at Sweden’s Uppsala University, tweeted: “The discussion between Vijay Prashad and Chomsky was cancelled at the Tata Mumbai festival last night as Tata didn’t want to antagonise the govt. Tatas, Ambanis, and Adani are the three pillars of the present govt.” Chomsky and Prashad said in their statement: “The advertisement was circulated and the team at Mumbai (Tata) Lit Fest had confirmed all the details. The last communication came in at 9am Indian Standard Time on November 20 to remind us of the zoom link and other details. “Then, out of nowhere, near 1pm Indian Standard Time, we received an email which said, cryptically, ‘I am sorry to inform you that due to unforeseen circumstances, we have to cancel your talk today’. Further inquires informed us to be in touch with the festival’s director, Anil Dharker. No communication has been established thus far with Mr Dharker.” Chomsky and Prashad added: “What were the themes that we were going to develop in the panel? We were going to talk about the broad issues that threaten the planet, but then also talk about the specific role of countries such as India and corporations such as the Tatas. “Regarding India, the issue of the erosion of democracy is a serious matter, with the passage of bills such as the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and the vast sums of money that have now suffocated the voices of the hundreds of millions of impoverished Indian voters as examples of the problem; the issue of warfare is significant, with the Indian government participating in the highly destabilising Quadrilateral Security Dialogue with Australia, Japan and the United States. “Regarding the Tatas, we wanted to put on record a few facts that should lead sensitive people to understand what the Tata company has underneath its fingernails: a role in the killing of Adivasis who were peacefully protesting the construction of a Tata steel factory in Kalinga Nagar, Odisha, in 2006; the use of private militias to terrorise the population for a planned Tata steel factory in Jagdalpur, Chhattisgarh, about 10 years ago; the use of Tata Advanced Systems weapons by the Indian forces against the people of Kashmir; and Tata steel’s release of hexavalent chromium into water sources has created the fourth most polluted place on the planet in Sukinda, Odisha. “These are just a few examples of the atrocious way in which the Tata corporation has brought levels of extinction to the peoples of the planet. We wanted to talk about how governments such as those led by the Bharatiya Janata Party and corporations such as the Tatas are hastening humanity towards a deeper and deeper crisis.” The pandemic has led to the cancellation of a few literature festivals. However, the Tatas have retained their sponsorship of the fest in Mumbai and the upcoming Kolkata Literary Meet in Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-542
22-11-2020||India||India set to stick with remdesivir ||Eligible coronavirus disease patients will continue to receive the antiviral drug remdesivir even though the World Health Organisation has recommended against its use in hospitalised patients, top medical experts said on Saturday. The WHO had said on Friday that remdesivir had “no important effect on mortality, time for clinical improvement, or other patient-important outcomes”, but senior doctors said they did not expect remdesivir to be ejected from the Union health ministry’s Covid-19 treatment guidelines. Pharma industry executives estimate that hundreds of thousands of Covid-19 patients across India have received remdesivir, a product of the US-based company Gilead Sciences, but manufactured in India by multiple companies under licensing pacts. Although India’s epidemic has been shrinking over the past two months, health authorities recorded an average of around 40,000 new cases daily over the past week and over 439,000 patients were under medical supervision on Friday. The WHO said its recommendation against remdesivir was based on guidelines developed by a 33-member international expert panel that reviewed data from four clinical trials, including the WHO’s global Solidarity trial involving over 5,400 patients in 30 countries. But Gilead and sections of the medical community have pointed out that remdesivir is part of treatment guidelines for hospitalised Covid-19 patients in multiple countries, including Germany, India, Japan, the UK and the US. The treatment guidelines, Gilead said in a statement on Friday, are based on peer-reviewed studies that have demonstrated remdesivir’s clinical benefits such as “significantly faster recovery that can quickly free up limited hospital resources”. “We are disappointed the WHO guidelines appear to ignore this evidence at a time when cases are dramatically increasing around the world and doctors are relying on (remdesivir) as the first and only approved antiviral treatment for patients with Covid-19 in approximately 50 countries,” Gilead said. Many frontline critical care specialists who have used remdesivir as prescribed under the Union health ministry’s treatment guidelines along with other therapies such as doxycycline, dexamethasone, vitamin-C and zinc say it is difficult at this stage to exactly say what is working and what is not. “What we know from experience is that the right drug has to be given at the right time,” said Anjan Trikha, professor and critical care specialist at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, who’s also chair of the Covid-19 managerial group at the Covid-19 centre. “We believe remdesivir also has a role when given at the right time, early during viral replication. Patients in hospital in the early infection stages but requiring oxygen would qualify for remdesivir therapy,” Trikha told The Telegraph. Trikha and others also assert that there is no evidence that remdesivir causes harm or that any of its potential side-effects outweigh its potential benefits. “Without evidence of any harm, we cannot issue a directive to stop using the drug,” a member of the WHO expert panel told this newspaper. The cost of remdesivir therapy in India, doctors estimate, would range between Rs 16,000 and Rs 32,000, depending on which company’s product is used. Doctors in Bangalore who conducted a study on remdesivir in Covid-19 patients also said they did not expect national treatment guidelines to change. “Our study shows the benefits of early start of treatment,” said Ravindra Mehta, a senior pulmonologist at Apollo Bangalore. Mehta and his colleagues examined the outcomes of 346 Covid-19 patients with moderate or severe disease and observed a significant difference between the mortality rates in patients who had received remdesivir within nine days of onset of symptoms and those who received it after that. The mortality was 18 per cent in the group that received remdesivir early but 33 per cent in those who received the drug beyond nine days of onset of symptoms. “We believe this is a significant difference and points to a benefit resulting from early treatment,” Mehta said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-542
22-11-2020||India||Deputy chief minister’s age baffles Bihar||Bihar deputy chief minister and BJP leader Tarkishore Prasad could find himself fielding uncomfortable questions when the Assembly reconvenes on Monday, unless he can claim the ability to travel close to the speed of light. The four-time Katihar MLA is entangled in a controversy over his age, critics fishing out his past poll affidavits that suggest that when it comes to Tarkishore, time behaves less like an arrow and more like a Calcutta bus: crawling now, racing the next moment. Tarkishore’s election affidavit from 2005, when he won the first time, stated his age as 48. It had increased just by one year when he contested again and retained his seat in 2010. Five years later in 2015, his age had increased by just three years, the affidavit filed with his nomination papers giving his age as 52. Einstein’s theory of special relativity says time can slow down for an astronaut travelling at a speed approaching that of light. However, time seems to have speeded up for Tarkishore after 2015, like a Calcutta bus suddenly spying a rival ahead of it. His affidavit for the recent elections stated his age as 64 — an increase of 12 years during a period when everybody else aged just 5 years. With social media enthralled by Tarkishore’s age mystery since Friday, the Rashtriya Janata Dal waded into the debate on Saturday. “Bihar’s deputy chief minister is involved in fudging his age, threatening contractors for commission, and turning all his family members into contractors,” an RJD statement said. “The entire Katihar knows that he does not do any work in the area without taking a commission. Now the entire state will know about his handiwork.” Tarkishore denied any wrongdoing, telling The Telegraph the age controversy was a “non-issue”. “My date of birth is January 5, 1956. It is mentioned in my matriculation certificate and I stand by it,” he said. “As far as election affidavits are concerned, there could have been clerical errors in calculating my age.” The first-time minister said he had no reason to hide or fudge his true age. Later, he called this newspaper to say: “I checked my age in the affidavit filed in the recent election and it is correct. The age is almost right in the previous affidavits also, except the one filed in 2010. It seems somebody, maybe someone from the RJD, tampered with it.” If the 2010 affidavit got Tarkishore’s age wrong by five years, going by the date of birth he mentioned to this newspaper, the 2015 affidavit was wide of the mark by seven years. Tarkishore didn’t explain how any tampering could have been done. Poll affidavits are prepared and filed by the candidate’s own people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-542
22-11-2020||India||Farooq Abdullah: Our candidates locked up||Veteran leader Farooq Abdullah on Saturday shot off a protest letter to the Jammu and Kashmir chief election commissioner alleging that the government was locking up People’s Alliance candidates for the district development council elections on the ruse of their security while showing “blatant” bias towards others. Although People’s Alliance chairman Farooq’s letter to chief election commissioner K.K. Sharma did not name any party, other key leaders of the seven-party axis such as Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti have accused the administration of going out of its way to help the BJP. Valley politicians have alleged that several non-BJP candidates have been kept confined to “secure locations” by the administration of lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha on the pretext of ensuring their security and with the real aim of preventing them from campaigning. The letter by Farooq, who heads the seven-party Jammu and Kashmir alliance fighting for the restoration of the erstwhile state’s special status, also alleged that the government was desecrating the sacrifices of thousands of political workers who had “laid down their lives for the sake of democracy”. “No government has the right to alter the institutional foundations of democracy in J and K, nourished by the sacrifices of thousands of political workers,” the letter from Farooq, also the National Conference president and a former chief minister, said. The maiden DDC elections will begin from November 24. The alliance, which had earlier boycotted local body elections to protest the abrogation of key features of Article 370, has chosen to contest this time to prove that its fight for the reinstatement of special status enjoys public support. “I am taking the liberty of writing to you about the upcoming DDC elections. A strange and unique feature has come to the fore. Candidates put up by the PAGD (People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration) are immediately whisked away to ‘secure locations’ in the name of security and confined to those ‘secure locations’,” Farooq’s letter said. “They are not allowed to canvass, they are completely out of touch with those from whom they are supposed to seek votes.” Farooq said they had fought and won elections in the past and were aware about the security challenges in Jammu and Kashmir. “These challenges are not new but have been painfully persisting for the last three decades. But the government had structures in place which ensured security for all contestants irrespective of the ideology they espoused or the parties they represented,” he said. “The current state of affairs in the realm of security is blatantly oriented towards providing security to a select few and confining others. This comes across more as an attempt to interfere in the democratic process than any real concern for the wellbeing of the contestants. Security cannot and should not be used as a tool or an excuse to interfere in democratic processes,” the letter added. Former chief ministers Omar and Mehbooba have been more forthcoming. “The J&K administration is going out of its way to help the BJP & its recently created king’s party by locking up candidates opposed to the BJP, using security as an excuse. If the security situation isn’t conducive to campaigning what was the need to announce elections?” Omar, a National Conference leader, had tweeted earlier this week. Mehbooba, the PDP chief, had tweeted: “Non-BJP candidates for DDC polls aren’t allowed to campaign freely & are being locked up on the pretence of security. But BJP & its proxies are given full bandobast to move around….” On Saturday, Mehbooba alleged that one of her candidates was facing difficulty filing his nomination. “GOI sabotaging participation of non-BJP parties in DDC polls. PDP’s Bashir Ahmed despite having adequate security has been detained at Pahalgam on the pretext of security. Today is the last day for filing nominations & have spoken to DC Anantnag for his release,” she tweeted. In his letter, Farooq detailed how the “evolution of democracy” in Jammu and Kashmir was distinct “compared to any other part of the country”. “The journey is a bloodied journey, soaked in the blood of thousands of political workers who have laid down their lives for the sake of democracy,” the veteran leader said. “It is a desecration of those sacrifices when the very conflict that consumed their lives is used as an alibi to customise democracy. Democracy is still in a state of fragility in J and K. Governments come and go,” he added. The letter said “providing security to a select few and literally interning the rest is a gross interference in democracy”. Several parties and candidates have in recent days alleged harassment by government agencies. The CPM secretary for Jammu and Kashmir, M.Y. Tarigami, this week wrote to Sinha, alleging that candidates were being “kept away from their constituencies” and “bundled into cluster accommodations”. The CPM is part of the Gupkar alliance. In his reply on Friday to Tarigami’s letter, Sinha said the “issue is already in my notice and necessary instructions stand conveyed to the concerned”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-543
22-11-2020||India||Amit Shah irons out AIADMK wrinkles and tie-up||Union home minister Amit Shah used an official visit to Chennai on Saturday to placate miffed ally AIADMK and reaffirm the BJP’s tie-up with Tamil Nadu’s ruling party for next summer’s Assembly elections. Shah had been invited for the virtual launch of a slew of development projects, including a Metro train service in Chennai and an elevated highway in Coimbatore. It’s not the home minister who typically launches such projects. However, the trip by Shah came amid a recent strain in ties with the southern ally. The BJP had recently conducted “Vetrivel Yatras” across Tamil Nadu in honour of Lord Murugan in a Hindu outreach programme despite the AIADMK government banning the Yatra over pandemic worries. The BJP had termed the ban “anti-Hindu”. The ally was also unhappy at the BJP’s use of a picture of the AIADMK founder, M.G. Ramachandran or MGR, in its video campaign for the Yatra. On Saturday, however, the AIADMK leadership sought to bury these irritants with chief minister E. Palaniswami, accompanied by his deputy O. Panneerselvam and other senior ministers, receiving Shah at the airport. Panneerselvam later affirmed: “We will continue our alliance with the BJP.” Shah got off his vehicle and walked on the busy GST Road outside the airport to greet supporters. Hundreds of AIADMK members joined the BJP cadres in receiving him. Police detained a man allegedly for flinging a placard as Shah walked to greet the people, PTI reported. At the launch of the development projects, Shah delivered an election speech, stressing the Narendra Modi government’s commitment towards Tamil Nadu’s development and its support for the AIADMK administration. Shah urged the state’s people to defeat “dynastic parties” in the polls — an allusion to the AIADMK’s chief rival DMK and also to the Congress. “Wherever state elections have taken place, under the leadership of Modiji, dynastic parties had to face defeat,” Shah said. “Now it’s Tamil Nadu’s turn. Here too one party runs by foregrounding one dynasty and not on democratic norms. I’m sure that when the elections take place, the people will put an end to this dynastic party.” Shah slammed the DMK-Congress combine over corruption, referring to the 2G controversy. He later met the BJP’s state and district office-bearers to assess the party’s poll preparedness. The BJP has been striving to expand its base in the southern states but has so far made little headway in Kerala or Tamil Nadu, where it’s now trying to piggyback the AIADMK. It’s also trying to poach prominent faces from the rival camp. Actor turned politician Khushbu Sundar, who had been a Congress spokesperson, recently joined the BJP. The BJP is banking on Prime Minister Modi to win support in Tamil Nadu. In his speech, Shah repeatedly stressed that Modi was committed to the people of the state and their development. Shah challenged the DMK-Congress to come up with a list of what they had given Tamil Nadu during the 10 years of UPA rule at the Centre. He claimed that Modi’s government had far outstripped the UPA on this front.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-543
22-11-2020||India||Muse of Muffling||Kashmir. Remember? Kashmir is a place. Kashmir is also a people. Some of them have been doing celebrated things with their lives; it’s an insurgency that insists upon their spirit. “Merey sheher ki ye galiyan sunsaan hain. Shor o gul nahi hai, fizayen sunsaan hain. Qaid insaan jo, Parinday azad hai.” These are the lyrics of Quarantine Blues, a song written and composed by two musician brothers Numaan Baba and Furqan Baba during the lockdown in Jammu and Kashmir following the outbreak of Covid-19. Every evening just before dusk, the brothers would hum the lyrics of their latest song sitting on the window sill in their home in Pulwama in south Kashmir. The windows would offer them a breathtaking view of apple orchards, melting snows on Himalayan peaks in the backdrop, empty roads and the flutter of pigeons on their tin roof. For 26-year-old Numaan and 21-year-old Furqan, lockdown-like situations in Kashmir are nothing new. But with Covid-19, they have spent most of this year in complete isolation. “The huge window on the second floor of our house has been a source of a fresh whiff of air as well as inspiration that kept the artistes inside us alive even after facing the seven months of lockdown after the abrogation of Article 370 last year and then the lockdown owing to the coronavirus this year. The first two months were depressing just like it was for everyone else because we were also under a communication blockade. But we managed to jam regularly with our instruments and composed new songs. Music helped us stay sane and creative,” Numaan said. Throughout the lockdown, the duo, also students of visual arts at Kashmir University, created a makeshift recording unit in the form of a soundproof tent inside their room where they would play a variety of instruments such as — guitar, flute, rabab and nott, a clay percussion instrument traditional to Kashmir, and record their original compositions along with classics by Kashmiri poets such as Mahmood Gami, Rasul Mir and Samad Mir. “The only thing that we missed during the lockdown was collaborating with local musicians and performing before the public,” they said. The two brothers say that they learned singing from their mother and the school music teacher. Performing at events has been impossible lately, but for the past couple of months, the two have resumed singing at small mehfils and weddings in the Pulwama neighbourhood. Amidst months of uncertainty and mental pressure, the two consecutive lockdowns in the Valley have proved to be an opportunity for many youngsters to hone their skills by finding resort in art to channel their feelings. The curtailments fell over Kashmir well before the coronavirus restrictions became de rigueur — the arrangements around the abrogations and diminishments of August 2019 meant a sweep of suffocation even Kashmiris hadn’t previously experienced. Over the last 15 months in Kashmir, just like everyone else, the artists, poets, photographers, writers and musicians have found themselves gagged and debilitated. But in time, they began to respond and express in different ways. Their art expresses alienation and a resilience beyond being caged and throttled. During the last few months, social media has become deluged with the rebellion of the artistes’ spirit — painting, poetry, photography, calligraphy, innovative experiments with mixed media. The political squeeze as well as the pandemic has inspired Kashmiri artists to think out-of-the-box. The Valley got its first online gallery, a brainchild of Naushad Gayoor, a multidisciplinary artist from Srinagar who devotes most of his time to painting and sculpture. Just like musicians, poets and painters too poured out what they wished to express, and their work became tangibly manifest. Faheem Abdullah, a 24-year-old poet, suffered a mental block during the first lockdown but was soon able to find a way around and defeat it. “Forty days, one twenty cigarettes, have I died or am I alive? Spent a few cursing our fates. Have we died or are we alive? What a farce, O writer!” That’s how he broke out of the first lockdown. Faheem, an English literature student who needed to seek expert help to deal with his mental condition in the initial phase of the lockdown, says, “During September 2019, on the 40th day of the lockdown, I took a stroll around my house in Naseem Bagh. While walking amidst the giant chinars whose leaves were turning yellow, I stopped at the banks of Nigeen Lake and looked towards the Hazratbal shrine. Everything was quiet and still and it was then that I wrote, ‘I want to take Kashmir in my arms and cry’. I felt like I was pouring out my emotions and it was through poetry that I made peace with everything that was going on around me.” Faheem, who shares his poetry on the Instagram handle @theimaginarypoet, derives his inspiration from the mystic poet Rumi and Kashmiri poet Agha Shahid Ali. He is set to launch his first book of poems, A diary of a Kashmiri, in March 2021. For 22-year-old Shafiya Shafi, keeping herself immersed in art proved therapeutic during the trying lockdowns. When the August 2019 lockdown was suddenly imposed, Shafiya had pre-orders to paint murals on the walls of restaurants and playschools. But even after 15 months, none of these places have reopened. However, Shafiya, a psychologist, says consecutive lockdowns have not affected her passion for painting. “I still remember how I went searching for canvas and colours during the lockdown in 2019. My search ended at the house of a shopkeeper. His shop was shut but he had the material at home. As soon as I painted two canvases, I felt relieved. To me it was about communicating my feelings on an empty white sheet just like I used to write my daily diary,” Shafiya says. During the Covid-19 lockdown, she has tried a fusion of earthen pots and papier mache which she thinks are dying art forms. As is evident from social media, many young artistes have started bringing in new ideas to give scriptwriting a new touch. The lockdowns gave an opportunity to 22-year-old Farheen, an MBA student at Kashmir University, to pursue her hobby of painting. Her Instagram page, hobby_lobby _art, is abuzz with sketches, paintings and calligraphy which she has been constantly at while sitting at home. Similarly 23-year-old Safura Hamid from Badamwari in Srinagar is one of those who pursued her childhood dream of doing calligraphy and was also able to make a decent amount of money through her art. “I have always wanted to pursue calligraphy but I could get no time for it. There couldn’t have been a better time than the Covid lockdown. I was home and had no work. After experimenting with pen and paper, I tried my hands at clay. When I shared my creations on social media, I received a positive response. I started receiving orders for gift purposes. But with the pandemic around, clay and paper calligraphy was not doable. So I developed an online 3D calligraphy style, which I used to make objects and write Quranic verses. I delivered all the orders through an online system,” says Safura, an engineering graduate who has now turned to experimenting with 3D calligraphy on wood, stone and canvas. One of the harsher consequences of both lockdowns has been the bar on physical mobility. However, the art of visualising helped some artists travel through their imagination. Zoya Khan, a 31-year-old architect and artiste, trusted her instincts and started working on a fascinating new series heavily influenced by the heritage and vernacular architecture of Kashmir. Her latest work involves building innovative connection and contrasts with Srinagar’s cityscape and imported human images — stills from Bollywood films such as Umrao Jaan, Dil Chahta Hai, and A Suitable Boy, etc. juxtaposed with images of old Kashmiri architecture. “Kashmir requires non-traditional, out-of-the-box, radical re-thinking in terms of how ideas will emerge and shape the city. My new series is just out of instinct to explore something new. When I shared my first work, the response was immediate and interesting. That helped me engage with people. The series is a continuation of old houses I have done previously. The only difference is that I have added a few people, as all my previous works were devoid of people,” said Zoya, who is pursuing her master’s in international architectural regeneration and development at the UK’s Oxford Brookes University. Zoya shares her work on Instagram and is open to feedback from people. The use of locations such as the Sheher-e-Khas (downtown Srinagar), the Jhelum banks, Delhi’s Humayun’s Tomb, and lesser-known Srinagar lanes has established a connect. “Growing up in Kashmir has greatly influenced my intellectual curiosity, and there is an urge to understand how the situation in Kashmir is with regard to its physical attributes and cultural ethos, the way they shape the lives of people and how it conditions social behaviour which, in turn, influences how we collectively shape and interact with the built environment. This series is close to this thought,” she said. While Zoya was putting out her remarkable visual experiments, well-known Kashmiri music artistes came together in June this year for their first-ever virtual concert in the Valley to connect people from across the globe during the Covid-19 pandemic and keep the art and culture alive. The Kashmir Music Club, under the leadership of noted singer Waheed Jeelani, organised Qarar (Solace) — a three-hour concert by Kashmiri vocalists and instrumentalists on Facebook. The event was a huge success and connected the Kashmiris across the globe in the trying times. Kashmir is more locked than merely being land-locked. But that’s no bar on the song Kashmiris will sing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-543
22-11-2020||India||Ganja cuffs on comedian Bharti Singh||Popular comedian Bharti Singh, a regular in comedy, reality and dance shows, was arrested on Saturday by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) following the seizure of a “small quantity” of ganja (cannabis) from her home in suburban Andheri. The NCB searched the house and office of Bharti, who plays the character of Titli Yadav in The Kapil Sharma Show, in the morning as part of its probe into alleged drug use in the Hindi film industry. The NCB recovered 86.5 grams of ganja during the search, the agency said in a release. “Both Ms Bharti Singh and her husband Harsh Limbachiya accepted consumption of ganja. Bharti Singh was placed under arrest under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and examination of Mr Limbachiya is underway,” the NCB release said. The team that searched Bharti’s residence at Lokhandwala Complex as well as her production house based on a tip-off, was led by Sameer Wankhede, the central agency’s zonal director. Up to 1,000 grams of ganja is considered “small quantity”. Possession of such quantities of cannabis attracts a jail term up to six months and/or fine of Rs 10,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-543
22-11-2020||India||Odisha uproar over deaths in custody||The Odisha Assembly on Saturday witnessed pandemonium over alleged police excesses and the custodial death of two persons with the Opposition claiming that the government was insensitive and that jungle raj was prevailing in the state. Leader of the Opposition Pradeep Nayak and Congress legislature party leader Narasingha Mishra accused the government of protecting police officers involved in the alleged custodial deaths in Puri and in Biramitrapur in Sundergarh district. Both the incidents took place on Wednesday night. “It seems the Odisha government is following the modus operandi of Uttar Pradesh government,” alleged Mishra. The ruling BJD maintained that as the alleged custodial death case in Puri was before the court, it should not be discussed on the floor of the House. Both the National Human Rights Commission and Orissa High Court have sought reports on the custodial death in Puri. As the bedlam continued in the Assembly, Speaker Surjya Narayan Patro called an all-party meeting to resolve the issue. In what seemed like a damage-control exercise, the Naveen Patnaik government transferred Puri superintendent of police Akhileshvar Singh on Friday night and attached him to the state police headquarters. Director-general of police Abhay also placed inspectors in-charge of Baseli police station in Puri and Biramitrapur police station on suspension along with an inspector and a constable. However, a post about the suspension of the police officers on social media by Odisha police invited the criticism of former interim CBI director M. Nageswara Rao. An Odisha cadre IPS officer, Rao advised Abhay not to humiliate police officers in public domain. “Sharing of information on media and social media about suspension of a police officer, is public humiliation of officers and his/her family. It is inhuman. Punish the guilty but don’t humiliate. DGP Odisha may please direct all concerned to respect human dignity/ sensitivity,” Rao said.Senior IPS officer from Odisha, Arun Bothra, immediately defended Abhay’s action. “I beg to differ sir. A well thought of action against an erring police officer inspires confidence of people that we are accountable. It’s also a deterrent for potential offenders. We are in public service and punishment for official wrongdoing cannot be a private affair,” Bothra tweeted. BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra met the family members of victim K. Ramesh in Puri on Saturday and demanded Rs 1 crore compensation for his kin. On Friday, he had met the NHRC on the issue. Ramesh is alleged to have died following excesses in police custody. “Only suspending and transferring some officers is not enough. Ramesh was murdered in police custody. An FIR under Section 302 of the IPC should be registered against the police officers involved in the crime,” Patra said. Later, he went to the additional district magistrate’s office and handed over a memorandum. Meanwhile, Abhay on Saturday ordered an inquiry by DIG, Central range, about alleged police excesses on six persons in Pipli under Puri district. It has been alleged that jail authorities refused to accept them in the jail after seeing their deteriorating health condition. Later they were admitted to SCB Medical College, Cuttack, for treatment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-543
22-11-2020||West Bengal||480 CPM cadres cross over to BJP||Around 480 CPM supporters were among 500 people from multiple parties who joined the BJP on Saturday, according to sources. “Around 500 leaders and workers from the RSP, CPM, CPI, PDS, SFI, DYFI and INTUC of East and West Midnapore district joined the BJP today,” BJP state president Dilip Ghosh tweeted on Saturday. Sources in the party said as many as 480 of the 500 belonged to the CPM, which means only around 20 people crossed over from the other Left parties and the Congress-backed trade union. In Ramnagar of East Midnapore, about 1,000 supporters of former CPM MLA Swadesh Nayak, who joined the BJP in October, followed suit on Saturday. The party’s minder for Bengal Kailash Vijayvargiya was present at the event. Niranjan Sihi said Saturday’s development would not hurt the party’s organisation in Haldia. “None of our prominent leaders has switched to the BJP. People of Haldia are with us,” Sihi said. However, another CPM leader said the exodus “should not be taken lightly before the polls”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-302
22-11-2020||West Bengal||‘Dead’ Covid patient found alive||A man from Birati, pronounced dead by a Covid hospital two weeks ago, was brought back home alive by his son on Friday evening, days after his “cremation” and on the eve of his shraddh ceremony. A data entry error at the Balaram Hospital in Khardah was behind this mix-up. A senior district official said family members of Sibnath Bandyopadhyay, 62, a resident of Birati, had performed his last rites after a covered dead body was handed over to them on November 13. “His shraddh ceremony was scheduled for Saturday. But, they were pleasantly shocked when they got a call from Balaram Hospital (on Friday evening) asking them to come and take their patient back home,” said the official. Sibnath’s son Sanjib rushed to the hospital and brought him back home. The North 24-Parganas district administration has been ordered by the state health directorate to conduct a probe. The district’s chief medical officer of health Tapas Roy said a four-member team formed to probe the incident had filed a preliminary report. “I have sent it to Swasthya Bhawan,” he said. A Balaram Hospital official claimed that “flawed entry of the home address against the name of another Covid patient, who had actually died”, led to the goof-up. Khardah resident Sudip Mukhopadhyay, the son of Mohini Mohan Mukhopadhyay, 75, who died and whose body had been handed over to Sanjib, was shocked and demanded punishment for the person responsible for the error. A source said the mix-up came to light on Friday evening when hospital authorities called Sudip to take his father back home. On Sudip’s arrival, hospital authorities produced Sibnath Bandyopadhyay before him. Sudip said the man was not his father. “Hospital officials insisted I accept the man as my father. The elderly man identified himself with another name, but officials did not accept it. Eventually, the elderly man arranged to call his son who was shocked to see his father alive,” said Sudip. It was then that Sudip realised that his father was dead and had been cremated by strangers. A relative of Sibnath said that on November 13 hospital authorities conveyed the news of his death. “We were shown the body from distance. The packed body was burnt following rituals under administrative protocol...” Hospital sources said Mohini Mohan, admitted on November 4, had to be shifted Kadambagachi Covid hospital in Barasat on November 7, where he died six days later. “While shifting to Barasat, the details of Mohini Mohan got mixed up with that of Sibnath. So, (when Mohini Mohan died) Sibnath’s family was told about the death,” said a source. Sudip said that it is surprising that since November 7, hospital authorities could not realise their mistake. “They kept giving me regular updates on my father’s recovery,” the bereaved son said. A huge crowd gathered at Sibnath’s Birati home to see him and greet him for his new lease of life. The administrator of Khardah municipality Kajal Sinha called the incident unfortunate. “I hope hospital authorities are careful to avoid such mistakes in future.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-302
22-11-2020||West Bengal||Blast probe hints at snag||A two-member forensic team inspected the Sujapur blast site in Malda on Friday and Saturday, its preliminary findings endorsing the state government’s view of mechanical fault in the plastic crusher machine leading to Thursday’s explosion that killed six persons. Forensic official Chitrarka Sarkar said: “Primarily, it appears that the incident occurred because of a mechanical fault. We have collected the machine’s samples and tests would be carried out before we reach a conclusion.” The BJP, which had been clamouring for an NIA probe into the blast, on Saturday seemed to change its stand, seeking Rs 1 crore for each bereaved family as compensation from the state government. The state government had paid Rs 2 lakh to each bereaved family on Thursday. The team examined the debris and parts of the machine that got strewn in the area. They asked a motor mechanic to open some of its parts and poured chemicals on the machine, which led to a small fire on Saturday, and even damaged the PPE of one of the experts, said a policeman at the site. Probe revealed that lubricants are used to run the machine and other chemicals are used to process plastic scrap before they are put in the crusher. “The team wanted to see if these chemicals are inflammable and can cause the explosion,” said a source. The team collected samples from the site and visited a neighbouring unit to see how a crusher unit functions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-303
22-11-2020||West Bengal||Pandemic hospital shut citing a drop in active cases||The West Midnapore health department on Saturday closed down one of the district’s Covid-dedicated facilities, citing a drop in active cases. The decision to close the hospital was taken by the district Covid-19 task force at a meeting earlier this week. A notice issued by the chief medical officer on Wednesday stated that the Ayush hospital at Tantigeria, one of five Covid-dedicated facilities in the district, would be temporarily closed starting Saturday, and reopen “as and when required”. Sources said the facility, formerly a home for vagrants, had seen a steep drop in admissions recently compared to the average of 150-200 admissions each day since April. “We did not even have a single admission this week. The average this month would be less than 100, closer to 50,” said a source in the health department. Existing patients at the facility would be moved to home isolation, he said. Sources said the 50-bed Ayush hospital was operating with four doctors, four nurses, and 16 staff sourced from state health facilities nearby. All personnel have been asked to return to their former duties starting next week. The Ayush facility apart, the other Covid facilities in West Midnapore are Salboni Multi Super Specialty Hospital, Ghatal subdivisional hospital and two safe homes in Debra and Kharagpur. There are less than 800 active Covid cases in the district now. “The last week has been notable at the Ayush hospital because there was not even one new case,” said chief medical officer Nitai Mondal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-303
22-11-2020||West Bengal||25,391 active Covid cases in Bengal||Bengal on Saturday logged a drop in its total active Covid-19 cases for the 26th consecutive day. There are 25,391 active cases now, a fall by 11,799 since Dashami on October 26. In the 26 days, the state logged over 1.08 lakh recoveries and 98,948 new cases. Bengal on Saturday reported 3,794 recoveries, 3,639 new infections and 53 deaths. Bengal’s recovery rate is 92.63 now, rising for 30 consecutive days since October 22. The national rate is now 93.68. Bengal’s total caseload is nearly 4.53 lakh. “One must remember it includes 4.19 lakh recoveries (and 7,976 deaths). Also, the latest 50,000 infections took 14 days, compared to 12 days for 50,000 before this,” said a minister. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, and then Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. “We are beginning to get numbers of the Kali Puja-Diwali phase now. The number of infections has not yet shown signs of a surge,” said the minister. “But the number of recoveries has been relatively less for three days…. We hope it is only an aberration,” he added. With 44,208 tests on Saturday, the state’s total test count went past 54.78 lakh, at 60,870 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.26 per cent. The 53 deaths of the day included nine from the city. Of the total death toll, 6,665, or 83.6 per cent, were attributed to co-morbidities. The state’s mortality rate is 1.76, still less than the national rate of 1.46 per cent. The state reported 29.3 per cent occupancy in the 13,508 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 101 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 4.69 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-303
22-11-2020||West Bengal||Nadia professor on Stanford list||A teacher from the mathematics department of Krishnagar Government College in Nadia has made it to the list of the world’s top 2 per cent most-cited scientists compiled by Stanford University. The US university made the list after assessing research published up to 2019. It includes nearly 1,492 scientists, doctors and engineers from India. Kalidas Das has been globally acclaimed for his research on the utility of nanofluids. Stanford University scanned 94 research papers credited to Das, counted among the leading researchers in mechanical engineering. Das said the recognition “is beyond my imagination”. He added: “I am grateful to people around me who encouraged me to work on such an unusual subject, which however is largely linked to our lives...my work has a bearing on human health too.” Son of a farmer from Eruli village in Nadia’s Dhantala, Das did his schooling at Dr Shyamaprasad High School in Sarishadanga. He later earned his undergraduate and postgraduate degrees in mathematics from Kalyani University. For his PhD from the same varsity, he researched on fluid dynamics. After working as a teacher at a school in Chakdah, he had worked at Kalyani Government Engineering College before as well. Asked what led him to work with nanofluids, Das said he was intrigued by the subject’s vast scope of applications in daily lives of individuals and industries alike. “I thought I’d explore the utility of nanofluids using mathematical models for practical applications,” Das said. As an instance, Das spoke of the application of nanofluids in medical science. “Magnetic nanofluid can elevate the drug delivery capacity of fluids in a more controlled and directed manner. Microfluidic equipment have been developed to deliver drugs to targeted cancer cells for cure or for purposes of research,” Das said. Das, however, lamented his inability to personally implement his research findings in the practical sphere. “It would have been better if I could collaborate with scientists in the field of application to implement my theoretical models on nanofluids in larger public interest,” Das said. Academics hailed his work. A professor attached to Kalyani Government Engineering College said: “His theoretical models enable us to develop cutting-edge heat and mass transfer tools. Heat transfer tools using nanofluids can be used to develop coolants suitable for machinery to produce highly-efficient heat exchangers or in grinding industries, and increase the life span of machinery.” Professor Pintu Banerjee, secretary of Teachers’ Council of Krishnagar Government College, said Das’s achievement made them all proud. Banerjee added that Das had set an example for other academics, especially from non-metros.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-303
22-11-2020||West Bengal||NBMCH gets enhanced infrastructure and additional facilities||The state health department has enhanced infrastructure and introduced additional facilities at the North Bengal Medical College & Hospital to comfort patients who suffer with different terminal illness. “Tests like interleukin-6, total iron-binding capacity and ferritin can be conducted at the biochemistry department now. So far, the facility was available only in a few private clinics or the patients had to visit Calcutta to get them done,” said a source in the NBMCH, the largest state-run referral hospital of north Bengal. Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty deputed in north Bengal for Covid-19, said the infrastructure in laboratories have also been extended at the biochemistry department. “We have plans to open a central research lab. At the blood transfusion centre, department of immune haematology and blood banking has been opened to help patients suffering from leukaemia and thalassemia. Also, blood transplant and blood cancer patients can be treated here,” he added. The state has also provided a special vehicle at the NBMCH that can act as a mobile blood collection unit. “Three people can donate blood at a time at the advanced mobile van. It also has facilities to preserve blood units,” said a source at the facility.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-303
22-11-2020||North East||Tripura firing toll rises to 2||The death toll in Tripura’s Panisagar area firing incident has increased to two when a fire service personnel succumbed to his injuries, a police officer said. Biswajit Debbarma, the fireman who was injured by protesters blocking the Assam-Agartala National Highway at Panisagar in North Tripura district on Saturday, died early Sunday. He was admitted to GBP Hospital with polytrauma and head injuries, said Sub-Divisional Police Officer (SDPO) of New Capital Complex, Piya Madhuri Majumder. The crowd was protesting against the resettlement of Bru refugees in Tripura's North district on Saturday morning. Earlier, 43-year-old Srikanta Das, a protesting carpenter, was killed when police opened fire on the picketers on Saturday leaving at least 32 others injured. The blockade was called by the Joint Movement Committee (JMC) which is also spearheading the ongoing strike in adjoining Kanchanpur subdivision against the government’s efforts to permanently resettle about 5,000 Brus in the area. The committee includes groups such as the Nagarik Suraksha Mancha and Mizo Convention. Protesters feel the resettlement move would change the demography and peace in the area. Sources said initially the government had planned to resettle about 1,500 Bru refugees. The development is likely to further delay the process of rehabilitation of over 32,000 refugees who had fled to Tripura from Mizoram in 1997 following ethnic clashes. Of them, about 5,000 were to be reportedly resettled in Tripura’s North district. According to JMC convener Sushanta Barua, police had lathicharged and then opened fire on protesters "who were demonstrating peacefully". However,  ADG Rajiv Singh alleged that the police were forced to resort to firing in self defence as the crowd went berserk and tried to snatch weapons from security personnel. JMC chairman Zairemthiama Pachuau said the indefinite strike, which entered its seventh day on Sunday, is still on at Kanchanpur. "The situation is calm, but tense. We are waiting to discuss the situation with a government delegation, comprising a minister and some MLAs, which is likely to be held here at 4 pm,” he said. "State minister for Social Welfare Shantana Chakma informed us that the delegation is on way from Agartala, about 200 km from here,” Pachuau added. The state government has announced Rs 5 lakh as compensation to the family of the deceased and ordered a magisterial probe into Saturday’s firing incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-35
22-11-2020||North East||Tarun Gogoi's health shows marginal improvement, says doctor||The health condition of former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi marginally improved on Sunday morning, and he is currently semi-conscious, Abhijit Sarma, the superintendent of Gauhati Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), said. Sarma told reporters that doctors have repeated all clinical tests and his vital health parameters have shown improvement compared to that of Saturday. "He is semi-conscious now. We had said last night that 48 hours were very critical for him. Twenty four hours have passed and there is no deterioration in his health condition. That is the most important thing," he stated. Gogoi's pulse rate and blood pressure are under check, and his oxygen saturation level 95-97 percent. "The only worry is the urine output, which is around 100-120 ml in 24 hours," he said, adding that doctors will soon decide on the next step that was to be taken to improve his kidney functioning. The 84-year-old politician spontaneously opened his eyes and looked around in the morning, the GMCH superintendent said. "There was a slight movement, which we call moto movement. This is a good sign. Technically speaking, although he is critical, he is stable hemodynamically," he maintained. A big team of doctors from various departments are attending to Gogoi. "We are constantly in touch with doctors from AIIMS. They are satisfied with the treatment protocol and we will continue with that," he stated. Asked if the doctors would attempt dialysis to deal with his urine output, Sarma said that would be the last option. "As he is on inotropic support, we have kept dialysis as the last resort," he added. The veteran Congress politician's health condition deteriorated on Saturday following multi-organ failure and he became unconscious with difficulty in breathing. Assam Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said that Gogoi has been put on invasive ventilation. His son and Lok Sabha MP Gaurav Gogoi rushed to the hospital along with Assam Chief Secretary Jishnu Barua. A host of MPs, MLAs and other senior leaders of the Congress also reached GMCH late on Saturday to enquire about his health. On October 25, the three-time chief minister, who was undergoing treatment for COVID-19 and other post-recovery complications, was discharged from GMCH after two months. Gogoi had tested positive for COVID-19 on August 25. His health condition was being monitored by a nine-member committee of doctors, led by the head of pulmonary medicine Dr. Jogesh Sarma. The panel was constituted by the state government when he tested positive for COVID-19 in August. After his discharge from the hospital last month, the veteran Congress politician continued to remain under observation of the doctors' team at his residence here. In the days before he tested positive for COVID-19, Gogoi was at the forefront of the Congress initiative to form a 'Grand Alliance' comprising all the opposition parties for the 2021 assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-35
22-11-2020||North East||One dead and 32 injured in police firing in Tripura ||One person died and 32 people were injured when police fired to contain a crowd protesting against the resettlement of Bru refugees in Tripura's North district on Saturday morning. The development is likely to further delay the process of rehabilitation of over 32,000 refugees who had fled to Tripura from Mizoram in 1997 following ethnic clashes. Of them, about 5,000 were to be reportedly resettled in Tripura’s North district. A statement released by the police on Saturday night said it had to fire on the protesters participating in the National Highway 8 blockade at Chamtila in Panisagar subdivision. The highway connects Tripura with Assam. “At around 10.30am, the protesters numbering 3,000 became agitated and broke the barricades set up by the police and also damaged police and fire service vehicles and set them on fire. Police showed utmost restraint and in the beginning used lathicharge and tear gas to disperse the agitating crowd. But they became more aggressive and violent and finding no other way and to protect the life and property and for self-defence, police resorted to firing on the orders of authority,” the statement said. The blockade was called by the Joint Movement Committee (JMC) which is also spearheading the ongoing strike in adjoining Kanchanpur subdivision against the government’s efforts to permanently resettle about 5,000 Brus in the area. The committee includes groups such as the Nagarik Suraksha Mancha and Mizo Convention. Protesters feel the resettlement move would change the demography and peace in the area. Sources said initially the government had planned to resettle about 1,500 Bru refugees. JMC convener Sushanta Barua said they were protesting peacefully but the police and Tripura State Rifles jawans lathicharged them and then started firing. The crowd control measures left 32 people injured, of whom 18 are civilians, six police personnel and eight from the fire service. Section 144 of CrPC has been imposed to prevent unlawful assembly of people in the area. The injured were shifted to Panisagar subdivisional hospital and subsequently eight were referred to the district hospital. Panisagar is around 17km from state capital Agartala. The government has announced a magisterial inquiry and an ex gratia of Rs 5 lakh to the family of the deceased, an official said. Additional forces have been deployed in both Panisagar and Kanchanpur to maintain law and order, he added. The situation is under control now, police said. Over 32,000 Brus fled from neighbouring Mizoram’s Mamit, Kolasib and Lunglei districts in 1997 following ethnic clashes and have since been residing in temporary camps in Panisagar and Kanchanpur subdivisions in Tripura’s North district. As part of a quadripartite agreement signed in January between the two states, the Bru refugees and the central government, the Tripura government has shortlisted 12 sites in six out of eight districts to rehabilitate the Bru refugees. The Centre had also declared a Rs 600 crore package for the rehabilitation. Since 2009, over 5,000 Bru refugees have returned to Mizoram in nine phases. Tripura deputy chief minister Jishnu Devvarma had said on Thursday that the government was looking into the grievances of the protesters and that fomenting trouble would not lead to any solution. He said Brus were also citizens of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-35
22-11-2020||Opinion||Oh, go speak to your fat books||And don’t tell me what is and how it is. And what should be and how it all should be. Enough. Who are you? You read books, right. You have books to read. And that means a whole lot many things. Many more things that you have than just books. Having books, keeping books, reading books, all of that comes from having much else. It means you have shelves in a house. It means you have a house on a plot. It means that plot came from having more than just books. That’s where you come from. I shall not give it a name. But it has a name. We all know it. We know who has it. We know who does not. It is all a cycle of things. You have books, you must come from more things. You will probably go on to even more things. You don’t have books. Well. You haven’t made a start, have you? You know this from that, right? You know why this is this and that is that, right? You know things, right? I do not know things. That too is right. But I know things you do not know. But you will tell me what you know is the thing to know and what I know may also be a thing but not such a thing of significance at all. I could have told you what you tell me. Maybe I could have told you more things than you tell me. Perhaps in different and contrary ways too. But you never allowed me things. Your books. And the things that come with having books, all those things. You told me books are not for you. And now you blame me for not having read. And you fling things on me that you tell me are good things but I have no way of knowing. Your volumes and your verses, your phrases and your platitudes, your language and your literature, your definitions and deductions, your concepts and criticisms. Your ideas. Your ideologies. Your cleaving of virtue from vice. Your meditations on right and righteous things. Your inventories of wrong and wrongdoing. Your elaborate philosophies, your rousing perorations. What do I know of them? What do I understand? Big words. And the bigger stuff they might contain. I don’t understand them. Maybe they made sense to you, they don’t make sense to me. Kaala akshar bhains baraabar. There, I flung a buffalo at you, did my bit. I took one of your fat tomes and copied the biggest and most confounding words I could randomly find and wrote them down above in the short time I have for all or any of this, in the little space I have been given. Thank you for this space. Thank you for allowing me to explain to you that I do not understand a syllable of the aforesaid, and all that it might mean. You never told me how to. And therefore you cannot hope for me to understand and to emulate you. Or even to articulate why I will not. I do not have the means. I was never given the means. And now you blame me. You call me illiterate. Unable to understand. Your higher things, which you always kept higher than my reach. Don’t get at me. I do things. Things maybe you cannot do. Things you may look down upon as low and unworthy. Things that you will quote as reason for why you must lead and I must follow. You milk the cow, I’ll read your books, any that you ask me to, Maa kasam. Even if I do not know how to read, I will sit down with your book and read, while you milk my cow. We shall see. First milk my cow. And take a lash of its tail on your face. And smell what it gives, from its udders and from that other orifice not far to reach. Fill a pail between your legs, then go deliver it. And we shall see. Then count your pennies, and if you save any — pennies or time — go then buy a book. We shall see.What you read And all you fed That’s all well and high brow But what good is that to my cow?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-113
22-11-2020||Opinion||Man and Superman||There have always been two camps among lovers of Bengali cinema — the Uttam Kumar camp and the Soumitra Chatterjee camp. These have little to do with film appreciation or keen artistic sensibility. In fact, it would not be such a terrible exaggeration to say that for years people just crawl out of the womb programmed one way or the other. Matinee idol Uttam Kumar’s untimely death in 1980 did not make a dent in his fan-following nor did it weaken his camp strength. And by the time Soumitra Chatterjee died last week after several weeks in hospital, he had acquired legions of new admirers — some from the opposite camp as well. Old comparisons The bulletins about Soumitra kept flashing for 40 days. Corona positive, Corona negative, now stable, now critical, now responding to music therapy, now on dialysis, now responding to blood transfusion… In a non-corona situation, routine life pours out and on like a steady stream; anxiety and grief can thicken only so much. But in a corona stricken world, anxiety is contagious and grief too. As Soumitra fought for life, a larger community lived the ebb and flow. In the meantime, all spaces brimmed with the actor's works, new and old; discussions around them, new and old. Old comparisons raised their head, but obviously. Hoyto tomari jonno… Only, with one star long gone, and the second obviously poised for the skies, the contest seemed to have evaporated. What remained was a sense of difference. Uttam Kumar had mostly played the hero. Soumitra, come to think of it, had played the Other more than once. Uttam Kumar was swagger and smile and charm. Soumitra’s sabre-sharp mind shone through his works. One embodied romance. The other, reality. And then came the final news flash --- The End. Most of the tributes to Soumitra contained a reference to Uttam Kumar. And so the camps endure --- the Uttam Kumar camp and the Soumitra camp --- more distinctive than rival, and with the added provision of dual membership.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-113
22-11-2020||Opinion||This Ram has been grounded, but why? ||During the organizational reshuffle in the Bharatiya Janata Party in September, two significant leaders were dropped as general secretaries by the BJP chief, JP Nadda. One of them was the high-profile leader, Ram Madhav, and the other was P Muralidhar Rao. Both had moved from the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh to the BJP and were aiming high. However, in a sudden move last week, Nadda appointed Rao as chief minder of party affairs of the politically significant Madhya Pradesh. Madhav, on the other hand, continues to be left high and dry. The unexpected elevation of Rao while ignoring Madhav completely has become an issue of keen discussion in the corridors of the BJP. In fact, many are trying to find out the reason behind the dropping of the two at first and then rehabilitating just one. The choice, too, is curious. “A grand temple for Lord Ram is being built in Ayodhya and here Ram appears to have been sent into exile,” one leader was heard saying. One informed leader, however, claimed that Madhav had been flying too high and it was therefore that he had to be grounded first before he could be considered for a decent position. With every passing day it is becoming increasingly clear that in the current regime, nobody is allowed to soar too high. Nobody is sure why the BJP kept its senior leader, Sushil Kumar Modi, out of the new National Democratic Alliance government in Bihar instead of repeating him as deputy chief minister. Several conspiracy theories are doing the rounds. A veteran politician said that this was because the prime minister, Narendra Modi, never forgives. The story goes back to around 2013, when he was the Gujarat chief minister and working hard to get anointed as the BJP’s prime ministerial candidate. Nitish Kumar, chief minister of Bihar and considered a close friend of Sushil Modi, was a rival. In fact, he had just severed ties with the NDA. At that point, in response to some journalists, Sushil Modi had reportedly said that Kumar was ‘prime minister material’. “See the fate of all those who did not support Narendra Modi wholeheartedly at that time, whether he was Lal Krishna Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi or anybody else. Sushil has joined their league,” the veteran leader said. Even veteran politicians slip, fumble and stumble at the doorstep of power. Nitish Kumar made this evident while taking oath as the chief minister of Bihar for the seventh time. He took the oath of office at the Raj Bhavan and then went to put his signature on it in front of the governor, Phagu Chauhan. By then everybody had sensed that something was amiss. Kumar had forgotten to take the oath of secrecy. It is unclear if anyone pointed this out to him, but he went back to the lectern and completed the ceremony. Clearly, everyone present lacked a sense of humour; nobody even sniggered at this. However, people close to Kumar said that it was an outcome of the stress of becoming ‘chhota bhai’ to ally BJP after the Janata Dal (United) won just 43 seats as opposed to the BJP’s 74. One cannot be sure whether the stress is gone or has just started. It is six versus 55 in Assam, a one-sided battle by any account. In Assam, the Congress is taking the heat from the ruling BJP after the chief minister of Assam, Sarbananda Sonowal, reportedly claimed at a rally that people will vote overwhelmingly for the continuity of his government in next year’s assembly polls. Why? For all the good that the BJP has done for the state in its six years in power at the Centre, and four in the state, compared to the Congress’s 55 years. The Assam Pradesh Congress Committee chief, Ripun Bora, however, is not taking any of this lying down. A combative Bora reportedly deployed sarcasm: people of Assam will vote overwhelmingly for the BJP because it rid the state of illegal foreigners; because it has given away the Guwahati airport to a private party; because it has completed the National Register of Citizens; because people have got the Rs 15 lakh in their accounts; because two crore people across India, including 26 lakh in Assam, have got jobs. Another reason, he said, will be the contentious and anti-Assam Citizenship (Amendment) Act. In short, Bora accused the BJP of peddling lies and doing the opposite of what it had promised before storming to power with its allies in 2016: protect jati (community), mati (land) and bheti (base). Bora has managed to hold the mirror up to the BJP. But the question, a seasoned Congress hand asked, was whether it would oblige by looking at it. Loyalists in the Congress are still not sure about the timing and process of Rahul Gandhi’s return as party president. Many feel that he should take over before the plenary. Advisers reportedly want him to take over in December itself by acceding to the Congress Working Committee request instead of waiting for the All India Congress Committee meeting in January-February. But this option could have lesser legitimacy than the regular process, preferably an election. The fear is that an election without Rahul’s control over the party will allow dissenters to make the election of most of the younger leaders difficult, as they are in no mood to surrender. Sidelining them completely will be a difficult task. Sonia Gandhi, too, is said to favour a balanced approach. Further, there could be a formidable challenge if Rahul were to appoint a president of his choice and run the party from behind the scenes. Senior leaders are convinced there are barely a few talented youths who deserve key organizational roles, as most of them lack the vision and dynamism. The younger lot, however, suspect most of the senior leaders are reluctant to fight Narendra Modi with full force. If Sonia and Rahul do not address the problem before the AICC meeting, the party is in for a hard time ahead. Mallikarjun Kharge has accused party leaders of forgetting the ideology that helped the Congress grow; the Karnataka veteran reportedly wants young party workers to be taught about the Congress’s ideology by the seniors through the narration of stories of sacrifices made by its founding fathers. But those who disagreed with Kharge’s chiding allegedly questioned his absence from campaigns for the recent bypolls that the Congress lost. They say he could have made a difference.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-113
22-11-2020||Opinion||Fiction as fact||By 2025, if not earlier, I expect five major titles dominating the world of books. Coming under the category of fiction, they will all be products of the pandemic and its biggest fallout — fear. Let me visualize them. The first, titled 2025, is a political masterpiece of the calibre of Orwell’s 1984. Written by an Australian of Chinese descent, it is about a tyrant from the Far East who establishes a four-nation Axis with one country in North Africa, one in Europe, and one in South America. On Christmas eve, 2025, the Axis Powers launch a global assault on democracies through a cyber invasion that completely cripples the digital handles the world knows today, causing its banking portals to collapse, its security sites to crumble, its governance to come to a standstill. Airlines grind down, railways hiss to a halt, internet activity stops, mobile telephony ceases to operate in country after country. The Axis offers a restoration of ‘order’ under a new cyber system, which it controls exclusively, rigidly. One signal comes through: COMPLY WITH NEW ORDER. Twenty-four hours are given for compliance, else bombs will shower disease. Stunned, the United States of America moves to put a firewall in place to protect its digital systems. The president of the US — a gutsy woman — seeks to call the heads of the world’s democracies but can reach only a few. In the place of the voice of those she cannot get through to, she hears a short laugh with the following voice message: ‘Smart, eh? Too late.’ She does get through to New Delhi. ‘We have to join up,’ she is told by her equally strong counterpart, ‘but how?’ The second work of fiction, perhaps titled Zero Hour, is a science thriller but also high literature of the style of Aldous Huxley’s Brave New World. Written by a Brazilian, it is about a cabal of five theoretical physicists who have retired from their countries’ defence laboratories, but are led by an electronic wizard who has moved from physics to digital technology out of what he calls ‘plain mad love’ of that expertise. They have known each other from conferences and have exchanged personal contact lines in addition to their official ones. They have an encrypted code that is so protected within its folds as to be impermeable, unstoppable, incorruptible and — unintelligible to all but the five. It has been refined as to be un-hackable, un-destroyable by man or virus or a combination of the two. The five have a macabre sense of humour. They want to paralyze the world, not to control it but to chastise it. They loathe humanity. For its cunning destructiveness, its bizarre hatred of life, its perverse lust for murder. They believe, with no evidence but just a hunch, that the virus that gripped the world in 2020 was a man-made affair, like the atom bomb. They loathe humanity for doing that. They choose countries by the first letters of their names and, starting on July 16, 2025, immobilize their electronics one by one. Afghanistan cannot figure out what is happening to it. It cannot connect to what happens next to Albania. And then Algeria... Why on July 16? They have a God — J.R. Oppenheimer, leader of the Trinity test in New Mexico where the first atomic bomb was test-detonated on that date. They have not read the Bhagavad Gita but know Oppenheimer’s quote from it: “I am become Death.” They see themselves as that ‘I’. And they want to enact “I am become Death.” They have decided to die with the dying. Die laughing. They are brave. They are mad. And they know their way to what they want to achieve. The third best-selling work of the imagination is titled The Return of the Species. It is the audacious work of a zoologist, a young Ethiopian, who knows Darwin’s work as closely as a palmist knows the lines on his own hand’s inside. She has followed the natural history of Planet Earth with the zeal of a lioness beholding prey for her hungry young. She has been thrilled by the few weeks, soon after ‘Wuhan’, when the human world went into lockdown and the animal world came out into unlock. She writes with unconcealed relish of an ‘ecologically ideal’ scene when the virus spreads and the lockdown cannot ever be lifted, of hippopotami walking into city centres, nilgais roaming in the Taj Mahal’s now wild lawn, snakes sliding over Cecil Rhodes’s statue atop Table Mountain, kangaroo strolling in the La Trobe campus, of the air over Lahore and Tokyo becoming so clean, so pure, that the spangled stars overhead can be seen piercingly bright. And in an Animal Farm replay, she has a she-elephant wandering into a zoo and getting so enraged seeing other elephants inside it that leading a charge into the zoo she sets the captives free. The fourth nugget of fiction is called The Waft. Written originally in Bangla, it has been translated into English by the writer’s divorced wife, an Irishwoman living by herself in Dublin. The author is a forty-five-year-old flautist, trained in Santiniketan’s Sangit Bhavana, but unemployed and un-employable. He is a genius with the flute, a waif without it. He has been teaching his music to students in Calcutta. But they are few and very often unable to pay him anything more than his bus fare. Ever since the pandemic, he is unable to go to them. His meagre earning has stopped. He manages to come to his village in Khatra, the most beautiful part of West Bengal’s stunning district of Bankura. Sitting day after day in his childless aunt’s home, fed by her, he stares at the mind-boggling sky in all its hues, plays on his flute and composes lyrics to ragas he loves. When she calls him Kalidas, he simply smiles. His lyrics are about the seasons. He plays, writes, plays, writes. Playing the Megha Malhar, gliding from komal nishad to pancham, he writes, “The cloud... wafts... with the panic of a veil... flying after the girl who has dropped it, running...” He writes about all the six seasons and, one evening, after playing Hamir centred around shuddha dhaivat with a downward glide from nishad, writes about a seventh season... Akaala... the ‘unseasonal...’ This Akaala can come now any time anywhere... unwanted but undeflectable... wafting... The fifth is a slim, 50-page work, which its publisher has titled The End. It has been written — in just one evening — by a half-Myanmarese, half-Israeli virologist in Boston who has been working on the vaccine. The vaccine. Its last sentence is incomplete. The writer knows all that there is to know about the virus, the vaccine. He knows how vital it is, how fragile. He knows the world’s need for it, its hopes for it. He has taken it from stage to stage with his team. They are all skilled, sincere, just as he is. But he is also — as only Louise, his fiancée, knows — given to depression. On the evening he is to write this, just as he is leaving the lab, getting out of his ‘space-suit’ as he calls it, a colleague says, “It may not really work... You know... the chances are... fifty-fifty... It may cover only fifty per cent of the world... And that also for just fifty per cent of the risk...” Back in his flat, he writes the fifty pages about his fear of the vaccine’s failure... Louise calls later that night as she does each night. There is no answer. She goes across, nervous. She has spare keys to the flat. The laptop is open, lit. He is slumped over it. She takes the manuscript some days later to its publisher. It appears the day the vaccine is placed in the market.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-113
22-11-2020||Opinion||Daddy's turn: a case for paternity leave||No man, they say, is a hero to his butler. But men like to be heroes to everyone else. India breeds them in the hundreds: as the mommy’s darling, with all the women in the household rushing to fulfil his slightest wish, as the ‘jewel’ of a boy in the classroom who rises through life as smoothly as a glittering knife through butter, as the undaunted leader who takes his country to victory against huge odds on the pitch to the roar of thousands of fans. Not for him the unpaid, unseen labour of looking after bawling, incontinent, ravenous babies, or cooking and cleaning when the exhausted mother wants to doze off for a minute. This role is so much a part of Indian expectation and practice that when the captain of the Indian men’s cricket team requests — and gets — a couple of weeks off from an important overseas tour to be with his wife during the delivery of their child, it is seen by many as ‘dereliction of duty’. But should the work-life balance for men be so skewed that the home must remain invisible, its practical and emotional support forever under wraps? Which way will an Indian man lean in this day and time — the time is crucial — between ‘patriot’ and daddy for his preferred label (or epitaph)? A bill for paternity leave made a hesitant appearance in 2017, when the law for maternity leave was amended. Paternity leave never became law, which not only left pregnant women and new mothers high and dry at home as usual, but also continued to diminish their chances at work. How many employers will recruit a woman who must be given maternity leave by law when a man in her place can continue being the ‘breadwinner’ while making babies at home? But convention can be as oppressive for men as it is for women. Some men may feel that they are missing something, that paternity leave is not for lazing but for sharing their partner’s workload. When not just traditional expectation but also policy emphasizes gender roles, equality becomes an empty word. The public sector nowadays does allow the father — or the father-to-be — 15 days off while maternity leave has been extended to 26 weeks. But 15 days are better than zero days in most of the United States of America, where men can take sick leave to be fatherly. That is telling. A study in Spain, which now gives 12 weeks of paternity leave, had found that it has lowered the fertility rate, as though fathers have realized what it takes to look after a baby and responded with compassion — and self-preservation? The private sector in India is free not to offer paternity leave, but many large organizations are formulating their own policies. Equality as well as higher productivity resulting from the security and contentment of a better work-life balance may be their aim. Daddy’s turn has come.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-114
22-11-2020||Jharkhand||Desperados attack Congress activist’s house in Mango||A group of bandits swooped over the house of  local Congress member Onkar Nath Singh with stones while ransacking the party office at Post-Office Road locality in Mango on Sunday morning. While there is no apparent reason for the attack, Singh along with other partymen has given the police an ultimatum of 24 hours to nab and arrest the criminals, threatening to gheraoh the Mango police station in case of failure. The incident occurred at the thickly-populated Post-Office Road area at about 3 am on Sunday, setting off a strong resentment among a section of the locals who came to know about the attack in the morning. Stones and bricks lay strewn in front of the Congress activist’s residence and a banner featuring state health minister and Congress Jamshedpur West legislator Banna Gupta was left on the ground. Mango thana OC Vinay Kumar visited the site along with a police team after getting a complaint regarding the attack on Singh’s house and the adjoining party office. While probing the case, the police also scanned the CCTV camera footage, one of which helped them identify a culprit. Satyaban Gaur was seen pelting stones at the Congress activist's house. “We have identified one of the culprits who was identified as Satyaban Gaur, a resident of the same locality. From the CCTV footage it appeared that Gaur, who is about 28 years of age, was drunk. We have registered a case against him and others and will arrest them all soon," said Kumar while talking to The Telegraph Online. The officer informed that the attackers, including Gaur, had absconded. However the police were still continuing raids at the houses of the accused. Kumar hoped that they would be nabbed soon. While Gaur, who recently returned from the prison, has a criminal record, Onkar Nath Singh is the president of the Mango Vikash Samity and has affiliation with the Congress party. Singh is also a member of the Peace Committee of Mango. This was not the first time Gaur had attacked his residence, the activist said while talking to reporters, adding that he had launched similar attacks on three occasions. "Being a peace committee member, I have to remain vigilant against all anti-social activities in the area.  Satyaban remains indulged in anti-social activities.  He might have launched the attack in apprehension that I will report his activities to the local police and administration.  Otherwise there seems no other reason behind the accused to launch such an attack on me," claimed Singh. The Congress activist added that he had no land dispute with Gaur, but he still continues to ransack his residence where Singh lives with his family. Sources in Post-Office road locality, however, revealed that there was a land dispute between the family of Satyaban Gaur and Onkar Nath Singh. "Satyaban Gaur's family had a huge extent of land at Mango and there was an enmity over landed properties between the Gaurs and the Congress activists. The real reason behind the attack by Satyaban can be established if the police carry out a proper investigation," said a local resident of Post-Office Road, who wished to remain anonymous.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-228
22-11-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand witnesses abrupt drop in temperatures||Several areas in Jharkhand, including Ranchi, witnessed an abrupt fall in the minimum readings of the temperature that plunged to around 11 degrees Celsius on Sunday. Following a warm and cloudy spell that resulted in rain over the last two days, most parts of the state saw clear skies and low humidity levels on Sunday, both conducive to lower mercury readings. What is better is that similar weather conditions will prevail for at least the next 72 hours before the temperature moves northward due to the return of easterly wind pattern around November 26, which will blow as a result of  a cyclonic circulation, said weathermen. Recording temperatures a notch below normal, Ranchi on Sunday felt shivers at 11.5 degrees Celsius. On Saturday, the capital had recorded a minimum of 17.7°C, five notches above normal. Bokaro on the other hand recorded mercury readings at 14.5 degrees Celsius, two notches above normal, contrary to Saturday’s 18.6 degrees Celsius, which is four notches above normal. Daltonganj, too, recorded a minimum temperature of 14.5 degrees on Sunday Celsius against Saturday’s 18 degrees Celsius, a fall of 3.5 degrees Celsius in the last 24 hours. Jamshedpur also witnessed free fall of temperature. The minimum readings plummeted to 16.4 degrees Celsius from Saturday’s 21.3 degrees Celsius. Saturday’s minimum reading in steel city was six notches above normal. The minimum readings plummeted to around 11 degrees Celsius in Dumka and its adjoining areas in Santhal Pargana region  today. On Saturday, most places in Santhal Pargana had notched over 16 degrees Celsius. The mercury  nosedived to  degrees 10 Celsius at Kanke in the outskirts of Ranchi  from  yesterday's 16.5°C while minimum readings hovered around  degrees Celsius in Ramgarh and Khunti. Night temperatures hovered around 14 degrees Celsius in Dhanbad, Hazaribagh, Simdega, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan. "The Celsius is suddenly dropping because  of the free flow of northwesterly wind which usually helps in plummeting night readings," said Abhishek Anand, Deputy Director of  Ranchi Meteorological Centre. He explained that the northern winds were being obstructed due to an anti-cyclone, which resulted in the adverse weather at Jharkhand. Anand added that the cool weather will last for at least another 72 hours due to the dominating northwesterly winds. After that, the wind pattern is expected to change to easterly, which will bring in moisture into the atmosphere, he explained. The forecast also ruled out possibilities of cloud formation owing to local effects or any system over the Bay of Bengal for at least the next three days. The regional Meteorological Centre in Alipore, Calcutta, said northwesterly winds were currently blowing over the state and would continue to dominate for the next  three  days. "Clear skies, characteristic of winter, and low humidity resulted in the Celsius plunge in Jharkhand," said a duty officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-229
22-11-2020||Jharkhand||Security forces gun down Maoists zonal commander in Chatra||Maoist’s zonal commander, Alok, was gunned down in a joint operation of Cobra, CRPF and police team in Gaya of Bihar. Alok's killing came as a big relief for Chatra police who were in search of him for a long time. He was wanted in three dozens of cases lodged in Chatra including murder, extortion, and kidnapping. He originally belonged to Sikid village under Sadar police station of Chatra district. Jharkhand government had announced Rs10 lakh reward on his head. Police sources said Alok was implicated in a case related to the murder of a villager Triloki Yadav in 2004 at Sikid, when he was only 14 years old. His original name was Santosh Yadav. Villagers forced him to leave the village after his house was locked. He joined the Communist Party of India (Maoists) and got the new name Alok. On police records, he was also known as Gulshan and Ravi. After becoming an extremist, he used his position and reconstructed his damaged house in Sikid and another one in the neighboring Bhuiyandih village as well. But other rival outfits blew his two houses making him violent and targeting his enemies. About his killing, police officials in Chatra said Alok was present in an orchestra program along GT road in Mahuari village under Barachatti block of Gaya district. The program was going on in the village and in between Alok and his team had gunned down two persons including representatives of local mukhiya there. Firing made security forces alert in that area after getting a tip-off about this Maoists squad in advance. The team reached there and soon both sides exchanged bullets which ended after forty minutes killing Alok on the spot. The police team had recovered one INSAS and one AK-47 rifle from the spot. Alok was also wanted in dozen cases lodged in Gaya and Aurangabad of Bihar. Chatra superintendent of police Rishav Kumar Jha has confirmed the killing and said Alok, known from various names, was wanted in many cases lodged in various police stations of the district. In Chatra, Maoists had started reorganizing the outfit and made their presence felt with three incidents in the last few weeks. Other than killing a woman and a youth at two other places, Maoists had gunned down a coal trader Mukesh Giri yesterday morning on Chhath Ghat under Pathalgadda police station. With police coming under huge pressure to contain the activities of red brigade, the killing of Alok was seen as a big shock for extremists in this district, once known as the stronghold of extremists. A police officer on condition of anonymity said Alok was a big headache for police of the two states and his killing is like a reward for them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-229
22-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad students want PG courses back, hold campaign||As many as 50 post-graduate students of the All Jharkhand Student Union (AJSU) along with other aspirants of PG courses of PK Roy College, Dhanbad on Sunday organised a signature campaign Randhir Verma Chowk of the town demanding resumption of PG teaching facility at the college. The courses at the premiere college of the Binod Bihari Mahato Koylanchal University were dropped two years ago. The students claimed that the withdrawal of the PG courses from the college located at the heart of Dhanbad will cause several difficulties for students, especially women, who come from faraway areas vying for higher studies in the near future. This is likely to happen due to the upcoming shift of the university to its new campus at Bhelatand Mouza of the town from its temporary address at Babudih. PK Roy Memorial College offered post-graduate courses in 15 subjects for more than three decades and served as the PG centre of the Vinoba Bhave University, Hazaribagh. However, with the Binod Bihari Koylanchal University being established at Dhanbad in 2017, the college dropped off the facility and instead launched its own PG departments. The classes are scheduled to be shifted from the temporary location at Babudih to its own upcoming building at Bhelatand soon. Talking to The Telegraph Online at the campaign site at Randhir Verma Chowk, Vivek Kumar, a PG student of the college said, “PK Roy Memorial College, where PG courses were being carried out since the last 34 years, is centrally located and students can easily reach the location. But after the university gets shifted to its upcoming campus at Bhelatand, which is located away from the town in a remote area, it will be difficult for students to reach there.” Vikash Mahato, a student who is completing his PG course in Hindi, seemed to have similar opinions. “We have no objection to the university launching its PG department but at the same time, we do not want  withdrawal of the PG course from PK Roy Memorial College as it is the only premiere college of the BBMKU at Dhanbad,” he said. Student leader and BBKMU unit leader of student wing at AJSU, Vishal Mahato said, “The PK Roy Memorial College earned a better ranking during the last assessment of college by National Assessment and Accreditation Council, which was conducted five years ago due to the availability of PG course facility. It may not get a similar ranking during the next assessment due the withdrawal of the PG courses during the time.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-229
22-11-2020||Jharkhand||Darbhanga airport takes off, Deoghar lags behind||Of the two regional airports scheduled to begin flight operations from the first week of November, Darbhangha in neighbouring Bihar has taken off before  Jharkhand’s temple town of Deoghar. Several infrastructure gaps have delayed Deoghar’s debut on the country’s aerial map by at least a few more months, even though Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri, after conducting an on-site review of the two airports, had promised to launch flights from the first week of November. Bihar managed. On November 8, flight services began from Darbhanga, part of the Mithila belt, under the centrally sponsored regional air connectivity scheme UDAN. But Jharkhand couldn’t. Deoghar deputy commissioner Manjunath Bhajantri said the state government was working to make the airport project a reality soon. “Deoghar airport is also among chief minister Hemant Soren’s priority projects and we are trying to speed up the work by addressing causes behind its delay,” said Bhajantri, who took charge on November 18 replacing Kameshwar Prasad. Bhajantri said he had held a detailed review meeting with officials of Airport Authority of India (AAI), forest department and other stakeholders to speed up the process. Detailing on a few shortcomings, he said, “Work on construction of approach roads around the airport is to be done. This will require relocation of those living in its vicinity. District and AAI officials have been asked to work in tandem and begin the relocation project. This apart, some trees have to be replaced or cut, for which the forest department has been sounded out.” The deputy commissioner did not specify timelines but said all stakeholders had been activated to complete pending work in a time-bound manner. An airport official had claimed earlier that more than 90 per cent of the construction work was complete. This included the terminal building with six check-in counters, ATC tower, fire station, power station, airport station, among others. Currently, work related to drainage systems, power, communication facilities and police posts is underway. The foundation stone of the Rs 401.34-crore Deoghar airport was laid by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 25, 2018. It is being developed by the Airports Authority of India in collaboration with the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and the Jharkhand government. The airport is spread over 653.75 acre and its terminal building is being built over an area of 4,000sqm, while the runway is 2,500 metre long. With an environment-friendly architectural design and state-of-the-art passenger facilities, the terminal building will be a composite structure inspired by the rising towers (shikhar) of the Baba Baidyanath temple. Once ready, this will be Jharkhand’s second largest airport after Birsa Munda International terminal in Ranchi and will be suitable for operation of Airbus A-320 type of aircraft. Currently, rail and road journeys are the only options for thousands who come to Deoghar annually for Lord Shiva’s darshan. Once air services begin, footfall is expected to multiply which will turnaround the local economy by strengthening Deoghar’s place as a prime attraction for religious tourism. A direct flight between Ranchi-Chennai commenced operations from Saturday.  A 180-seater Indigo aircraft made a to and fro journey to almost full capacity. The flight from Chennai with 166 passengers reached Ranchi airport at 8.05am while it returned with 155 passengers at 8.50am.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-229
22-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad youths join efforts to save water bodies after Chhath||A group of youth, engaged in providing free of cost education to more than 2,000 students of the district launched a cleanliness drive of ponds of Dhanbad. This drive was aimed at spreading the message of round the year upkeep of water bodies, including ponds. The drive began on Sunday from Lodna pond of Jharia with altogether six members of Jharia based social organization, Samadhan. They cleaned the pond by bringing out the puja paraphernalia like garlands, cloth, flower, fruits, and also brooming around the pond ghats. The drive that began at around 11.45 am continued till around 2.15 pm. Besides bringing out the puja paraphernalia, they also collected the polythene carry bags, papers, banana branch, some idols frame of sun god immersed after Chhath and other garbage lying on the banks of the pond. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Sunday, Ravindra Kumar (29), a private tutor of Lodna more area of Dhanbad, said, “Generally all attention of government, social organizations, as well as the civic bodies, is limited to the cleanliness of ponds during Chhath but post-Chhath, all the ponds bear the brunt of negligence.” “Through our drive we wanted to spread the message that being a part of the community we should not shun our responsibility towards the ponds after completion of Chhath and rather take the responsibility of their upkeep even after Chhath when the cleanliness is most required as a huge amount of puja paraphernalia and other articles are dumped in the pond,” said Ravindra, who also imparts free of cost education to the students of economically weaker section of the society under the banner of Samadhan. “We also appealed to the local residents to not dump the garbage near the pond and also not allow others from turning the pond ghats into dumping yard of garbage,” said Kumar. Rahul Kumar (24), another volunteer of Samadhan, who is a resident of Lodna More locality of Dhanbad said, “We will share the photographs of the pond cleanliness work on social media, like Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp and Twitter in order to encourage others towards the responsibility of pond upkeep round the year and especially after Chhath.” Uttam Sinha (45), a small-time trader of Gandhi road locality of Dhanbad, who also joined the volunteers of Samadhan in the two and a half hours cleanliness drive of Lodna pond on Sunday said, “The need of the hour is to take responsibility for the upkeep of water bodies around us by ourselves and if we keep a little care of these water bodies during the other times apart from the festival, there will be no need to be dependent on the civic bodies to clean the pond ahead of festivals like Durga Puja, Diwali and Chhath.” Samadhan founder, Chandan Singh said, “We will continue the drive in other ponds of the district for a fortnight and will carry out a similar drive in Singh Nagar pond of Jharia on Monday.”  A group of youth, engaged in providing free of cost education to more than 2,000 students of the district launched a cleanliness drive of ponds of Dhanbad. This drive was aimed at spreading the message of round the year upkeep of water bodies, including ponds. The drive began on Sunday from Lodna pond of Jharia with altogether six members of Jharia based social organization, Samadhan. They cleaned the pond by bringing out the puja paraphernalia like garlands, cloth, flower, fruits, and also brooming around the pond ghats. The drive that began at around 11.45 am continued till around 2.15 pm. Besides bringing out the puja paraphernalia, they also collected the polythene carry bags, papers, banana branch, some idols frame of sun god immersed after Chhath and other garbage lying on the banks of the pond. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Sunday, Ravindra Kumar (29), a private tutor of Lodna more area of Dhanbad, said, “Generally all attention of government, social organizations, as well as the civic bodies, is limited to the cleanliness of ponds during Chhath but post-Chhath, all the ponds bear the brunt of negligence.” “Through our drive we wanted to spread the message that being a part of the community we should not shun our responsibility towards the ponds after completion of Chhath and rather take the responsibility of their upkeep even after Chhath when the cleanliness is most required as a huge amount of puja paraphernalia and other articles are dumped in the pond,” said Ravindra, who also imparts free of cost education to the students of economically weaker section of the society under the banner of Samadhan. “We also appealed to the local residents to not dump the garbage near the pond and also not allow others from turning the pond ghats into dumping yard of garbage,” said Kumar. Rahul Kumar (24), another volunteer of Samadhan, who is a resident of Lodna More locality of Dhanbad said, “We will share the photographs of the pond cleanliness work on social media, like Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp and Twitter in order to encourage others towards the responsibility of pond upkeep round the year and especially after Chhath.” Uttam Sinha (45), a small-time trader of Gandhi road locality of Dhanbad, who also joined the volunteers of Samadhan in the two and a half hours cleanliness drive of Lodna pond on Sunday said, “The need of the hour is to take responsibility for the upkeep of water bodies around us by ourselves and if we keep a little care of these water bodies during the other times apart from the festival, there will be no need to be dependent on the civic bodies to clean the pond ahead of festivals like Durga Puja, Diwali and Chhath.” Samadhan founder, Chandan Singh said, “We will continue the drive in other ponds of the district for a fortnight and will carry out a similar drive in Singh Nagar pond of Jharia on Monday.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-229
22-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad corporation gears up for Swachh Survekshan with town beautification drive||Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) is carrying out a massive wall painting and slogan writing drive in various public places in the run-up to the Swachh Survekshan 2021. The ponds, streets, flyovers, entertainment parks in five circles of Dhanbad including Jharia, Dhanbad, Sindri, Katras, and Chhatatand are under this beautification drive. Wall painting and slogan writing around a dozen popular ponds, including two each in Jharia, Sindri, and Chhatatand circle, and three each in Dhanbad and Katras circle has already been completed ahead of Chhath. Similar beautification drives around other ponds, in 55 wards of Dhanbad, are in progress, which is likely to be completed before January next year ahead of Swachh Survekshan.  DMC meanwhile has also launched the wall painting and slogan writing drive on the railway overbridge near the Rangatand Chowk of Dhanbad as well as 824-meter bank more overbridge as part of its beautification drive. Giving details, Prem Prakash, City Manager of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation, who is also the in-charge of Swachh Bharat Mission project of DMC said, “We had launched the wall painting and slogan writing drive during mid-October and decided to include ponds as part of our beautification drive in the last stage in view of Chhath celebration as a large number of people gather around the pond and the slogans regarding cleaning may have a better appeal there.” “We have carried out wall painting and slogan writing work on the boundary wall of Rajendra Sarovar (also known as Bekar Bandh) pond situated in the heart of Dhanbad town and similarly extensive wall painting and beautification all around the pond of Shiv Mandir in Jharia has been completed,” said Prakash.  Divulging more details, Prakash said, “We will include all the streets, flyovers and squares of the district as part of our drive in order to give a better look to the town as well as spreading the message regarding cleanliness and hygiene, environment protection, etc.” The Hindi slogans painted as part of wall writing included, Swachhata hai mahaabhiyan, swachhata me dijiye apna yogdan; Swachhata apnao apne ghar ko sundar banao; Kahin bhule to nahi swachhata ka path, aayie milkar phir se karen abhyas, etc. “Though we are also carrying out a lot of innovative work as part of the preparation for the Swachh Survekshan like decoration with the help of waste materials like used tyres and used plastic bottle regarding which we will give great details after the completion of work,” said Prakash and added that they had also developed an attractive flowering zone in the Birsa Munda Park and Rajendra Sarovar during the last year using the waste tyres and also grown decorative plant in plastic bottles and they decorated them on the boundary wall of both the parks. “We are also carrying out other welfare work as part of the preparation for Swachh Survekshan as a result of which we have installed an automatic sanitary pad vending machine at PMCH for patients of economically deprived section of the society who are being provided with pads at a rate of Rs 5 per piece,” said Prakash. Notably, Dhanbad secured 33 All India Ranking this year making an improvement over the last year ranking of 56.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-229
22-11-2020||Jharkhand||Vidhan Sabha turns 20, but it has no leader of the Opposition||For the first time since the formation of Jharkhand, the anniversary celebration of Vidhan Sabha was held in absence of a leader of the Opposition on Sunday, triggering indirect jibes against the government from the BJP. Biranchi Narayan, the chief whip of BJP, the second largest party in the 81-member Jharkhand Assembly, used the platform of the 20th anniversary ceremony of Vidhan Sabha to lament over the absence of BJP-backed Leader of Opposition Babulal Marandi, the first chief minister of Jharkhand. “It would have been nice had Leader of Opposition, Babulal Marandi, attended this event. Leader of Opposition is one of the pillars of the Assembly and Babulalji’s absence gives a sense of incompleteness as we celebrate 20 years of our state assembly,” Narayan said, while addressing all the MLAs and Governor Droupadi Murmu at the Vidhan Sabha anniversary celebration. Babulal and two of his former Jharkhand Vikas Morcha-Prajatantrik (JVM-P) MLAs – Pradeep Yadav and Bandhu Tirkey – are yet to get the assembly speaker Rabindra Nath Mahato’s nod as MLAs of parties they joined after winning the 2019 elections as JVM-P candidates. While Babulal joined BJP, Yadav and Tirkey moved to the Congress party. However, the Election Commission of India (ECI) have accepted them as MLAs of the parties they joined after winning the elections. Chief Minister Hemant Soren, alluding to the Narendra Modi-led Union government, said that making stricter laws and imposing them on the citizens with an iron fist may not lead to positive changes in the society. “Imposing stricter laws on the people cannot lead to a better society. We have to create a society, wherein people respect each other irrespective of caste, community, gender and religion. Unity in diversity is the beauty of our country, and we all should stay united in order to see progress and development,” said Hemant, stating the example of the Vidhan Sabha, where every MLA was equal, he added. The chief minister also thanked his fellow MLAs for fighting the Covid-19 crisis as a team and helping Jharkhand check the spread of the deadly virus. Hemant said that the Covid-19 situation in Jharkhand was better in comparison to many other states in India, but the fight was not over yet. “Our fight against this pandemic is not over yet. I would urge all the residents of our state to abide by the rules and take necessary precautions, as that is the only way we can deal with the situation,” said Hemant. Assembly speaker Rabindra Nath Mahto conferred the best MLA award to seven-time legislator from Shikaripara, Nalin Soren, a senior JMM leader. Mahto lauded the efforts of the coronavirus-infected MLAs to stay connected with the Assembly via video conferencing even when they were battling the infection. Apart from the Soren, Joint Secretary Shishir Kumar Jha, Administrative Officers Somen Kumar Singh and Laxmi Muchwa were honoured with the late Kapileshwar Award for outstanding performance in the Legislative Assembly. Besides, Ranchi’s Civil Surgeon B.V. Prasad, ADM Law and Order Akhilesh Kumar Singh and RIMS Chief Nurse Ram Rekha Rai were felicitated for their exemplary contribution in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. Addressing the ceremony, Governor Droupadi Murmu remembered the brave tribal heroes of Jharkhand, Birsa Munda and Nilamber Pitamber. She said that Jharkhand should not only count its success, but also pay attention to the shortcomings. “In this time of globalisation, we must continuously strive to stay at par with the world. The people elect their representatives with a lot of hope and aspirations. All the MLAs must remember that their primary task is to serve the people and address their problems,” said Murmu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-229
22-11-2020||Jharkhand||Six more die, 175 new cases of Covid-19 in the state||At least half a dozen people, including two from Ranchi, died of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand on Saturday, taking the Covid-19 toll in the state up at 945, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. The two deaths caused by Covid-19 in Ranchi took the toll in the district to 189. Barring Ranchi and East Singhbhum, all the remaining 22 districts have reported fewer Covid-19 deaths than 100. The Covid-19 mortality rate in the state was 0.88 percent against the national average of 1.50 percent by Saturday evening, highlighted in the NHM bulletin. East Singhbhum, Hazaribag, Jamtara, and Godda reported one Covid-19 casualty each on Saturday. The latest findings by the health department take the total count of Covid-19 fatalities in East Singhbhum alone to 350, the highest among all the 24 districts in Jharkhand. As per government data, East Singhbhum accounts for over 30 percent of Covid-19 casualties in the state. Meanwhile, the count of active cases of Covid-19 infection dropped below 2,500 on Saturday as at least 333 patients recovered from the lethal infection in the past 24 hours. As per government records, 2,430 people were battling the infection on Saturday evening. Ranchi reported 59 fresh cases against 171 recoveries, which brought the count of active cases in the district below 1,000. East Singhbhum reported 28 cases and 38 recoveries, while Dhanbad reported 23 cases and 40 recoveries. At least five districts, including Koderma and Latehar, did not report even a single fresh case of Covid-19 infection on the day. As per the NHM bulletin, the government on Saturday collected swab samples of only 8,123 people, which is lower than the average number of swab samples collected in the past one month. As many as 12,509 swab samples, including the ones collected earlier, were tested on the day and 175 of them were found Covid-19 positive, the NHM bulletin further stated. The government has so far collected swab samples of 39.08 lakh people and tested 38.95 lakh of them. Of the nearly 39 lakh people tested, as many as 1,07,332 were found infected. At least 1,03,957 have recovered from the infection in Jharkhand. As per government data, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.17 percent against the national average of 0.38 percent. The doubling rate of the viral infection in the state was 408.27 days against the national average of 183.22 days. The recovery rate of Covid-19 in the state was 96.85 percent against the national recovery rate of 93.70 percent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-229
