23-11-2020||Calcutta||Survey to find out whether information can boost virus fight||A survey to find out whether “active” information dissemination leads people to take better protective measures against Covid-19 will be rolled out in three wards of Calcutta in December, said an official of the civic body, one of the organisations involved in the study. In the first phase (baseline survey) of the three-phase survey, all respondents will be asked a set of questions that will test their knowledge of the disease and the protective measures one should take, said Abhijit Chowdhury, the mentor of Covid Care Network, a voluntary organisation comprising health officials, doctors and those who have recovered from Covid-19. The network’s volunteers will visit households during the survey. In the second phase, volunteers will visit the same households and inform residents about the disease, its nature, the protective measures one should take and how to get treatment. The last phase (endline survey) will again require the respondents to answer the same set of questions asked in the first phase. “After comparing the replies of the baseline and endline surveys, we will be able to form an idea whether the intervention (in the second phase) helped make people more aware and put them in a position to react better,” said Subrata Roy Chowdhury, a deputy chief municipal health officer of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. Apart from the CMC, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the Liver Foundation, an organisation that focuses on liver diseases and other public health issues, are involved in the study. Chowdhury, a public health specialist and member of the Liver Foundation, told Metro that the interventions would vary in the three wards. “In one ward, we will give very detailed information. In another, we will provide limited information, and in the third, we will not intervene at all. This will help us observe if there are any significant changes in people’s behaviour when they are informed about the disease and the protective measures against it,” he said. The survey, to begin in the first or second week of December, will show whether better outcomes are achieved in a population fed with information about the disease and what steps to take if someone tests positive for Covid-19. Some of the multiple-choice questions to be asked are how the novel coronavirus, which causes Covid-19, spreads; how a Covid test is done; and what steps need to be taken by patients recuperating at home. A senior scientist of the ICMR said they had authorised the survey, the proposal for which came from the Liver Foundation. “Volunteers of the Covid Care Network will be involved in the survey and intervention. Information dissemination through social media, hoardings, posters, banners and advertisements have a limited effect. They tend to become passive information dissipation tools,” said the scientist. “If someone who has recovered from a disease goes to a household and shares information about a disease, its impact on people listening is likely to be more. The survey will show whether people become more aware when they are told face to face about the causes of the disease, the steps that can protect them and the facilities for treatment available,” said the scientist. The survey will be conducted among roughly 4,000 households in each of the three wards — 11 (Hatibagan area in north Calcutta), 82 (Chetla in south Calcutta) and 101 (Patuli in the southeast). “If it is found that people are giving better replies after the intervention, it can be expected that they will be more careful in their behaviour. This will in turn help prevent or slow down the spread of the virus,” said Roy Chowdhury of the CMC. “Someone with the knowledge that the virus spreads through droplets released during coughing, sneezing or talking is likely to ask people around him or her to wear a mask.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-229
23-11-2020||Calcutta||Converse with adolescents on sexuality: Psychiatrist||Adults need to have more conversations with adolescents about matters related to sexuality, a psychiatrist said at a webinar organised to mark the International Child Rights Week (November 14-20). He stressed that while it is natural to engage in “consensual sexual exploration”, it is imperative for them to understand that with sexual rights comes responsibility. “In many situations, sexual experimentation or exploration can lead to trauma or hurt. So, parents, schools have to talk to adolescents more openly about sexual maturity, decision making and consent for them to explore their sexuality safely. They have to understand that there is a responsibility attached with sexual rights,” Ram said at the webinar on Thursday, organised by Way to Sunshine, the youth group of Racsha (Rise Against Child Sexual Harm and Abuse), a network of organisations and individuals that works for prevention and recognition of child sexual abuse and healing of wounds in survivors. Ram, a member of Racsha, said sexuality education should be part of the life-skill education in school. He stressed the need for peer education, as part of which young people in their mid-20s speak to adolescents and help them understand what they need to be mindful about. Parents, the doctor said, must keep an eye on children’s behaviours. “The reality is that many children are not comfortable having such a discussion with parents. Parents should at least facilitate such conversations if they (the children) are hesitant about it,” said Ram. Sreemoyee  Roy Chowdhury, the founder member of Racsha, said they were hopeful that conversation would help increase awareness. “Conversations do make things clear and empower teenagers…. Parents also need to know more because earlier, teenagers and adolescents never spoke about it (sexual intimacy or even abuse),” she said. Citing an example of ill effects of lack of communication, Roy Chowdhury said often genital organs were left undefined in textbooks, thereby creating “more secrecy”. “Not talking about it leads to a whole lot of secrecy and children feel they should not talk about it. And if the child is abused by a relative or a neighbour or is fondled in a private part, he or she feels the matter should not be talked about,” Roy Chowdhury said. Filmmaker Aniruddha Roychowdhury said children should be taught to speak about abuse more openly. “If there is any violation, there has to be a protest. Be it an uncle or anyone else known to the family, they (perpetrators of abuse) should be punished and shamed so that they are not able to step out. They should be exposed on social media and newspapers and the parents, elder brother or sister have to listen to the child,” said Roychowdhury. The chairperson of the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights, Ananya Chatterjee Chakraborti, said the family should listen to the child if she was reporting abuse. “There is a trauma of the child being abused, and if the child is not receiving any support from the family, he or she feels further traumatised,” said Chatterjee Chakraborti. A slogan of Racsha is built on the idea that the first time might be the only time a child is talking about the abuse she or he has been subjected to.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-229
23-11-2020||Calcutta||New Town road plastic waste rule||The asphalt to be used in repair or construction of roads in New Town has to be mixed with plastic waste, the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) has decided in an attempt to reduce the volume of such waste. Plastic waste collected from the township’s houses, offices and eateries has to be shredded and added to the bitumen/asphalt that will be used to repair or lay roads, said an engineer of the NKDA, the agency that looks after the civic amenities of the township. “Plastic has good water-resistant properties. The lifespan of a road increases if the mix used to build it contains plastic that has been melted down partially. Also, plastic has binding properties and hold on to stone chips, so it minimises the chances of development of potholes,” the engineer said. A stretch of the road from the Akankha crossing near Eco Park till the bus stop in front of the housing complexes in Action Area II will be relaid using this technique. “The stretch is nearly 2km long and the entire surface will be relaid,” the engineer said. NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said they had made it mandatory to use plastic in road building to reduce plastic in the landfill sites. Reduction of plastic in landfill sites will prevent leaching and deposit of microplastics in the soil. “Plastic waste poses a challenge in terms of disposal, yet it is the most commonly found item when it comes to waste management. We have decided to use shreds of plastic in road laying. Even if a small percentage (of plastic waste) can be disposed of, it will be a great boon for us,” said Sen. The Indian Roads Congress guidelines state plastic waste weighing about six per cent of the weight of the bitumen can be used in the mix for surfacing roads. The plastic has to be cleaned and shredded before use. The Telegraph has reported how NKDA had laid a 400m-long stretch near City Centre II in 2019 with a mix of bitumen and plastic as a pilot project. The road was monitored by a team of engineers and after results were found satisfactory, one more stretch, in Action Area II, was relaid using that technique. Delhi has several roads that have been paved with plastic, along with other materials. Plastic waste was used for the first time to pave roads in the national capital in 2008.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-230
23-11-2020||Calcutta||Covid dims Jagaddhatri Puja lights in Chandernagore||Every Jagaddhatri Puja, Manoj Saha would take his family out to pandals across Chandernagore on Ashtami — which was on Sunday this year — and Navami. Among the pujas would be the ones Manoj and his team had worked for, doing up the lights — peacocks, swans and birds, in “3-D lights”. In other months of the year, he would do odd jobs to earn a living. This Jagaddhatri Puja, Manoj is more busy managing his grocery shop in Chandernagore. As the Covid pandemic has robbed him of orders for illumination, the man who would create patterns and life-like figures with lights has switched professions. Jagaddhatri Puja is being held in Chandernagore like every year. But this time, the 177 organisers have done away with the signature lights, dealing a blow to the nearly 8,000 artists and labourers who would join hands to weave magic with LED lamps and 3-D creations. Some of the artists and workers have taken to selling vegetables and fish, others like Manoj have opened shops to fend for their families. “I have never witnessed a Jagaddhatri Puja without lights in Chandernagore, except once when Indira Gandhi was assassinated (1984). All lights were switched off that day,” said Sridhar Das, a 77-year-old artist whose creations with lights have seen him travel across the globe, several times to the UK and Russia. “But I admit that it (the scale down) is the best thing that could have happened to Chandernagore this Jagaddhatri Puja because of the pandemic.” Between Bhadreswar and Bandel in Hooghly district, the stretch that includes Chandernagore, there are over 125 artists who create designs on lights year after year. Often, important events of the year dominate the designs — such as Amartya Sen winning the Nobel prize and the Gaisal train tragedy. Each artist has a team with members specialising in drawing circuits and fixing lights. Every Jagaddhatri Puja in Chandernagore, the organisers would award illumination contracts worth lakhs of rupees. As many as 177 Jagaddhatri pujas are held in Chandernagore every year. The festivity is overseen by Chandernagore Central Jagaddhatri Puja Committee. This year, with Calcutta High Court declaring pandals no-entry zones, 14 puja committees are worshipping the ghot, instead of idols. With budgets trimmed and organisers in no position to play big as usual, those who used to be involved in illuminating pandals and immersion processions are hit hard. “Usually, a big puja would spend between Rs 1 lakh and Rs 1.5 lakh for lights and spend anything between Rs 6 and 9 lakh for the tableaus for the immersion. Lights play a big part in immersion processions, too,” said Surjit Chowdhury of Tantir Bagan Char Thakurtala Jagaddhatri Puja committee. “This year, the immersion carnival has been called off and the budget for lights has been almost reduced to zero.” “Usually, we would spend around Rs 3-4 lakh on lights. This year the total puja budget is less than a lakh,” said Saroj Dutta, of Ganj Sitalatala Jagaddhatri Puja Committee. “There are persons who have sponsored each day’s puja like previous years. But we have scaled down our arrangements for bhog. Earlier, the bhog would be distributed across the locality. Not this year.” Illuminations involve engaging contractual labourers and part-time workers who earn a decent amount at the end of the festival. “A labourer gets Rs 350 for fixing 1,000 lights on a board. Thousands of such boards are usually required for one puja,” said Ashim Dey, a light artist. The sweat and toil invested in lights during Jagadhhatri Puja would often fetch contracts from outside Bengal. Clubs, associations and committees from cities such as Delhi, Mumbai and Hyderabad would end up signing contracts with artists for occasions such as Janmashatmi and Ganesh Chaturthi. “All such contracts from outside Bengal got cancelled this time. Labourers and their employers have been hoping for a turnaround soon but that seems unlikely,” said Babu Pal, a noted light-artist who has worked for a number of celebrities. “The lights during Jagadhhatri Puja in Chandernagore has been a part of a grand tradition which was missed this year.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-230
23-11-2020||Calcutta||'Rumoured' Calcutta chartered accountant in custody||A Calcuttan who offers accounting services has been arrested by the city police in connection with a corruption case against an income-tax officer, soon after which governor Jagdeep Dhankhar tweeted about “alarming worrisome inputs from CA fraternity” and a “politically inspired operation”. Govind Agarwal, who was arrested early Sunday morning from his south Calcutta home, is not a certified chartered accountant, police sources said. But in the circles he moved around, Agarwal is “rumoured” to be a chartered accountant, they added. The governor's tweets, which were posted around 8am on Sunday, made no mention of Agarwal who is now in judicial custody. The income-tax department reports to the Centre, which has faced charges of unleashing central agencies on state governments helmed by Opposition parties. Calcutta police report to the Bengal government, now run by the Trinamul Congress. In the run-up to elections — Bengal is heading to Assembly polls in a few months — some parties in power had been accused of using state agencies to squeeze the funding sources of rivals. In his fifties, Agarwal, whose office is in Mangoe Lane in central Calcutta, had been named as a co-conspirator in a two-year-old corruption case against Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officer Neeraj Singh, who was additional director of the income-tax department in Calcutta a few years ago. Singh is under suspension now. The sources said the police were trying to establish if he had any links with a suspected racket in which a section of income tax officials intimidated businesspersons and directed them to handpicked individuals to “sort out” matters by arranging bribes. These individuals could also have been used to “legalise” the proceeds of the corruption, the sources said. More professionals in the accounting business are under the scanner, police sources said. “There have been several instances of city businessmen who had been raided or summoned by the income-tax department receiving phone calls from an individual offering accounting solutions,” a source with business contacts told this newspaper after Agarwal was arrested. To illustrate the alleged style of functioning, a businessman said he was told by a particular fixer: “Humko section mat samjhaiye; sirf kya karna hai bataiye (Please don’t explain the section of the tax law to me; just tell me what needs to be done).” Curiously, on the same day Agarwal was arrested, governor Dhankhar posted three tweets expressing concern at Calcutta police “targeting” the “CA fraternity”. Without mentioning Agarwal, the tweets appeared to suggest that a tit-for-tat crackdown was under way for the CBI raids on Bengal’s coal and cattle mafia. “Alarming worrisome inputs from CA fraternity-politically inspired operation overzealously afoot@KolkataPolice headed by #DD targets CAs-strategy-fishing for material to handicap team members that raided mafia #coal #cattle. Why forget ‘Be ye never so high, the law is above you’,” Dhankhar tweeted. In another tweet, the governor said: “Beneficiaries in ‘uniform’ and power in pre-emptive mode to compromise team members #coal #cattle mafia raids to neutralise or impede actions against them. Those spearheading this extra legal antidotal operation are oblivious that these misadventures are often counterproductive.” An alleged coal mafia leader had been summoned by the income-tax department earlier this month while a suspected cattle smuggler had been arrested by the CBI recently. Agarwal had come under the police’s scanner in December 2016, shortly after the demonetisation, when three people were arrested for allegedly having on them Rs 1.04 crore in unaccounted old currency, officers said. The trio had allegedly told the police they were carrying the money to Agarwal’s Mangoe Lane office to be exchanged for new currency. Files, documents and data seized from Agarwal’s office at the time suggested a nexus between him, Neeraj Singh (the income tax officer) and the then director of the Rose Valley group of industries, Gautam Kundu, the police sources said. Kundu had been in jail since March 2015 in connection with a deposit default scam. Based on their preliminary findings, officers of Hare Street police station — in whose area Mangoe Lane falls — started a case under the Prevention of Corruption Act against Singh, the income-tax officer, in 2018, naming Agarwal as a co-accused. On the basis of the same FIR, the Enforcement Directorate — the central agency that was probing the Rose Valley default scam — started a parallel case against Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-230
23-11-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta: Get set for motorsport season||The season for motorsports is fast approaching and eastern India has its fair share of four-wheel and two-wheel rallies, treasure hunts, drag races and Time-Speed-Distance rallies. A number of such events have been cancelled since March because of the Covid pandemic and the lockdown. Now, motorsports clubs and organisers are gearing up to restart their engines and press the pedal to the metal between December and January. Unlock guidelines have allowed motorsports, a largely non-contact sports. The Federation of Motor Sports Clubs of India (FMSCI) has spelt out the standard operating procedures — which include following distancing rules, downloading the Aarogya Setu app, using masks and sanitisers, and maintaining minimal contact — that need to be followed for such events. Calcutta and eastern India have a fairly busy motor sport calendar throughout the year. But many big-ticket and regular events, including the Calcutta-Santiniketan Kabiguru Rally, the Jangalmahal Rally in the forests of Belpahari and Kankrajhor in West Midnapore and the Himalayan Drive in north Bengal, Sikkim, Bhutan and Nepal, had to be cancelled. Clubs are now all set to hold the first of their events, starting December. “It’s an uphill task to organise motorsports again. It is impossible to have physical meetings because of lockdowns and unless you can meet you cannot organise such events,” Souvik Ghosh of Kolkata-on-Wheels, which organises drives, rallies, drag races in the city, said. Besides the organisational obstacles, clubs have been hit by the economic downturn that has affected corporate sponsorships. “The main sponsors are lubricant companies, battery-makers and car manufacturers. They had a publicity budget that allowed them to sponsor such events, which fetched them good branding. That budget has taken a hit because of the pandemic,” Ghosh said. The rally season will kick off with Just Sportz organising their Monsoon Drive, a Time-Speed-Distance rally between Panchla, in Howrah, and Haldia, in East Midnapore, on December 19. According to the club calendar, Monsoon Drive is generally held in September or October. This time it has been pushed to December, Suchandan Das of the club said. Speaking about sponsorships, Das said: “We are digging into our own pockets to organise these events for motorsports lovers. We are itching to get behind the wheels.” The Monsoon Drive will be followed by autocross and motocross events on December 20 at the Haldia mela grounds by Motorsports Association of Eastern India (MAEI). “We will follow the FMSCI protocols and ensure the ground is sealed off with no spectators,” Sourav Chatterjee of MAEI said. Kolkata-on-Wheels will do a non-competitive drive tour to Odisha between January 23 and 26. But its flagship event, a treasure hunt that used to be held in December-January, will probably not take place. “We had close to 150 vehicles participating in the treasure hunt… it seems doubtful this year,” Ghosh of Kolkata-on-Wheels said. The Bengal Motor Sports Club had planned to organise a drive to commemorate Netaji’s birth anniversary. It will start from Elgin Road. The club, which organises the Kaviguru Rally and the Indo-Bhutan rally, has had to call off these events because of the lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-230
23-11-2020||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur to call 50 scholars back to campus||IIT Kharagpur, which had closed down the campus in September because of the Covid pandemic, will ask 50 of its research scholars to return, officials of the institute said. The institute has 3,000 research scholars. “Only a small percentage of the scholars are being brought back because sporadic Covid cases are still being reported on the campus and in the immediate surroundings,” an official said. The research scholars had vacated the campus along with BTech and MTech students in September. Asked on what basis the 50 scholars have been chosen, Somesh Kumar, the dean of students’ affairs at the IIT, said: “Those who are seniors are being recalled. We are also considering the research they are associated with.’’ An IIT official said the Centre had in its Unlock-V directive said higher education institutions can reopen from October 15 for research scholars and postgraduate students in technology and science streams requiring laboratory/experimental work. IIT registrar Tamal Nath said the scholars would have to follow safety protocols upon arrival. They have to abide by the protocol prepared by the BC Roy Technology Hospital, on the campus, during their journey to the campus from the Calcutta airport or Kharagpur railway station. On reaching the campus, they will have to immediately report to the hospital and follow the standard operating procedure. “Based on the health condition, he/she will undergo self-isolation for 14 days or as required in the designated facility,” an official said. Another official said the authorities were selecting the hostels where the scholars would be put up following the directive on physical distancing. The institute has 23 hostels. The scholars also have to undergo an RT-PCR test for Covid-19 as close to the date of journey as possible and send the report to the institute. A scholar accused the institute of acting slow in asking researchers to return to the campus. “IIT Kanpur has completed the third phase of recalling. Our institute will undertake the first phase in December,’’ she said. An official justified the alleged delay saying no other IIT had to be closed down following an outbreak. Starting August, around 250 Covid cases have been detected on the campus. “BC Roy Technology Hospital on the campus is not equipped to handle Covid patients. So, we have to exercise utmost caution,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-230
23-11-2020||Calcutta||Ekbalpore body-in-bag case: Couple arrested||A couple have been arrested for the murder of 20-year-old Sabah Khatun, whose body was found inside a plastic bag in Ekbalpore last Thursday. Sheikh Sajid, 30, and Anjum Begum, 26, residents of Ekbalpore, have been booked for murder, causing disappearance of evidence and common intention. Sajid has apparently told the police that he had an affair with Sabah and strangled her when she threatened to expose him if he did not pay her Rs 70,000. On Thursday morning, Sajid was the first to call the police and inform them that a woman’s body was found dumped in front of a closed shop near his home. The police said that although Sajid had tried his best to keep himself off the radar, call records of Sabah’s mobile phone gave him away. “Based on Sajid’s statement, we interrogated Anjum and found that she was directly involved in the disposal of the body,” an officer said. The couple have been remanded in police custody till December 4.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-230
23-11-2020||Calcutta||Fleet-footed in the hills: The Telegraph captures some standout moments||Milind Soman ran. Kailash Kher and his band Kailasa pulled the crowds. But the cynosure at Sunday’s annual Darjeeling Hill Marathon was an 81-year-old. Usha Soman, Milind’s mother, wowed everyone by easily completing the 10km event on a route that professional athletes termed “difficult”. “I do 10km runs pretty frequently. This run was very pleasant,” she told The Telegraph. Usha was the oldest among the 2,000 participants at the marathon, organised by Darjeeling police in six categories. All the six — including the 21.1km event — began and ended at Chowrasta after circling Darjeeling town. Tejasvi Rana, an IAS officer currently posted as the Kalimpong SDO, accompanied Usha in the run, but competing in the under-45 age category for women. Usha has been a social media sensation since posting a video of her doing the plank, an exercise that involves holding a position similar to that for a push-up as long as one can, a couple of years ago. Asked on Sunday about her plank skills, she smiled and said: “More than running, I do plank. He (Milind) pushes me at it. I can do a two-minute plank.” The event’s theme was “Time to R-UNLOCK”. While emphasising the importance of fitness to immunity, Milind asked people to “run to unlock”. He later tweeted a picture of himself against the backdrop of the crowd with the hastag #newnormal and wrote: “Darjeeling today :) ran my first 21km since February with 2,000 runners.” Like Usha, two little champs stood out. Nine-year-old Ryan Gelek, a student of the Darjeeling Montessori House of Children, and eight-year-old Prativa Pradhan from the Child Academy in Lodhama, 90km from Darjeeling town, both completed the 10km run. Both put their success down to the lockdown which, while closing down normal activities like school and games, had left them with a lot of time to try something different. “I started running, with my uncle Dorjee W. Bhutia,” Gelek said. Prativa said the lockdown had prompted her to take up running too — with her father at their village from “6am to 8am every day”. The organisers arranged a “special felicitation” for the duo. Milind told this newspaper that the “run was lovely, the weather was great with a lot of people to cheer, and it was beautifully organised”. Many professional runners were equally appreciative. “This is only my second run since the lockdown. The first was at my hometown Meerut. It feels great,” said Jyoti, a national-level runner who won the 10km in the under-45 category for women. Ranjana Tamang, a 17-year-old from Gangtok who was the first-runner up in Jyoti’s category, said it was a “different” experience running a “real marathon” after months of doing virtual marathons during the lockdown. Kailasa and Shrikant’s Surfira enthralled audiences at Chowrasta, starting from 8am — an hour after the runs started — and winding up around 12.30pm, about two hours after the last runner had returned. Entire families turned out to participate — or just to watch and enjoy the concert — glad for the chance to have a day out at a time when pandemic-induced restrictions have stifled social life for most. Milind’s family was out in force — with his wife Ankita Konwar too participating. Narayan Goenka, 45, who said he weighed 112kg, ran with his son Namish, 9, daughter Devanshi, 14, and niece Alivia Singhal, 11. “This is the first time they are running,” Narayan said. Dentists Rinchey Norbu and Sandy Tshering Rai were at Chowrasta, all masked up to cheer their husbands. Masks were handed out to all the runners at the start but few wore them for any length of time during the event, perhaps fearing they could cause breathlessness while running. The plastic water bottles of the previous six editions had been replaced with paper cups in a nod to the environment. Some 100 volunteers carrying dokos (traditional bamboo baskets) ensured that the marathon did not leave the route littered. Swapna Chatterjee, a visitor from Bangalore, was among the volunteers with the waste baskets. “I’m visiting Darjeeling for the first time and volunteered for this initiative with my friends,” she said. Utsow Pradhan, founder of Take It Easy, Easy Does It, which runs an eco-tourism project in Darjeeling, said no waste generated from the run would be sent to the landfill – it will all be recycled. “We will also conduct a waste audit so that the findings can be of help in future events,” he said. Romonus Guria, 52, from the Kolkata Runners club who came third in his category -- 10km for above-45 men -- said the event was tough. “Although I managed a podium finish, the sudden climbs uphill and downhill made it a very tough run,” he said. Army jawan Tirtha Pun, who won the 21.1km event and had participated three times earlier in the Darjeeling Hill Marathon, agreed. “This year I found the route really tough. Nevertheless, I’m happy that I won,” said Pun, who hails from Nepal but is posted with the Indian Army’s Gorkha Regiment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-230
23-11-2020||Business||Sensex ends 195 points higher||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped 195 points on Monday, tracking gains in index-heavyweights Reliance Industries, Infosys and TCS amid largely positive cues from global markets and sustained foreign fund inflows. After touching a record intra-day high of 44,271.15, the 30-share BSE index ended 194.90 points or 0.44 per cent higher at 44,077.15. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 67.40 points or 0.52 per cent to close at 12,926.45. ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, surging around 7 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, Infosys, Tech Mahindra, Reliance Industries, HCL Tech and TCS. On the other hand, HDFC, ICICI Bank, Axis Bank, SBI and M&M were among the laggards. Indian markets traded on a positive note following positive global cues amid COVID-19 vaccine hopes as more pharma companies announced successful initial trials for their vaccine candidates, said Narendra Solanki, Head- Equity Research (Fundamental), Anand Rathi. "During the afternoon session the markets pared initial gains and traded marginally positive briefly and scaled back strongly led by buying in IT, pharma and auto shares while banks and financial stocks pared losses for the day," he added. Earlier in the day, the COVID-19 vaccine candidate being developed by Oxford University showed crucial Phase 3 interim results. The ChAdOx1 nCoV-2019, being produced in collaboration with AstraZeneca, was found to be 70.4 per cent effective when combining data from two dosing regimens. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul ended with significant gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a positive note. Meanwhile, Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, rose 1.64 per cent to USD 45.81 per barrel. According to traders, persistent foreign fund inflows too buoyed domestic investor sentiment. Foreign institutional investors remained net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 3,860.78 crore on Friday, according to provisional exchange data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-226
23-11-2020||Business||Sensex rallies over 300 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 300 points in opening trade on Monday, tracking gains in index-heavyweights Reliance Industries, HDFC Bank and Infosys amid largely positive cues from global markets and sustained foreign fund inflow. After touching a lifetime intra-day high of 44,271.15, the 30-share BSE index was trading 309.36 points or 0.70 per cent higher at 44,191.61 in the opening session. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 83.85 points or 0.65 per cent to 12,942.90. IndusInd Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, surging around 5 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finserv, Bajaj Finance, Reliance Industries, ONGC, NTPC and Tata Steel. On the other hand, HDFC, Asian Paints, ITC and Bharti Airtel were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 282.29 points or 0.65 per cent higher at 43,882.25, while the Nifty rose 87.35 points or 0.68 per cent to close at 12,859.05. Foreign institutional investors remained net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 3,860.78 crore on Friday, according to provisional exchange data. Domestic equities are looking good at the moment supported by favourable global cues, said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Heavy-weight financials are expected to do well in the backdrop of the report of Internal Working Group of RBI suggesting various changes including higher promoters' ownership and issuing universal banking license to large conglomerates and NBFCs. However, the recent spike in COVID-19 cases in several states and night curfews imposed in select cities might be limiting any sharp move, he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Seoul were trading in with gains in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong was in the red. Meanwhile, Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, were trading 0.40 per cent higher at USD 45.25 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-227
23-11-2020||Business||Keep it flexible: flexi-cap funds||Earlier this month, Sebi announced the introduction of a new category of equity mutual funds. This new category, called “flexi-cap fund”, aims to create funds that allocate in large, mid, and small-cap securities flexibly, without the restrictions present in the existing categories such as multi-cap funds. But how is this new category different from the multi-cap category which had pretty much the same objective — to allow investors access quality stock picks without being bound to market capitalisation? Let’s look at the key takeaways from this notification for investors. Market cap classification Let’s first understand the matter of market capitalisation — the value of a company being traded on the stock market. For example, a company with one lakh shares worth Rs 100 each would have a market capitalisation of Rs 1 crore. Sebi classifies the Top 100 companies by market capitalisation as large-cap firms. Companies ranked 101 to 250 are classified as mid-caps, and those ranked 251 onwards are classified as small-caps. Large companies are seen to be safe, stable and capable of providing steady returns whereas smaller companies are considered riskier, volatile  but capable of providing explosive returns. Equity mutual funds are created keeping in mind the underlying stock’s market cap. For example, a large-cap fund must invest at least 80 per cent of its portfolio in the securities of large-cap companies. There now exist several equity fund categories tailoring to all sorts of risk appetites — large-cap funds, mid-cap funds, small-cap funds-and categories such as flexi-caps that straddle these divides. Nuts & bolts of flexi-cap Sebi announced that the new category will require its funds to invest a minimum of 65 per cent of the portfolio in equity securities. Additionally, the diversification across large, mid and small-cap stocks will be open-ended. It means that the manager of such a fund is free to invest in a stock regardless of its market capitalisation and in the ratio he considers appropriate for his scheme. In September, Sebi had made alterations to the multi-cap fund category rules, asking fund houses to invest a minimum of 75 per cent in equity, with a minimum of 25 per cent each in large, mid and small-cap stocks. Before September, multi-cap funds had to invest only a minimum of 65 per cent in equity without the restrictions on diversification by market capitalisation. In essence, the flexi-cap category is a return to the earlier iteration of the multi-cap category. Why was this necessary? In September, Sebi pointed out that multi-cap funds were operating as large-cap funds with limited exposure to small companies. They lacked the necessary diversification to be called multi-cap — or in Sebi’s words, they were not “true to label” as the scheme’s portfolio didn’t reflect in the scheme’s name. Several of these funds had 70-90 per cent exposure to large-cap companies. The new rules would have forced much greater diversification in these funds, forcing them to buy more small companies, rebalance their portfolios  or even merge with other schemes to ensure compliance. However, there was a pushback from various quarters and the broad sentiment was that fund managers must be free to pick stocks in the ratio they consider appropriate for their scheme’s investors. So, for example, fund managers may lower their exposure to small-caps in an overpriced market heading towards a correction, or even increase such exposure if they spot opportunities to provide higher returns for investors. The bottomline: let the fund managers alone decide. Multi-cap schemes are extremely popular with AUMs of nearly Rs 1.5 trillion, and, therefore, in order to accommodate investors and not cause upheaval in the stock prices of small companies, it was decided to create a new category under which business could go on as usual. Impact on funds The new category allows fund managers greater freedom. It also allows investors to choose funds where stocks are being selected on merit without being bound by market cap rules.  Both flexi-cap and multi-cap categories will now co-exist though it is being seen that multi-cap funds have started reclassifying themselves as flexi-cap. Many multi-cap funds, including Kotak Standard Multicap, the biggest fund in the category with an AUM of Rs 29,807 crore, have announced their decision to become flexi-cap funds. It remains to be seen if new multi-cap funds are launched following this because their in-built diversification requiring at least 50 per cent allocation towards small companies may continue to attract new investors with high risk appetites. Impact on investors Existing funds in the multi-cap category can move to the new category. As this would mean a change in the investment style for the fund, their investors will be allowed to exit them without having to pay an exit load. They will be given 30 days to do so. A reclassification of a lock-in investment will not attract taxation. However, switching from one scheme to another will be considered a redemption. As a result, capital gains tax will be applicable. That said, investors must also evaluate if flexi-cap investments suit their financial objectives or if they are better off investing in other categories if they desire higher returns and greater diversification. If you were a multi-cap fund investor, your fund may likely become a flexi-cap, and it would behave the way it had before September. However, if your risk appetite is higher, you may consider funds with higher exposure to small companies. These funds would also include the new-look multi-caps. The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-227
23-11-2020||Business||Tata Steel eye Russian coking coal||Tata Steel has tested coking coal samples from Russia for making steel through the blast furnace route, its managing director and chief executive officer T.V. Narendran said. The development assumes significance in the domestic steel industry as a fruitful result of the experiment would break the monopoly of Australia in coking coal supply to India. According to official data, the country imports about 56 million tonnes (mt) of coking coal worth around Rs 72,000 crore. Of this, about 45mt is imported from Australia. “We have imported some coking coal from Russia. The east coast of Russia is a good source,” Narendran said. The CEO said this while replying to a question related to the company’s contribution to the steel ministry’s ongoing efforts to reduce India’s dependence on select countries for the sourcing of coking coal. Earlier, the ministry asked the steel makers to get in coking coal from Russia and test the raw material at their plants and update on the result of the same. Coking coal is a key raw material used for making steel using the blast furnace route, besides iron ore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-227
23-11-2020||Business||RBI hits 1m followers  on Twitter||In a first among central banks, the Reserve Bank of India has become the first monetary authority in the world to have more than 1 million followers on its official Twitter handle. Despite much less monetary firepower, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has beaten the world’s most powerful central banks — the US Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank — on Twitter by a wide margin, emerging as the most popular central bank on the microblogging site with over 1 million followers. As of Sunday, the RBI handle is followed by as many as 10,00,513 people around the world. Eighty-five-year-old Reserve Bank has been a latecomer in the world of Twitter as it created the account in January 2012. According to latest information on the RBI’s Twitter handle “RBI”, the number of followers has increased from 9.66 lakh on September 27, 2020 to over 10 lakh as of Sunday. “The RBI Twitter account reaches 1 million followers today. A new milestone. Congratulations to all my colleagues in the RBI,” governor Shaktikanta Das tweeted on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-227
23-11-2020||Business||Edu-tech major Byju’s to raise $200m||Edu-tech major Byju’s is raising about $200 million (about Rs 1,483 crore) in fresh funding from investors, including BlackRock and T Rowe Price, according to sources. The development comes about two months after Byju’s had raised around $500 million (about Rs 3,672 crore) in a round that valued the company at $10.8 billion. According to sources, Byju’s has obtained $200 million in a fresh round of funding that has increased the company’s valuation to $12 billion. The sources said private equity players BlackRock and T Rowe Price are participating in the new round. Byju’s has mopped up significant capital this year. In June, Byju’s had raised funding from global technology investment firm BOND, while in February, it had raised about $200 million in funding from General Atlantic. Regulatory filings by Byju’s to the corporate affairs ministry in August had shown that the company has obtained about Rs 909 crore from billionaire Yuri Milner-led DST Global giving the entity 1.2 per cent shareholding in the edu-tech company. In September this year, Byju’s had raised funds from Silver Lake and existing investors, Tiger Global, General Atlantic and Owl Ventures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-227
23-11-2020||Business||Airtel chairman pushes for telecom tariff hike||A telecom tariff hike is needed as the current rates are “unsustainable” and market conditions will be seen before a call is taken, telecom czar and chairman of Bharti Airtel Sunil Mittal has said. On the issue of whether Chinese telecom equipment vendors will be allowed to participate in next-generation 5G networks, Mittal said the larger question is that of the nation’s decision and asserted “what the country decides will be accepted by everyone”. The company has already taken a clear stance on the tariff issue, he said, adding that Airtel is of the firm view that tariffs need go up. “Current tariffs are unsustainable but Airtel cannot move without the industry moving or the regulator moving,” Mittal said. Industry needs a tariff hike at some point in time, he said, adding “we will have to see the market conditions to do it”. In August this year, Mittal had described 16GB data consumption a month for Rs 160 as a tragedy. The company has maintained that the average revenue per user (ARPU) should rise to Rs 200 and eventually to Rs 300 for a sustainable business model. Bharti Airtel’s mobile ARPU stood at Rs 162 for the September quarter compared with Rs 128 in the year-ago period, and Rs 157 in the preceding June quarter. The Bharti Group chairman — - who has time and again drawn attention to the high taxes and levies in the sector — further said telecom being a “high capital-intensive industry” required a steady flow investments into networks, spectrum, towers and technology and it was therefore important for the industry to be “sustainable”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-227
23-11-2020||Business||Modi focus on skilling at G20 summit||Terming the Covid-19 pandemic an important turning point in the history of humanity and the biggest challenge the world is facing since World War II, Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the G20 summit called for a new global index based on talent, technology, transparency and trusteeship towards the planet in the post-corona world. Modi on Sunday said climate change must be fought not in silos but in an integrated, comprehensive and holistic way and asserted that the entire world can progress faster if there is greater support of technology and finance to developing nations. The Prime Minister said “Work from Anywhere” is a new normal in the post-Covid world and suggested creation of a virtual G20 secretariat as a follow up and documentation repository. India is scheduled to host the G20 summit in 2022. Multi-skilling and re-skilling to build a talent pool will enhance dignity and resilience of workers, Modi said, adding that the value of new technologies should be measured by their benefit to humanity. Modi also offered India’s IT prowess to develop digital facilities for an efficient functioning of the G20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-227
23-11-2020||Business||G20 pledges fast Covid vaccine availability||Leaders of the 20 biggest economies on Sunday vowed to spare no effort to supply Covid-19 drugs, tests and vaccines affordably and fairly to “all people”, reflecting worries that the pandemic could deepen global divisions between the rich and the poor. The pandemic and the prospects of an uneven and uncertain economic recovery have been at the centre of a two-day summit under the chairmanship of Saudi Arabia, which will hand the G20 presidency to Italy next month. “The Covid-19 pandemic and its unprecedented impact in terms of the lives lost, livelihoods and economies affected, is an unparalleled shock that has revealed vulnerabilities in our preparedness and response and underscored our common challenges,” the final communique said. The G20 nations will work to “protect lives, provide support with a special focus on the most vulnerable, and put our economies back on a path to restoring growth, and protecting and creating jobs for all”. On vaccines, tests and treatments, the leaders said: “We will spare no effort to ensure their affordable and equitable access for all people.” The world’s economy has experienced a sharp contraction this year as measures to contain the spread of the virus have curbed transport, trade, and demand across the planet. G20 leaders said global economic activity has partially picked up thanks the gradual reopening of some economies but the recovery is uneven, highly uncertain and subject to downside risks. They reaffirmed their commitment to use “all available policy tools as long as required” to protect people’s lives, jobs, and incomes. Debt freeze The G20 has endorsed a plan to extend a freeze in debt service payments by the poorest countries to mid-2021 and a common approach for dealing with debt problems beyond that, according to the communique. The Debt Service Suspension Initiative has helped 46 countries defer $5.7 billion in 2020 debt service payments, short of the 73 countries that were eligible, and promised savings of around $12 billion. The head of the International Monetary Fund called for a prompt and effective implementation of the G20 framework for debt treatments beyond the initiative and said other countries needed help as well. “We must help those countries not covered by the Framework to address debt vulnerabilities so that their economies can become more resilient,” IMF managing director Kristalina Georgieva said in a statement. In their joint statement, the leaders said they strongly encouraged private creditors to participate in the initiative on comparable terms when requested by eligible countries. Debt relief for Africa will be an important theme of the Italian presidency of the G20 in 2021. The communique stressed the importance of multilateral institutions and called on the IMF to continue exploring additional tools that could help its members’ needs as the crisis evolves.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-227
23-11-2020||Business||Online automobile marketplace finds it difficult to source used vehicles||Droom, an online automobile marketplace that offers new as well as used cars of different brands, is finding it difficult to source used vehicles. Customers are hanging on to their old vehicles, postponing their decision to replace them in the pandemic situation. Despite the growing need for personal mobility induced by the Covid-19 pandemic and the increase in digital transactions, the company’s online used car business will only manage to reach its 2019 sales by the end of the year. “Through the months of June and July 2020 the entire industry faced supply constraints  because of the lockdown. In the used car business, it was even more difficult as we faced a supply crunch because of financial uncertainties that forced people to delay the sale of old cars and replace them with new ones. On the other hand, the demand for used cars grew significantly,” said Akshay Singh, chief strategy officer, Droom. “The demand-supply mismatch impacted our sales but we will recover and by December-January we will be at the same level as last year,” said Singh. In 2019, Droom did business worth $1.2 billion (Rs 8,900 cr), said Singh. The company, which was founded in 2015, had registered a 100 per cent year-on-year growth last year. While the company sells anything on wheels, including wheelchairs and planes, automobiles constitute 95 per cent of its sales. The top sellers in the Droom platform are the Swift, the Swift Dzire and the i10. “The hatchbacks are good sellers and post pandemic we have witnessed a surge in the sales of these hatchbacks. The Japanese cars which have a good resale value also give us good numbers such as the Honda City, the Toyota Innova and the Toyota Corolla,” said Singh. The online automobile marketplace commands almost 80 per cent market share. It faces competition from classified companies such as OLX and Qwikr, content-driven companies such as cardekho and carwale and offline businesses Cars24, Mahindra First Choice and Maruti True Value.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-227
23-11-2020||Business||OYO sees pre-Covid year-end recovery||Hospitality chain OYO expects to recover 85 per cent of its pre-Covid level of supply of rooms in India by the end of 2020. The company has seen an improvement in occupancy and revenue after the lockdown and travel restrictions are being gradually eased. “After the first unlock, many states had restrictions on travel and hotels till the end of August. Since August-end, occupancies have seen a sharp rebound and revenues have been growing 30 per cent month-on-month. Our occupancies have recovered to around 40 per cent of the pre-Covid level with room sales increasing 30 per cent month-on-month. Some of the brands such as OYO TownHouse is operating at 85 per cent of the pre-Covid occupancy levels,” said Rohit Kapoor, CEO, OYO India and South Asia. Kapoor, who was in town, told The Telegraph that according to recent Diwali booking trends, the company has witnessed an intent to make bookings by consumers visiting the OYO platform at almost 100 per cent levels compared with pre-Covid times, while traffic is at over 50 per cent. “Travel is coming back slowly and we see an uptick in leisure travel with Jaipur, Kochi, Visakhapatnam, Agra and Goa becoming the most frequently visited destination. Some cities such as Shimla, Manali, Munnar, Ooty and Gangtok are also showing a rise in bookings since September,” said Kapoor. “In terms of revival of our India operations, I am cautiously optimistic about the market at the moment. Asset owners in India continue to choose OYO and we have opened 15,000 to 18,000 rooms per month between July and September and we are working towards achieving 85 per cent of pre-Covid levels of supply by the end of 2020,” Kapoor said. The company has made a few changes in its leadership team. Harshit Vyas has been elevated to the position of COO, India and South Asia, franchise business; Ankit Gupta is the CEO of frontier business; and Abhinav Ankur has been appointed chief strategy and transformation officer. Anuj Bhatnagar is  CFO, business; Abhishek Bansal is the chief revenue officer; and Yatish Jain is head of marketing and growth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-227
23-11-2020||Business||Jindal Steel self-reliant in coal with mine win||Jindal Steel and Power Ltd (JSPL) plans to stop coal imports and end buying the dry fuel from Coal India Ltd from next year following its successful bidding of Gare Palma IV/1 mine in Chhattisgarh in the recently concluded commercial mining auction. “We hope to get the mines by April. At present, we import about 2 million tonnes (mt) and buy about 5mt from Coal India. We plan to stop the import of coal and also stop buying from CIL as the Gare Palma mine would cater to the needs of the plant. We would be self reliant, I would say,” Vidya Ratan Sharma, managing  director of JSPL told The Telegraph. The mine in Chhattisgarh is located near the company’s 3.4GW coal-fired power plant, with JSPL offering the state government 25 per cent of the revenues to win the rights. Gare Palma is estimated to generate Rs 652 crore revenue to the Jindals on reaching peak rated capacity, which is 6mt a year. Before the deallocation of coal blocks in 2014, the mine was operated by the Naveen Jinda company. Sharma said the country has huge coal reserves and these could be used optimally with the gasification process, a technology promoting clean energy. Stating the commercial mining auction would reduce the dependence on CIL, the JSPL MD said it would help those who did not get the mines to buy from the PSU. Apart from cutting down on imports, JSPL is looking to divest its mines in Africa and Australia as part of its plans to become a debt-free company.  JSPL has many coal and iron ore mines in Africa, especially  in South Africa, Botswana and Mozambique, and coking coal reserves in Australia. JSPL’s debt right now is Rs 29,000 crore and it would come down to Rs 24,000 crore by April, Sharma said. Meanwhile, group company Jindal Steel & Power (Mauritius) has accepted a binding offer from Templar Investments to divest its entire stake in its Oman asset, Jindal Shadeed Iron and Steel (JSIS Oman), with the enterprise value of the deal at over $1 billion. “We have learnt our lesson and want to keep our debt moderate or lean levels. We plan to bring down the debt to about Rs 15,000 crore by 2022-23 as we plan to pay back Rs 5,000 crore to Rs 6,000 crore each year.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-228
23-11-2020||Business||RBI panel proposes bank licence for big NBFCs||Share prices of large NBFCs may rise if brokerages rerate them in the wake of an RBI panel proposing their entry into banking. The proposals of the committee, headed by P.K. Mohanty, RBI central board director, could potentially see Tata Capital, Bajaj Finance, Aditya Birla Capital, the Shriram group, Cholamandalam, L&T Finance or even Mahindra Finance applying for a bank licence. The panel has suggested “well run large NBFCs”, with an asset size of Rs 50,000 crore and above, including those of a corporate house, can become banks provided they have completed 10 years and meet the due diligence criterion among other conditions. These include the NBFCs setting up a bank through a wholly owned non-operative financial holding company (NOFHC) structure and a rigorous examination of the fit and proper status of promoters and directors. The corporate or industrial house promoting such a bank must have a diversified ownership structure. While the panel has also proposed banks by business houses, their suggestions are more suited for conglomerates owning NBFCs, analysts said. Their optimism stems from the fact that the banking regulator may favourably look at proposals put by systematically important NBFCs seeking to convert into a bank. “At present, of the NBFCs having assets of Rs 50,000 crore or more, more than half are owned by corporate/industrial houses,” analysts at ICICI Securities said in a report. “We believe many NBFCs namely Bajaj Finance, L&T Finance, Mahindra Finance, Aditya Birla Capital, Tata Finance, Piramal will look at this opportunity but preferences from a regulator may be towards players having a vintage track record, scale, penetration along with meeting the due diligence criteria and conditions specified,” ICICI Securities said. Among the NBFCs, Bajaj Finance had an asset size of Rs 1,37,090 crore as of September 30, Shriram Transport Finance, Rs 1,13,350 crore and Mahindra Finance over Rs 83,000 crore. Though the latest numbers of Tata Capital are not available, it had an AUM of over Rs 76,000 crore for the year ended March 31, 2020. On the other hand, the Birla group’s NBFC arm had a loan book of almost Rs 58,000 crore. “Some of the NBFC stocks are likely to be re-rated as expectations builds up over who are likely to bag the banking license,” an analyst with a foreign brokerage said, indicating there could still be some upside left as values of some of the stocks have showed a sharp run-up since their lows during the nationwide lockdown. The sector has witnessed multiple headwinds that include the IL&FS crisis and the Covid-19 pandemic which hit collections. However, their performance was better than expected during the second quarter ended September 30 as abundant liquidity thanks to the policies of the RBI, improving collection efficiency and even asset quality surprised brokerages on the positive side. “We are more positive on the sector. There are green shoots of recovery in growth across segments. Auto volumes have seen steady growth for the past 2-3 months. This is likely to sustain going forward too. Housing sales witnessed a rebound in September and October. However, sustenance of this in unclear at present,” Motilal Oswal Institutional Equities said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-228
23-11-2020||India||Delhi riots: Umar Khalid alleges 'illegal' extension of his custody||Former JNU student leader Umar Khalid alleged before a court here on Monday that his custody in a case related to the northeast Delhi riots in February was extended illegally, mechanically and without prior intimation to his lawyers. The submission was made before Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Dinesh Kumar through video conferencing in the case related to rioting in Khajuri Khas area. Khalid was arrested in the case on October 1 and is in judicial custody. He was earlier arrested in September in a separate case related to larger conspiracy in the riots which erupted between anti-CAA protesters and those supporting the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, killing over 50 people and scores injured. Advocate Sanya Kumar, appearing for Khalid, alleged that since the beginning of his arrest in the case, his lawyers were not given copies of the remand applications and denied information about when and before which judge he would be produced. "Time and time again the remand was mechanically granted. Case diaries were not signed, we were not supplied a copy of the remand application," she claimed. The court has put up the matter for further hearing on November 27. The application, moved by advocates Trideep Pais and Kumar, sought directions to the investigating agency as well as the jail authorities to provide a copy of the application seeking remand/extension of remand to Khalid's counsels in advance to the proceedings. It also sought directions to the police to intimate the counsels about the time, place and manner of all future remand proceedings for Khalid one day in advance. It requested the court to clarify that the proceedings for remand or its extension cannot be carried out mechanically and that the counsels for Khalid be permitted to participate effectively, either physically or through video conferencing, in all such proceedings in the future. During the hearing, Kumar said that when Khalid was produced on October 1 before the duty magistrate, he had requested that his counsels be apprised of the proceedings but his request was rejected. He was sent to police custody for three days. On October 4, he was sent to judicial custody for 14 days which was extended on October 18 and further on October 31. Khalid's counsel further alleged that despite repeated requests to inform them about where those remand proceedings would happen and before which judge, the police only informed them that it would happen at Tis Hazari district courts complex and around 11 am and did not give any further information. Kumar then got the details from the court. On October 18 we met the same fate. We tried to reach out to the police, the jail authorities, the investigating officer. We were not given any intimation about where the remand would happen. Then after much difficulty we found out the details at the last minute and joined the proceedings, she said. She claimed on November 1, the magistrate's court staff informed them that they would be able to join the video conferencing as Khalid would be produced through virtually from jail but later the judge denied them the permission saying it was an automatic remand extension and their presence was not required. When we produced the previous court's orders directing the supply of remand application to us, the court staff sent a link to join the proceedings. Umar Khalid was produced. When we asked for a copy of the remand application, the call got disconnected. Then we receive a call from the court staff saying they don't yet have a copy, she alleged. Kumar said that at the time the accused was produced, there was no application or case diary before the court. She said later they received a copy of the remand application which was dated back to October 31 along with the court's order stating that his counsel's submissions have been heard on it. “How can I give submissions when I received the copy of it only with the court's order? What good is a remand application which comes with the order? The purpose of the remand application is that I can give my submissions on it so that remand proceedings don't happen mechanically... We either don't get or get it belatedly after the order,” his counsel said. Kumar added that they were told there was no material required for extension of judicial custody. It is absolutely against the settled principle. Umar Khalid's custody was extended illegally and mechanically. This is a serious issue. The logistical difficulties due to COVID-19 pandemic cannot come in the way of the rights of an accused or their counsel, she further said. Special Public Prosecutor Manoj Chaudhary, appearing for the police, said moving an application every 14 days for extension of judicial custody was not by law but by precedent. If the investigating officer chose not to move an application, the accused's custody will automatically be extended, Chaudhary added. Communal violence had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after clashes between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-539
23-11-2020||India||MP police books two Netflix officials over “objectionable scenes” in ‘A Suitable Boy’||An FIR was registered in Madhya Pradesh on Monday against two executives of OTT platform Netflix for allegedly hurting religious sentiments through its web series "A Suitable Boy" which showed kissing scenes purportedly on the campus of a temple, an official said. The FIR has named Monika Shergill, Vice President, Content (Netflix) and Ambika Khurana, Director, Public Policies (Netflix), Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra said. Rewa police booked them on a complaint filed by Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) national secretary Gaurav Tiwari who demanded an apology from Netflix and makers of the series, and the removal of "objectionable scenes", which he stated were also "encouraging love jihad". "I had asked officials to examine the series 'A Suitable Boy' being streamed on Netflix to check if kissing scenes in it were filmed in a temple and if it hurt religious sentiments. The examination prima facie found that these scenes are hurting the sentiments of a particular religion," Mishra said in a video statement. "On the basis of a complaint filed by Gaurav Tiwari, an FIR is being registered under section 295 (A) (malicious acts to outrage and insulting the religious feelings and beliefs) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) in Rewa against Netflix officials – Monika Shergill and Ambika Khurana," he added. Rewa superintendent of police Rakesh Kumar Singh told reporters that the FIR has been registered and further investigation is underway. On Saturday, Gaurav Tiwari had submitted a memorandum to the Rewa superintendent of police demanding an apology from Netflix and makers of the series, and removal of "objectionable scenes" from "A Suitable Boy". "Kissing scenes (filmed) inside a temple of Lord Maheshwar (a historic town located on the banks of Narmada in Madhya Pradesh) have hurt the sentiments of Hindus. This is also encouraging 'love jihad'," Tiwari had stated. He had named Monika Shergill and Ambika Khurana in his complaint application. The six-part Netflix series has been directed by renowned filmmaker Mira Nair, who is known for her critically-acclaimed films such as "Salaam Bombay", "Monsoon Wedding" and "The Namesake".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-540
23-11-2020||India||Allowing corporate houses to set up banks is a 'bombshell', says Rajan, Acharya||The RBI working group's proposal to allow corporate houses to set up banks is a "bombshell" and at this juncture, it is more important to stick to the tried and tested limits on the involvement of business houses in the banking sector, according to an article jointly written by former RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan and ex-Deputy Governor Viral Acharya. They also said that the proposal is "best left on the shelf". "The history of connected lending is invariably disastrous. How can the bank make good loans when it is owned by the borrower? Even an independent committed regulator, with all the information in the world, finds it difficult to be in every nook and corner of the financial system to stop poor lending," the article said. Last week, an Internal Working Group (IWG) set up by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) made various recommendations, including that a large corporation may be permitted to promote banks only after necessary amendments to the Banking Regulations Act. The IWG was set up to review extant ownership guidelines and corporate structure for Indian private sector banks. Referring to the group's proposal to allow Indian corporate houses into banking, the article said, "its most important recommendation, couched amidst a number of largely technical regulatory rationalisations, is a bombshell". "... it proposes to allow Indian corporate houses into banking. While the proposal is tempered with many caveats, it raises an important question: Why now?," the article said. The article -- posted on Rajan's LinkedIn profile on Monday -- noted that the IWG has suggested significant amendments to the Banking Regulation Act of 1949, aimed at increasing the RBI's powers, before allowing corporates houses into banking. "Yet if sound regulation and supervision were only a matter of legislation, India would not have an NPA problem. It is hard not to see these proposed amendments as a subtle way for the IWG to undercut a recommendation it may have had little power over. "In sum, many of the technical rationalisations proposed by the IWG are worth adopting, while its main recommendation -- to allow Indian corporate houses into banking -- is best left on the shelf," they opined. "Have we learnt something that allows us to override all the prior cautions on allowing industrial houses into banking? We would argue no. Indeed, to the contrary, it is even more important today to stick to the tried and tested limits on corporate involvement in banking," the article said. Further, Rajan and Acharya said that as in many parts of the world, banks in India are rarely allowed to fail - the recent rescue of Yes Bank and of Lakshmi Vilas Bank are examples. For this reason, depositors in scheduled banks know their money is safe, which then makes it easy for banks to access a large volume of depositor funds. They noted that the rationales for not allowing industrial houses into banking are then primarily two. First, industrial houses need financing, and they can get it easily, with no questions asked, if they have an in-house bank. According to Rajan and Acharya, the second reason to prohibit corporate entry into banking is that it will further exacerbate the concentration of economic (and political) power in certain business houses. "Even if banking licenses are allotted fairly, it will give undue advantage to large business houses that already have the initial capital that has to be put up. Moreover, highly indebted and politically connected business houses will have the greatest incentive and ability to push for licenses," they said. The approach of the RBI regarding ownership of banks by large corporate/ industrial houses has, by and large, been a cautious one in view of serious risks, governance concerns and conflicts of interest that could arise when banks are owned and controlled by large corporate and industrial houses. For the first time in 2013, the RBI, in its Guidelines for Licensing of New Banks in the Private Sector, had prescribed several structural requirements of promoting a bank under a Non-Operative Financial Holding Company (NOFHC).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-540
23-11-2020||India||Comedian Bharti Singh, husband granted bail in drugs case||A Mumbai court on Monday granted bail to comedian Bharti Singh and her husband Harsh Limbachiya, who were arrested after seizure of drugs from their house in suburban Mumbai. The magistrate's court granted bail to the couple on a bond of Rs 15,000 each. Bharti Singh, who has appeared in a number of comedy and reality shows on TV, was arrested on Saturday night by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), while her husband was taken into custody on Sunday morning following seizure of ganja (cannabis) from their house in suburban Andheri. They were produced on Sunday before the magistrate's court which remanded them in judicial custody till December 4. They then filed bail pleas through their advocate Ayaz Khan which were posted for hearing on Monday. The NCB had recovered 86.5 gm of marijuana during the search their residence and office. This is considered as 'small quantity' under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, an official earlier said. On Monday, Khan told the court that the couple has been booked for possession and consumption of drugs that is considered "smaller than the small quantity prescribed in the Act". "The offences under which my clients (Singh and Limbachiya) have been booked are punishable up to one year in jail. Hence, bail should be granted," he argued. Khan further told the court that Singh is a woman, who is suffering from diabetes and hence, liberty should be given. "Singh has performed in several reality television shows and acted in films. She and her husband have no criminal antecedents and hence, there is no chance of them absconding," he said. The magistrate accepted Khans arguments and granted bail to the couple. While no lawyer was present for the NCB, its officials were present in the court and they sought time to file their reply to the bail pleas. However, Khan said the bail pleas were filed on Sunday and since the case pertains to "smaller than small quantity", the court can exercise its powers and grant bail. Singh and Limbachiya were booked under NDPS Act Sections 20(b)(ii)(A) (involves small quantity of drugs), 8(c) (possession of drugs) and 27 (consumption of drugs). Up to 1,000 gm of ganja is considered a small quantity, which attracts jail term up to one year and/or fine of Rs 10,000. Possession of commercial quantity 20 kg or more is punishable up to 20 years in jail. For the quantity in between, the punishment can be as much as 10 years in jail. The NCB has been probing the alleged drug use in Bollywood after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June this year, on the basis of WhatsApp chats involving drugs. The names of Bharti Singh and her husband cropped up during the interrogation of a drug peddler. The central agency had earlier arrested Rajput's girlfriend, actress Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, some employees of the late film star and a few others under various sections of the Act. Rhea Chakraborty and a few other accused were granted bail by the Bombay High Court in October. Showik's bail plea was rejected by the HC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-540
23-11-2020||India||Forest department bans night stay, camping in Pithoragarh grasslands||As part of efforts to preserve the Himalayan meadows, the forest department here has put a complete ban on night stay, pitching tents, and making campfires in the grasslands of the district. The number of people visiting the meadows has also been restricted to 200 per day, sub-divisional forest officer, Navin Pant, said. "Besides the imposition of a total ban on night stay, camping, and campfires in the grasslands, the number of people visiting them during daytime has also been restricted to 200," he said. The exercise kicks off from Khalia Bugyal located at a height of 3500 meters in Munsyari forest range, he said. The step is meant to preserve the Himalayan meadows as human activities like camping harm soil and pollute them, Pant said. They also stunt the blossoming of flowers in summer months and depletion of local vegetation, he said, adding those who violate the ban and restrictions will be punishable under the forest act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-540
23-11-2020||India||Kangana moves HC to quash FIR against her||Actress Kangana Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel filed a petition in the Bombay High Court on Monday, seeking to quash an FIR registered against them by Mumbai Police for allegedly "trying to create hatred and communal tension" through their posts on social media. The FIR, under sedition charges, was registered according to orders passed by the Bandra magistrates court directing the police to carry out an inquiry against Ranaut and her sister following a complaint lodged against them. "Kangana and Rangoli have filed a petition in the Bombay High Court for quashing of the FIR and the magistrates' order," their advocate Rizwan Siddiquee told news agency PTI. He said the petition has also sought the court to stay the summons issued against the duo asking them to appear before the police for questioning, and also a direction to the police to not take any coercive steps against them. The Mumbai Police last week summoned Ranaut and her sister for the third time to record their statements on November 23 and 24 for allegedly promoting enmity between two communities. The police have filed the FIR against Ranaut and her sister under IPC sections 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race), 295-A (deliberate acts hurting religious sentiments) and 124-A (sedition), 34 (common intention).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-540
23-11-2020||India||Customs seizes gold worth Rs 3.26 crore at New Delhi railway station||Customs officials have seized over six kg of gold, worth Rs 3.26 crore, from the possession of a man at the New Delhi railway station, an official said on Monday. Two men have been arrested in the case, he said. "Acting on specific information, officers of customs (preventive) Delhi intercepted an individual at New Delhi railway station in the late afternoon of 19.11.2020, who had come from Howrah, Kolkata via Rajdhani Express," Hemant Rohilla, Deputy Commissioner, Customs (Preventive), Delhi, said in a statement. Upon a personal search, around 6.3 kg of gold, valued at around Rs 3.26 crore, was seized from the possession of the man, he said. The seized gold was in the form of biscuits and cut-pieces and is believed to have been smuggled into the country through the northeastern border, the officer said, adding that it is of "foreign origin". "He has admitted to being a routine carrier, having carried around 2 to 6 kg of smuggled gold every time on 15 earlier occasions (since the imposition of the lockdown due to COVID in late March and its subsequent lifting). Thus, the total value of the smuggled gold comes out to be around 60 kg valued at over Rs 30 crore (based on average values)," Rohilla said. Follow-up searches were conducted and the receiver of the gold was also apprehended, he said, adding that incriminating documents and other evidence have been recovered. Both the accused were placed under arrest by the officers of the Customs (Preventive), Delhi on Sunday evening for violation of the provisions of the Customs Act, 1962 and remanded to 14 days of judicial custody, the officer said, adding that further investigation is underway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-540
23-11-2020||India||Woman kidnapped, raped by two men in UP||An 18-year-old woman was allegedly kidnapped and raped by two men in a village here, police said on Monday. The two men kidnapped the woman from her house on Saturday evening and took her to a nearby agricultural field, where they raped her, SP Arvind Chaturvedi said. The woman's younger brother and father were present in the house at the time of the incident but could not make out what was happening. The family got to know about it when her elder brother working in another state called on a relative's phone to talk to his sister and he arrived at her place to inform her about the call. During this period, some villagers had spotted two men holding a woman and immediately informed police about it. The woman was found lying beside a canal in an unconscious state on Sunday, Chaturvedi said. ASP (South) Manoj Pande, along with SHO Subeha, rushed to the spot and sent the woman for a medical examination after taking her statement. Soon, the accused were arrested, the SP said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-540
23-11-2020||India||India's Covid caseload breaches 91 lakh mark||India's Covid-19 caseload went past 91 lakh with 44,059 coronavirus infections being reported in a day, while the recoveries surged to 85,62,641, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 91,39,865, while the death toll climbed to 1,33,738 with 511 new fatalities including 121 from Delhi alone, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of active cases remained below 5 lakh for the thirteenth consecutive day. There are 4,43,486 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country as on date which comprises 4.85 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. The national recovery rate was recorded at 93.68 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.46 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, and surpassed 90 lakh on November 20. According to the ICMR, over 13.25 crore samples have been tested up to November 22 with 8,49,596 samples being tested on Sunday. The 511 new fatalities include 121 from Delhi, 50 from Maharashtra, 49 from West Bengal, 35 from Uttar Pradesh, 27 from Kerala and 25 from Haryana. A total of 1,33,738 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 46,623 from Maharashtra followed by 11,654 from Karnataka, 11,605 from Tamil Nadu, 8,391 from Delhi, 8,025 from West Bengal, 7,559 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,938 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,614 from Punjab and 3,859 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-540
23-11-2020||India||Cold wave sweeps Delhi||A cold wave gripped Delhi on Monday as the minimum temperature dropped to 6.3 degrees Celsius, five notches below normal and the lowest in the month of November since 2003, according to the India Meteorological Department. On Sunday, the national capital had recorded a minimum of 6.9 degrees Celsius and a maximum of 24.2 degrees Celsius, the lowest day time temperature so far this month. "The Safdarjung Observatory which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 6.3 degrees Celsius, which is Delhi's lowest minimum temperature in the month since November 2003, when the city recorded a minimum of 6.1 degrees Celsius," Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said. The mercury dropped to 6.4 degrees Celsius at the Lodhi Road weather station, he said. For the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than normal for two consecutive days. "However, for small areas such as Delhi, a cold wave can be declared if the criteria is fulfilled even for a day," Srivastava said. Delhi had recorded the lowest minimum temperature of 11.5 degrees Celsius last year, 10.5 degrees Celsius in 2018 and 7.6 degrees Celsius in 2017 in the month of November. The all-time record for the lowest minimum temperature in November is 3.9 degrees Celsius recorded on November 28, 1938. Srivastava said icy cold winds blowing from snow-laden western Himalayas have led to a dip in the mercury. However, the minimum temperature will rise by two to three degrees Celsius in the next four to five days under the influence of a fresh Western Disturbance. The minimum temperature this month, barring on November 16, has remained 2-3 degrees Celsius below normal in the absence of a cloud cover, according to IMD officials. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground. The month of October was the coldest in 58 years in the national capital. The mean minimum temperature in October this year was 17.2 degrees Celsius, the lowest since 1962 when it was 16.9 degrees Celsius.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-540
23-11-2020||India||Kerala introduces ordinance to prosecute 'derogatory content'||The CPM, usually quick on the draw to accuse the Narendra Modi government of crushing free speech, is now finding itself at the receiving end and facing the music from fellow-travellers and kindred spirits. The Left government in Kerala, headed by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, has promulgated an ordinance that allows prosecution and imprisonment of up to three years “for making, expressing, publishing or disseminating any matter which is threatening, abusive, humiliating or defamatory”. The stated reason for the amendment to the Kerala Police Act is an explosion of online abuse of women by trolls, which recently prompted a group of women to beat up a YouTuber, and character assassination by some websites that masquerade as news portals. But many suspect that the real trigger is the blizzard of negative coverage and lampooning the CPM-led government has suffered in the wake of the unearthing of a gold smuggling scandal that has been linked to a woman close to an IAS officer who ran the chief minister’s office. The officer, now in judicial custody, was removed soon after the controversy broke. On Sunday, chief minister Vijayan kept a window open, saying that the government “will certainly consider creative opinions and suggestions that are being aired with regard to this amendment”. The ordinance has brought national glare to bear upon the Kerala government, which had been basking in a blaze of media adulation over its Covid management until the gold scandal swung the pendulum to the other end. The amendment has been inserted as Section 118 (A) in the Kerala Police Act. The controversial provision reads: “Whoever makes, expresses or publishes or disseminates through any kind of mode of communication, any matter or subject for threatening, abusing, humiliating or defaming a person or class of persons, knowing it to be false and that causes injury to the mind, reputation or property of such person or class of persons or any other person in who they have interest shall on conviction be punished for a maximum term of three years or fined Rs10,000, or both.” It is the broad-based nature of the penal provision that is causing the uproar. The definition or Section 118 (A) also goes against the spirit of the CPM’s Lok Sabha election manifesto that promised to repeal the sedition law and the defamation law. “Section 118” has now become a butt of ridicule in Kerala with trolls wise-cracking that one way to torpedo the amendment would be to ask Modi to promulgate a similar one at the Centre, which is certain to make the CPM oppose it. Analysts feel that the ordinance is bringing back to the statute books a provision that had been struck down by the Supreme Court in 2015 in the Shreya Singhal case. According to the Internet Freedom Foundation, the court had struck down Section 66A of the Information Technology Act, 2000, and Section 118 (d) of the Kerala Police Act, 2011, for violating the fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution under Article 19(1)(a). The Internet Freedom Foundation said: “The Shreya Singhal decision highlights the need to ensure that overbroad restrictions on online speech are not used as a tool by the State to criminalise free speech on the Internet…. The introduction of the amended provision in question is concerning because of its similarity to the unconstitutional S.66A. The provisions suffer from a similar vice of being void for vagueness.” “The Supreme Court was of the view that these penal provisions were not precisely definable. The result is that they get an elastic character and you can stretch them to any level,” senior lawyer Kaleeswaram Raj told The Telegraph. “The government can bring even an innocent comment under the ambit of such provisions. That’s why the Supreme Court observed that an overbroad penal provision is intrinsically unconstitutional,” he added, urging the Kerala government to scrap the law forthwith. Several public figures who are usually aligned with the Left in the fight against Right-wing forces joined the chorus of voices against the ordinance. Prominent among them was former Union home minister P. Chidambaram. “Shocked by the law made by the LDF (Left Democratic Front) government of Kerala making a so-called ‘offensive’ post on social media…,” he tweeted, adding “how will my friend @SitaramYechury, GS, CPI(M), defend these atrocious decisions?” Lawyer Prashant Bhushan tweeted: “Kerala has amended the Kerala Police Act by ordinance that provides jail term for any social media or cyber post that is deemed ‘offensive’ or threatening. This is draconian & bound to be abused to silence dissent. Similar Sec 66A of the IT Act was struck down.” Shashi Tharoor, the Congress leader who represents Kerala capital Thiruvananthapuram in the Lok Sabha, tweeted: “This is troubling…. The law responds to several cases of offensive tweets/posts/comments abusing & threatening women, but it is so loosely drafted that it could also be used against political opponents, journalists & critics.” Senior lawyer and media commentator Sebastian Paul, who had won Lok Sabha and Assembly polls as an LDF-backed Independent, called for the withdrawal of the clause. “In my view, the ordinance itself is dangerous and undesirable. Freedom of expression will be totally at the mercy of the police once this clause comes into force,” Paul told this newspaper. “Under the guise of regulating social media, the entire media including newspapers have come under police control with this provision. This has the likelihood of extensive misuse,” said Paul. “Freedom of expression is a sacred right. How can policemen be guardians of that right? He noted that there were sufficient laws to handle cyber bullying and there was no need for a new clause. Asked for a response on the backlash and whether the ordinance weakened the party’s fight against the BJP, Yechury shared a statement issued by Vijayan. The chief minister said the new amendment “will in no way be used against free speech or impartial journalism”. According to him, the state government had repeatedly been receiving complaints against the wide misuse of social media, especially by certain online channels. “Even prominent public and cultural figures had made such complaints. They have brought to the notice of the government instances where inhuman and vile cyber attacks were carried out by some in the guise of journalism and how it harmed the family lives of many. It has often turned into targeted attacks using untruths and sleazy content. Many families are bearing the consequences of such attacks,” Vijayan said, adding that this included women and transgender persons. “Along with ensuring the freedom of press, the government also has the responsibility of upholding a citizen’s individual freedom and his/her dignity as enshrined in the Constitution. The popular idea that one’s freedom ends where the other’s nose begins needs to be respected. One has the liberty to swing one’s fist, but it ends where the other’s nose begins. However, there have been instances of this idea being repeatedly violated…,” Vijayan added. “A person’s respect and dignity are essential in a modern society. It has constitutional validation as well. The government has the responsibility to ensure it. In general, traditional media functions within these constitutional limits. However, certain online media outlets have scant regard for such constitutional provisions and behave as if anything goes, creating an atmosphere of anarchy. This will alter our social order, and it cannot be allowed,” the chief minister added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-540
23-11-2020||India||Break in 7-week Covid dip||India’s count of active coronavirus disease patients under medical supervision increased on Sunday for the first time in seven weeks amid lingering concerns that fresh local surges may yet disrupt the near-steady shrinking epidemic since mid-September. The Union health ministry on Sunday recorded 45,209 new Covid-19 cases, raising the number of active patients to 440,962 from 439,747 on Saturday. This increase of 1,215 patients is the first nationwide rise in the counts of active patients since October 4. Health experts say a single day’s change may not be significant but point out that at least eight states — Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh — have shown steady increases in their daily new cases since early November. The weekly average daily new cases in Delhi, for instance, increased to around 6,050 on November 21 from 5,100 on November 1. In Himachal Pradesh, this measure increased to 659 on November 21 from 271 on November 1. Such increases in daily cases, experts say, are likely driving the slowdown in the pace of decline of the epidemic observed over the past three weeks. The slowdown has triggered speculation whether India is now at the start of fresh surges driven by crowding and public behaviour during festivals such as Diwali and whether adequate diagnostic tests are being offered to everyone who should be tested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-541
23-11-2020||India|| CPM backed group decries move to evict leading artistes ||A group of cultural activists and artistes backed by the CPM have decried the move to evict leading artistes of the country from Union government accommodations in Delhi. The Safdar Hashmi Memorial Trust (Sahmat) said in a statement: “Most of the artists who have been issued these notices are now aged and do not have any other place to reside. Many people do not realise the precarious financial condition most artists have to cope with, including those who are very famous, indeed legendary names. “This is particularly true of dancers, most of whom have had to teach in order to make a living. That a legend like Pandit Birju Maharaj has to plead publicly that at his age he has nowhere to go and does not have many years left, is a blot on our country.” The statement, signed by photographer and Sahmat co-founder Ram Rahman, added: “All the dancers, musicians, painters and dance historians are major figures in our cultural life and have been hailed in India and around the world as ambassadors of our culture. They cannot afford the kinds of market rents in Delhi now. We, fellow artists, appeal to the government to reconsider this decision. Surely the government can afford to allot a tiny proportion of its housing pool as a cultural support to deserving practitioners who have enriched our lives.” Padma awardees including Kathak exponent Birju Maharaj, painter Jatin Das, santoor maestro Bhajan Sopori, as well as 18 other artists and the families of three deceased artists have been given until December 31 to vacate homes allotted to them since the late 1970s. The allotments on the recommendation of the culture ministry had been until they turned 60 years old, but they have continued to stay on and pay a “licence fee” charged by the Centre’s Directorate of Estates that is lower than the market rate. The artists, most of whom are above 70, have requested the government to allow them to live there till death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-541
23-11-2020||India||Inter-faith love stories, told in the age of love jihad lie||When trolls last month forced jewellery brand Tanishq to withdraw an ad that showed a Hindu woman’s baby shower being organised by her Muslim in-laws, Niloufer Venkatraman and two fellow journalists decided that enough was enough. As a statement against bigots who oppose interfaith marriages, Venkatraman uploaded the story of her parents —  a Zoroastrian and a Hindu —  along with three photos of the couple on Instagram’s @IndiaLoveProject (ILP) handle. The ILP, started by the Mumbai-based Venkatraman and Bangaloreans Priya Ramani and Samar Halarnkar, now has 25 posts — pictures with stories of inter-community couples — with a new post added every morning. Below each post are comments about similar love stories of couples from different castes and religions. Less than four weeks after it was launched, the ILP already has 10,900 followers. It has thrived at a time three BJP-ruled states have announced plans for legal regulations against “love jihad” — or marriages between Muslim men and Hindu women. Such marriages, according to the “love jihad” theory, reflect a ploy to convert Hindu women to Islam and radicalise them to boost terrorist ranks. The slur flourishes despite junior Union home minister G. Kishan Reddy telling Parliament in February that no case of “love jihad” had been reported by the central investigative agencies. Venkatraman told The Telegraph over email: “What prompted this project was that we’re increasingly hearing that relationships follow a pattern of endogamy and strictly adhere to traditional norms. Anyone that chooses outside that convention is increasingly being condemned. We want to support people’s choices.” She added: “What we’re saying here at ILP is that there are multiple realities of families and relationships and they are not new. We are telling many kinds of stories (including the one of my parents) that are from over 50 years ago. India is a diverse place and at ILP we want to say that cultural difference is to be cherished not scorned. “People are sharing their real-life stories of cultural integration, so anyone opposing this will basically be denying the reality of these people’s existence. You would have to be quite delusional to do that. “We offspring of interfaith marriages exist, we’ve gone on to marry people of religions that are different even from those of our parents. Hopefully through ILP’s stories, people who’ve been sitting on the fence about such issues will step over towards more inclusiveness and acceptance.” While the founders of the handle had for over a year been mulling over a way to counter bigotry against interfaith unions, Tanishq’s capitulation was the trigger. Ramani said: “After the Titan episode we decided to be millennial in our approach and just launched on Instagram instead of waiting to build the perfect home for our dream project. My inspiration, as far as Instagram goes, is my niece Tara Anand @taraanandart who once launched I Am Like Other Girls, an instagram project about womanhood and solidarity.” Tanishq, owned by the Tamil Nadu government and Tata joint venture Titan, this month withdrew another ad in which actress Sayani Gupta said: “I don’t think anyone should light any firecrackers (for Diwali)….” The company faced trolling and boycott calls. BJP national general secretary C.T. Ravi tweeted: “Why should anyone advice (sic) Hindus how to celebrate our festivals?” Ahead of Diwali, however, the National Green Tribunal banned the use of fireworks in the National Capital Region as an anti-pollution measure. Ramani said: “At least 100 people have written to say they want to send their stories. Some of them have already sent us their stories and pictures. I don’t think we are going to run out of stories any time soon. “My favourite query, which will hopefully soon be a story, was, ‘Can I send you the story of my grandparents…. My grandfather, a 22-year-old Khoja Muslim boy, the only child of a surgeon, married my grandmother, a Hindu widow, 10 years his senior. They had an incredible life together’.” Ramani added: “While most of the stories you see now are interfaith love stories, we are also hoping to feature lots of inter-caste and LGBTQ love stories in the coming weeks.” Halarnkar said: “Our criteria are that they (the characters of the stories) are not anonymous, ideally should not have converted (although this is not a hard and fast rule) to a partner’s faith and basically have a good story to tell…. We are currently not regulating comments.” Trolling has so far been minimal. Halarnkar said that on November 9, “…some incoherent trolls appeared to have discovered us, mostly demanding to know why we don’t have stories of Muslim women marrying Hindu men -- which we have of course!” These include well-known couples like author Salma Siddiqui who left her Muslim husband to marry Krishan Chander, an author she admired and who was two decades her senior. Halarnkar added: “We intend this to be an online — and later, maybe offline — community that can offer inter-faith couples legal, psychological and other advice and support. We have already had a few requests from couples struggling with inter-faith relationships and we have connected a couple to counsellors.” The project hosted an online discussion on November 7 with Lata Singh, a Rajput woman who had to flee to Jaipur from Farrukhabad, Uttar Pradesh, to marry Brahma Nand Gupta, a Bania. The couple had to fight a false case lodged by Singh’s brothers accusing Gupta of abducting her, until the Supreme Court ruled in their favour in 2006 and said: “Inter-caste marriages are in fact in the national interest as they will result in destroying the caste system.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-541
23-11-2020||India||Demonetisation to GST to farm bills: economy’s dangerous slide ||Eminent economist, professor emeritus at Jawaharlal Nehru University and activist Prabhat Patnaik traces the downward and dangerous slide of the Indian economy, from the demonetisation to the new farm bills. The first onslaught was in the form of the demonetisation. While Amartya Sen termed this step “despotic”, Narendra Modi gushed that there would be no black money after the demonetisation. In the process, more than 100 aged people died of heat standing in long queues. How has the demonetisation helped or hindered the common people? The demonetisation brought immediate pain to millions. But apart from its immediate effects, it also left a lasting, long-term legacy that has undermined the viability of the informal sector, including peasant agriculture, which accounts for 85 per cent of employment and 45 per cent of the output in the Indian economy. Unable to sell the output for immediate cash, this sector incurred much greater debt, which has become a millstone around its neck. It was also utterly pointless. It revealed the Modi government’s ignorance of economics and its penchant for “shock and awe”. The government believed, as in Bollywood movies, that “black money” is just cash stuffed into pillowcases or mattresses that could be simply disabled. But “black money” is not a stock of money lying around. It lubricates activities generating employment, output and incomes. These are like normal activities, but illegal. If perchance a cash shortage arises in the “black economy” it will suck out cash from the legal economy but will not fold up. So a demonetisation is no way of tackling the “black economy”. The second onslaught was in the form of the goods and services tax (GST). While Narendra Modi hailed it as a “good and simple tax”, economists have said it was done hastily and was full of holes. The crisis in this sphere sharpened when the Centre refused to give the money (from the GST) due to the states. In other words, centralisation of the financial resources was not followed up with rightful disbursement among the states. The problem with the GST was not that it was “hasty”; it was plain wrong. It took away state governments’ constitutionally given power to tax and entrusted it to a GST Council where each state had only one vote and the central government had a dominant voice. It was done in the name of “unifying the national market”, but this was a red herring. None can say that the United States, which has no GST, is not a unified market. State governments made a big mistake accepting the GST; now they are paying for that mistake as the Centre reneges on its solemn promise to give GST compensation. This has dangerous consequences for our federal structure, but it conforms with the Modi government’s move to turn India into a de facto unitary State. The GST not only aids financial centralisation but also benefits big business at the expense of the informal sector. Petty producers have to maintain records and submit returns that entail considerable expenses. And many like Benarasi sari weavers who paid no taxes earlier have to do so now. Given the goal of “revenue neutrality”, this means lower taxes for big business. And then we come to the farm bills. Were they at all necessary? Now that states like Punjab are declaring their own legislation on this, we shall soon be facing a constitutional logjam. Dissent and dissatisfaction is increasing every day among the farmers and they are determined to unleash countrywide resistance. Agriculture is a state subject under the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution. The Centre’s act of legislating on it under the pretext that inter-state trade is involved, without even consulting the states, violates constitutional propriety but it is in sync with the move towards a unitary State. Two things are wrong with the agriculture bills. One, they encourage corporate players to encroach upon peasant agriculture, with no State oversight and no minimum support price. This amounts to leaving the peasantry at the mercy of agribusiness and the world market, which is reminiscent of colonial times. The second is the undermining of food security. The country’s land area will now get increasingly drawn into producing crops demanded by the superior purchasing power of advanced-country buyers — crops that the advanced countries, owing to their climate, cannot produce at all — rather than food grains for our home consumption. A longstanding demand of the advanced countries has been a winding up of our existing procurement operations as they supposedly interfere with the “free market”. This means abandoning the public distribution system. India has resisted this till now, which is why the Doha round of the WTO (World Trade organisation) negotiations has remained stalled. The Modi government, through these bills, is capitulating before the West. India will now become dependent on the West for food imports. In short, it has been disaster all the way. What is the prime motive behind these economic measures that defy common sense? Most ruling party leaders, coming from the RSS stable with a single-minded emphasis on an anti-Muslim, anti-Dalit agenda, have little knowledge of economic issues. Their views on these issues are no different from those of any run-of-the-mill Right-wing person on the street. They get inputs from two sources: from big business, which supports them financially and has propelled them to their current political hegemony, and from the advanced countries and Bretton Woods institutions. And these inputs are in general conformity with their own naïve prejudices, which is how their economic programme gets built. The GST conforms to what Indian big business and the World Bank have always wanted; likewise the “opening up” of agriculture. Even if these measures hurt petty producers and threaten to damage their (the BJP’s) electoral prospects, they believe that another bout of aggressive Hindutva will recover the lost electoral ground. Their strategy is simple: benefits for the monopolists and Hindutva for the masses. But Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman sounds stubbornly optimistic. She has traced signs of recovery in the economy. Do you see these signs as well? Since the fourth quarter of 2019-20 had seen slow growth, the fourth quarter of 2020-21 will appear better because of this low base. But taking the entire year, GDP contraction will be around 12 per cent, which is among the highest in the world. ILO (International Labour Organisation) figures show that South Asia (essentially India) had the second highest percentage of labour hours lost in the first three quarters among all the world’s regions (after Latin America and the Caribbean). Some recovery from the lockdown trough (that is, the first quarter of 2020-21, when the GDP shrank nearly 25 per cent) is inevitable. But without fiscal stimulus measures, this recovery will remain truncated. The same ILO study shows that South Asia’s (read India’s) fiscal stimulus has been the smallest among the world’s regions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-541
23-11-2020||India||BJP gears up for 2024 Lok Sabha polls||BJP president J.P. Nadda is gearing up to prepare the ground for the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. The party on Sunday announced that Nadda would begin a 120-day nationwide tour next month with special focus on Lok Sabha seats the party failed to win in 2019. “Our party chief will directly interact with (polling) booth-level workers, keeping in mind the 2024 Lok Sabha polls,” BJP general secretary Arun Singh said in a media address on Sunday. “Focus will be on seats we failed to win in 2019. Review and fresh strategising for these seats will begin,” Singh added, claiming that the BJP was the only party whose president interacted with booth-level workers. The BJP had contested 437 Lok Sabha seats and won 303 in 2019. This means Nadda will focus on 135 seats. Singh said Nadda would begin his journey in the first week of December and BJP-ruled Uttarakhand would be his first destination. The BJP chief will spend two-three days in each state, including Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-541
23-11-2020||India||BSF to deploy UAVs along the India-Bangladesh border ||The Centre has given the go-ahead to the Border Security Force to deploy unmanned aerial vehicles along the India-Bangladesh border to crack down on infiltration and smuggling, sources in the BSF said on Sunday. The BSF has also started work on sealing segments of the borders with Bangladesh and Pakistan with a smart-technology-aided fence to check the increasing incidents of infiltration. “The Centre’s approval to the long-standing proposal to deploy UAVs along the Bangladesh frontier is a welcome step. The aerial surveillance will help our personnel to go a long way in keeping a close eye on vulnerable zones prone to infiltration,” said a senior BSF officer. The BSF is deployed along the 4,096km-long international border with Bangladesh that runs through Bengal, Assam, Tripura, Meghalaya and Mizoram. The UAVs are supposed to provide real-time images of possible infiltration attempts. “It will also be useful in cracking down on smuggling of fake currency notes, cattle and narcotics, besides human trafficking,” the BSF officer said. Two men have been arrested for allegedly snatching gold chains from a woman journalist and the wife of a former Meghalaya police chief in southeast Delhi, officials said on Sunday. The man to whom they sold the stolen items has also been arrested. The three accused have been identified as Alok Ranjan, 23, Gufran, 26, and Vishwanath Das, 32.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-541
23-11-2020||India||No campaign against Sonia or Rahul Gandhi: Ghulam Nabi Azad||Congress veteran Ghulam Nabi Azad on Sunday asserted that there was no campaign against Sonia Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi and that the issues raised by some leaders were only structural, aimed more at revitalising the enervated organisational machinery than replacing the leadership. Azad told The Telegraph in an interview: “We are only worried about the Congress’s decline. No other party can be a national alternative to the BJP as only the Congress has national thinking and national presence. We haven’t demanded a leadership change. Our key suggestion is internal elections; from the block to state and national levels. Elections should also be held to the Congress Working Committee (CWC).” Asked why he and other senior leaders who raised the demand for internal elections in a letter to Congress president Sonia earlier were oblivious to this critical aspect of the party system, Azad said: “I have always been a votary of election to organisational posts. When P.V. Narasimha Rao was the party president and Prime Minister, I was the most vocal for internal elections. Leaders like Sharad Pawar, K. Karunakaran, Madhavrao Scindia supported me.” Pressed further on why he and other senior leaders didn’t demand organisational elections during Sonia’s tenure from 1998 to 2017, Azad chose to delve into history instead of giving a direct answer. “I told you I am always for internal elections at all levels. I have expressed my views at party forums. Rao allowed elections to the CWC at the Tirupati session in 1992. But he kept deceiving us on elections at other levels. Finally, the lack of confidence in his leadership was manifested and he was removed,” Azad said. This is significant as Azad appeared to be hinting that internal elections can be an issue serious enough to remove the party president without clarifying why they were comfortable with the nomination system during Sonia’s tenure. Reminded that all these senior leaders had been calling the shots during the period between 1998 and 2016, Azad, who is the leader of the “Group of 23” who have written to Sonia shot back: “We were part of the leadership structure during Rao’s tenure as well. But the president has to allow internal elections.” Asked about the “rebel” tag pasted on his chest although he had been known as a loyalist all his life, the leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha said: “That’s a wrong perception being mischievously manufactured. We are not rebels. When a wazir (high noble) breaks the army and challenges the king, he is called a rebel. But it is incumbent on a good wazir to give the correct advice to the king. We are doing the same, giving the correct advice to the leader.” Asked if that means the projection of the crisis as a rebellion against the Nehru-Gandhi family was erroneous, Azad said: “Of course. It is not a fight against any individual. We are not for replacing the leader or appointing somebody as the leader. We are only doing our job of telling the leader what could have gone wrong and what could be the possible remedies. We want the leader to save the party and that will also save all of us, including the leadership.” Asked if this debate could have been conducted within the party forums, Azad insisted that they wanted it to be that way and none of the leaders had spoken a word against Sonia or Rahul. That the party is weak and the organisation has to be strong is an indisputable fact and pointing this out can’t be rebellion, Azad insisted. Ordinary party workers across the country agree with the points the “Group of 23” have raised but feel aggrieved by the unseemly public discourse about the Congress leadership and its infirmities. Most Congress workers lament that no attempt has so far been made to ensure the public sniping is stopped and all the leaders sit together to draw up an effective action plan for revival. Ironically, while most party workers are anguished by the leadership crisis, very few are willing to look beyond the Nehru-Gandhi family for the next party president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-541
23-11-2020||India||SC-ST House panel refuses Hathras visit||The parliamentary committee on the welfare of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes has rejected a request by some of its members to visit the family of the Dalit teen who was allegedly gang-raped and murdered by upper caste men in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras district. Although the girl passed away on September 29, a week after being brutalised, the 30-member committee headed by BJP leader Kirit Premjibhai Solanki has no plans of visiting the family, which has allegedly faced harassment at the hands of the administration and sections of locals. The committee had met on October 20 to discuss representation of SC/ST employees at Delhi University when some of the members requested the chairman to allow a visit to the Hathras family. Solanki, however, rejected the proposal, committee sources said. “When the request was made to visit the victim’s family, the chairman did not agree. He said the Speaker would not agree to such a trip. He also said that a visit to the victim’s family was under the jurisdiction of the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC),” a panel source said. According to the source, the parliamentary committee has the power to tour any place to protect the interests of SCs and STs. The source said the Hathras incident was a fit case for a visit to inspect if the family was safe. “People from the dominant community are openly giving threats. A visit by the committee would have sent a message to the police administration and helped the family in terms of safety and protection,” the source said. Solanki told The Telegraph on Tuesday: “There is no plan to visit Hathras.” No further questions could be asked as he hung up. Another committee source said that while one member had raised the Hathras issue and suggested a visit, two others had supported the proposal. Sixteen members, including the chairman, were present at the meeting. The second source said the NCSC could not undertake a visit as the commission currently had no member. The government has not appointed anyone to the NCSC in the past five months. Ambedkarite scholars said parliamentarians elected from reserved seats were not truly representing the community. The scholars supported the idea of separate electorates that Bhimrao Ambedkar had proposed 90 years ago, before accepting political reservation in constituencies. Currently, 131 Lok Sabha seats are reserved for SCs and STs. Tanoj Meshram, a former civil servant and currently a PhD student of social policy at Heller School for Social Policy and Management at Brandeis University in the US, said caste atrocities were yet to feature on the political agenda of parties, suggesting that mainstream political forces were not committed to the ideology of social justice as envisaged in the Constitution. “Unfortunately, most of the individual SC candidates contesting on the tickets and strength of mainstream political parties show little commitment to social justice,” Meshram said, adding that a separate electorate for SCs would have produced leaders with commitment to the cause of the community. “MPs and MLAs winning from seats reserved for SCs are not truly representing the community. If there had been a separate electorate for depressed classes that Ambedkar had wanted, the Dalit and tribal communities would have got 131 committed parliamentarians in the Lok Sabha. The government cannot afford to have an indifferent attitude toward these communities,” Meshram said. Under separate electorates, SCs and STs would have elected their own representatives from pre-identified constituencies. Such a process could have neutralised the influence of upper caste Hindus who constitute the majority in a parliamentary or Assembly seat. This is contrary to the current system of reserved seats where SC or ST candidates fight elections and people from all communities exercise their franchise together. Mahatma Gandhi had opposed the idea of a separate electorate for depressed classes as he saw it as an attempt to divide the Hindu society along caste lines and considered it against Indian nationalism. Dr Sanjay Jadhav, a Nashik-based medical surgeon and Ambedkarite scholar, said that when Ambedkar was leading a movement for depressed classes, Gandhi and the Congress had foisted rebel untouchable sub-castes to create an alternative leadership. Jadhav said the indifferent attitude towards SCs and STs cut across party lines. The Janata Party had in 1977 made Jagjivan Ram, a Dalit, their prime ministerial candidate but gone with Moraji Desai after winning the election, Jadhav pointed out. “Dalits are never given respect or the positions they deserve. The indifferent attitude is across parties,” Jadhav said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-541
23-11-2020||India||Naveen seeks Hemant's cooperation in early completion of Ichha dam||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Saturday wrote to his Jharkhand counterpart Hemant Soren seeking his cooperation in early completion of the Ichha dam over the Kharkai river in Jharkhand for the benefit of farmers of both the states. “I am happy to know that the government of Jharkhand has taken up Ichha dam construction work recently. Odisha government will extend all cooperation for Ichha dam construction and reimburse Odisha’s share cost of dam in time,” Naveen said in his letter. A sum of Rs 1,026.91 crore has been paid to the Jharkhand government for the Ichha dam construction against the estimated share cost of Rs 1,208 crore, he added. Projects like the Chandil dam and the Galudihi barrage across the Subarnarekha river are being undertaken under a joint collaboration between Jharkhand and Odisha. Similarly, Galudihi right-bank canal off-taking from Galudihi barrage and the Iccha dam are also being built under a joint collaboration. Naveen also sought cooperation of Soren for storage of water up to the full reservoir level in Chandil dam during monsoon for mitigation of floods in Odisha. Naveen also thanked Soren for extending his cooperation in providing water to the Subarnarekha irrigation project of Odisha during the kharif season. “Subarnarekha irrigation project of Odisha will be able to utilise its full irrigation potential only after completion of Ichha dam by Jharkhand government,” Naveen said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-541
23-11-2020||India||Malkangiri’s ‘Malala’ interacts with Naveen Patnaik||Kusumani Khilla, a graduate student from Odisha’s Malkangiri district who has defied the threat of Maoists to teach the children of her area, on Tuesday spoke with chief minister Naveen Patnaik, who assured to solve the problems of the people in the “cut-off” region. Kusumani is called the Malala Yousafzai of Swabhiman Anchal, after the Pakistan teenager who was shot by the Taliban for speaking out in support of education for women. Swabhiman Anchal, around 570km from here, was earlier called the “cut-off” area after its connection with the mainland snapped following the construction of the Machkund reservoir in the 1960s and it became a Maoist-dominated area. But things changed in 2018 following the inauguration of the 910-metres-long Gurupriya bridge by Naveen. The bridge connected a population of around 32,000 residing in nine gram panchayats of the area with the mainland by road for the first time after nearly five decades. Earlier boats were the only means of communication for the people of this area. The area, which was rechristened as Swabhiman Anchal following the inauguration of the Gurupriya bridge, had made international headlines when the then Malkangiri collector R. Vineel Krishna was kidnapped by the Maoists in 2011. He was released after weeklong negotiations. Kusumani, a student of Balimela Science and Technology College, told reporters: “I am happy that the chief minister spoke to me and inquired about the problems of the area. He also assured to address them. All the people of the area are happy that the chief minister spoke to us directly from Bhubaneswar over phone.” Kusumani was able to talk to chief minister through videoconferencing as the area now has mobile connectivity after four mobile towers were set up. The construction of the towers was completed with jawans of the BSF and state police maintaining round the clock vigil. Launching a mobile phone distribution programme, the chief minister said, “State government will provide smart mobile phones to all the families living in the area. Another three towers with 4G facility will be set up.” Project director of District Rural Development Agency, Balmukunda Bhuyan, told The Telegraph, “Kusumani, a plus-three student, acts as a motivator. She has been motivating even Maoist supporters to shun violence and join the mainstream. Since she works in the field of health and education, even Maoists are wary of targeting her as any harm to her will generate public resentment.” “Because of her efforts to create social awareness during the coronavirus pandemic, not a single covid-19 death has been reported from the area though positive cases were detected. For us Kusumani is our Malala,” he added. The chief minister also spoke to Daimati Golory, an SHG member, and Sitaram Golory, an ex-sarpanch of the area. Following the announcement by the chief minister, the Malkangiri district administration distributed smartphones to 6,900 households in Swabhiman Anchal. Naveen also announced that the Rs 100 crore special package that he had announced for Swabhiman Anchal earlier would be enhanced to Rs 215 crore. “These areas are known for their high quality turmeric. Steps will be taken for the processing and branding of the turmeric produced in the Swabhiman Anchal,” Naveen said. He also announced that Rs 100 crore would be spent for making concrete roads and seven bridges in the area. The face of Swabhiman Anchal is now changing with development taking place in the area for the first time in five decades, thanks to the Gurupriya bridge which has made communication easy. While government officials now have easy access to villages in this belt, security forces have stepped up their operations against the Maoists who earlier ruled the roost. Currently the area has six BSF camps while hundreds of police personnel are also deployed. “Our two-pronged strategy of using force against the Maoists in a tactical way while launching a developmental drive in the area is paying dividends,” said a senior official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-541
23-11-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul plan for 35 lakh jobs in 3 years||The Mamata Banerjee government is working on a detailed plan to generate 35 lakh employment opportunities over the next three years with a move by the Trinamul Congress to highlight the thrust on the job creation in the campaign for the 2021 Assembly polls. “The chief minister is laying special emphasis on creating employment opportunities. The areas have been identified and now, work is on to prepare a fool-proof model to ensure that jobs are created on the ground,” a senior government official said. Sources said Mamata Banerjee would detail the schemes during her election campaign to let people know what her government was doing to create 35 lakh jobs in the next three years. The chief minister, a source said, has realised that the government can tackle the unemployment problem by offering jobs in the government or quasi-government sector only to a certain extent as there is a limit to salary bills that it can foot. “Employment is going to be the most important issue in the next Assembly polls as Covid-19 has cut down job opportunities in the country. The chief minister thinks if her party will be able to show a path for employment opportunities, it would have an advantage,” said a Trinamul insider. According to the officer, the cornerstone of the employment drive is going to be the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME). “Our assessment suggests that about 15 lakh employment opportunities could be created in the MSME sector while it is possible to generate 5 lakh jobs in the IT sector in the post-pandemic period,” said the source. The sources said it had been assumed that the MSME sector could see a rise in the next three years considering the fact that Covid had brought a behavioural change to a large number of people. “It is assumed people will continue to use masks, hand sanitisers or surface sanitisers. The MSME sector has already used the opportunity and in the near future, demand of personal protective kits and several other hygiene products like soaps, detergents and hand washes would be rising,” said an official. Similarly, in the post-pandemic period, use of information technology tools would be used in abundance as people would prefer to go the digital way. “This will help us draw investment to the IT sector. We are ready with required infrastructure to accommodate investments in this sector,” said a source. The state government has also identified that generation of 2 lakh employment opportunities is possible in the handloom sector and 10 lakh jobs could be created in the agro business clusters. “The government is buying handloom products in bulk. This will continue in the next few years to help the sector grow,” said a source. In case of agro business clusters, it has been found that the state has immense potential as Bengal is now aiming to increase the production of pulses and oil seeds, which always help to increase downstream industries in the states where these are produced. Moreover, the government has decided to focus on the Matir Srishti projects, which aim to develop horticulture, fisheries and poultry in the barren areas of the Jungle Mahal and Birbhum, as they are likely to create 3 lakh employment opportunities. While there is little doubt a comprehensive plan and its roll-out will help the ruling party, implementing the idea will be easier said than done. “The plan has to be accompanied by creating the right infrastructure so that willing investors are encouraged to pump in money. In that case, the government has to play the role of a facilitator by extending loans, offering incentives and helping the process through creation of training facilities for the potential employees,” said the head of a city-based chamber of commerce.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-302
23-11-2020||West Bengal||Tribals seethe at BJP's Birsa Munda ‘insult’||Nearly 1,000 people from tribal communities in Bankura took out a protest rally here on Sunday against the alleged “undermining” of legendary tribal freedom fighter Birsa Munda by Union home minister Amit Shah during the latter’s visit here earlier this month. The tribal protest rally ended barely two hours before chief minister Mamata Banerjee arrived in Bankura on Sunday 3pm. The rally started from Bankura’s Lalbazar area and ended at Machantala, where leaders of multiple tribal outfits mounted a public protest against Shah’s paying floral tributes on November 5 to the statue of an anonymous tribal hunter with the branches of a tree on his head. “We tried to get the attention of our chief minister through our protest rally as she reached the district today (Sunday). The protest is against the move to humiliate our hero, Birsa Munda, as Amit Shah paid tribute to a hunter’s statue and garlanded a photograph of Munda kept by the feet of the statue,” said Sunil Kumar Mandi, the district president of the All-India Adivasi Bikash Parishad. Mandi also said that he, on the behalf of the tribal community, had approached minister of state and Trinamul president in Bankura, Shyamal Santra, seeking an appointment to meet the chief minister to express their grief on the issue. “We don’t know if she will have time to meet us. If she meets us, we will tell her how the faux pas has hurt the tribal community,” said Mandi. The tribal freedom fighter has, since November 5, assumed centre stage in the battle between Trinamul and BJP after Shah’s floral tributes to the wrong statue prompted Trinamul to label the BJP “bohiragawto (outsider)” once again. The BJP, which had mistakenly identified the hunter’s statue as that of Munda, tried to cover it up by placing a picture of Birsa Munda by the hunter’s feet. The faux pas drew loud criticism from tribal organisations. However, the state BJP president Dilip Ghosh told journalists a few days after the event — much to the dismay of tribal organisations — that the BJP considered the statue of the anonymous hunter as that of Birsa Munda because Shah had paid floral tributes to it. “It would have been better had they admitted their mistake,” a tribal leader had said then.  Placing Birsa Munda’s picture by the feet of the hunter’s statue on November 5 has now reportedly snowballed into a contentious issue by itself. “We treat Birsa Munda as our Bhagwan (god) and we can’t be ready to accept such mistakes from a person like Union home minister Shah. It was just a hunter and the photograph of Birsa Bhagwan was kept by the feet of the statue,” said Luxmi Narayan Kora, state president of the Munda Samaj Farich Samiti — a welfare society for members of the Munda community. Some members of the tribal community led by Trinamul have also decided to set up a statue of Munda near the hunter’s for which land has reportedly been identified. Last week, Trinamul in Bankura had decided to flood Shah’s letterbox with 50,000 postcards written by tribal residents of Jungle Mahal districts, seeking his apology.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-302
23-11-2020||West Bengal||Active Covid cases drop, total toll crosses 8,000||Bengal on Sunday reported a drop in its total active Covid-19 cases for the 27th consecutive day, aided by 3,726 recoveries that outnumbered 3,591 new infections detected, as the recovery rate rose to a new high of 92.72 per cent. Bengal has a total of 25,207 active Covid cases now, compared to 37,190 on Dashami. However, the state’s Covid-19 toll reached 8,025, with 49 deaths reported on Sunday. Bengal stands fifth among states with the most Covid-19 deaths, after Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Delhi. Since Bengal’s first Covid-19 death was reported on March 23, it took 244 days for the toll to cross 8,000. “The latest 1,000 deaths took 19 days, which is slower, and hence better than 16-17 days it took for the previous few thousands,” said a minister. Before this, Bengal had logged 500 deaths by June 17, 1,000 by July 15, 2,000 on August 8, 3,000 by August 27, 4,000 by September 14, 5,000 by October 1, 6,000 by October 18 and 7,000 by November 3. Of the deaths, 6,707 or 83.6 per cent were attributed to comorbidities by the state government. The state’s mortality rate is now 1.75 per cent, worse than the national figure of 1.46, but better than its own 1.85 since Vijaya Dashami on October 26. “Mortality in infected men was 2.09 on Dashami. It is 2.01 today (Sunday). In infected women, it was 1.45, and is 1.34 now,” said the minister. The 49 deaths reported on Sunday included 15 from the city, which now has over 2,500 deaths and more than 31 per cent of Bengal’s death toll. The state’s total Covid-19 cases is over 4.63 lakh, including 4.23 lakh recoveries. The state’s recovery rate has been rising for 31 consecutive days, inching closer to the national rate of 93.66. Since Dashami, the state logged over 1.11 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 1.02 lakh cases found. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, and the numbers of infections from that time showed that the intervention was effective. The high court issued a similar set of instructions for Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. With 44,653 tests on Sunday, the state’s total test count went past 55.22 lakh, at 61,366 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.26 per cent. The state reported 28.89 per cent occupancy in the 13,508 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 101 dedicated Covid hospitals, besides over 4.72 lakh telemedicine consultations so far during this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-302
23-11-2020||West Bengal||Elephant calf rescued by Buxa Tiger Reserve foresters||Foresters rescued a male elephant calf that was loitering beside NH31C near here on Sunday morning. Sources said the calf seemed to have separated from the herd. The calf was spotted by local people who had gone to the Poro river. They informed officers of the Nimati forest range in the Buxa Tiger Reserve who took about an hour to get hold of the calf and load it onto a truck. The animal was sent to the pet elephants’ enclosure in the Jaldapara National Park. Subhankar Sengupta, the field director of the Buxa reserve, said the calf was around one month old. “It seemed to have separated from the herd. The animal was loitering near the highway,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-302
23-11-2020||West Bengal||Mamata to attend Modi’s Tuesday Covid vaccine meet||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee will join a videoconference meeting on Tuesday that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold with the chief ministers of several states to discuss infrastructure needed for Covid-19 vaccination once the vaccine is available in the country. The videoconference is slated for 11am on Tuesday, a source said. The meeting is important — Mamata tweaked her Bankura tour itinerary to be present at the meeting — as the PM is likely to outline the steps the states need to take up for the gigantic vaccination programme. “The CM reached Bankura on Sunday, changing her original plan to reach there on Monday,” said a source. Sources said Mamata last attended a videoconference with the PM on July 26 during the inaugural programme to upgrade the NICED lab for more Covid 19 tests. “In that meeting she did not get a chance to speak much, but at Tuesday's meeting, she is likely to raise important issues if given a chance to speak,” said a source, adding that the state government would like the health department be made the nodal agency to conduct the vaccination programme in Bengal. “It is not possible for a central agency to hold the programme here because of lack of infrastructure. The health department has almost all needed infrastructure. On its part, the Centre should help the state develop cold chain (for vaccine storage),” said a bureaucrat. Mamata, sources said, would like to urge the Centre to help states develop cold chains in advance. She has instructed the health department to ensure that lack of infrastructure should not be a hurdle to vaccination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-302
23-11-2020||West Bengal||Three East Midnapore cops axed for ‘taking bribes’ from truck driver||Three East Midnapore policemen, including an assistant sub-inspector, were suspended on Friday after allegedly being caught taking bribes from a truck driver on the Egra-Kharagpur highway during a surprise raid late on Thursday. The inspection around midnight was led by the district’s assistant superintendent of police (rural) Vidit Raj Bhundesh. On the highway, two constables were spotted accepting wads of cash from a truck driver and handing them to the ASI seated inside the squad car. The ASI then counted the cash and put it inside the glovebox. Sources said Rs 25,000 was recovered from the trio, who were summoned on Friday  by East Midnapore superintendent of police Sunil Kumar Yadav, who launched departmental investigations against the trio and suspended them from duty. The three have been sent to Tamluk police lines. “The issue of cops extorting bribes from trucks and tourist vehicles near Digha is not new. Following a harsh reprimand from chief minister Mamata Banerjee last year, the district force started surprise inspections against errant officers on Egra-Kharagpur, Contai-Digha and Contai-Egra highways,” said an officer. “This highway in question is NH116B from where several complaints from tourists bound for Digha had come to us against cops taking bribes,” he added. Sources said policemen in Digha had been pulled up in the recent past for falsely accusing tourist vehicle drivers of driving without licences and for asking truck drivers for documents deemed unnecessary by law.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-302
23-11-2020||West Bengal||Jalpaiguri Trinamul leader fumes at Team Prashant Kishor’s ‘lessons’||A district Trinamul leader in Jalpaiguri associated with the party since its inception in 1998 expressed his displeasure at poll consultant Prashant Kishor and his agency I-PAC and asked if senior leaders like him “deserve to be taught political lessons by boys”. Bubai Kar, a joint secretary of Jalpaiguri district Trinamul and a follower of party heavyweight and state transport minister Suvendu Adhikari, posted on social media his grievances over Trinamul’s decision to engage Team PK. “1998 theke 2020, 22 bochor Trinamul korbar por IPAC namer kichu bachcha chele esey Trinamul Congress er siksha dichche. Etai ki prappo (After being in Trinamul for 22 years… since 1998 to 2020… some young boys from IPAC are coming and teaching us about Trinamul Congress… do we deserve this),” reads Kar’s post. According to party insiders, Kar had been the working president of Trinamul Chhatra Parishad in the district from 2000 to 2005, and Jalpaiguri town block president of Trinamul Youth Congress from 2006 to 2011. In 2014, he became a state secretary of the Trinamul Youth Congress and is now a joint secretary in the district committee.Commenting on his post on social media, Kar said it was “insulting” to take political lessons from representatives of a private company. “I am a follower of Suvendu Adhikari and feel after Mamata Banerjee, there is no one else other than him. I have seen the struggles of Mamata Banerjee but don’t know about Prashant Kishor. They run a private company…. These days, some youths instruct me on how I should do my party work and seek explanation of my political activities. This is utterly insulting,” said Kar. In recent times, Kar is the second Trinamul leader in north Bengal who openly questioned the party’s functioning. A few days back, Mihir Goswami, a Trinamul MLA from Cooch Behar, had posted on social media: “...it is no longer Mamata Banerjee’s party.” Kar told journalists that it looked like leaders like him were being sidelined. “Maybe the party does not need us anymore. People still have faith in our party supremo. I believe she should work together with Suvendu Adhikari to improve the situation,” Kar said. District TMC chief K.K. Kalyani frowned on Kar’s statements and said “such remarks and posts on social media are undesirable from a person still in the party”. “Prashant Kishor has been engaged by our party supremo in the interest of Trinamul,” Kalyani asserted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-302
23-11-2020||West Bengal||TMC dares BJP to name ‘bhaipo’||The Trinamul Congress on Sunday lashed out at the BJP over relentless attacks against the “bhaipo (nephew)”, deemed to be aimed at an influential leader in the ruling party known for his proximity to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, daring the saffron camp to name the two-term MP. In a news conference at Trinamul’s headquarters, spokesperson Kunal Ghosh accused the BJP of political bankruptcy, which he held responsible for the allegedly base tactics of levelling unsubstantiated charges that amount to “character assassination”. “One after another, canards, lies, and personal attacks. Astonishingly, a particular youth leader, an MP of ours is being singled out as the principal target of these attacks. Unable to compete with his political abilities, they are stooping to these personal attacks and the character assassination,” said Ghosh. The immediate trigger for the counter offensive were remarks on Saturday by the BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya, but the alleged duo of “pishi-bhaipo” or “bua-bhatija” — aunt-nephew in Bengali and Hindi, respectively — has been a recurring theme of the BJP’s recent campaigns in Bengal, resorted to by even the likes of Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP chief J.P. Nadda. Trinamul, which usually does not respond directly to the theme specifically, addressed it on Sunday, asserting that it exposed the saffron camp’s “fear” of the youth leader and his capability. “The discourse should centre around development and allied agenda. Because the BJP cannot talk about that and has only underhanded strategies, it is stooping to such lows…. I want to tell Vijayvargiya and his colleagues clearly, instead of making such indirect references through use of such abstracts, name him directly, if you have the courage,” said Ghosh. “When a man like Vijayvargiya says nephew, it could mean anything, even the secretary of the BCCI (Shah’s son, Jay)…. It is imperative that he takes the name,” he added. On Saturday, Vijayvargiya had alleged that Trinamul’s reins were now entirely in the hands of the bhaipo and not even Mamata had any control over the party anymore, and that it was the so-called nephew’s elevation that necessitated the relegation to the sidelines able,  senior leaders, such as Mukul Roy (former de facto Number Two of Trinamul, now a national vice-president of the BJP) and Suvendu Adhikari (minister and Trinamul general-secretary, allegedly being wooed by the BJP for a possible switch). Responding to Ghosh’s volleys, BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh mocked Trinamul, but steered clear of naming the bhaipo. “When the time comes, he will be named. We are the principal Opposition in Bengal, our objective is to reach out to the people and make sure they understand what we are talking about. If it is so difficult to understand, why is the noise of popular applause deafening every time the words pishi or bhaipo is mentioned in our speeches?” “We are not afraid of anybody. Names will be taken soon. But when anybody mentions ‘Didi (elder sister)’ in Bengal’s political context, is the reference lost on anybody?” asked the Midnapore MP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-302
23-11-2020||North East||Assam declares three-day state mourning in honour of Gogoi’s death ||The Assam government announced a three-day state mourning in honour of former chief minister Tarun Gogoi who died while undergoing treatment for post-COVID-19 complications on Monday. The ruling BJP and opposition Congress also cancelled all party functions, including the ongoing campaign for the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) elections, for the next three days as a mark of respect for the three-time chief minister. "Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal announced that the state government would observe three-day state mourning in honour of the former Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi who breathed his last this evening," an official statement said. Sonowal also paid his last respect to the mortal remains of the veteran Congress leader at Gauhati Medical College and Hospital. Issuing a circular, state BJP's general secretary Topon Kumar Gogoi instructed all district and local units to cancel all types of functions till November 26 in remembrance of the former chief minister. State Congress president Ripun Bora told reporters that the party flag will fly at half-mast for the next three days and all scheduled programmes have been cancelled. Gogoi died at the age of 84 at Gauhati Medical College and Hospital. He was the chief minister of Assam from 2001 to 2016, a six-time parliamentarian and Union minister twice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-34
23-11-2020||North East||Former Assam CM Tarun Gogoi dies at age 84||Former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi died here on Monday while undergoing treatment for post-Covid-19 complications, state Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said. He was 84 and is survived by wife Dolly, daughter Chandrima and son Gaurav. Gogoi, a three-time chief minister, breathed his last at the Gauhati Medical College and Hospital at 5.34 pm, Sarma said. He was first admitted to the hospital on August 26 after testing positive for COVID-19 and was released for a brief period before being admitted again on November 2. The octogenarian Congress leader's condition, who was undergoing treatment at the Gauhati Medical College Hospital for post-Covid complications, deteriorated on November 21, following multi-organ failure and was put on invasive ventilation. Earlier today, Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said "The former CM's condition is extremely critical and worrisome. He is completely on life support and though doctors are trying, now God's blessings and peoples' prayers are required to improve his current condition." Sarma said no other organs of Gogoi were functioning apart from the brain which was receiving some signals, eyes which were showing some reflexes and his heart which was functioning because of a pace-maker. Gogoi was given dialysis on Sunday. His condition deteriorated further over the past few hours and it was stated to be "very very critical". Gogoi was the MLA from the Titabor assembly constituency since 2001. He was also a six-time parliamentarian and a Union minister twice. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday condoled the death of former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi, describing the Congress veteran as a popular leader. "Shri Tarun Gogoi Ji was a popular leader and a veteran administrator, who had years of political experience in Assam as well as the Centre. Anguished by his passing away. "My thoughts are with his family and supporters in this hour of sadness. Om Shanti," Modi said on Twitter. President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday condoled the demise of former Assam Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi and said his passing away marks the end of an era. "Extremely sad to know of the demise of Shri Tarun Gogoi, former Chief Minister of Assam. The country has lost a veteran leader with rich political and administrative experience. His long tenure in office was a period of epochal change in Assam," Kovind tweeted. He will always be remembered for the development of Assam and especially towards his efforts to improve law and order and fighting insurgency in the state, he said in another tweet. "His passing away marks the end of an era. In this hour of grief, condolences to his family, friends and supporters, the president said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-34
23-11-2020||North East||Tarun Gogoi extremely critical, on life support||The health condition of former Assam Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi deteriorated on Monday morning and he is "very very critical", doctors said. The octogenarian Congress leader, undergoing treatment at the Gauhati Medical College Hospital for post-COVID complications, is being monitored by a team of nine doctors, GMCH Superintendent Abhijit Sarma said. "The present status of Sir (Gogoi) is very very critical and the doctors are doing their best," he told reporters. "The former CM's condition is extremely critical and worrisome. He is completely on life support and though doctors are trying, now God's blessings and peoples' prayers are required to improve his current condition," Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who is at GMCH along with Gogoi's son Gaurav, said. Sarma said Gogoi's organs have failed with the brain receiving some signals, eyes are showing some reflexes and his heart is functioning as a pace-maker is fitted, but no other organs are functioning. Gogoi, who was on dialysis on Sunday for six hours, is again flushed with toxins and he is not in a position to undergo the process again, the minister said. Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal said he has directed the health department to provide every possible treatment to him, and "I pray to God for his speedy recovery". The doctors attending on Gogoi is in constant touch with a team from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), led by Randip Guleria. Gogoi was put on ventilation after suffering a multi-organ failure. The 84-year-old three-time chief minister was admitted to GMCH on November 2. He was put under invasive ventilation on Saturday night when his condition worsened. On October 25, Gogoi, who was undergoing treatment for COVID-19 and other post-recovery complications, was discharged from GMCH after two months. He had tested positive for COVID-19 on August 25 and admitted to the GMCH the next day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-34
23-11-2020||North East||Editors Guild of India speaks up for Patricia Mukhim, finally||The Editors Guild of India on Sunday said it was “deeply concerned” to see the The Shillong Times editor, Patricia Mukhim, being “dragged” through a cumbersome criminal charge procedure borne out of a complaint related to a social media post. The Guild underlined the need for the higher judiciary to take “cognisance” of crucial issues that impede freedom of speech and “issue” guidelines to ensure that “wanton use” of laws does not serve as a deterrent to a free press. The Guild statement came seven days after Mukhim tendered her resignation accusing the organisation of “playing to the gallery” to defend “celebrity editors/anchors” while “choosing” to ignore a plea from one of its members. Contacted, Mukhim thanked the Guild for issuing the statement. “Mukhim’s case is a reflection of the larger threats to freedom of speech in India, which operates under an unwieldy framework of laws that are often used indiscriminately by government and law enforcement agencies to muzzle dissent,” the statement, signed by president Seema Mustafa, general secretary Sanjay Kapoor and treasurer Anant Nath said. “Several provisions across multiple laws give a handle to government agencies & law enforcement authorities to lodge criminal cases against journalists wherein the criminal complaint procedure itself becomes an exacting punishment, and acts as a deterrent against the exercise of free speech,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-34
23-11-2020||North East||Manipur bypoll boost for N. Biren Singh||The Manipur bypoll results will help chief minister N. Biren Singh not only consolidate his position but will also ensure a smooth run for the BJP-led coalition government he has been heading since 2017 till the next Assembly polls in 2022. The ruling BJP won three — Wangjing-Tentha, Saitu and Wangoi — of the four seats where bypolls were held on November 7. The Lilong seat was won by an Independent candidate, a former BJP leader, but he too is set to join the party. The BJP had won the Singhat Assembly seat unopposed on October 23 and for all practical purposes, making it five out of five for the party. The victory improved the BJP’s strength to 23 in the 53-member Assembly. With its allies — the NPP (4), the NPF (4), the TMC (1), the LJP (1), Independents (2) and an unattached member (1) — the BJP’s strength goes up to 36, giving Biren Singh more than enough room to manoeuvre challenges posed by the pressure of leading a coalition government and an Opposition Congress ever ready to fish in troubled waters, party insiders said. Biren Singh and his government have been saddled with an intense power tussle within the BJP legislature party and the demands of the coalition partners since he assumed charge in 2017, but this is set to change going by the reactions to the bypoll victory. Almost all senior BJP leaders have congratulated Biren Singh and the election team on the victory, made more special because all the five seats were held by the Opposition Congress. “It is a very good victory. It will strengthen the party-led government. Not only will it check infighting but it will also ensure stability and ensure a smooth run till the next state polls in 2022,” state BJP president S. Tikendra Singh said. Bypolls to the five seats were necessitated following the resignation of the Congress MLAs who had switched to the BJP, barring one. All the four MLAs took oath on November 12. “A huge day for @BJP4Manipur! We won 4 out of 5 seats — @BJP4Manipurcontested only in 4 ACs (Assembly constituencies) — in #Manipur Assembly Bypoll. Once again the people of Manipur show their trust in principles & ideology of @BJP4India & leadership of Hon’ble PM, Shri @narendramodi ji,” Biren Singh had tweeted after the results. The chief minister celebrated the victory at his official bungalow with a small get-together on November 10, the day of the result. The five newly elected MLAs, senior party and coalition leaders, including those from the NPF and the NPP were present, Tikendra Singh said. The NPP had unsuccessfully contested in one seat. The celebration was in order because 2020 had been particularly testing for Biren Singh. The BJP-led government was in a spot before the June 19 Rajya Sabha polls when nine MLAs supporting his coalition government withdrew support, a close aide said. Biren Singh not only ensured the BJP won the Rajya Sabha polls but also the trust vote on August 10 — 28 to 16 — by a voice vote after eight Congress MLAs abstained from the proceedings. Tuesday’s bypoll results will now help Biren Singh consolidate his position both within the party and among coalition partners by increasing his bargaining power, party insiders said.   However, worries for the Opposition Congress grew as it drew a blank.The party needs to do some serious introspection if it wants to challenge the BJP in the next Assembly polls, Congress insiders said. The Congress now has 17 MLAs, down from the 28 seats it had won in the 2017 polls. Calls to the state Congress leaders were not answered. BJP national spokesperson Mmhonlumo Kikon said, “The BJP is now firmly entrenched in Manipur and will only grow from strength to strength in the days to come. The electorate of Manipur have thoroughly rejected the Congress and this trend will even continue in the next Assembly elections.” The BJP received a boost in the run-up to the Assembly bypolls after High Court of Manipur on November 5 paved the way for BJP candidate Mayanglangbam Rameshwar, who had finished in second place in the 2017 state polls, to be sworn in as an MLA by declaring the election of Congress candidate Y. Surchandra null and void for not furnishing complete details in his election affidavit. According to Kikon, the bypoll victory was a strong expression of the faith and trust that the people have reposed in the leadership of Modi and Biren Singh and a vindication of the hold and the reach of the message of development, peace and progress of Manipur under the BJP. In neighbouring Nagaland, where bypolls were held for two seats, the ruling Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party candidate and an Independent emerged victorious from the Southern Angami-I and Pungro-Kiphire constituencies respectively. The candidate of the BJP, part of the NDPP-led coalition government, lost to the Independent nominee in Pungro-Kiphire.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-35
23-11-2020||North East||BJP-BPF ties in Assam come under strain||The alliance between the ruling BJP and the Bodoland People’s Front in Assam is tottering on the brink of collapse. The induction of two very senior BPF leaders — Biswajit Daimary and Emmanuel Moshahary — into the BJP along with the state leadership’s declaration on Sunday that the ruling party will be contesting all 12 Assembly seats falling under the Bodoland Territorial Council in next year’s state polls suggest as much. BJP and BPF insiders also said the situation can change only if the BJP performs “badly” and BPF performs “miraculously well” in the December 7 and 10 Bodoland Territorial Council polls. The two parties had joined hands before the 2016 Assembly polls, which the alliance won comfortably. Opposition Congress office-bearers say there is nothing to be surprised about the manner in which the BJP is targeting the BPF because the ruling party has a tendency to swallow /disturb smaller parties, allies or not. “The Asom Gana Parishad, the other ally in the government, too would face a tough time in the future,” one of the office-bearers said. Congress was also an ally of the BPF for around 10 years till 2015, a period during which the BPF grew in strength and the national party was almost wiped out of the Bodoland Territorial Council. Daimary was the working president while sitting MLA Moshahary was general secretary of the BPF, which has won three successive Bodoland Territorial Council polls since 2015. Daimary quit his Rajya Sabha post on Saturday. Both were inducted into the party at the chief minister’s residence here in the morning and were then accorded a grand welcome at a rally held at Tamulpur in the afternoon. The rally was attended by North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA) convener Himanta Biswa Sarma, state unit president Ranjeet Kumar Dass and national general secretary Dilip Saikia. NEDA is a forum of non-Congress parties. Sonowal said the joining of the two experienced leaders was a good sign for the BJP ahead of the polls, a sign that “ we will form the council”. The BJP is contesting the polls on its own. Dass and Sarma have publicly said they will also be contesting next year’s Assembly polls in Bodoland Territorial Council on their own. There are 12 Assembly seats in the four districts — Kokrajhar, Chirang, Baksa and Udalguri — that fall under Bodoland Territorial Council. Both Daimary and Moshahary are from Baksa district. Neither Sarma nor Dass said whether going it alone in the Assembly polls signalled the end of the alliance. Instead they  left it to the BPF to interpret. However, a senior BJP office-bearer said they have an alliance with the BPF at the government level for five years and it will end with next year’s polls. “We will not ask them to leave because they are still our allies in the government. It is up to them,” he said. BPF has 12 MLAs in the Assembly of whom three are cabinet ministers in the BJP-led state government. Daimary, 49, said he had to leave the BPF because there were “differences” with the leadership over the Bodo Accord, which BPF chief Hagrama Mohilary has not endorsed publicly despite being one of the signatories. Also, there was “no” development road map. “More BPF members will be joining the BJP in the coming days,” Daimary said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-35
23-11-2020||Opinion||Law of hate: The love jihad lie||When a lie has been promoted loudly and frequently enough, it can become material for law. That is the trajectory of the ‘love jihad’ narrative, which claims that men from India’s largest minority community lure women of the majority community into marriage in order to have them convert to Islam as part of a conspiracy to change the country’s demographic balance. The chief minister of Uttar Pradesh must be given the credit for leading other Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled states, such as Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Haryana and Assam, in the decision to promulgate a law against love jihad. Bihar is inclining that way too. Predictably, Opposition states have strongly criticized the decision in terms that emphasize its unconstitutionality, barbarity and sheer effrontery in projecting a myth as a real-life evil to be tackled by law. The chief minister of Rajasthan, Ashok Gehlot, for example, has said that love jihad is a manufactured phrase intended to divide the country and disturb communal harmony. Mr Gehlot, along with other Opposition chief ministers and leaders, has pointed to the fact that personal freedoms are guaranteed by the Constitution and that marriage is a matter of personal choice. Faith and caste are immaterial. Marriage between two consenting adults cannot be interfered with, not even with the excuse of objecting to conversion solely for the purpose of marriage. The Constitution guarantees the freedom of religion too. Opposition leaders have not only said that the proposed laws against interfaith unions in BJP-ruled states are unconstitutional — perverse and uncivilized as well — but have also underlined their inherent communal hostility. Although such laws, paradoxically, would not stand the test of constitutional legality, BJP-ruled governments would still try to use them to discriminate against and harass members of the minority community. There is another target: women. Such laws assume women’s helplessness, passivity and folly, as though constitutional guarantees do not apply to them; they do not know what is best for them. Women are being viewed here purely as vehicles of reproduction — the community’s property that it should ‘protect’ and keep ‘secure’. Laws against the lie of love jihad represent the BJP’s gendered agenda as much as its community-based one.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-113
23-11-2020||Opinion||Long road: War on climate change||Strides on the path of survival come with additional responsibility. India, reportedly the only country among the G20 nations to be on track towards fulfilling the climate change mitigation commitments it made in 2015 under the Paris pact, seems to be responding well to its climate responsibilities. According to the 2020 Climate Transparency report, India has been doing its “fair share”; actions taken by the country since 2015 make it “compatible” with the upper goal of curbing global warming by 2 degrees Celsius by the end of the century. This is an achievement, not least because countries and regions with deeper pockets and greater resources, such as the United States of America, China and the European Union — the top three polluters — are nowhere close to achieving their professed climate goals. India’s success can be attributed to, among other factors, the increase in its solar energy capacity by more than 12-fold since 2014. Pertinently, the prime minister reminded the forum of the importance of green policies at the 15th G20 summit. But the outcome of the war against climate change depends on the fate of battles on multiple fronts. Worse, in spite of its current efforts, India is still slated to fall short of the Paris agreement’s long-term goal of limiting global warming by 1.5 degrees Celsius. This shortfall could portend an environmental, social and economic Armageddon. A 2 degrees Celsius rise in temperature is expected to bring about extreme heatwaves, severe droughts, rise in sea-levels, crop failure, accentuated hunger, mass displacements, especially from coastal habitations of which there are several in India. The scale of the crisis would be far bigger for India’s mitigatory interventions to be effective. Paucity of funds, a burgeoning population and a limited inventory of greening technology make India far more vulnerable to the vagaries of an inclement climate. India’s survival strategy must thus hinge on two thrusts. First, it should invest greater energy, political and public will and its available resources in the creation of an ecological enterprise spanning every sphere of its flawed development enterprise. This would mean not only the greening of energy sources, public transport and urban planning but also harnessing agriculture and consumption to the needs of a fragile environment. It would also mean taking on the mantle of the leadership of developing economies to demand the transfer of technology and funds from affluent countries. Collaboration, not individual enterprise, is necessary to secure the future of the planet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-113
23-11-2020||Opinion||Ask first: CBI, a 'caged parrot'||Seven years ago, the Central Bureau of Investigation had earned the label of “caged parrot”, which executes the agenda of its political masters. The United Progressive Alliance sat in Delhi at the time. Little has changed since; the CBI’s activities since the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government came to power are being perceived as more ‘parrot’-like than ever. The Supreme Court has now said that the CBI cannot conduct an investigation within the jurisdiction of a state without permission from the state government. The CBI is a Central agency, created in 1963 under the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946. The court pointed to the federal principle underlying its recent ruling that had been inscribed into the rules governing the CBI at the time of its formation. The investigative agency is free to operate in Delhi and the Union territories but, being at basis Delhi special police, needs permission from the states to carry out its work within state boundaries. This is also because ‘police’ is part of the state list in the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution. Only the Supreme Court and high courts can order the CBI to operate within a state without its government’s consent. The Supreme Court’s ruling in response to a petition by certain officers from Uttar Pradesh endorses the stand taken by eight Opposition-ruled states which have withdrawn the general consent given to the CBI to operate within their jurisdictions. This option is given by Section 6 of the DPSE Act and means that the CBI must ask for the state government’s consent for each case separately: blanket permission has been withdrawn. As the earlier “caged parrot” appellation indicates, ruling Central governments have quite often used the CBI against their political opponents. The withdrawal of general consent by Opposition-ruled states, including West Bengal, not only brings this out into the open but also suggests that the CBI is being perceived as being more assiduous than usual in carrying out the ‘master’s’ orders. More ominous still is the distrust towards the Centre that these state governments feel, evidence of the divisiveness that is causing untold damage to India’s democratic edifice. The Supreme Court’s endorsement of a federal principle at this moment gains importance in this context. It is a thrust towards balance in an increasingly uneven power structure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-113
23-11-2020||Opinion||Delicate truce: Armenia and Azerbaijan||This time, the truce will last. The 2,000 Russian troops flying into Armenia and fanning out to police the ceasefire lines in Nagorno-Karabakh are being sent there for five years renewable, and neither Armenia nor Azerbaijan will challenge them. Armenia is in shock, but what remains of the Armenian enclave in western Azerbaijan would quickly be overrun if the Russian troops were not there. Azerbaijanis are jubilant about their victory, but they will abide by this ceasefire. It’s enough: about three-quarters of the Armenian-occupied territory in Azerbaijan has fallen into their hands already, or will be handed over by Armenian forces by the end of this month. Besides, the Russians would be very cross if they broke their word. Armenia won all that territory in a war that was almost inevitable after the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991. Both Armenia and Azerbaijan were ‘republics’ during the Soviet era, but the borders that Stalin had drawn for them left a significant ethnic Armenian population inside the Azerbaijan Soviet Socialist Republic. The Armenians living in the ‘Nagorno-Karabakh Autonomous Oblast (Province)’ accounted for about four-fifths of the local population. They declared their independence in 1991, and when fighting broke out between them and the Azerbaijanis, Armenia proper, also newly independent, sent troops and weapons to help them. That war ended in an Armenian victory in 1994, after Armenian troops drove all the Azerbaijanis not only out of Nagorno-Karabakh but also out of three times as much territory to the north, south and west of it. Armenia wound up with a large territory extending about 50 kilometres east from its own eastern border. The analogy with Israel’s situation immediately after the independence war in 1948-49 is irresistible. There were only 8,00,000 Jewish Israelis in former Palestine in 1949, surrounded not only by a million Palestinian Arabs but also by another 50-100 million Arabs in other countries within military reach of them. There were 3.3 million people in the Republic of Armenia in 1994, and another 1,45,000 Armenians in Nagorno-Karabakh. There were no Azerbaijani minorities left in Nagorno-Karabakh nor in the large occupied territories around it, but there were about 75 million Turkish-speaking Muslims in Azerbaijan and Turkey who saw the outcome as an outrage. However, both Armenia and Israel are supported by very large ‘connected’ diasporas: around seven million people in each case, the great majority living in relatively prosperous countries like the United States of America, France, Canada and Russia. The ceasefire lines will probably become de facto borders. All the formerly occupied territories around Nagorno-Karabakh will be repopulated by Azerbaijani refugees, including the one road linking it to Armenia proper (but Russian peace-keeping troops will hold it open). About a quarter of Nagorno-Karabakh itself was also captured by Azerbaijani forces, and will stay in their hands. Most Armenians have already fled the enclave, and only a minority are likely to return given the precarious lifeline through the Lachin corridor and the fact that Azerbaijani troops will remain within five kms of Stepanakert, the capital. Why such dramatically different outcomes? The obvious answer is that Azerbaijan is oil-rich and was spending nine times as much as Armenia on ‘defence’. But the Arab world is oil-rich too. How did Israel manage it? By mobilizing the support of its diaspora a great deal better. Immigration has grown Israel’s Jewish population from 8,00,000 to seven million since independence. In contrast, the population of the Republic of Armenia has actually fallen by a quarter-million, and there was no big influx of Armenians from overseas. As with immigrants, so also with money for defence. Why Armenia couldn’t exploit its diaspora more effectively is a mystery, but that’s the difference. The military defeat was the eventual, inevitable result of a long-running political failure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-113
23-11-2020||Opinion||Influential player||In the US the elections are as much about the media as they are about politics.  The American media’s conduct becomes a story every four years when the country elects a president, whereas  the media as an institution is never considered central to  determining election outcomes here in India, in quite the same way. The reasons have to do with how the two countries run their elections, the extent to which the media in each country becomes the news during the polling process, and the ideological leaning of  major mainstream media outlets which are more pronounced in the US than is the case here. The United States holds what has been described as a locally-run national election, fifty one separate elections in the states and Washington DC. That became evident to the rest of the world this time as it watched the fate of the two presidential candidates being decided state by state, at very different speeds of vote counting.  There is no central election commission such as ours, conducting the election and declaring seat counts in states across  the country. When the process is disaggregated,  the role of the media  in calling the election in each state (declaring the winner) and counting the totals becomes far more central, and has been so since 1848 when the Associated Press declared Zachary Taylor the president.  The New York Times  for instance published a statement this year detailing the process it would employ in calling this election.  But it is the TV networks that first break the news, state by state and then declare the president elect. Which is why there was so much focus on Fox News, still controlled by Rupert Murdoch after his company’s sale of stake  to Disney, and run by a high-powered Republican lawyer.   Fox News was to Donald Trump what Zee News is to Narendra Modi. A committed network, to put it mildly. In a closely-fought election there was expected to be pressure on Fox to call the election for the Republican candidate. Fox News was a cheerleader for the  Trump Presidency for pretty much  its entire tenure.  And when it decided to suddenly turn professional and let him down, it became one of the big stories of these elections.  Apart from giving Donald Trump the idea for he could do next: launch a competitor to Fox! As for the media writing about its own conduct in an election year, there is no self imposed bar in the profession of the kind seen in India until digital media came along.  It is a beat, and there was lively reporting  ahead of election day on how the “decision desk” at Fox was being set up. The New York Times profiled  the man in charge, Arnon Mishkin,  a registered Democrat who had to ensure that the network’s inherent bias would not distort its reporting of the outcomes in each state.  And that Fox News would not succumb to pressure from the White House to call the election for Trump before all the votes were counted. In the event, the opposite happened, with the network incurring the Trump campaign’s wrath by calling Arizona, a key battleground state,  for Joe Biden with just 73 per cent of the votes counted, and declining White House  calls to retract.  A week later a Fox News anchor added insult to injury by cutting away from a press conference by the White House press secretary as she accused the Democrats of voter fraud and illegal voting.  The anchor said he could not continue showing that until she brought evidence. The media became the story in a big way because what it did mattered even more during a narrow contest conducted in the midst of a pandemic. And because of a healthy tradition of self-criticism that stretches to   journalists critiquing  their own outlets for bias. News network NBC was roundly criticized including by its own staff and talent when it scheduled a town hall with President Trump to clash with an earlier scheduled town hall with candidate Biden on rival network ABC.  Same day, same time.  This was right after  the President withdrew from the second debate.  NBC was accused of either trying to grab ratings or curry favour with the Republicans. And at  the New York Times it has been a year of taking frequent criticism from its staff. A newsroom feedback channel was created in June after the paper carried an op-ed by a Republican senator arguing for calling out the military to quell the unrest following the killing of George Floyd. Many staffers used the feedback channel to denounce the decision to carry the op-ed. Others have asked why the opinion pages could not carry opinions that go against the grain for those who work at the paper. In July an opinion page editor resigned, calling out the paper’s excessive liberal bias, and noting that the 2016 election outcome should have made the NYT realize that it was out of touch with many Americans. Books have been written about how media bias shapes election narratives in the US. When broadcast journalist Bernard Goldberg published his 2009 critique of how hard the liberal press worked to get Barack Obama elected in 2008,  he called it “A Slobbering Love Affair.”  And described how the liberal press made it their mission to give America its first Black president. The third reason why the media becomes a player in every election is because news source choices reflect political polarisation.  A Pew Research Center study found that when it comes to getting news about politics and government, liberals and conservatives inhabit different worlds.  People prefer an echo chamber that tells them what they want to hear.  Consistent liberals went to CNN, MSNBC, NPR and NYT. Consistent conservatives clustered around Fox News. With Fox News having let down the President--as many viewers saw it--they are now turning to another conservative channel called Newsmax television which gives them the kind of news they tune it for, according to Goldberg  writing in thehill.com. Until late last week this channel had still not called Biden the winner of the election.  And it   saw a ratings boost of 183 percent around the election as President Trump encouraged viewers to defect from Fox News. The author is a media commentator and was the founder-editor of TheHoot.org||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-113
23-11-2020||Jharkhand||Forest department instructs NHAI to replant peepal tree in Koderma||A peepal tree uprooted in Jhumri in Koderma for the widening of Barhi (Hazaribagh)-Koderma four-lane project, have to be replanted again. The transplant order came after the tree showed signs of life with new leaves. After felling, this tree was kept on the roadside and as new leaves came, well-known environmentalist of the area, Indrajeet Samanta drew the attention of the forest department officials to this development demanding transplantation of it. Due to Samanta, the forest department had issued an instruction to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) asking them to transplant the tree soon. In the state, several thousand trees are axed for road widening project forced Samanta to file a PIL in the Jharkhand High Court in this regard. Due to the court's order, the forest department had constituted a high power committee to take immediate decisions on such issues. In the Barhi-Koderma four-lane project, out of 3518 trees, this committee asked to transplant 1727 trees. About this peepal tree, it was axed down near Jhumri village making Samanta send an email to the forest department on November 8 telling that this tree looks healthy and despite the fact that it was uprooted and kept roadside, new leaves are coming. On November 10, officials passed instructions to NHAI to transplant this tree to save it. NHAI sources said all processes are completed and the tree will be transplanted soon. Divisional forest officer of Koderma, Suraj Kumar Singh said on the initiative of Samanta, this instruction was passed to save the peepal tree through immediate transplantation. He urged others also to remain alert on environmental issues. The 27.5 km long Barhi-Koderma project is to be constructed from Rs 276 crore on which work has already started. The construction company that got the contract was given the deadline of August 2021. Company officials said it was not possible to complete the work within the given deadline as there was trouble in land acquisition of 17 km stretch due to villagers protest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-227
23-11-2020||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur to slap fines for not wearing mask||The East Singhbhum district administration launched a massive mask-checking drive on Monday amid apprehensions of a second wave of coronavirus infections post the festival season. Led by an executive magistrate, policemen were on the job at various points at Sakchi, Bistupur and other places. Though Covid-19 cases have come down significantly in East Singhbhum, the district administration does not want to take chances. Checkpoints have been set-up in as many as 10 places at Sakchi, Bistupur, Golmuri, Sonari, Kadma, Jugsalai, Agrico and Parsudih. The checkpoint on Dobo-Kanderbera Road that connects the newly constructed bridge over river Subernarekha at Sonari was set-up to keep a tab on visitors and residents returning home after Chhath. On Monday, several people, mostly youngsters who were caught at various checkpoints for not wearing masks, were released with a warning. But, from Tuesday, violators would be fined for not wearing masks as per provisions of the Disaster Management Act. Thermal scanning of passengers also resumed at Tatanagar railway station. The district health department also resumed rapid antigen tests of passengers arriving at Tatanagar railway station from various places especially those who had gone to Bihar during Chhath. Dhalbhum SDO Nitish Kumar Singh said prevention was the only cure for Covid-19 as of now. “Everyone should wear masks while moving around in public places to prevent transmission of the virus,” he added. On Sunday evening a team of officials carried out surprise checks at several shopping centres in Sakchi. Many people were caught without masks. Shops that were violating social distancing norms were served show cause notices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-227
23-11-2020||Jharkhand||Tata hospital launches video consultation, home delivery of medicine||Tata Main Hospital (TMH) launched two key services on Monday, namely, online video consultation and home delivery of medicines for residents of the steel city. The new services were inaugurated online by Tata Steel vice- president (corporate services) Chanakya Chaudhary and president of Tata Workers' Union R. Ravi Prasad. Among those who had logged in were Dr Rajan Chaudhry, advisor Medical Services, Dr Sudhir Rai, GM Medical Services, senior executives of Tata Steel, senior doctors of TMH and union office-bearers. The online video consultation service would allow patients to consult doctors from the comfort of their home or office and eliminate the need for travel to the hospital. It would help for repeat consultation, revaluation and follow-up. The online video consultation is a paid facility for all. Rates would range between Rs 400 and Rs 750, depending on the specialists or super specialists sought. The facility can only be booked through the TMH Vishwas portal after online payment. Patients would receive video links on their email addresses. Initially, 14 super-speciality doctors will be available for video consultation. The video consultation slots will be in addition to their regular OPD commitments. As for home delivery of medicines, patients will need to place requests through the TMH Vishwas portal (available on Play Store or through the TMH website www.tatamainhospital.com). A charge of Rs130 will be levied for each delivery. Chanakya Chaudhary said the new services would greatly benefit patients, especially senior citizens, who could now consult the doctors through video consultation and subsequently get prescribed medicines home delivered. R. Ravi Prasad congratulated the Medical Services and the One IT teams for developing and delivering solutions based on patient’s expectations. Dr. Sudhir Rai said Medical Services would continue to leverage technology to improve its services and focus on patient's convenience and patient-centric care.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-227
23-11-2020||Jharkhand||On-spot Covid tests for those without mask in public||Ranchi district administration is planning to roll out a special drive against those who do not wear masks while moving around in public by making it mandatory for them to undertake an immediate Covid test. As a part of the administration’s strategy to curb the spread of the coronavirus amid fears of a possible second wave, deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said mask-checking drives drive would be launched in a day or two. “Officials have been asked to form teams to tour different places,” Ranjan said, adding that violators would be made to undergo Covid tests at two static centres. “These centres are coming up at Sainik Bazar and the GEL Church Complex. We are also working out plans to roll out another round of mass testing,” he added. Last week, fearing a resurgence of coronavirus infections post-Chhath, the state health department asked all 24 districts to be adequately equipped with beds, sufficient stocks of medicines and testing kits for early detection. On Monday, Ranjan held a meeting with various Covid combat teams to assess the ground situation. With the recent unlocking of businesses and the transport sector, streets are once again abuzz with people with many violating basic Covid safety norms. Ranjan said, “Beds aren’t an issue at the moment as RIMS and other Covid care centres are vacant and in case of a spike, we have back-up plans. The civil surgeon has been asked to evaluate other medical requirements on priority so that required facilities are kept ready.” An official of the district health department, unwilling to be named added, “Tentatively, we are aiming to roll out mega testing drives at transit points like railway stations, bus stands and gateways into Ranchi district. Many people are travelling between Jharkhand and Bihar and other states.” Ranchi currently has 843 active Covid cases among the total 27,322 it recorded since the outbreak of the virus. There are 2,013 notified containment zones in the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-228
23-11-2020||Jharkhand||Soft coke industry owners protest, seek to restart business||A delegation of 18 soft coke industry owners of Nirsa area of Dhanbad led by former Nirsa MLA, Arup Chatterjee met the Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh on Monday. They sought the deputy commissioner’s intervention for relaunching of their units, lying closed for more than eight months. The industry owners claimed that the local police at Nirsa is not allowing them to operate their respective units and also threatens them. The police also implicated one factory owner in a false case when he tried to relaunch his unit. Notably, soft coke is primarily used in hotels, restaurants for cooking purposes in ovens. Talking to The Telegraph Online after meeting with the deputy commissioner, Chatterjee said, “The DC after meeting us expressed surprise over the restriction of permission for operating the factories and instructed the Additional District Magistrate (Law and Order) Chandan Kumar to conduct an inquiry into the issue and take appropriate action, accordingly.” “Even as the government has allowed the opening of all industrial units from April 20 without making any distinction on the types of industry but the local police at Nirsa led by officer-in-charge of Nirsa police station, Subhash Kumar is preventing the opening of soft coke industry owners from opening their units,” informed Kumar. Echoing sentiments, Prem Singh, one of the soft coke industry owners, who was part of the delegation, said, “We have never faced such a situation of a financial crisis during the last 20 years as all our raw materials are lying locked in our units and money rotation is not taking place due to closure of the unit.” “Despite the closure, we are compelled to pay bank loan, EMIs, fixed charges of electricity, labour payments, etc. further affecting our situation,” said Singh and added that though some of the industries started operation after April 20, they were later forcibly closed by the police. “The police also charge us of using stolen coal as raw materials in our units but the fact remains that we purchased the coal from the coal company, BCCL and CIL by participating in the auction,” charged another factory owner and added that if the situation continues they will have no option other than to completely close down the industries. “The permanent closure of industries will affect the future of around 200 workers working with us,” said a factory owner and added that they also had a telephonic talk with the ADM (Law and Order) Chandan Kumar following the meeting with the DC Uma Shankar Singh who assured to sort out the issue within a week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-228
23-11-2020||Jharkhand||Congress MLA Bandhu Tirkey asks CM to order special land survey||Mandar MLA Bandhu Tirkey, who belongs to the ruling coalition led by JMM, has alleged that poor land owners and farmers were being duped of their property by unscrupulous government officials and asked chief minister Hemant Soren to order a special survey to publish land records of both private and public owners. Addressing the media on Monday, Tirkey said, “I am coming across several cases of illegal registration of land, mutation on a daily basis. Poor farmers are facing the brunt as they are uneducated and land sharks in connivance with officials of circle office where registration and mutation takes place resort to illegal acts. In the event of litigation, poor people can’t afford to fight court cases.” Tirkey, who is in the Congress, has been raising the issue of land disputes for quite some time. “This government came to power on the plank of safeguarding jal (water), jungle (forest) and jameen (land) of poor tribals. Hence, I demand that the government publish land records (khatiyan),” he said. “In many cases the situation is such that the same piece of land is registered/mutated under multiple names leading to litigation. Those working in circle offices are hand in glove with land sharks. When the matter reaches courts, those who have money fight it out while the poor fail to defend themselves,” he said, demanding that the state government set up a redressal cell offering a one-stop solution. Tirkey won from Mandar on a JVM-P ticket in the 2019 Assembly polls in December. But he joined the Congress early this year after Babulal Marandi merged his party (JVM-P) with the BJP. Both are currently facing anti-defection cases in the court of the Jharkhand Assembly speaker and the matter is sub judice. Tirkey, despite being in the ruling Congress, has been vocal on the issue of land. In September, he was the first to speak out against the controversial Jharkhand Land Mutation Bill, 2020 after it was cleared by the state Cabinet. Ultimately, the bill wasn’t tabled in the Assembly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-228
23-11-2020||Jharkhand||Cops nab notorious criminal with loaded pistol at Dhatkidih||Acting on a tip-off, police arrested a 28-year-old notorious criminal with a sophisticated loaded pistol near Radio Maidan in Dhatkidih under Bistupur Thana area on Monday midnight. The arrested person was identified as Mohammed Jaheed and has criminal records. He was working as an air-conditioner mechanic before resuming criminal activity recently. Revealing about the breakthrough, officer-in-charge, Bistupur Thana, Ranvijay Sharma said at around 11.30 pm on Sunday, they got a tip-off that two criminals were waiting to commit some crime at Dhatkidih by sitting at a convenient corner of Radio Maidan in Dhatkidih. "Having got the information, we immediately set up a team of police officials to the spot. Led by sub-inspector Pradeep Oraon, the team succeeded in detecting the two criminals and surrounded the place where the duo was sitting. But at the sight of the approaching police party, one of them succeeded to flee through a narrow lane, whereas the other one was caught," said Sharma while talking to The Telegraph Online. He said, on checking, the police found a 7.65 MM loaded pistol from the possession of Jaheed. "On being asked, Jaheed, who is also a resident of Dhatkidih, did not reveal exactly for whom they were waiting with a loaded pistol. The criminal, however, divulged the name and whereabouts of his associate who managed to escape. We could know about the criminal's background during his interrogation on Monday," said the OC. The OC said the one who managed to escape is a resident of Dhatkidih, but presently he has taken shelter at the house of one of his acquaintances in Mango. He informed them that they are trying to arrest the one who fled and have carried out raids at his house on Monday morning. During interrogation, the accused has also revealed the name and whereabouts of the person who had supplied the pistol for taking to criminal activities. "Earlier, Jaheed was arrested in vehicle theft and assault cases registered with the Bistupur and Kadma Thana area a few years ago. After he was released from jail a year ago, he had taken to the profession of mending air-conditioners by visiting people's houses. But as the earning from the job as an AC repairer was not a lucrative one, he decided to return to his ‘old profession’ in a modified way. He did, therefore, buy a sophisticated pistol and a magazine from an arms supplier by paying Rs 27,000," informed Sharma. The police officer said they are more inclined to know about the arms-supplier and having known his name and address, the police team has also started raiding his house located in Mango locality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-228
23-11-2020||Jharkhand||BAU starts cultivation of ‘superfood’ avocado||The horticulture department of Birsa Agriculture University (BAU) in Ranchi has started research on the feasibility of growing avocados – a fruit that has gained the tag of “superfood” owing to its nutritional properties – in Jharkhand and planted seeds on the university campus in Kanke. Dr K.K. Jha, the chairman of BAU’s horticulture department, said that the climatic condition and soil quality in Jharkhand were conducive for growing avocados, but largescale cultivation of the fruit was never done in the state due to lack of research on its feasibility and financial viability. “We have planted avocado seeds here in the university campus this month. It will take around three to four years for the plants to bear fruit,” said Jha. “However, I am sure that the quality of the final yield will be satisfactory as we tick all the boxes when it comes to having favourable conditions for growing avocados,” he added. Avocados are a great source of vitamin C, vitamin E, vitamin K and B-6. They are also rich in riboflavin, niacin, folate, pantothenic acid, magnesium, and potassium. Besides, the Omega 3 fatty acids in the fruit is said to aid weight loss and improve cardiovascular health, say doctors. The fruit has become a staple of health-conscious fitness enthusiasts across the globe and is also consumed regularly by working professionals in urban India for its mood-lifting qualities, particularly useful for people suffering from depression. Researchers from BAU claim that avocados would also generate revenue for the cultivators due to its high demand in the market. According to fruit retailers in Ranchi, one kilogram of avocado was sold at the price of Rs 1,200 here, but the price varied depending on the season and demand. “Financial gains can be measured only when we start largescale cultivation of the fruit. Once this research shows positive results, we will start imparting training to farmers and then they may start cultivation of avocados in their respective villages,” said Dr Jha. Lately, he added, BAU was focussing particularly on healthy fruits owing to the growing demand of mineral and vitamin-rich fruits among health conscious people of the country. “We have also started cultivation of dragon fruit, and that project too is going pretty well,” said Jha. Jha, who is set to retire on March 31 next year, said a diverse variety of fruits can grow in Jharkhand and help farmers cater to the national and even global market. “Except apples, we can grow every fruit in the world here in Jharkhand. It would only require proper research and dedicated efforts,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-228
23-11-2020||Jharkhand||XLRI launches theme of much-awaited annual festival||Ensemble Valhalla, the annual cultural, sports, and management festival of XLRI, organised its theme launch event, IGNITO, over two days from November 20. The fest is usually held in November every year. But this year, due to the pandemic, the fest will be organised sometime in early 2021, said Abhishek Kapoor, a member of the organising committee. The theme launch event witnessed enthusiastic participation from students, faculty, and staff members. This year’s theme is “Escapade – A New Journey Awaits”, encouraging people to beat the monotony of life and daringly take off on a journey of adventure and thrill. The event commenced with a musical night by Bhuwin Khursija, a professional singer. Over 550 budding managers participated. Dean of Academics Ashis K Pani was also there. This was followed by First Impressions, the event designed to facilitate batch interaction and communication. The second day began with an event conducted to enhance batch unity and competitiveness. All the sections collectively solved a crossword based on life in XLRI. The next was team event Dare2Compete. Here, all the student committees organised different activities. The event concluded with a surprise round, where winners were chosen through voting by all the students. Ensemble, the largest management fest in the country, and Valhalla, the extravagant celebration of sports and culture at XLRI, were merged in the year 2017. Ensemble has a legacy of 20 years and has been constantly delivering great events year on year. In the past, it hosted eminent speakers like legendary cricketer Syed Kirmani, India’s first woman commando trainer Seema Rao and Supreme Court lawyer Ramakant Gaur. Valhalla, on the other hand, has been a testing ground for the sports enthusiasts and talented artists from the best colleges of the country. It used to be the year’s most awaited event for the residents of Jamshedpur. The popular 10km Jamshedpur run with participations from schools, colleges and corporates has been a unifying event for the steel city. XLRI’s flagship event, Ensemble- Valhalla, has witnessed participations from top B-schools from across the country and performances by renowned artists like Lucky Ali, Nikhil D’Souza, Vipul Gotal, Sourabh Pant and Zakir Khan. The combined fest is expected to be a grand celebration of spirit and character encompassing the values of excellence and integrity of India’s oldest business management school.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-228
23-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad retail market banks on  wedding dates||With more than 5,000 marriages scheduled in Dhanbad during the upcoming lagan season of November-December, the market has revived for the first time this year in full swing after being badly hit due to lockdown during March this year. The sale of garments, metal utensils, jewellery, cosmetics, grocery items, etc. has increased significantly since Diwali and further picked up post-Diwali. The boom in the market can be assumed from fact that the sale of footwear which was the worst hit during the lockdown, partially due to the closure of schools has also revived for the first time. The happiest lots among all are over 500 decorators, tent house owners, caterers, band operators, florists, etc. as they are expecting to compensate for the huge loss suffered during the last eight months. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Monday, Rajesh Kumar Gupta, patron of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said, “The market has already revived to a great extent since Diwali and we are expecting it to further improve with the beginning of the marriage season beginning from November 25 and scheduled up to December 15.” “We are slightly apprehensive about the Covid-19 situation. Therefore we are making a regular appeal to all the shopkeepers and customers to avoid the heavy rush and follow the social distancing norms as the market is not likely to sustain another jolt,” said Gupta. Md Sohrab, President of Purana Bazar Chamber of Commerce said, “The readymade garment sellers were  disappointed over the dull market season during Durga Puja but the lagan season boom in the market is expected to compensate for all the loss.” “The jewellery market has also witnessed an upswing since Diwali and similar is the situation for cosmetics and other items required during marriage season besides garments,” said Sohrab. Pradeep Singh, President of Dhanbad Zila Decorator Association, said, “As very few marriages were solemnized during the previous lagan season of June-July, around 5,000 marriages are scheduled during the nine lagan dates scheduled between November 25 and December 15 this year in Dhanbad.” “We have instructed all our association members to strictly abide by the Covid-19 norms during the functions and will be erecting open pandals as per government instructions,” said Singh and added that they are very thankful for the government which permitted the assembly of 200 persons during marriages. “Marriage function organizers will also be requested to obtain the necessary permission for organizing the functions, as permission of Sub Divisional officer is mandatory for holding marriage-related parties and functions,” said Singh. Manish Kumar, operator of Sri Durga Band said, “As the musical instruments were not allowed due to the government’s restricted permission for marriage functions during the lagan season of June-July, so we will be getting the first opportunity to perform during the upcoming lagan season beginning from November 25.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-228
23-11-2020||Jharkhand||Covid-19 claims five more lives, toll jumps above 950||The Covid-19 toll in Jharkhand jumped above 950 on Sunday as the state reported at least five more casualties in the past 24 hours, taking the count of Covid-19 fatalities occurring in the past 48 hours to almost a dozen in the state, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. At least two Covid patients died during treatment in Ranchi, while Bokaro, Dhanbad and Hazaribag reported one casualty each on the day, stated a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Sunday evening. As many as six Covid-19 patients died in Jharkhand on Saturday. So far, East Singhbhum has reported 350 of the 951 Covid fatalities, the highest in the state. Ranchi, on the other hand, has lost 191 people to Covid-19 virus. As per government data, at least eight districts in the state did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection on Sunday, while 13 districts reported a single-digit-spike in Covid cases. Ranchi, which reported 77 fresh cases, was the highest contributor to the Covid caseload in Jharkhand on Sunday. The government on Sunday tested the swab samples of only 10,492 people and 137 of them were found Covid-positive, stated the NHM bulletin. However, as many as 272 patients overcame the infection on Sunday, taking the Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand up at 96.98 per cent. Ranchi also reported 129 recoveries, the highest among all the 24 districts in Jharkhand. East Singhbhum reported only five fresh cases against 36 recoveries, while Dhanbad reported zero fresh cases and zero recoveries on the day. At least seven cases surfaced in Bokaro and 10 patients recovered there. The number of active cases of Covid-19 infection has dropped significantly in the past week. On Saturday, there were 2,289 active cases of infection in Jharkhand and at least 850 of them were in Ranchi. Government figures indicate that Ranchi and East Singhbhum account for more than 50 per cent of active cases in Jharkhand. At least 305 people were battling the virus in Ranchi on Sunday. The intensity of sample collection for Covid-19 test has also reduced in Jharkhand lately. On Sunday, health workers collected swab samples of only 8.014 people, which is lower than the average number of tests conducted daily in the past month. The government has so far collected swab samples of 39.24 lakh people and tested around 39.08 lakh of them. As many as 1,07,469 people have been found infected by the virus so far and 1,04,229 of them have recovered, highlights government data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-228
23-11-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi’s HEC set to bag plant order at Magadh opencast project||Heavy Engineering Corporation (HEC), which is based in Ranchi, is all set to bag the work order for a coal handling plant (CHP) at Magadh opencast project of Central Coalfields Ltd (CCL), that is also headquartered in the Jharkhand capital. HEC was found to be the lowest bidder at Rs 527.11 crore when the price bids for the plant were opened on Thursday. HEC director (marketing and production), Rana S. Chakravarty, said the plant would be of 20 MTPA (million tonne per annum) capacity. Chakravarty said his company would be involved in the Magadh plant’s “planning, design, engineering, construction, fabrication, erection, trial run and commissioning, besides its maintenance for five years”. “Magadh CHP of the CCL will actually be the third such order for the HEC in the current financial year (2020-21) and that’s certainly encouraging during this pandemic situation,” Chakravarty told The Telegraph. Earlier in 2020-21, HEC had bagged two more orders for construction of coal handling plants, he said. The first order was for a plant of Northern Coalfields Limited (NCL) at Rs 167.45 crore, while the second one was for a plant of South Eastern Coalfields Limited at Rs 615 crore, Chakravarty added. HEC is currently executing another coal handling plant of NCL and also the Meghahataburu project for installation of a crushing system (of Steel Authority of India Limited’s material handling division) and both are nearly complete, the official said. HEC has already executed coal and ore handling plants of upto 10 MTPA capacity for different subsidiaries of Coal India and SAIL, Chakravarty said. He claimed that HEC had been working in the mineral beneficiation sector for the past several years and is known for its competence for undertaking commissioning of bulk material handling plants for coal and ore on turnkey basis. Asked about the company’s order book position, Chakravarty said, “As on date, HEC has orders in hand worth over Rs 1,800 crore. It will go up further by 527.11 crore once the work order for the CCL coal handling plant is received.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-228
