24-11-2020||Calcutta||NGT seeks Covid waste report from Bengal govt||The National Green Tribunal on Monday directed the Bengal government to submit a status report on Covid medical waste management, said environment activist Subhas Datta, the petitioner in the case. The bench of Justice S.P. Wangdi and expert member Saibal Dasgupta also directed the state pollution control board to submit the report of an expert committee set up by the board to suggest ways to manage Covid waste. “We have asked the department concerned to prepare the report,” said a lawyer representing the state. An official of the pollution control board said they would hand over the report of the expert committee to the tribunal, as told. Covid waste, which can contain traces of the coronavirus, is at times disposed of indiscriminately by patients quarantined at home or their families, posing a risk to public health, warned public health experts. “Pavement dwellers often come in contact with such waste,” said Arunava Majumder, a scientist who has retired from the All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-228
24-11-2020||Calcutta||Headmaster raises awareness against child trafficking in South 24-Parganas||A school headmaster has been visiting homes in 30 villages in South 24-Parganas during the pandemic to raise awareness about child trafficking. Chandan Maity, the headmaster of Krishnachandrapur High School in Mathurapur, has been speaking to teenagers, many of who might have dropped out of school. He tells them about the consequences of eloping with someone in exchange for a smartphone or a few thousand rupees and the promise of an elusive bright future. The teacher has helped rescue girls in the area from 2003. The numbers have gone down over the years, he said. “But there’s been a rise in child trafficking during the pandemic. In the past three weeks (with the help of police and the local administration), we have rescued 12 girls.” Most of these girls are aged between 14 and 16, he said. At times parents are unaware, and on some occasions they turn a blind eye because the pandemic has taken away their source of income and they have little to feed all members. Most of the men are fishermen or those who collect honey in the Sunderbans. The women work as maids in the city. But the suspension of suburban train services for months has left them without any livelihood. Maity said the challenges had gone up during the pandemic. “Before the pandemic many families would marry off their daughters because of poverty. But when I came to know of it I would bring these girls to the hostel, arrange sponsorship for them and let them complete their studies. But this is not possible during the pandemic as I cannot let them stay in the hostels.” He said he visited families and spoke to them about their problems and told them how dangerous trafficking or child marriage could be. “There are some instances where the damage has already been done. But if I visit homes of others and spread awareness in the neighbourhood it alerts people and sensitises them to prevent more such instances.” Since Maity heads a school, he knows the pandemic has forced many to forego studies and that it has been affecting young minds. “Earlier, they would be in school for five to six hours; now, they are completely detached from studies. Many do not have a smartphone to attend classes online or access videos sent by teachers.” Traffickers use smartphones to trap girls, he said. “Traffickers befriend them, gift them cheap smartphones and maintain contact with them. Since some girls have bank accounts for the government’s Kanyashree scheme or for scholarships, traffickers transfer one or two thousand rupees to their accounts. They don’t even get Rs 50 from their parents now; so, they get fall in the trap easily.” Maity tells mothers of girls to keep tabs on the phones their daughters use. “We tell them they should enquire where their daughters have got phones from and track their conversations or movements.” Saji Philip, the director of operations of NGO International Justice Mission, said interviewing survivors in Calcutta in 2016, the NGO had found that the false promise of marriage or job had been used to traffick children in 35 per cent of the cases. “In my visit to some of these villages (where the headmaster has been taking the lead) I found students could not attend online classes for want of smartphones. That has left them frustrated,” Philip said. “Families are so vulnerable… when there is promise of a job or the prospect of sending back money home every month they get lured. They are unable to see beyond a point… so, an awareness campaign gives them knowledge.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-229
24-11-2020||Calcutta||Pipe leak floods RG Kar campus, nearby areas||Parts of the RG Kar hospital campus were waterlogged from Monday morning till afternoon and its immediate surroundings have been inundated since Sunday morning following a breach in a water pipe of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. The repair of the pipe has been scheduled for Saturday. “Water supply from the Tallah tank to the entire north and central Calcutta and portions of south Calcutta and southern suburbs will be stopped at 9.30am on Saturday to facilitate the repair. The supply will resume on Sunday,” a civic engineer said. Patients and doctors at the RG Kar Medical College and Hospital, and residents in the surrounding areas, had to wade through ankle-deep water. “The low-lying areas on the campus went under water. These include the stretches in front of the gynaecology ward and the administrative block,” said an official of the hospital. A doctor said the stretches near the canteen and the anatomy building were waterlogged, too. Pumps operated by the civic body could drain out water from the RG Kar campus in the afternoon, but the surrounding areas were still flooded. Tarun Saha, the coordinator of borough I of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC), which includes the area where RG Kar hospital is located, said the breach was noticed around 4am on Sunday. “We received information about the breach by 4.30am. Our team started work around 7am,” he said. “Water is gushing out through the leak. We have deployed pumps to drain out the water, but the pumps cannot be operated round the clock. Whenever we are switching off the pumps to give them some respite, water is again accumulating,” said Saha. A resident of Nilmoni Mitra Row, behind RG Kar hospital, said Sarkar Bagan and the area near Tallah railway station had been under ankle-deep water since Sunday. An official of the civic body said a breach in a 60-inch-diameter pipe under Nilmoni Mitra Row had resulted in the waterlogging. The pipe, known as the Tallah-Auckland Square transmission main, supplies water from the Tallah reservoir to various booster pumping stations in the city, via the Auckland Square booster pumping station near Park Street. Repairs could not be undertaken immediately because CMC engineers suspect the leak had developed about 25ft below the road. “There is a pit, where the breach happened. The pit has to be cleared of all accumulated water before repairs can begin,” said an engineer. “We have to stop supply from the reservoir and empty the transmission line on both sides of the point of the leak. Otherwise, water from both sides will rush towards the point, which is at a lower altitude. Creating various points through which the line will be emptied will take some time. So, we have scheduled the repair for Saturday,” the engineer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-229
24-11-2020||Calcutta||Beleghata man arrested for online fraud involving Covid gear||A man from Beleghata has been arrested for allegedly running a racket that would take pre-paid orders for gloves, sanitisers and face shields on a website and never deliver them, police said. The website would allegedly lure customers by promising them home delivery of the products at huge discounts. Pratik Bag was arrested on the basis of a complaint lodged with Bidhannagar North police station several days back, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. “Two other members of the racket had been arrested earlier. Their statements led us to Bag,” the officer said. The police said more than 100 people had been duped. “The men had opened a website that promised to sell a variety of products considered essential amid the Covid pandemic such as gloves, masks and hand sanitisers. The site claimed that these items were on sale at a huge discount,” the officer said. “The customers were asked to pay online through various modules, including e-wallet and Netbanking.” To make the website seem genuine, the men had put up a cellphone number where people could call after placing orders. “As soon as one paid for the order, the men would block the number of the customer and never get in touch with him or her, let alone delivering the goods,” the officer said. Another officer said the men had been running the racket for at least three months. Bag has been charged under various IPC sections including 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust), among others. If convicted, he can be jailed for seven years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-229
24-11-2020||Calcutta||Mahadevi Birla World Academy students read out to juniors||A student in Class I at a city school reads out to those in Nursery and Kindergarten, while another in Class V reads out to the children in Classes III and IV. Teachers keep telling children to read but when they see “one among them” doing so, it generates an interest in them to read and makes the one who is reading feel “empowered”. Mahadevi Birla World Academy has started the system for the children in the pre-primary and primary sections, which is also giving the children a platform — online — to engage at a time when the Covid pandemic has put paid to all stage activities. On Monday, a Class I student read out a story to the children in nursery. The girl, Iyana Biswas, also used props to tell her story. The school every December devotes a day to a “reading partnership programme”, as part of which parents are invited to the campus to read with their children. “This year we had to do something online but we wanted to do something that would generate and sustain the interest of the children. If they see one of their friends reading out to them, instead of an adult or a teacher, it will create an interest in them to read,” said Nupur Ghosh, the vice-principal of Mahadevi Birla World Academy. The school is calling the new activity “By the children, for the children”. “The child who is facing the class also feels more empowered and confident,” said Ghosh. The absence of physical classes have forced schools to alter the ways in which they would operate. The library classes, where children would be forced to flip through books, are no longer there. “It is not that students are not reading at all, but the idea of reading books is becoming rare,” said Ghosh. “If we tell them to find out about something, for example how to make a video, they are reading about it. But reading books have been replaced by reading online or reading PDFs. On some occasions, the library teacher finds it difficult to arrest the attention of the students online,” said Ghosh. “Now all the activities are online…. The environment a student is exposed to during the library period cannot be replicated when they are attending the same class from home,” said Ghosh. Problems with internet connectivity and background noise often disturb the ambience, she said. On-stage activities that help children shed their inhibitions are off because of the pandemic, a teacher of the school said. “CBSE wants us to engage all children in activities, which was easier in the physical mode. Now we have to come up with activities that would involve more and more students,” the teacher said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-229
24-11-2020||Calcutta||Coldest day but not for long||Monday was the coldest day so far this season, with the mercury dipping to 15.5 degrees, three notches below normal. On Saturday, the minimum temperature was 22 degrees, three notches above normal. The Met office attributed the sharp plunge to free flow of the cold and dry north-westerly winds into the city. Early risers and morning walkers felt the bite of the winds. Many of them were wrapped in an added layer of protection. A cover of fog made way for a clear sky and sunshine greeted Calcuttans throughout the day but the wind was persistent. Out came the hoodies and shrugs at many places in the city. “My alarm went off at 5.30am. But I did not feel like leaving the bed, it was so cold,” said Supratik Sarkar, 29, a Southern Avenue resident and a regular runner at Vivekananda Park. Met officials said the chance of the mercury dipping below 15 degrees was unlikely over the next few days. In fact, the temperature may start rising again from Thursday, they said. A depression on the Bay of Bengal is tipped to intensify into a cyclone (it will be called Nivar, named by Iran), and hit Tamil Nadu coast on Wednesday. On Monday afternoon, the system was over 600km south-southeast of Chennai, said the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD). Chennai and other coastal areas in Tamil Nadu are on high alert. Calcutta is too far from the system to feel its fury, but it will rob the city of its chill for a couple of days, said a Met official. “The minimum temperature in Calcutta is likely to remain between 15 and 16 degrees for the next two days. But from Thursday, moisture-laden easterly winds will enter the city and lead to some cloud formation. As a result, the temperature is expected to go up,” said G.K. Das, the director, IMD, Calcutta. Moisture-laden winds stall the free flow of the cold and dry winds from north India and trigger a rise in temperature. But the rise in temperature will not be long lasting. Once the moisture is gone and the sky is clear, the mercury will slide again, said Das. The Celsius is in free fall in the upper reaches of India. The temperature plummeted to minus 3 degrees Celsius in Srinagar on Sunday night, making it the coldest night of the season so far. Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 6.3 degrees on Monday, also the coldest this season. The cold winds are making their presence felt in Calcutta as well and Calcuttans are making the most of their favourite time of the year even amid the Covid pandemic. The Alipore zoo was reasonably busy for a Monday amid a raging pandemic. Many people soaked the winter sun on the Maidan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-229
24-11-2020||Calcutta||IIEST head appeals to Centre for hostel funds||The IIEST director has appealed to the Union education ministry for immediate sanction of funds for building hostels on the Shibpur campus, where the authorities struggle to accommodate students. Parthasarathi Chakrabarti, the director, said he had made the appeal at a meeting of the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology’s (IIEST) board of governors on November 18. Members of the board include representatives of the education ministry. The statute of the 164-year-old institute states that all students would have to be provided with accommodation. But the hostels on the campus now have space for only half the students. Lack of space forces many students to look for private accommodation outside the campus. An official of the IIEST said they missed out on a good number of bright students, because the absence of adequate hostel space forced them to opt for other institutes. “Everybody will not be willing to pay through his or her nose for a PG accommodation arranged through brokers. Besides, many want to stay on the campus because they need to visit the library and labs frequently,” he said. Another official said that once the campus reopened after the Covid-induced shutdown, they would not be able to put up more than one student in a room. “That situation will land us in trouble. The accommodation may drop to 30 per cent from the existing 50 per cent,” he said. The intake capacity of the institute for BTech, MTech and PhD courses together stands at 4,000. The board of governors, the highest decision-making body of the institute, had in a meeting in 2018 resolved that a lecture theatre complex and a hostel that could accommodate 1,000 students would be constructed on the campus at a cost of Rs 283.6 crore. In June 2019, IIEST director Chakrabarti had met HRD minister Ramesh Nishank Pokhriyal and asked for funds to build the hostel and the academic complex. But there has not been much progress since, and that prompted the director to make an appeal for immediate sanction of funds at the last meeting of the board on November 18. “The issue (of sanction of funds) was raised specifically. Our students are facing inconvenience because of the absence of an adequate number of hostels. Funds should be provided immediately, be it through grant or loan,” Chakrabarti told The Telegraph. The absence of adequate number of hostels and the burgeoning number of students have forced the institute to accommodate a number of students at the staff quarters. An official in the engineering section of the institute said there were at least 10 buildings on the campus, all constructed during the Raj, that were in need of renovation. Of the 17 hostels on the campus, at least 15 need an overhaul. Many of the hostels were built before Independence. Established in 1856 as Calcutta Civil Engineering College, the Shibpur institute is the fourth oldest engineering institute of the country – after the College of Engineering, Guindy (Tamil Nadu), IIT Roorkee and the College of Engineering, Pune.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-229
24-11-2020||Calcutta||CISCE nudge on screen time||The ICSE council has reminded all affiliated schools about the class-wise screen time to be followed during online sessions, in response to complaints from several states that schools were not following the Centre’s guideline on the matter. There has been no complaint from Bengal, the council said. “We thought we would send a general SOP (standard operating procedure) to all schools right across the country as a caution and to guide them in online classes. We have received complaints from a few states where some schools are not keeping to the guidelines. There has been no such complaint from Bengal,” Gerry Arathoon, the chief executive and secretary of the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) told The Telegraph. The Centre had in July called for limited screen time for students and teachers in the guidelines it had issued for digital learning. The subject of the CISCE circular “Pragyata guidelines for digital education” recommends not more than 30 minutes of online class for pre-primary (where teachers interact with parents), not more than two sessions of 30-45 minutes each for Classes I to VIII or the duration specified in guidelines issued by the respective states/Union Territories, and not more than four sessions of 30-45 minutes each for Classes IX to XII the duration specified in guidelines issued by the respective states/UTs. The CISCE has also recommended that if there are multiple sessions in a day, there should be a gap of 10 to 15 minutes between two sessions. “During this time (the break between two sessions), students should be instructed not to use any electronic gadgets nor view the screen of their laptop/mobile phone for any purpose,” Arathoon said in the circular. The students should “freely” move about or do “some physical exercise” during the break. The circular says “no student should be compelled to keep the webcam on or smart phone in online mode except during online class hours or for instruction/s at a particular time, having duly been informed beforehand.” Schools have been requested to provide guidelines or counselling to students to make them aware about cyber safety and security. “Due to the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, the schools have been closed since March 2020 severely disrupting the normal teaching-learning process. It is heartening to note that despite the problems posed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, most of our affiliated schools have been conducting online classes with the active contribution and participation of teachers,” the circular says. “In order to address the issues arising out of online teaching, the Department of School Education & Literacy, Ministry of Human Resource Development (now called Ministry of Education), Government of India has issued ‘Pragyata Guidelines for Digital Education’. The said guidelines that have prescribed the class-wise screen time to be followed by schools keeping in view the overall development of students...” the circular says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-229
24-11-2020||Calcutta||Events stirring out of long slumber||The state government’s November 1 notification, increasing the limit on gatherings in a closed venue to 200, has breathed some life into the events sector, choked for months because of the Covid pandemic. With the current wedding season playing the catalyst, the giant of social gatherings is slowly waking up from the slumber induced by the pandemic. The 200-people limit has given event managers some scale to work with. Rishabh Bapna, a popular event manager in Calcutta, said his business was a third of what it used to be during this season. “But things are looking slightly brighter than they did between March and September,” he said. An Indian wedding is not a one-day affair. Earlier, allied events like sangeet and mehndi had a core group of guests and the wedding and reception were main events for a larger audience. Now, associated events are being leveraged to suit the needs of the hosts. Wedding planner Prairna Khuller has had clients with a wish list of 1,000 guests. “The wedding is being split into events — mehndi, sangeet, Bollywood night and so on. Around 200 people are being invited to each event, without repetition,” she said. There are around 15 “wedding dates” between November and December. Many weddings, originally scheduled between April and August but postponed because of the pandemic, have also been re-scheduled for these two months. The logbooks of venues, from hotels to standalone properties, have bookings after a long lull. Many of the bookings were done before the November 1 notification. But the guest list has gone up since, giving organisers some benefits of scale. A host of vendors — caterers, decorator, florists, musicians and alike — depend heavily on the weddings segment. The budget of an event with 50 guests and the budget of an event with 150 guests are different. Many families who had earlier planned to settle for a “only family members gathering at home” are now opting for an outdoor venue, said event managers. The manager of an online aggregator of banquets, with a “pool of around 30 banquets in and around the city”, said most venues had bookings for the wedding dates till at least December end. Sanjay Karmar, operations manager of Princeton Club, which has five banquets, said he had “around 20 bookings” for November. But almost everyone this newspaper spoke to said things were far from what they used to be till a year ago. Pramode Bhandari, area general manager, The Park Kolkata, said he had “some bookings” for November-December but there was “still a long, long way to go”. The hotel has five banquets on offer. The events are being held but the limited number of guests mean a dip in the business volume. The dip in corporate events is also hurting the segment badly. Winter is the season for a host of corporate events and parties. That segment is yet to take off this year, said organisers. Sudipto Hore, the general manager of Regenta Orko’s hotel in Kasba, would host product launches, doctors’ conferences, cocktails and rewards and recognition programmes regularly this season. “They have almost disappeared this year,” he said. A popular party crooner echoed him. Imran Qaisar, a singer and leader of a musical troupe, has not been able to play at his cradle, the Dalhousie Institute, since the club is still shut. “Also missing are corporate events, which used to happen one after another this time of the year,” said Qaisar. But after a long lull, Qaisar is busy again. “Social gatherings are back and my winter calendar is full. Not hectic like it used to be around this time of the year earlier but achchha hai,” said Qaisar. Birthdays and anniversaries are being celebrated again with close groups of friends and family. Among events that are still very few are children’s birthday celebrations. Senior citizens are also avoiding gatherings. This year, December 11 would have marked the 50th marriage anniversary of the parents of a businessman in New Alipore. He had planned a gala celebration at a hotel off EM Bypass. The plan was initially changed to an open-air venue near Science City but was shelved altogether after his father had a bout of viral fever recently. “My parents are close to 80. I decided not to risk it this year. If things improve, we will celebrate next year,” he said. Many people, still wary of ventilation and air-conditioning in the context of Covid-19, are avoiding indoor venues, said banquet owners and caterers and decorators. S. Ramani of Savourites that runs 6 Ballygunge Place, which, apart from the chain of eateries, is also one of the premier catering companies in the city, said the situation was still gloomy. “This time last year, I did not have time to sit down. There were days when I had to handle 10 weddings simultaneously. But this year, there are hardly any orders,” he said. “People are still avoiding banquets because they are scared of the possible transmission of the virus through air-conditioning,” he told Metro. One of his clients organised his son’s wedding with “only 20 guests who were served dinner” on Sunday. Around 50 other guests were given food packets, said Ramani. But considering how the sector had been crippled from March-end to October, any positive movement was welcome. Many people lost their jobs, many were sent on furloughs and many had to take pay cuts. The renewed business offers a glimpse of hope for these people. Avijit Mukherjee, in charge of club banquet sales of a well-known hospitality group, summed up the mood of the sector. “This is such a year that reaching break-even would be a great achievement. For months, we have reported to work. Full days were spent sitting idle at the venues. Many of my colleagues have had a pay-cut. Back to being busy after such a long lull is a great feeling.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-229
24-11-2020||Business||Markets surge to lifetime highs, Nifty breaches 13,000-mark||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty rallied to fresh lifetime highs on Tuesday following heavy buying in banking, financial, realty and auto counters amid persistent foreign capital inflows. A strengthening rupee also boosted market sentiments, traders said. After scaling a record intra-day high of 44,601.63, the 30-share BSE Sensex ended 445.87 points or 1.01 per cent higher at a record 44,523.02. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 128.70 points or 1 per cent to close above the 13,000-mark for the first time at 13,055.15. Axis Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, surging around 4 per cent, followed by M&M, HDFC Bank, ITC, SBI, ICICI Bank, Maruti, Kotak Bank and Sun Pharma. On the other hand, HDFC, Titan, Nestle India, Bharti Airtel, ONGC and Infosys were among the laggards. Sector-wise, BSE banks, auto and finance indices rose to 2.37 per cent. Foreign institutional investors remained net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 4,738.44 crore on Monday, according to provisional exchange data. The rupee appreciated 10 paise to close at 74.01 against the US dollar. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with significant gains, while Shanghai closed in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a mixed note in early deals. Meanwhile, Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, rose 0.85 per cent to USD 46.45 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-225
24-11-2020||Business||Sensex rallies over 250 pts in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 250 points in opening trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index-heavyweights HDFC Bank, Maruti, ONGC and Axis Bank amid positive cues from global markets and unabated foreign fund inflows. After touching a lifetime intra-day high of 44,358.71, the 30-share BSE index was trading 271.48 points or 0.62 per cent higher at 44,348.63 in the opening session. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty touched the 13,000 mark for the first time ever as it rose 76.65 points or 0.59 per cent to 13,003.10. HDFC Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, surging around 1.60 per cent, followed by Maruti, ONGC, Axis Bank, L&T, Titan, ICICI Bank and PowerGrid. On the other hand, Bajaj Auto, Nestle India, Infosys and Hindustan Unilever were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 194.90 points or 0.44 per cent higher at 44,077.15, and NSE Nifty rose 67.40 points or 0.52 per cent to close at 12,926.45. Foreign institutional investors remained net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 4,738.44 crore on Monday, according to provisional exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Tokyo, Hong Kong and Seoul were trading in with gains in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was in the red. Bourses in the US ended on a positive note in overnight trade. Meanwhile, Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, were trading 0.85 per cent higher at USD 46.45 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-225
24-11-2020||Business||Delhi HC seeks Centre’s reply on Consumer Protection (e-commerce) Rules plea||The Delhi high court Monday sought the Centre’s reply on a plea challenging a provision in the Consumer Protection (e-commerce) Rules which mandate that an entity selling goods and services online has to be registered as a company in India. A bench of Chief Justice D. N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan issued a notice to the ministry of consumer affairs seeking its stand on the petition by an individual who provides online content creating services. The petitioner, Dhruv Sethi, has contended that the rule under challenge forces sole proprietorships like his to register as an incorporated company for carrying out e-commerce business. Senior advocate Anand Grover and advocate Samyak Gangwal, appearing for Sethi, told the court that the effect of the impugned rule was that every business enterprise which is not a company is excluded from the e-commerce space or they will have to sell through platforms such as  Amazon or Flipkart. The bench, during the hearing, suggested that the petitioner can get listed on Amazon to sell his goods and services. To this suggestion, his lawyers said that then he would have to pay Amazon for the same which he would not have to do if he is selling it himself. The petition claims that the norm is beyond the rule making powers of the central government under the Consumer Protection Act. Sethi, who also sells custom merchandise like t-shirts through his portal 'Where Next Daily', has said he would be personally affected by the rule. He has contended that the rule is ultra vires the Constitution “as it discriminates against all forms of legitimate business organisations like sole proprietorships, limited liability partnerships, hindu undivided families, etc.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-225
24-11-2020||Business||Iron ore crunch chokes Bengal steel mills||A change in the government’s policy along with a mad scramble for precious minerals have snuffed out supplies of iron ore in the eastern region, dealing a major blow  to the steel industry, especially those located in Bengal. Availability of iron ore has come down to half and prices nearly doubled to Rs 7,500 a tonne for some grade after a slew of mines were auctioned as part of the Modi government’s avowed agenda to bring transparency in the allocation of the country’s scarce mineral resources. Miners and large corporations offered big bucks to get control of the assets, but the high price of acquisition has affected commercial exploitation of the resource, crippling supply in the marketplace. Steel mill owners say only 12 merchant mines — the ones which used to supply ore to small units — in Odisha are operational at present, while at least 20 are closed. All 11 such mines in Jharkhand are not in production as well. All small steel mills, who cannot afford to own a mine like the big daddies such as Tata Steel, SAIL or JSW, are in a spot of bother as they depend on the merchant miners for ore. The units in Bengal are the worst affected. The state, which does not have iron ore mines unlike neighbouring Odisha and Jharkhand, sources about 2 million tonnes ore monthly. Mill owners say supplies have come down to half and they fear it would slide down further. While a PSU Odisha Mining Corporation offers assured supply to steel mills located in that state, no such home advantage exists for Bengal units. “The industry’s capacity utilisation has come down due to shortage in Bengal. It may go down further. We are ready to pay a higher price but ore should be available,” said Shankarlal Agarwal, president of West Bengal Iron & Steel Manufacturers Association. Mill owners sought the immediate intervention of the Centre and proposed a combination of measures such as ban on iron ore and pellet export, fixing iron ore rate or take over closed mines by state/central PSUs. Union steel minister Dharmendra Pradhan concurred with the concerns raised by the steel players from Bengal during an interaction last week. Mad scramble Nineteen blocks were auctioned earlier this year after lease on those assets came to an end by March 31. Only two mines were retained by the old leaseholders, while 17 of them changed hands. Sajjan Jindal’s JSW Steel bagged the major share with four mines, while ArcelorMittal and Jindal Steel & Power Ltd grabbed one each. An industry estimate suggests that during April-September only 4.06 million tonnes were produced from these mines, but 93 per cent of them were done by JSW and Mittals to feed their respective plants. These mines had sanction to produce over 24 mt during this period. The leases of Jharkhand blocks lapsed too but they have not been auctioned yet. The mines taken by the non-captive users have hardly produced at all. While the mining industry blamed it on procedural delay, steel mill owners say the high prices of the auction were to blame. The lowest a miner agreed to pay  was about 95 per cent of the quarterly price declared by Indian Bureau of Mine (IBM), which is linked to market price. The highest topped 150 per cent. But a miner is liable to pay another 30 per cent on account of three levies, apart from accounting for its own expense of lifting the ore. “It is just not viable for the miners. More they mine, the higher they incur loss. They prefer to keep it shut,” said an industry observer, calling into question the mad rush to bid at a clearly uneconomical rate. Incidentally, Rungta and Essel Mining, who had most of these assets previously, did not go aggressive in the auction. The operational mines, some of which are run by state PSU Odisha Mining Corporation, are also operating at their 50 per cent of the rated capacity, hoping for a better price ahead. The government had allowed the old leaseholders to dispose of fines and ore lying at the pit-head by October 31. After the expiry of the deadline, supply crunch may go up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-225
24-11-2020||Business||Coal India to set up 3GW solar power capacity by 2023-24||Coal India on Monday said it planned to set up 3GW solar power capacity by 2023-24 at an estimated investment of Rs 5,650 crore. A total of 14 rooftop and ground mounted solar power projects are planned as part of the efforts of the company to diversify and manage its energy costs. Of the proposed investment, Rs 3,650 crore will be funded from Coal India’s own capital expenditure till 2023-24 and the remaining amount will be met through joint ventures of the public sector miner. Coal India and NLC India have floated a joint venture company — Coal Lignite Urja Vikas Private Limited —  to develop 1,000MW solar power projects. The joint venture company came into being earlier this month. Coal India has also formed a joint venture with NTPC and has entered into a memorandum of understanding with Solar Energy Corporation of India for solar projects of 1,000MW each and the miner has initiated discussions with NTPC for the purchase of 140 MW of solar power under government’s CPSE scheme. According to Coal India officials, the solar initiative would reduce the annual power consumption expense which was around Rs 3,400 crore in 2019-20, accounting for 4.4 per cent of expenses for the year. Coal India has generated 4.6 million units of solar power from its existing projects in 2019-20 and 4.25 million units in 2018-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-225
24-11-2020||Business||Motilal Oswal 5 Year G-sec ETF to be launched soon||Motilal Oswal Asset Management Company on Monday announced the launch of India’s first-of-its-kind “Motilal Oswal 5 Year G-sec ETF”. The exchange-traded fund by Motilal Oswal AMC is expected to provide strong asset allocation opportunity. For those investing in ETFs, this fund comes in addition to the Motilal Oswal ETF suite which comprises Nifty 50 ETF, Nifty Midcap 100 ETF, Nasdaq 100 ETF. The NFO will open on November 23 and close on December 2, 2020. A statement from the fund house said that the latest ETF seeks investment return that closely corresponds (before fees and expenses) to the total returns of the securities as represented by the “Nifty five year Benchmark G-Sec Index”, subject to tracking error. However, there can be no assurance or guarantee that the investment objective of the scheme would be achieved. The ETF offers investors an attractive low-cost alternative to fixed deposit as it has practically no default risk, no lock-in, and historically attractive pre- and post-tax returns, the statement added. “The launch of Motilal Oswal 5 Yr G-Sec ETF adds to our repertoire of investor centric products and deepens our product offering for the investor community,” said Navin Agarwal, MD and CEO Motilal Oswal Asset Management Company Ltd. “The Motilal Oswal 5 year G-Sec ETF will invest in underlying constituent of Nifty 5 year Benchmark G-sec Index. The index falls in a sweet spot between short duration and long duration G-Sec indices..With safety being a primary need of debt investors today, the ETF fits well for investors who are looking for safety along with better tax advantages compared to traditional fixed income products.” Pratik Oswal, Head of Passive Funds, Motilal Oswal Asset Management Company Ltd added. The minimum application amount during NFO is Rs 500.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-226
24-11-2020||Business||Stocks shake off fears of fresh lockdown||Reports of states such as Maharashtra mulling fresh curbs because of a spike in coronavirus cases affected the markets on Monday which witnessed heavy volatility with the Sensex rising 195 points at the end of the day. On the BSE, the 30-share Sensex opened above the 44000 mark at 44164.17 amid positive sentiments because of reports of more success by firms in the Covid-19 vaccine trials. However, the shares came under pressure on reports that Maharashtra — home to India’s financial capital — could take a decision on a fresh lockdown within 8-10 days. With cases again seeing an increase across the country, it was feared the virus would impact economic activity and growth which are showing signs of an upswing. The Sensex initially fell to  an intra-day low of 43747.22 — down 135 points over its last close. Stocks soon regained their composure on optimism over the vaccine as the gauge hit a record intra-day high of 44271.15. Thereafter, the index ended 194.90 points, or 0.44 per cent higher at 44077.15. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 67.40 points, or 0.52 per cent, to close at 12926.45. ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, surging around 7 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, Infosys, Tech Mahindra, Reliance Industries, HCL Tech and TCS. On the other hand, HDFC, ICICI Bank, Axis Bank, SBI and M&M were the laggards. “Global cues were positive post the news that AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine could be around 90 per cent effective without any serious side effects, which follows a string of encouraging vaccine results in recent weeks,” Siddhartha Khemka of Motilal Oswal Financial Services said. “Investors pinned hopes for economic revival on coronavirus vaccines, despite surging cases globally and delays to fresh US stimulus,” he added. Asia trends In Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul ended with significant gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a positive note. Meanwhile, Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, rose 1.64 per cent to $ 45.81 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-226
24-11-2020||Business||India likely to post a current account surplus: K. V. Subramanian||The country is likely to post a current account surplus at the end of this fiscal, mainly led by a fall in imports, the chief economic adviser said on Monday. Speaking at an event organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry, CEA K. V. Subramanian stressed on growth to be accompanied by job creation to make it sustainable.  “We don’t want Covid to create any permanent impact on the economy.” The CEA said the pandemic was essentially a crisis in demand and India’s response was crafted to manage the sharp drop in demand. A drop in demand reflects in the fall in imports and a surge in current account surplus. “You can see it is reflected in the fact that this year we may be having a current account surplus. We had almost $20 billion current account surplus in Q1... $19.8 billion to be precise. Even if let’s say the subsequent quarters do not see that kind of performance, we still will likely have a current account surplus,” he said. The balance of payments (BoP), which includes the current account and invisibles, will also show a surplus as a result. The economy is forecast to contract 8-10 per cent in the current fiscal, though many international financial institutions and rating agencies have lowered their forecasts in contraction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-226
24-11-2020||Business||FM Nirmala Sitharaman pledges more reforms||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday said the momentum gained by the reform process would continue and make India a favoured destination for global investors. Sitharaman claimed several sovereign wealth funds have expressed their interest to fund the Modi government’s ambitious $1.5-trillion National Infrastructure pipeline project. The Centre has seen the pandemic as an opportunity to push reforms that remained pending for decades, she said. “The momentum for reform shall continue. Several more active reform-related steps are being taken up. The Prime Minister has not lost the opportunity for reforms even at this time,” Sitharaman said at the National MNCs Conference 2020. Sitharaman said the Centre is developing the  single window clearance for investors. “Effective unified single window will be made available to investors so that access to policymakers and regulators will be available.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-226
24-11-2020||Business||Sebi relaxes rules for promoters looking to change status||The market regulator proposes to change the minimum threshold for voting rights for the re-classification of a promoter as a public shareholder and suggested that all promoter entities disclose their shareholding even in the case of “nil” holding. Under the proposal, Sebi said the re-classification condition on shareholding should be amended such that the promoter and related persons seeking re-classification should not together hold 15 per cent or more of the total voting rights in the listed entity. At present, the minimum threshold requirement is 10 per cent. The regulator received a feedback from market participants to review the current threshold of 10 per cent so that the persons who may have been promoters but are no longer in day-to-day control, having shareholding of less than 15 per cent, may “opt-out” from being classified as promoters without having to reduce their shareholding. Relaxation from existing requirement on a case-to-case basis has been given by Sebi and the existing provisions should be revisitied to minimise the number of exemptions provided on a case-to-case basis, the regulator said in a consultation paper. “The exemption from... Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements (LODR), as extended in the case of re-classification of promoter may also be extended to re-classification pursuant to an order/direction of the government / regulator and/or as a consequence of operation of law,” Sebi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-226
24-11-2020||Business||Rajan, Acharya flay PK Mohanty panel recommendation ||The recommendation of the PK Mohanty panel to allow business houses to enter banking has got a big thumbs-down from former Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Raghuram Rajan and ex-deputy governor Viral Acharya. Pointing out that the idea is “best left on the shelf”, the duo said in a joint article that it is more important to stick to the tried and tested limits on the involvement of business houses in the banking sector. According to the duo, one of the major reasons not to allow corporates into banking is that they will get financing, no-questions asked if there is an in-house bank. Here, they reminded the RBI that it is not possible for the banking regulator to track every loans given. “Even an independent regulator, with all the information in the world, finds it difficult to be in every nook and corner of the financial system to stop poor lending. Information on loan performance is rarely timely or accurate. Yes Bank managed to conceal its weak exposure for considerable periods,” they said. The second reason cited by Rajan and Acharya to disallow corporate entry into banking is that it will further exacerbate the concentration of economic (and political) power in certain business houses. “Even if banking licences are allotted fairly, it will give undue advantage to large business houses that already have the initial capital that has to be put up. Moreover, highly indebted and politically connected business houses will have the greatest incentive and ability to push for licences,” they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-226
24-11-2020||Business||S&P Global Ratings sceptical about corporate ownership in banks||S&P Global Ratings on Monday expressed scepticism over allowing corporate ownership in banks given India’s weak corporate governance amid large corporate defaults over the past few years. It also said that the RBI will face challenges in supervising non-financial sector entities at a time the health of the financial sector is weak. The performance of India’s corporate sector over the past few years has been weak with large corporate defaults, it said, adding that non-performing loans (NPLs) for the corporate sector stood at around 13 per cent of total corporate loans as of March 2020 (around 18 per cent as of March 2018), highlighting the more pronounced risk in India compared with other countries. The US-based rating agency, however, said the RBI panel’s recommendations on awarding new licences to well-managed Indian non-bank financial companies could improve financial stability||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-226
24-11-2020||Business|| RBI proposal for industrial houses to set up banks||The proposal by an RBI panel to let industrial houses set up banks and large NBFCs convert themselves into banks have enough deterrents to stop the big players in their tracks. In fact, the RBI had come out with guidelines for private sector banks seven years ago in 2013 but did not get the response with the houses of Tatas and Mahindras deciding to stay away from the business because of the onerous conditions. While the finance arm of the Mahindras withdrew before the application deadline, Tata Sons backed out later. The PK Mohanty committee of the RBI has recommended that industrial houses can set up banks only after necessary amendments to the Banking Regulations Act, 1949 to deal with connected lending and exposures between banks and other financial and non-financial group entities. The committee has proposed strengthening the supervisory mechanism of large conglomerates, including “consolidated supervision”, implying  the Reserve Bank of India  can supervise other entities in a group as well. Non-operative financial holding company (NOFHC) should continue to be the preferred structure for all new licensees. But NOHFC is mandatory if the individual promoters have other group entities. This was the main reason why the Tatas had dropped out as its overseas entities which provided financing solutions would have to be brought under the NOFHC umbrella. Among large NBFCs, factors such as maintenance of the cash reserve ratio (CRR) and statutory liquidity ratio (SLR) which pose additional costs are likely to be the deterrents. The Mahindras at the time of dropping its plans to become a bank in 2013 had cited the RBI guidelines on maintaining CRR and SLR right from the start of operations . The group had said if the RBI guidelines permit co-existence of a bank and non-bank in the same group, it will review the decision. “A bank has to provide a very wide range of services, maintain SLR and CRR requirements and operate at a much higher cost structure compared with NBFCs. So a NBFC will have to weigh the pros and cons after the final guidelines, and understand the impact for stakeholders before considering a conversion to a bank,” Umesh Revankar, managing director and chief executive officer, Shiram Transport Finance, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-226
24-11-2020||Business||Rajan, Acharya slam RBI proposal for corporate ownership of banks||Raghuram Rajan and Viral Acharya — two former regulators on Mint Street — have slammed the recommendation of an internal working group of the Reserve Bank of India to allow large industrial houses to run banks in India. Terming the recommendation a “bombshell”, former RBI governor Rajan and deputy governor Viral Acharya said the banking regulator needs to tread this path with caution, especially after the near-collapse of Infrastructure Leasing and Financial Services (ILFS) and Yes Bank in the past year. “Why now? Have we learnt something which allows us to override all the prior cautions on allowing industrial houses into banking?” the former regulators who had testy relations with the Narendra Modi government said in a joint article on professional networking site LinkedIn. They wondered why there was a sudden urgency. Business houses with political connections would push for the banking licences, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-226
24-11-2020||India||UP nod to draft ordinance against love jihad||The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday approved a draft ordinance against the religious conversion for the sake of love and marriage, as a result of which violators can be imprisoned for up to 10 years. An official spokesperson informed that the state Cabinet had okayed the ordinance during its meeting in Lucknow chaired by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. Recently, BJP-led states including Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh have disclosed plans to bring laws to deal with alleged attempts to convert Hindu women to Islam for the sake of marriage, an act that Hindu activists call ‘love jihad’. "The way in which religious conversions are done using deceit, lies, force and dishonesty is heart wrenching, and it was necessary to have a law in this regard, Cabinet minister and UP government spokesperson Sidharth Nath Singh said. He added that under the new law, violators can be awarded a jail term of one to five years, and a fine of Rs 15,000. However, in case the woman is a minor or belongs to a Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled Tribe, the jail term would range from three to 10 year, with a fine of Rs 25,000, he said. In the case of mass conversions, the punishment is from three years to 10 years and a fine of Rs 50,000 on the organisations which indulge in it," Singh told reporters. The minister said if anybody wants to change religion after marriage, he or she would be free to do so. However, the district magistrate has to be informed about the decision two months in advance in a prescribed form, he said. The person can change religion once permission is granted. Singh  claimed that this will resolve law and order issues in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-537
24-11-2020||India||Centre bans 43 mobile apps over security concerns||The Centre on Tuesday issued an order to block access to 43 mobile applications in the country citing their engagement in activities “which are prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order”, a PIB release said. Among the apps that have been blocked, several are Chinese-owned, four of which are owned by the country’s retail giant, the Alibaba Group. “Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Government of India on Tuesday issued an order under section 69A of the Information Technology Act blocking access to 43 mobile apps,” the release said. “Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology has issued the order for blocking the access of these apps by users in India based on the comprehensive reports received from Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Center, Ministry of Home Affairs,” it added. Alibaba-owned AliSuppliers Mobile App, Alibaba Workbench, AliExpress - Smarter Shopping, Better Living and Alipay Cashier are among the 43 applications whose access has been blocked. The Centre’s order follows its earlier decision on June 29 to block 59 mobile apps including TikTok and WeChat and its September 2 decision to ban 118 more, including popular gaming app PUBG, under the same section.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-537
24-11-2020||India||At Covid meeting with PM, Kejriwal blames stubble burning||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday interacted via video conferencing with chief ministers of eight states that are witnessing a surge in coronavirus cases to review the Covid-19 situation. Eight states participated in the meeting and briefed the PM about the situation in their respective regions and their plans to curb the spread of the virus. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel and Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani participated in the meeting. Home Minister Amit Shah and Health Minister Harsh Vardhan were also present during the conference. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal asked Modi  to intervene into the issue of stubble burning in neighbouring states to curb the spread of Covid-19 in Delhi, asserting that pollution was a key factor behind the spike of cases during the third wave of the infection in the national capital. "The high severity of the third wave is due to many factors. Pollution is an important factor. The chief minister sought the prime minister's intervention to get rid of the pollution caused by stubble-burning in adjoining states, especially in view of the recent bio-decomposer technique," a source said. According to sources, Kejriwal told the PM that the number of Covid-19 cases as well as the positivity rate were steadily declining since November 10, when Delhi recorded a peak of 8,600 cases during the third wave. He also asked for the reservation of the additional 1,000 ICU beds in hospitals run by the Centre in Delhi for Covid-19 patients till the third wave of infections subsided. In the meeting with the Prime Minister, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said that the coronavirus situation is being handled aptly in her state. "The chief minister briefed the PM that the COVID-19 situation in West Bengal is under control," an official said. Banerjee also reminded Modi of the non- payment of Goods and Services Tax (GST) dues to several states, the official added. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray told Modi that a task force had been set up in the state to manage the distribution of Covid-19 vaccines and the process through which it will be administered. "A task force has been set up to manage the distribution and vaccination in Maharashtra and the government is in constant touch with Adar Poonawalla of the Serum Institute of India to track development of the coronavirus vaccine," an official statement said quoting the CM. Poonawalla is the CEO of the Serum Institute of India, which has partnered with AstraZeneca for manufacturing the Oxford vaccine for COVID-19. “CM Uddhav Balasaheb Thackeray informed the Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi about the various steps taken to curb the spread of coronavirus in the state, during a video conference held this morning,” the Maharashtra CMO tweeted. Chief Minister Vijay rupani on Tuesday told Modi that the virus situation in his state is under control and enough beds are available in Gujarat. "The CM has assured the PM that the situation is under control and enough number of beds are available in the state for coronavirus patients," an official press release said. Rupani also briefed the PM about the various steps taken by the Gujarat government to curb the spread of Covid-19, including imposition of night curfew in multiple cities and the identification of patients through increased testing. “The CM said the night curfew in the four cities will remain in effect until the situation comes under control,” the release said. In the video conference with the Prime Minister, Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot said his administration has increased testing and strengthened infrastructure to control the spread of coronavirus. Gehlot briefed the PM about the ban on firecrackers, law on wearing of masks, night curfew in worst-hit districts and the restrictions on gatherings, while highlighting the measures taken by the state, said sources. The CM also informed Modi about bettering the infrastructure through oxygen generation plants, increase in the number of ICUs and oxygen beds in hospitals, the sources added. The Telangana government is ready with an action plan to administer vaccines on citizens, Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao said on Tuesday. "People are eagerly waiting for the vaccine. A scientifically approved vaccine is the need of the hour. The Telangana state government is ready to distribute and administer the vaccine to people on a priority basis. Accordingly, we have drawn up an action plan. However, one has to take into consideration whether the vaccine has any side effects," Rao said in the conference.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-537
24-11-2020||India||Modi warns chief ministers against laxity in Covid fight||Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked states and Union territories to work out logistics and modalities for administering the COVID-19 vaccine while cautioning them against any laxity in fighting the pandemic during an online interaction with chief ministers on Tuesday. According to several leaders who attended the video-interaction, Modi asked them to constitute steering committees at the state, district and taluk levels for quick and effective distribution of the vaccine once it was made available. Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who attended the meeting along with chief minister B. S. Yediyurappa, said the plan was to provide the vaccine on priority for 30 crore people. Among them were a crore health workers, two crore corona warriors, about 26 crore people between the age of 50 and 60 years and those with comorbidities, he said. The Prime Minister said volunteers would have to be trained and health workers, both in public and private sectors, had to be used for the purpose of administering the vaccine. "During elections how we plan meticulously at every booth level in such a way vaccination centres have to be set up, digital information has to be created and track record has to be maintained as vaccination is to be administered in two to three doses," Bommai added. During his interaction with chief ministers, Modi asked states to reduce the positivity and fatality rates by focusing on curbing the virus transmission. He called for more RT-PCR tests, even as he underlined that India's COVID-19 situation was more stable than other countries in terms of recovery and fatality rates. Modi asked them to work towards bringing down the positive rate to nearly 5 per cent and the fatality rate to under 1 per cent and called for more RT-PCR tests. "We need to speed up our efforts to reduce transmission of the virus. Testing, confirmation, contact tracing and data must be given top priority," he said. Modi said the government was keeping a close watch on the development of vaccines and was in contact with Indian developers and manufacturers, along with global regulators, governments of other countries, multilateral institutions and international companies. He assured citizens that the government would ensure that the vaccine  met all necessary scientific criteria. He underlined that just like the focus in the fight against COVID-19 has been on saving each and every life, the priority will be to ensure that the vaccine reaches everyone. The meeting was also attended by Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, while the chief ministers who participated in the virtual interaction include Delhi's Arvind Kejriwal, Rajasthan's Ashok Gehlot, West Bengal's Mamata Banerjee, Maharashtra's Uddhav Thackeray, Chhattisgarh's Bhupesh Baghel and Gujarat's Vijay Rupani. A massive network of testing to treatment is running well in the entire country and it is being regularly widened, the prime minister said. Modi has held several rounds of virtual meetings with states over the coronavirus situation so far. The latest high-level meeting to review the status and preparedness of COVID-19 response and management had a special emphasis on eight high focus states -- Haryana, Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Kerala, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Gujarat and West Bengal. While the national daily COVID-19 case count has remained below 50,000 for some time, several urban centres have witnessed a surge, resulting in enforcement of several measures, including curfews in some cities. India saw 37,975 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day taking the country's COVID-19 caseload to 91.77 lakh, while the recoveries crossed 86 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. Modi said a special emphasis of the PM CARES fund has been to make available oxygen, while efforts are on to make medical colleges and district hospitals self-sufficient in terms of oxygen generation. He also informed the chief ministers that the process for establishing more than 160 new oxygen plants is underway. The prime minister said there have been broadly four stages in terms of how the people have reacted to the pandemic. The first was of fear, when people reacted in panic, while the second stage saw cropping up of doubts about the virus when several people tried to hide that they had been afflicted by it. The third stage was of acceptance when people became more serious about the virus and displayed greater alertness, while in the fourth stage, with increasing recovery rate, people have developed a false notion of security from the virus, thus leading to rise in instances of negligence, Modi said. He emphasised that it is of utmost importance to increase awareness about the seriousness of the virus in this fourth stage. He noted that the trend of increase in the spread of the pandemic in countries where its impact was earlier lessening, is being seen in some states as well, which necessitates greater alacrity and caution by the administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-537
24-11-2020||India||Covid: one crore health workers to receive vaccine in 1st phase||The first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, when available, will be administered to around one crore frontline health workers, official sources said. About 92 per cent of government hospitals and 55 per cent of private hospitals have provided data of the health workers in all states and Union territories. In order to complete the exercise within the next one week, the Centre has directed states and UTs to step up the process of identifying these workers, including doctors, MBBS students, nurses and ASHA workers. The government has asked states to work on planning and mapping of sessions of vaccination where, during the first phase, healthcare workers will receive the vaccine. It has also directed them to do a mapping of human resources across departments that can be possibly deployed for vaccination sessions for verification of beneficiaries, crowd management and overall coordination. According to sources, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will meet chief ministers of states and UTs to discuss the strategy of vaccine distribution, via video conferencing on Tuesday. "Around 92 per cent of all government hospitals and 55 per cent of all private hospitals from across all states and UTs have provided data. The rest of the details will come in another one week. We have asked the states to accelerate the process," an official source said. The anti-coronavirus vaccine, once available, would be distributed under a special Civid-19 inoculation programme, using the processes, technology and network of the existing Universal Immunisation Programme (UIP). It would run parallel to the UIP. “The Centre, with the help of state and UT governments, has started the process of identifying around 30 crore priority beneficiaries who would be given vaccine dose in the initial phase”, sources had said. The government has identified three other categories apart from the one crore health workers. This includes around two crore frontline workers including municipal corporation workers, personnel of the police and armed forces, about 26 crore people aged above 50 and a special category of those below 50 with co-morbidities and requiring specialised care. Sources had earlier informed that the health ministry’s existing digital platform eVIN, used for the UIP, is being enhanced to ensure Covid-19 vaccine distribution and delivery. Through the platform, messages would be sent to recipients informing the time, date and venue to get the shots and digitally connect them and also track them, sources had earlier said. “Each person in the immunisation list would be linked with their Aadhar cards to avoid duplication and to track beneficiaries. However, in case a person doesn't have an Aadhar card, a government photo identity can be used,” said the sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-537
24-11-2020||India||Mumbai Police file charge sheet in fake TRP scam||The Mumbai Police on Tuesday filed a charge sheet in a court here in the alleged TRP (Television Rating Points) rigging scam. The charge sheet was submitted before a magistrate's court by the police's Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU), which is conducting a probe into the case, an official said. The crime branch has so far arrested 12 persons, including Republic TV's distribution head and owners of two other channels, in connection with the case, he said. The fake TRP scam came to light last month when rating agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) filed a complaint through Hansa Research Group, alleging that certain television channels were rigging TRP numbers. Hansa had been tasked with installing barometers, which record viewership data (which channel has been watched and for how long) at sample households. TRP is important as advertising revenue of channels depends on it. Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh last month claimed that Republic TV and two Marathi channels box CinemaandFakt Marathi- were involved in manipulating TRPs. Republic TV and other accused have denied wrongdoing and manipulation of the TRP system. Earlier, Republic TV's Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and two Chief Operating Officers (COO) and Chief Finance Officer (CFO) were summoned by the police for questioning in the fake TRP racket case. The statements of Republic TV's executive editor Niranjan Narayanswamy and senior executive editor Abhishek Kapoor were also recorded by the police. The Maharashtra government last month withdrew its "general consent" given to the Central Bureau of Investigation to probe cases in the state, in the wake of the CBI taking over a case registered by Uttar Pradesh Police against "unknown" channels and persons over alleged fudging of TRP. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) recently filed a money laundering complaint in the alleged TRP rigging scam being investigated by the Mumbai Police. The central probe agency has filed an enforcement case information report (ECIR) that is equivalent to a police FIR under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, official sources said last week. The ED complaint was filed after studying a Mumbai Police FIR that was registered in October and it had named the Republic TV channel, two Marathi channels and few other individuals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-537
24-11-2020||India||Cyclone ‘Nivar’ likely to become 'very severe'||Cyclone Nivar is likely to become a 'very severe cyclonic storm' and hit Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coasts between Karaikal and Mamallapuram on November 25 during late evening, India Meteorological Department Director General Mrutunjay Mohapatra said on Tuesday. Earlier, the IMD had predicted that Cyclone Nivar was expected to intensify into a ‘severe cyclonic storm’, but has now said it will gain more strength. Nivar is the second cyclone over Bay of Bengal in 2020, following Cyclone Amphan, which had developed into a ‘super cyclonic storm’ to batter Bengal and Odisha. "Our forecast is it will intensify into a very severe cyclonic storm by (Tuesday) tonight,” Mohapatra said. "It is very likely to cross Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coasts between Karaikal and Mamallapuram around Puducherry during 25th November late evening as a very severe cyclonic storm with a wind speed of 120-130 kilometres per hour gusting to 145 kmph," he added. The cyclone is expected to bring in heavy rains along with strong winds. The IMD has issued a red alert for coastal and north interior Tamilnadu, Puducherry and Karaikal, for November 25, the DG said. "Isolated extremely heavy rainfall activity also very likely over coastal and north interior Tamil Nadu and Puducherry (Pudukottai, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Karaikal, Nagapattinam, Cuddalore, Ariyalur and Perambalur districts during 24th and Kadalur, Kallakurchi, Puducherry, Villupuram, Tiruvannamalai, Chengalpattu to Ariyalur, Perambalur and Karaikal districts during 25th) and over Nellore and Chittoor districts of Andhra Pradesh on 25th and over Rayalaseema and southeast Telangana on 26th November," the IMD said. Mohapatra explained that cyclones result in multi-hazardous scenarios. In the event of Nivar,  there could be serious damage to thatched huts, disruption of power and communication lines, damage to roads, uprooting of trees. There could be damage to horticulture crops like banana and papaya. The IMD has also advised total suspension of fishing operations and motorboats and small boats, shifting of people residing in coastal areas to safer places, judicious regulation of road, air and rail traffic. The Met department will provide hourly updates from November 25 when Nivar crosses the coast, Mohapatra said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday spoke to the chief ministers of both the state and the union territory and assured them of all possible aid from the Centre, in the wake of ‘Nivar’. Taking to Twitter, the PM said, "Spoke to Tamil Nadu CM Shri @EPSTamilNadu and Puducherry CM Shri @VNarayanasami regarding the situation in the wake of Cyclone Nivar. Assured all possible support from the Centre. I pray for the safety and well-being of those living in the affected areas." Fishermen have already been advised against venturing into sea. The district administration of Puducherry has also imposed prohibitory orders under section 144 of CrPC in the region to prevent movement of people as the cyclone approaches the coast. All shops and business establishments were directed to be closed from 9 pm on Tuesday to 6 am on Thursday, District Collector Purva Garg said. “Puducherry is expected to be 'severely impacted' by the cyclone and there was a grave danger to life, health and safety of the public because of the cyclone predicted. This order would not be applicable to staff engaged in law and order duty and also the essential services such as milk supply, fuel stations and pharmacies”, she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-537
24-11-2020||India||PM holds virtual meet with states over Covid-19 situation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday interacted via video conferencing with chief ministers of states that are witnessing a surge in coronavirus cases to review the COVID-19 situation. The leaders attending the meeting include Home Minister Amit Shah, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel and Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani. The prime minister, till now, has held several virtual meetings with states over the coronavirus situation. While the national daily Covid-19 case count has remained below 50,000 for some time, several urban centres have witnessed a surge, resulting in enforcement of several measures, including curfews in some cities. Later in the day, the prime minister will also hold a virtual meeting with chief ministers and other representatives of states and union territories via video conferencing to discuss the vaccine distribution strategy. The central government has also been putting in place measures for quick and effective distribution of coronavirus vaccine when it becomes available. Five vaccine candidates are in advanced stages of development in India, out of which four are in Phase II/III and one is in Phase-I/II trials. India saw 37,975 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day taking the country's Covid-19 caseload to 91.77 lakh, while the recoveries crossed 86 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-538
24-11-2020||India||Centre calls Punjab farmers for 2nd round of talks in a bid to quash farm laws protest||The Centre on Tuesday said it has invited farmer unions from Punjab for the second round of ministerial talks on December 3 to resolve differences over the new agriculture laws. The meeting comes after farmer leaders laid a condition for another central ministerial meeting while calling off their 'rail roko' agitation in Punjab on Monday and lifted the nearly two-month-long blockade, allowing resumption of only goods trains. Speaking to PTI, Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey said, "We have called the representatives of over 30 farmer organisations for the second round of discussion on December 3 at Vigyan Bhawan at 11 am". The secretary has sent the invitation to the farmer bodies on behalf of Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar. Food Minister Piyush Goyal is also expected to be present in the meeting. Officials from food and agriculture departments of the Punjab government have also been invited for the talks. The first round of talks was held on November 13, but it remained inconclusive, with both sides sticking to their ground. Punjab farmers have been demanding the repeal of the new farm laws and replace them with another set of laws framed after wider consultation with stakeholders. They also demanded a guarantee on the MSP front, as they claimed that these new laws may lead to the end of minimum support prices (MSP) procurement, which the Centre has denied. When asked about their demand on MSP, the secretary said, "Earlier laws too did not have any mention of MSP. Even the new agri-laws do not mention it. MSP is mentioned only in the National Food Security Act (NFSA) which has not been changed. Till Public Distribution System (PDS) is there, MSP will continue". The Prime Minister has also stated this and even the Union Agriculture Minister has said in Parliament that MSP will continue, he added. "We have explained in detail to farmer unions about this issue. Hopefully, we will resolve the issue with them at the December 3 meeting," he noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-538
24-11-2020||India||Almost 38,000 cases in a day takes Covid caseload to 91.77 lakh||India saw 37,975 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day taking the country's Covid-19 caseload to 91.77 lakh, while the recoveries crossed 86 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 91,77,840 and the death toll climbed to 1,34,218 with 480 new fatalities, including 121 from the national capital alone, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of active cases remained below 5 lakh for the fourteenth consecutive day. There are 4,38,667 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country as on date which comprises 4.78 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 86,04,955 pushing the national recovery rate to 93.76 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.46 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, and surpassed 90 lakh on November 20. According to the ICMR, over 13.36 crore samples have been tested up to November 23 with 10,99,545 samples being tested on Monday. The 480 new fatalities include 121 from Delhi, 47 from West Bengal, 30 from Maharashtra, 28 from Haryana, 24 from Karnataka, 23 each from Himachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh and 22 from Kerala. A total of 1,34,218 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 46,653 from Maharashtra followed by 11,678 from Karnataka, 11,622 from Tamil Nadu, 8,512 from Delhi, 8,072 from West Bengal, 7,582 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,948 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,631 from Punjab and 3,876 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-538
24-11-2020||India||Delhi's air quality in 'very poor' category||Delhi's overall air quality deteriorated on Tuesday but remained in the "very poor" category with six of the 38 stations recording "severe" air quality, government agencies said. According to the Central Pollution Control Board's (CPCB) mobile application SAMEER, the city's air quality index (AQI) was recorded at 361 in the morning. The six stations that recorded an AQI in the "severe" category are Anand Vihar (413), Ashok Vihar (407), Chandni Chowk (410), Jahangirpuri (424), Patparganj (411) and Vivek Vihar (426). The capital's AQI was in the "severe" category on November 15 but it improved since and remained in either the "poor" or the "moderate" category until November 22. Delhi's AQI was 302 on Monday, 274 on Sunday, 251 on Saturday, 296 on Friday, 283 on Thursday and 211 on Wednesday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". However, according to the Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR, the stubble-burning count significantly decreased to 149 on Sunday, contributing to six per cent in Delhi's air on Monday. It said winds are expected to slow down and low ventilation is expected, adding that if the stubble-burning count increases, the AQI will further worsen to "severe". Stubble-burning accounted for 12 per cent of Delhi's PM2.5 pollution on Sunday. It was 13 per cent on Saturday, 15 per cent on Friday, 20 per cent on Thursday and eight per cent on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-538
24-11-2020||India||Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine can become India's first approved Covid shot||A candidate vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University against the coronavirus disease has shown 70 per cent efficacy in clinical trials in the UK and Brazil and could become India’s first approved Covid-19 vaccine if Indian drug regulators are convinced by the data. AstraZeneca, the UK-based biopharmaceuticals company, announced on Monday that an interim analysis of the clinical trials on around 23,000 volunteers in the two countries had found that the candidate vaccine was “highly effective” in preventing Covid-19 infections. The AstraZeneca vaccine on average prevented 70 per cent of Covid cases in late-stage trials in Britain and Brazil but the success rate rose to 90 per cent if the vaccine was administered as a half dose followed by a full dose. The efficacy was 62 per cent if the full dose was given twice, as it was for most study participants. The efficacy was calculated on the basis of how the 131 Covid-19 cases (patients who developed the infection among the 23,000 volunteers) were split between the volunteers who received the candidate vaccine and those who received a placebo. No serious safety events were confirmed, the company said. The Oxford scientists said they were still trying to understand why the vaccine was more effective at a smaller first dose. The first dose is supposed to prime the immune system, while the second is supposed to boost its response. While it seemed counterintuitive for a smaller first dose to be more effective, they said that strategy may more closely mimic what happens with a real infection. AstraZeneca’s shares fell 4 per cent, on track for their worst daily performance in six months, as investors perceived the efficacy data as disappointing compared with rivals. Pfizer and Moderna, which reported that their vaccines prevented around 95 per cent of the infections, had set the bar for success sky high. In the AstraZeneca trial in Britain, researchers counted infections by swabbing participants weekly. That detection method was likely to have turned up more infections than the trials run by Moderna and Pfizer, which tested people who developed symptoms and may have failed to find any asymptomatic cases. The different approaches to counting infections could make it harder to compare how well the different vaccines work. Both AstraZeneca and a Russian vaccine called Sputnik V (which announced 92 per cent efficacy) rely on adenovirus delivery platforms, but while AstraZeneca uses a chimpanzee adenovirus, Sputnik V uses two different human adenoviruses. The Sputnik V team used Twitter to speculate on a reason for the 62 per cent efficacy reported by AstraZeneca’s candidate. “The possible reason 62 per cent efficacy of AstraZeneca’s full dose regimen is that immunity to chimpanzee adenoviral vector from the first shot makes second shot not effective,” the Sputnik V team posted. “Sputnik V addresses this issue by using two different human adenoviral vectors for two shots (92 per cent efficacy.)” Danny Altmann, professor of immunology at Imperial College London, put matters in perspective. “I think it is a real fool’s errand to start trying to pick these three (Pfizer/ Moderna/ Astra) apart on the basis of snippets of phase 3 data from press releases,” Altmann said. Altmann added: “For the bigger picture, my suspicion is that by the time we are a year down the line, we’ll be using all three vaccines with about 90 per cent protection — and we’ll be a lot happier.” Why relevant in India AstraZeneca’s vaccine could give the world’s fight against the global pandemic a new weapon, cheaper to make, easier to distribute and faster to scale up than its rivals. The British drug-maker said it would have as many as 200 million doses by the end of 2020, around four times as many as US competitor Pfizer. Seven hundred million doses could be ready globally as soon as the end of the first quarter of 2021. “This means we have a vaccine for the world,” said Andrew Pollard, director of the Oxford University vaccine group that developed the drug. The AstraZeneca shot does have some advantages over the offerings from US rivals. The drug’s cost to governments works out at just a few dollars a shot, a fraction of the price of shots from Pfizer and Moderna, which use a more unconventional technology. Adar Poonawalla, the CEO of the Pune-based Serum Institute of India, was quoted by PTI last week as saying Serum would make the vaccine available for the public at between $5 and $6 per dose, while the government would get it at $3 to $4 per dose. The Serum Institute is AstraZeneca’s Indian manufacturing partner. The vaccine can also be transported and stored at normal fridge temperatures, which proponents say would make it easier to distribute, especially in poor countries, than Pfizer’s, which needs to be shipped and stored at minus 70 degrees C. The faster roll-out means both the rich and poor countries that had been drawing up plans to ration vaccines can distribute them more widely, helping to eventually halt the social and economic disruption of a pandemic that has killed 1.4 million people. In poor countries, where the logistics of distributing rival vaccines posed a bigger challenge, the effect of a cheaper and easier alternative could be even more pronounced. Zahid Maleque, health minister of Bangladesh, which is buying 30 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine made in India, called the findings “really good news”. “The big advantage of having the vaccine is that it can be stored, transported and handled at 2-8 degrees Celsius, and we have that storage facility,” he said. Pascal Soriot, Astra’s chief executive, said the smaller initial dose was good news, as it meant limited supplies could stretch further to vaccinate more people. The company said it would seek emergency use listing from the World Health Organisation for an accelerated pathway to make the vaccine available in low-income countries and “immediately prepare” for submission of the data to regulatory authorities around the world. The Serum Institute of India can currently produce 70 million doses per month of which 35 million doses would be available for use within India once the vaccine is approved by regulatory authorities, Serum officials have said. Serum is also testing the vaccine for safety and its capacity to stimulate an immune response in around 1,600 volunteers across India. Serum officials have said the company plans to submit efficacy data from the UK and Brazil and the local trial data to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, India’s regulatory authority for drugs and vaccines. The company would be seeking emergency use authorisation to enable early roll-out of the vaccine for use in priority populations such as healthcare workers. Indian health officials have said a regulatory decision on the vaccine would require the company to submit the data for analysis by a panel of experts that could take days to weeks. Serum officials have said the company has already manufactured stocks for roll-out. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan had earlier this year announced a plan to vaccinate around 250 million people with 500 million doses of the vaccine by July 2021. The health ministry has asked the states to prepare lists of priority populations such as healthcare workers and other vulnerable groups. But one source indicated on Monday that there was still uncertainty over when Serum could make the vaccine available for the country’s private market. “This will depend on what quantity the government orders,” the source who requested not to be named told The Telegraph. India is also evaluating through clinical trials two home-grown candidate vaccines from the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech and Zydus Cadila and has approved clinical trials on Sputnik V. The Bharat Biotech candidate is now undergoing efficacy trials with the results expected during the first quarter of 2021. Bharat has said it can supply around 300 million doses of its vaccine. Russia has offered India 100 million doses of Sputnik. Additional reporting by New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-538
24-11-2020||India||Brotherhood message amid semantic sniping||The Bihar Assembly was in uproar on Monday when AIMIM members refused to utter “Hindustan” while taking the oath in Urdu and opted for “Bharat”, and the BJP members insisted that any Indian allergic to the word “Hindustan” should go to Pakistan. It was left to Muslim MLA Shakeel Ahmad Khan from the Congress to shame the warring sides into silence by taking the oath in Sanskrit. “I believe that society cannot progress amid orthodoxy and hard-line thoughts. We need to encourage love, harmony and brotherhood,” Shakeel later told reporters. “I took the oath in Sanskrit to show that India is about unity in diversity and that our culture is extremely beautiful. I wanted to give a message to the BJP and the AIMIM.” To some it may have seemed ironic that BJP members were favouring the Persian-Urdu word for India while All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen MLAs were batting for the Sanskrit name, but the squabble underlined how the rise of Hindutva had transformed old yardsticks. The word for India in Sanskrit has been “Bharat” from ancient times, while “Hindu” and “Hindustan” were coined by Persians to describe the people living beyond the Sindhu or Indus river. Urdu, influenced heavily by Persian, uses “Hindustan”. In the days of radio cricket commentary, for instance, Pakistani commentators in Urdu invariably referred to India as “Hindustan” while their Indian counterparts, commentating in Hindi, used “Bharat”. With Hindutva swamping Indian politics, however, it seems the two words’ histories have been eclipsed by their contemporary connotations for some — with the “Hindu” in “Hindustan” overshadowing everything else. The spat broke out while pro-tem Speaker Jitan Ram Manjhi was administering the oath to the newly elected MLAs on the first day of the new Assembly. When AIMIM member Akhtarul Iman’s turn came, he objected to the format of the oath, which he was taking in Urdu, containing “Hindustan” and sought to replace it with “Bharat”. “The oath being administered to the various legislators in the Hindi, English, Sanskrit and Maithili languages has the phrase ‘Bharat ke samvidhan (the Constitution of India)’,” Iman told the House. “But the word ‘Bharat’ has been replaced with ‘Hindustan’ in the Urdu oath. I’m not going to use ‘Hindustan’ and will use ‘Bharat’ instead.” The English oath contains “India”, not “Bharat”. Manjhi underlined that the format of the oath in Urdu always used “Hindustan” and nobody had ever objected because “both words have the same meaning”. He, however, accepted Iman’s request to switch the words. The four other AIMIM legislators in the House of 243 followed Iman in taking the oath in Urdu but using “Bharat”. All through, BJP members tried to hoot them down. “If anybody has a problem uttering ‘Hindustan’, he should go to Pakistan. There’s no place for such people in this country. Their intention is bad and they are setting a bad precedent,” the BJP member from Chhatapur, Niraj Kumar “Bablu”, said. Other BJP members, former minister Pramod Kumar among them, joined in the ruckus. Iman retaliated, accusing them of raising non-issues and brushing under the carpet how a Muslim girl had been killed for resisting molestation. He stressed that the Constitution uses the word “Bharat”. It was amid this bitterness that Shakeel, MLA from Kadwa in Katihar, showed the way, taking the oath in Sanskrit and stunning both sides into silence. As realisation gradually dawned, however, all the legislators present began clapping and thumping their desks to show their approval. Several, including some from the BJP, came up to hug Shakeel. “I chose to take the oath in Sanskrit because it is considered the mother of all languages. I have read Sanskrit and it’s a part of my life. I did what I felt was right. I love my mother tongue Urdu too,” Shakeel told reporters. The first two days of the Assembly session have been reserved for oath-taking. Among those sworn in on Monday were RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and his elder brother Tej Pratap Yadav. However, the Congress and the Left were able to raise the murder of a Muslim girl in Vaishali district for resisting molestation. The accused allegedly set her on fire on October 30 but the incident came to light on November 17, two days after she died. The police acted only after Rahul Gandhi tweeted about it. Tejashwi challenged the Nitish Kumar government to provide 19 lakh jobs within a month, as promised by the BJP during the campaign, or face a state-wide agitation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-538
24-11-2020||India||Police scanner on three Calcutta chartered accountants||Offices and homes of at least three chartered accountants in the city have been searched in the past seven days after their names allegedly emerged during an investigation into a corruption case against a senior IRS officer in connection with which Govind Agarwal was arrested on Sunday. The three chartered accountants have been summoned and questioned separately by Calcutta police. The police are probing allegations against income-tax officer Neeraj Singh who has been suspended. Singh, a 1994-batch IRS officer, has been facing charges under the Prevention of Corruption Act and penal sections dealing with cheating and criminal conspiracy after alleged evidence emerged from the Mangoe Lane office of his close associate Agarwal in 2016. The case was registered in 2017. Investigators said a section of certified chartered accountants in the city appeared to have been helping their clients “manage” their unaccounted finances. Leads suggesting their links with several serving and retired central agency officers have led the police to question these chartered accountants, the investigators said. Agarwal, remanded in judicial custody for a day on Sunday, will be produced in court again on Tuesday. People familiar with him said Agarwal was a “one-stop-solution” for all accounting services for his clients. His name rarely featured in any official papers. Agarwal, who lives in south Calcutta, had started out as a junior accountant at a private firm where he had the job of liaising with income-tax officers. For years, Agarwal operated from a small room on the first floor of a building at 3A Mangoe Lane in central Calcutta. The office neither has a nameplate nor any mention of his company’s name. On Monday, asked about Agarwal, most people in the building said: “Hum nahi jante (We don’t know about him).” Agarwal’s lawyer Biplab Goswami said his client had cooperated with the police when he was officially summoned multiple times. “My client is suffering from critical, life-threatening kidney and liver diseases,” Goswami added. Agarwal’s arrest on Sunday was followed by multiple tweets by Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar who referred to a “politically inspired operation” to target the “CA fraternity”. Police sources said Agarwal’s arrest was based on “fresh evidence” they had received from the Enforcement Directorate in October in connection with the IRS officer’s case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-538
24-11-2020||India||Free-speech boot on hold, praise for Kerala CM ||The Kerala government on Monday put on hold a new penal provision against “publishing or disseminating” offensive content after it provoked a backlash, with even Left supporters condemning the legislation as a curb on free speech. The face-saving decision came two days after the governor had cleared the ordinance that inserted a Section 118A into the Kerala Police Act, prescribing up to three years’ jail “for making, expressing, publishing or disseminating any matter which is threatening, abusive, humiliating or defamatory”. A day after defending the provision, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan announced  on Monday morning that its implementation was being stalled taking into account “varying opinions that emerged soon after the amendment was approved”. “Those who support (the ruling) LDF (Left Democratic Front) and those who take a stand on protecting democracy expressed concern at this. In such circumstances, we don’t intend to implement the amendment,” Vijayan said in a statement. One of the harshest critics of the ordinance, senior lawyer Prashant Bhushan, lauded Vijayan, saying: “Glad to hear this @vijayanpinarayi. It is gratifying to learn that there are still some CMs who are sensitive to independent public opinion.” Vijayan’s statement came shortly after CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury told reporters in Delhi that the party had “proposed” to the Kerala government that it reconsider the ordinance. “The party had proposed (reconsideration) and the state government will now decide how to go about it. How it will be handled is the business of the government, not the party,” Yechury said. Vijayan issued his statement after a CPM secretariat meeting had discussed the matter. He said further action would be taken after a discussion in the Assembly. While the state cabinet had on October 21 decided to bring in a penal provision against those engaging in character assassination or misogyny on social media, the scope of Section 118A was more sweeping. Its reference to “whoever makes, expresses or publishes or disseminates through any kind of mode of communication, any matter or subject for threatening, abusing, humiliating or defaming a person or class of persons...” made it applicable to the mainstream media too. It prescribed a jail term of up to three years with or without a fine of Rs 10,000. Around the time Vijayan was announcing the freeze on the provision, Opposition politicians, activists and NGOs were filing petitions before Kerala High Court asking that the section be quashed as unconstitutional. N.K. Premachandran, Shibu Baby John and A.A. Aziz of the Revolutionary Socialist Party, which is part of the Congress-led alliance in Kerala, moved a joint petition. Among the other petitioners were state BJP president K. Surendran, a Kochi resident named Nandini Praveen and lawyer Anoop Kumaran. Kumaran’s lawyer Prashanth Sugathan, legal director of Software Freedom Law Centre -- an NGO that works for rights in the digital space -- said he wanted the ordinance struck down, not just held in abeyance. “There are sufficient provisions with adequate safeguards in the Indian Penal Code and the IT Act to take care of all the offences mentioned in the ordinance,” he told The Telegraph. “It is dangerous to have a new penal provision with no safeguards.” An early example of how Section 118A could be leveraged had come hours before Vijayan’s announcement on Monday, with a local leader of the Indian Union Muslim League, a Congress ally, lodging a police complaint under the provision. The complainant alleged that some pro-Left Facebook pages were engaged in the character assassination of Muslim Youth League general secretary P.K. Firos. But Firos and senior League leaders quickly asked the party leader to withdraw his complaint.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-538
24-11-2020||India|| Delhi University hostel rooms few, rent and meals a burden||A student’s suicide after being asked to vacate her hostel has underlined how Delhi’s colleges have for decades neglected to expand boarding facilities, forcing students to stay in private lodgings paying high rent but often without enough security. Aishwarya Reddy, second-year BSc student with Lady Shri Ram College, hanged herself after being asked to vacate her hostel seat by November 10 in keeping with a new first-year-only hostel policy. Her mother said Aishwarya had expected private accommodation in Delhi to cost Rs 15,000 a month and was worried how to afford it. Calcuttan Paroma Ray’s experience from a few years ago shows how the failure to secure a hostel seat in Delhi can escalate the cost of education for outstation students. Staying in private rooms had more than doubled the money Paroma needed to spend on rent and meals during her undergraduate and postgraduate studies in Delhi colleges between 2013 and 2018. (See chart) Paroma had opted not to accept a hostel seat at either Lady Shri Ram or Ramjas because of a 7.30pm curfew that would have hobbled her social life and her voluntary service with an organisation that teaches poor children. “The hostel rules were too restrictive. They would have severely limited my exposure to extracurricular activities and social life,” she said. However, the problem of high rent remains the same for those of her peers who seek but are denied hostel seats because there are too few of them. And those that are available are often allotted on the basis of exam scores rather than need. The yearly hostel fees, which include meals, tend to range from Rs 60,000 to Rs 70,000. Rents for private accommodation — whether one stays as a single paying guest or shares rooms in hostels or “guesthouses” — vary a lot more and do not include food. Paroma paid Rs 1.02 lakh a year for her room at upscale Greater Kailash and Rs 84,000 after shifting to Mukherjee Nagar near the North Campus of Delhi University. Shweta Kumari, a third-year student of Lady Shri Ram from Ranchi, had applied for a hostel seat during admission in 2018 but failed to get one. By then, she said, landlords in Greater Kailash were charging anything between Rs 15,000 and Rs 25,000 as paying guest rent. So she got herself a seat at a polytechnic hostel, paying close to Rs 10,000 a month, the fees covering meals. “But I couldn’t stick the oily food, like bread pakoras, for breakfast,” she said. So she moved to Amar colony, paying a monthly rent of Rs 8,000 and spending close to Rs 5,000 on food — more than two-and-a-half times what she would have spent as a hostel boarder. The lockdown brought its own problems, with the landlord continually calling her at Ranchi and demanding rent. She paid up and promised “to pack all my stuff as soon as the lockdown ended”. “This disturbed my mental health a lot,” Shweta said. “In October, I had to go to Delhi to get my stuff, risking my health.” She said the ordeal had destroyed whatever “beautiful memories” she had of her days as a student in Delhi. Delhi University’s nearly 70 colleges admit 66,000 undergraduate students in regular courses every year, which means they have a combined student strength of about 2 lakh undergraduates at any time. Of these, an estimated 60,000 to 70,000 are outstation students but the colleges offer only between 20,000 and 30,000 hostel seats. None of Delhi University’s colleges has expanded its hostel facilities for over two decades. Lady Shri Ram, which has over 2,000 students, has a single hostel with 288 seats. The last expansion the hostel witnessed came in 1988, with 18 rooms added. The Delhi University colleges increased their student intake by 54 per cent in 2007-08 when Other Backward Classes reservation was implemented, and by a further 25 per cent over the past two years to make room for the Economically Weaker Sections quota. “Given the increased intake and the increased percentage of students coming from outside Delhi, the existing hostel facilities are inadequate,” Ujjayini Ray, hostel warden at Lady Shri Ram, acknowledged. She said this was a matter for higher authorities. Delhi University executive council member J.L. Gupta said the university and its colleges had never given priority to hostel expansion. “The hostel seats should have been increased in 2007-08 itself, when the OBC quota was implemented. But while the UGC provided funds for the expansion of classrooms and teaching posts at the time, it gave no funds for hostels,” Gupta said. Unnimaya, students’ council secretary at Lady Shri Ram, said: “Students have long been demanding the expansion of hostel facilities but the college and the university never sought the funds from the University Grants Commission.” She added: “Nor did the government or the UGC release funds for hostel expansion on their own.” Unnimaya said Section 33 of the DU Act mandated hostel accommodation for all students except those studying in the distance mode. Paroma said the students had long been asking the university to rent private rooms and accommodate students at subsidised rates there if it could not build enough hostels, but nothing happened. She said she was fortunate enough not to have faced any security issues while staying in private rooms, but many of her friends had. “Sometimes the owners installed CCTV cameras in the common rooms (in private hostels), causing the girls to feel vulnerable because men (security staff or members of the landlord’s family) would watch them on camera in the name of safety,” she said. “But when they did actually face harassment (from local men), the landlord would refuse to intervene and throw them out instead.” Paroma, who recently enrolled in a PhD course at the Central University of Hyderabad, hopes to get a hostel seat when the campus opens for offline activities. For postgraduate students, Delhi University’s 19 hostels offer 3,580 seats. Two of these, the Rajiv Gandhi Hostel for Girls and Undergraduate Hostel for Girls, were built in 2012 with 772 and 688 seats, respectively. An email sent to the education ministry and the UGC on Thursday asking why they had not provided funds to build new college hostels has brought no response. With the National Education Policy seeking to promote private universities and push public universities into offering courses in the self-financing mode, higher education is likely to witness a rise in fees everywhere and a decrease in subsidies for poor students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-538
24-11-2020||India||Supreme Court declines to quash bail of Delhi riot accused||The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed Delhi police’s appeal for cancelling the bail granted by the high court to Faizan Khan, accused of conspiring with JNU activists and others in the February 2019 communal riots in Delhi that left at least 53 people dead. A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan, dismissed the appeal against the Delhi High Court order of October 23. The police had alleged that Faizan Khan had helped JNU activist Umar Khalid, described as the main conspirator, to get fake SIM cards that were used by the rioters to spread violence and blockades in the capital during the February riots. Justice Suresh Kait, a single judge of the Delhi High Court, had on October 23 granted bail to Khan on the ground that the investigating agency had not produced any evidence to establish his role in the offences with which he had had been charged, including under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-538
24-11-2020||India||Seniors fight for their space in Congress ||The churning in the Congress, which looks like a rebellion against the leadership, may be a tussle for political space between the entrenched forces and the emerging elite. What seems to have prompted the veterans to push back is a belief that Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi have lost confidence in some of the seniors who had been part of the high command structure for decades and that they are backing the newcomers to try and rebuild the organisation. The distrust is so deep that any mishandling could have grave consequences. Off-the-record conversations with the seniors suggest there won’t be any compromise on the demand for a mechanism for collective leadership, which could come in the form of a parliamentary board or a working committee that is truly representative. In a nutshell, the entrenched forces aren’t ready to be cut off the decision-making processes. It’s clearly not a battle against Sonia or Rahul. The veterans want a transparent, institutionalised decision-making system in which their views too would be taken into account. Scratch the surface and what emerges is a push for a balance of power, the argument being that those who have given their blood and toil for the party over decades can’t be discarded because the leadership has developed a liking for someone else. The demand is that the decisions about appointments to party posts, candidatures for elections and nominations for Rajya Sabha seats, as well as the strategy-making, be broad-based and deliberated at designated forums. The situation is similar to that forgotten chapter of Congress history when the veteran Jitendra Prasada, who had been political adviser to Prime Ministers P.V. Narasimha Rao and Rajiv Gandhi, contested for the post of party president against Sonia. He had confided in private that he had nothing against Sonia, who was the undisputed leader, but had challenged her to rub in the message that she was not demonstrating the objectivity and impartiality expected of the supreme authority. Prasada had felt that seniors like him, Rajesh Pilot and many others were being ignored and that the party president was relying solely on the coterie of Arjun Singh, Ahmed Patel, Ambika Soni and a few others. “It is for a democratic culture within the party, not against the authority of Sonia Gandhi, that I decided to contest,” Prasada would say in private. After the election, Sonia graciously called and assured Prasada that everybody would be treated equally, bringing the curtain down on the bitter contest. The same sentiment is playing out all over again. The issue is more about Rahul’s choices than his abilities, with the veterans ruing that undeserving people were being given critical responsibilities. They have been mentioning a couple of names and arguing that Rahul has been unable to constitute a strong team around himself amid the setbacks and the drift in the party. They claim that while the need of the hour is “unity of purpose”, a self-destructive agenda of purge has been guiding the leadership’s approach. The seniors say they are not opposed to the encouragement of talented youth, but insist that age (youth) should not be the sole criterion in the selection for key responsibilities. “Rahul is young but we all accepted him as leader. Who opposed the appointment of Sachin Pilot as Rajasthan deputy chief minister? Who opposed Ajay Maken’s appointment as Delhi chief in place of Sheila Dikshit or Hardik Patel’s rise in Gujarat?” a former leader said. “Our demand for internal elections will encourage the younger leaders who enjoy grassroots support. But who will appreciate it if you want to kick out the seniors out of pique?” While the party does have a few leaders who could play the role of objective arbitrator, having the stature and influence to drum some sense into both sides, the younger leaders too seem unable to analyse the crisis dispassionately and appear to support a violent purge. Worse, many among the younger leaders believe that some of the seniors have been compromised and would not fight the Narendra Modi dispensation honestly. The bridges that have collapsed will have to be rebuilt if the party intends to salvage the situation without serious damage to itself.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-539
24-11-2020||India||Kashmiri singer 'inadvertently participates in army-sponsored music festival||A promising young Kashmiri singer on Monday said she had inadvertently participated in an army-sponsored music festival in Sopore, unaware who the organisers were, and that her “decision would have been different” if she knew. Nargis Khatoon, 21, an undergraduate student, had received widespread criticism after videos surfaced on social media showing her participating in the Sada-e-Hunar, the programme in Sopore, on Sunday. The event was hosted by Team Kay Eleven, a Sopore-based group of students that claims to be working towards resolving “social conflicts”. The banners at the event made it clear that the army’s 22 Rashtriya Rifles was sponsoring it. Event sponsorship by the security forces, while known in the past, has picked up pace since last year’s amendment of Article 370, apparently to bolster the government’s “all is well” narrative in Kashmir. Sunday’s event at the Sopore Degree College witnessed a packed auditorium, with the audience appearing to be relishing the music. Many in Kashmir believe that artistes are sometimes tricked into participating in such events, with the invitations going out from NGOs or other civilian groups. Facing criticism, Nargis, who has earned praise from both Indian and Pakistani singers, took to social media to clear the air. “Thank you every one for sharing your feelings with me about my participation in musical festival yesterday organised by Kay Eleven. When I agreed to perform at this event I was unaware who the organiser was,” she tweeted. “Had I known what I know today, my decision would have been different. While I appreciate you making me aware of this issue, please do not judge me or my commitment.” When some netizens accused her of lying, saying the banners clearly showed the event was army-sponsored, she issued another clarification. “I completely agree I could have done so many things once I learned what had transpired. However, when you are in a situation, the ability to make such decisions spontaneously and unilaterally disappear,” she tweeted. “I appreciate your feedback and hope we can move on and treat this as a life lesson. Always do the proper due diligence prior to committing to anything.” When some people still seemed unconvinced, Nargis posted a Quranic verse. ‘“Allah knows what is in every Heart’ Al-Quran 67:13.’ holds no meaning in Kashmir. People here decide your intentions on their own. Your speaking doesn’t count. Hold on,” she tweeted. She added in capital letters: “They know everything. They know you. They know everything.” Nargis later told The Telegraph that she owed no one any apology and was not speaking under pressure. “I just wanted to clear my stand. The fact is, I was approached by Kay Eleven for the event and did not know who the sponsors were…. What I wrote today (was that) I would have reacted differently had I known who the organisers were,” she said. Junaid Bhat, founding member of Team Kay Eleven, said his group only coordinated the event while the army sent out the invitations to the guests and participants. But sources privy to the event said it was Kay Eleven that sent out the invitations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-539
24-11-2020||India||Why is Covid getting out of control in Gujarat, asks SC||The Supreme Court on Monday sought status reports within two days from all states and Union Territories on measures to tackle rising Covid-19 cases during the current month and anticipated spike in December, as it singled out Gujarat, Delhi and Maharashtra for the spurt. A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan cautioned that while the current month has witnessed a spike, the coming month of December is likely to worsen for which the authorities ought to pull up their socks before things go out of control. “In Gujarat, the situation is going out of control…. We want to know what’s happening in the state of Gujarat. We would like to know what is the policy decision being adopted? Can you tell us what is happening in your state? What are the steps you are taking with regard to political events, marriages and other public activities?” Justice M.R. Shah, one of the judges, asked the counsel appearing for the Gujarat government. The counsel offered to place before the court within the next two days a status report on the various measures initiated by the state to tackle the problem. “We are hearing about huge spike in the current month. We want a latest status report from all states. Worse things may happen in December, if states aren’t well prepared. After Delhi and Maharashtra, situation in Gujarat has also worsened. Why is that you are allowing marriage celebration during daytime? You file an affidavit on the status report on steps taken as on date,” the bench said. The bench had earlier on June 12 taken suo motu cognisance of news reports on various shortcomings in the steps being taken by authorities like provision of adequate hospital beds, ICU facilities, cremation of bodies etc, particularly in the national capital. Since then it has been passing various orders to the authorities. The court on Monday also asked additional solicitor general Sanjay Jain appearing for the Delhi government: “We want to know how are you managing the situation? How are hospitals treating patients? Are there enough beds?” Jain told the bench that pursuant to the court’s last order of July 27, the state had taken a number of steps. He assured the court that there are sufficient beds in Delhi for treating Covid-19 patients. Jain informed the bench that the Delhi government has also earmarked 395 spots for proper cremation of bodies of those who succumbed to the pandemic. “We have no difficulty that you have complied with orders of this court. But looking at the present situation, what else are you doing?” the bench questioned while asking the law officer to submit a detailed report on behalf of the Delhi administration. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta appearing for the Union government told the court that Union home minister Amit Shah had a meeting on November 15 with different stakeholders and pursuant to it several directives were issued. He offered to place the details in an affidavit. The bench after hearing the submissions passed the following written order: “Heard Mr. Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General appearing for the Union of India and learned counsel appearing for the States of Delhi, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Assam and different States. It is submitted in this Court that in the month of November, 2020, there has been a great spike of the Covid cases throughout the country, especially in the States of Delhi, Maharashtra and Gujarat. “Mr. Sanjay Jain, learned senior counsel appearing for the NCT of Delhi submits that the State of NCT of Delhi has already filed an affidavit with regard to compliance of the orders passed earlier on 27.07.2020. Learned counsel appearing for the States of Gujarat and Maharashtra also states that compliance affidavits have been filed. “Mr. Mehta, learned Solicitor General submits that the Union of India through Home Ministry has already taken steps with regard to situation in Delhi and several measures have been taken by the Central Government. He further prays for time to file an affidavit to bring the status of Covid cases in the country especially Delhi. Learned counsel appearing for the States of NCT of Delhi, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Assam also pray for some time to file a status report regarding the present situation of the Covid cases and steps taken to mitigate the situation. It is also submitted that the situation in the month of December is likely to worsen and all States have to be prepared to combat the worsened situation regarding Covid-19. “We are of the view that the immediate steps are required to be taken by all the States as well as by the Union of India. Let status report, as indicated above, be filed within two days from today and the matter be listed on 27.11.2020 for consideration and passing appropriate orders,” the bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-539
24-11-2020||India||Maharashtra pre-entry: negative Covid test report required ||Air and rail passengers from Delhi, Goa, Gujarat or Rajasthan seeking to enter Maharashtra from November 25 would need to carry a negative coronavirus disease test report, the Maharashtra government ordered on Monday. The order requires air passengers to carry a test result from a RT-PCR sample collected within 72 hours of their scheduled arrival in Maharashtra. The RT-PCR sample for rail passengers should have been taken within 96 hours of their disembarking in Maharashtra. Air passengers without negative test results would be tested at airports in Maharashtra while such rail passengers would be screened for symptoms and those with symptoms tested at railway stations. District authorities across Maharashtra have been asked to screen passengers from Delhi, Goa, Gujarat, and Rajasthan for symptoms, including body temperature, and allow entry only to passengers without symptoms. Anyone with symptoms would be turned back or tested for Covid-19. The Maharashtra government has described the order as part of its efforts to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the state. But health experts have pointed out that while the prescribed tests might keep some infected people out, they are unlikely to keep all of them out. “The incubation period for Covid-19 is seven to 14 days — a person who’s tested negative three or four days ago might be carrying the infection,” said Shankar Reddy Dudala, a community medicine specialist at the Government Medical College in Kadapa, Andhra Pradesh. Maharashtra was for months India’s hardest hit state but its epidemic has been steadily shrinking over the past two months — the state’s weekly average of daily new Covid-19 cases has fallen from around 21,000 in mid-September to around 3,800 in mid-November. Health experts say the testing protocols prescribed appear to misleadingly assume that Covid-19 can only be brought into the state whereas in reality the infection is present across Maharashtra. “The key in controlling the epidemic lies in strong surveillance mechanisms in areas that have not reported cases, and acting quickly to contain the infection wherever it emerges in such places,” said Oommen John, a senior physician and researcher at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. “Is the state confident there is no local transmission?” John asked. “Besides, a person with a negative test could get infected anywhere in transit and carry the virus along with the negative report and develop symptoms after a few days,” he added. Epidemiologists said they are also unable to understand Maharashtra’s rationale for selecting only four states — Delhi, Goa, Gujarat and Rajasthan. While Delhi, Gujarat, and Rajasthan have shown a slow increase in the number of daily cases detected over the past three weeks, experts point out that the infection is also widely prevalent across multiple states. “The most effective way to curb spread from outside is to quarantine everyone coming into a territory — whether state or town — for 14 days after arrival,” Reddy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-539
24-11-2020||India||Harsh Vardhan Shringla set for Nepal visit amid strain in ties ||Foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla will visit Nepal this week, raising hopes of an improvement in bilateral relations that have been strained since November 2019 when India issued a new map, which included Kalapani, an area claimed by both countries. Though Shringla will be in Nepal for a two-day visit beginning Thursday, there is no word yet on whether a meeting of the foreign secretary level mechanism to deal with the boundary issue over Kalapani in Uttarakhand and Narsahi-Susta in Bihar has been scheduled. According to the official announcement of the visit by the external affairs ministry, Shringla will meet his counterpart and other Nepalese dignitaries to discuss the wide-ranging bilateral cooperation between the two countries. “The visit is in keeping with the tradition of regular high-level exchanges between the two countries and the priority India attaches to its relations with Nepal.” There was no mention of the irritants that have crept into the relationship, resulting in Nepal also issuing a new map this summer to include areas “occupied by India” — Limpiyadhura, Lipu Lekh and Kalapani — within its territory. India’s contention is that 98 per cent of the boundary between the two countries is demarcated and also initialled by the respective surveyors-general. All that remains to be decided upon is Kalapani and Narsahi-Susta. The Limpiyadhura claim, according to India, has been raised by Nepal after 200 years and all evidence disputes Kathmandu’s contention. Nepal has over the past year sought a meeting of the boundary mechanism several times but India’s official stance has been that this dialogue can be held once the two countries have dealt with the pandemic. In June, as Nepalese Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli played the nationalist card to the hilt to tide over problems within his own party, sources here had claimed that India had offered foreign secretary-level talk to Nepal by phone, videoconference with delegations and also an exchange of visits before Kathmandu moved the constitutional amendment to change the country’s emblem to reflect the new map. Nepal contested this claim and called it “white lies”. Through the summer months, Oli kept his guns trained on India, accusing India of trying to oust him and also claiming that Ram was a Nepali. In both instances, there was backtracking by Nepal with Oli’s party colleagues criticising him for jeopardising relations with India with such claims as the Indian embassy being used to hatch plots against him, and the foreign ministry clarifying that he was not trying to appropriate Lord Ram but calling for research on the “vast cultural geography the Ramayana represents”. A truce of sorts has been in place since August 15 when the two Prime Ministers had a telephonic conversation and a concerted effort at pressing the reset button has been on over the past few weeks with army chief General M.M. Naravane visiting Nepal earlier this month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-539
24-11-2020||India||Biometric failure hurdle to MGNREGA wages||Nearly 40 per cent of workers who have opted for wages through biometric authentication under the 100-day rural job scheme face failure once in every five transactions, a study that sampled 476 such labourers, has found. A study conducted by LibTech India, a research organisation, has identified erosion of fingers due to manual work as the main reason behind failure of biometric authentication under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), with machine malfunction and feeble Internet connectivity being the other hindrances. Under the Narendra Modi government-promoted model of wage disbursal through the Aadhaar-enabled payment system (AePS), workers opting for the scheme receive wages from customer service points or through business correspondents. The business correspondents visit the homes of workers with a machine to authenticate fingerprints and match them with biometric data stored in the Aadhaar database. The same machine is available at the customer service points. However, the study found that one in every five such visits — by a business correspondent to the house of a beneficiary or a beneficiary to a customer service point — ended in futility for that day because of any one or more of the three reasons for close to 40 per cent of the workers sampled. No amount of subsequent attempts that day helped, the study found. The report, titled “Length of the Last Mile: Delays and Hurdles in NREGA Wage Payments” and released on Wednesday, sampled 1,947 workers from Butchayyapeta block in Andhra Pradesh, Jawaja block in Rajasthan and Basia and Manika blocks in Jharkhand between September and November 2018. Of them, 476 workers received wages from customer service points or business correspondents, 1,182 from banks, 252 from post offices and 37 from ATMs. According to the survey, 40 per cent of those who received wages from customer service points or business correspondents faced biometric authentication failure at least once in their last five transactions. An estimated 7 per cent reported that each of their last five transactions had failed due to biometric authentication issues. The study, which did not give out absolute numbers, estimated that this amounted to around 10 per cent of the total sample size of 1,947 workers. The survey also found that the payment model involving customer service points or business correspondents, which started in 2013 but got an impetus in the BJP regime, also fared poorly in ensuring transparency. In Jharkhand, 45 per cent customer service point or business correspondent users said they were charged for using the AePS facility although it is supposed to be free. Those getting wages from banks also faced problems. The survey found that rural banks tend to get very crowded, forcing workers to make multiple trips to withdraw wages. Forty-two per cent of workers in Jharkhand who opted for banks and 38 per cent in Rajasthan took more than four hours to receive their wages. Overall, an estimated 45 percent had to make multiple visits to banks. Nearly 50 per cent of ATM users reported that they had to make multiple trips because the machines did not always dispense cash. In the foreword of the report, economist Jean Dreze wrote that it was a “useful antidote to some of the techno-utopian delusions that have flourished on AePS in recent years”. Sakina Dhorajiwala, one of the main researchers associated with the survey, said the government was promoting the customer service point/business correspondent model without caring for the workers, who continue to face hardships. “The workers using the model were not only facing hardship but were finding the model to be poor in transparency. The multiple visits to banks for bank users meant loss of time and payment on transport for workers,” Dhorajiwala said. The survey recommended increase in bank branches in rural areas, creation of a stronger and accountable system for payment and timely payment of wages to every worker. Rajendran Narayanan, another researcher, said that when the survey was conducted, Covid-induced problems such as poor transport system and social distancing measures had not been there. The last-mile challenge in getting wages would have only increased, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-539
24-11-2020||India||School closure plan outcry in Odisha||The Odisha government’s decision to close down nearly 14,000 schools at the primary level due to poor enrolment sparked off a furore in the Assembly for the second consecutive day on Sunday. As the pressure mounted on the government, it went on the back foot and sought to defend the decision by saying that “it is planned to merge such schools with nearby schools. It should not be construed as closure of schools”. Earlier, the state government had taken a decision to close down schools which have low enrolment. At present, Odisha has nearly 67,000 primary and upper primary schools. There are primary schools in the state which have only eight students. The government constituted a committee to recommend the closure of schools with low attendance. According to the recommendation of the committee, the government decided to close down schools which have a negligible number of students and merge them with nearby schools. Accordingly, in the first phase the process has begun to close down 7,772 primary and upper primary schools. Most of these schools are in the remote parts of the state, including its tribal-dominated areas. As many as 800 schools will be closed down in tribal-dominated Koraput district alone. However, the Opposition put its foot down on Sunday and demanded withdrawal of the government’s decision. Congress legislature party leader Narasingha Mishra said, “Education is the fundamental right of all. It cannot be tampered with. The government should immediately roll back its decision.” The BJP leaders also opposed the decision and asked the government to reconsider it. “Students will have to travel long distances, at some places more than 2km, if the government closes down low attendance schools,” said leader of the Opposition Pradipta Nayak. As stalemate over the issue continued, the state government issued a clarification saying its emphasis was on imparting quality education and not closing down schools. Government chief whip Pramilla Mallik said, “The government is not closing down any school. But there are many schools which have two teachers for just eight students. If the number of students increases, the government will have no problem in running these schools. We are working on the principle of not depriving any one of education.” However, Mallik’s reply did not pacify the Opposition and it sought a reply from the school and education minister on the issue. School and education minister Samir Ranjan Dash said, “We are focusing on qualitative education. The students will immensely benefit under the merger of school schemes. We are committed to the overall development of students and imparting them quality education.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-539
24-11-2020||India||New Puri SP takes over amid cop excess slur||Sambalpur superintendent of police Kanwar Vishal Singh took charge as the Puri SP on Sunday even as tension over an alleged custodial death in the temple town was yet to subside and amid fresh allegations of custodial torture at Pipili police station in the district. Kanwar Vishal Singh replaces Akhileshwar Singh, who was relieved of his charge as Puri SP and attached to the police headquarters in Cuttack, following public outcry against the alleged death of K. Ramesh, a youth of Puri town, in police custody last Wednesday. While the issue continues to generate heat, the alleged torture of six youths at Pipili police station of Puri district has sparked fresh trouble for Odisha police. Family members of the youths have alleged the police did not even allow them to meet the boys. The alleged custodial torture in Pipili came to light when Nimapara jail authorities refused to accept the youths stating that they were critically ill. On November 14, police had detained six youths for allegedly attacking a police informer. On November 19, the court sent them to judicial custody at Nimapara jail. But the jail authorities refused to accept the youths and the accused were sent to SCB Medical College, Cuttack, for treatment. The family members of the youths alleged that they were kept in the dark about the whereabouts of their children. They said they were not even allowed to meet the boys who are being treated in the hospital. Urmila Behera, mother of one of the boys, said, “Police have taken away my son. I don’t know his whereabouts. I want him back.” Gurucharan Pasupalak, father of another of the accused undergoing treatment at SCB Medical College, said that “the authorities are not allowing me to meet my son. I have not seen him for the last eight days”. Meanwhile, deputy inspector-general, Central range, has started a probe into allegations of police excesses against the six youths in Pipili police station. On Saturday, the Assembly witnessed pandemonium over alleged police excesses and the custodial death of two persons with the Opposition claiming that the government was insensitive and that jungle raj was prevailing in the state. Opposition leaders had accused the government of protecting police officers involved in the alleged custodial deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-539
24-11-2020||India||Fine, jail term if Odisha govt employees participate in strikes||Odisha government employees will now be penalised if they resort to strikes threatening the safety and security of the people. The Odisha Essential Services Maintenance Act (ESMA) Amendment Bill, 2020, which was passed by the Assembly on Monday has provisions for one-year jail term and a fine upto Rs 5,000 or both if the safety of the people is compromised due to strikes by the employees. “Any person who instigates or incites other persons to take part in, or otherwise acts in furtherance of, or does any act preparatory to, a strike which is illegal under this act shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine which may extend to Rs 5,000 or with both,” the bill states. It also prohibits employees from extending or supplying any money to a strike which is illegal under this bill. The fire services, forest, excise, prison and correctional services and any service connected with the working of any establishment have been brought under the ambit of the bill.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-539
24-11-2020||West Bengal||Mamata says Bengal govt capable enough to procure Covid-19 vaccine||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has said the state government is capable enough to procure the Covid-19 vaccine for the people of Bengal, seeking to pre-empt the replay of a publicity stunt the Centre had staged in Bihar before the Assembly polls there. “Give us the necessary instructions and inform us of the source from which the vaccine has to be procured. Our state government is ready,” Mamata said in Bankura on Monday. The chief minister’s comments came a day before her scheduled virtual meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the Covid-19 vaccination and allied issues. “They will make claims about giving the vaccine injections right away but will take at least six to eight months to actually send them. If we can spend Rs 1.5-2.5 lakh on the treatment of a (critical) Covid-19 patient, we can take care of the injections too,” Mamata said. Sources in the Trinamul Congress said the chief minister was aware that the BJP might try to make Covid vaccination an issue in the run-up to next year’s Assembly polls in Bengal. The BJP had promised free Covid-19 vaccines for everyone in Bihar while releasing its election manifesto there. Although the Election Commission had concluded the promise did not violate the model code, health experts had said such promises were premature, given the lack of clarity over which candidate vaccine might clear the tests and when. At the meeting with Modi on Tuesday, Mamata is expected to underscore the demand that the state health department be made the nodal agency for Covid-19 vaccination, a source at Nabanna, the state secretariat, said. “We have heard that Niced (the Centre’s National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases) can be made the nodal agency for Covid-19 vaccination in Bengal. We want the health department to be made the nodal agency — that will help implement the vaccination plans and processes smoothly here,” a state government official said. He claimed Niced lacked the infrastructure to undertake a vaccination programme on such a large scale — Bengal has a population above 10 crore — and could end up delaying the entire process. “The state wants prompt vaccination without avoidable delay, through the health department. For this, we are ready to buy the vaccines from the producers directly, if necessary,” said another official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-300
24-11-2020||West Bengal||AIMIM face joins TMC to ‘foil’ Bihar poll rerun||Anwar Pasha, a prominent face of the Bengal unit of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen, along with several colleagues, joined the Trinamul Congress on Monday, asserting that they did not want the Asaduddin Owaisi-led outfit to pull off a repeat of the Bihar Assembly elections in Bengal. Pasha, who had been a key leader in the AIMIM since 2013, lauded chief minister Mamata Banerjee for her secular, inclusive approach to politics and governance, before underscoring the reason for his switch. “In Bihar, the AIMIM contested 126 seats, winning only five. But they helped the BJP by deepening the polarisation and was almost single-handedly responsible for bringing the NDA back to power there…. Polarisation and cutting votes is a dangerous game. You can contest in just one constituency and hold just one meeting, but end up polarising the electorate in five constituencies,” said Pasha, who participated in a joining ceremony at Trinamul Bhavan here in the afternoon, overseen by ministers Bratya Basu and Malay Ghatak. “We don’t want to end up being the contractors building the bridge for the BJP to cross so that it could wrest power here. That is what the AIMIM’s role was in Bihar.” Along with him, the likes of Ali Bux, Sheikh Hasikul Islam, Ahmadullah Sardar, Jamshed Ahmed, Nazmul Hussain, Intekhab Alam and Syed Raihan joined Trinamul. “This joining by Pasha and others would take some wind out of Owaisi’s sails and be a setback for his Bengal plans,” said a Trinamul MP. However, the AIMIM tried playing down the importance of the joinings. “Yes, he (Pasha) has been a part of the party for some time. But at least for a year, he had been associated with several anti-party activities. So, he held no post or responsibility. His exit will make no difference to us,” said Syed Asim Waqar, an AIMIM spokesperson. Dilip Ghosh, the Bengal chief of the BJP, said: “The AIMIM’s functionaries are joining Trinamul here because Mamata is the undisputed champion of the kind of politics they believe in.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-300
24-11-2020||West Bengal||Switch from TMC to BJP in Nandigram ||The Trinamul Congress lost control of its second gram panchayat in East Midnapore, a district that had shaped the Mamata Banerjee party’s ride to power in 2011. The pradhan, upa (deputy) pradhan and six members of the Bayal gram panchayat in Nandigram block II joined the BJP in the presence of party leaders in both Calcutta and Nandigram in a span of five days. Last Thursday, panchayat pradhan Pabitra Kar and upa-pradhan Biswajit Bhuniya had received party flags in Calcutta in the presence of BJP state party president Dilip Ghosh. On Monday, six other members of the Bayal gram panchayat received their party flags from the BJP’s district vice-president Pralay Pal. The switch to the BJP of eight panchayat members in Bayal, including the pradhan and his deputy, has now left the Trinamul Congress with only two members in the 10-member gram panchayat. Bayal panchayat marks the second notable loss of control for Trinamul in East Midnapore since Kendamari Jalpai panchayat, where accusations of Amphan compensation fraud had forced the party to suspend a few members, leading to rift and open rebellion among members. Since the 2008 panchayat polls, in which Trinamul won the zilla parishads of East Midnapore and South 24-Parganas, Trinamul had control of all 17 gram panchayats under the Nandigram Assembly segment. Asked why he defected to the BJP, Pabitra Kar cited his discontents with the ruling party, alluding to remarks made during two separate rallies organised in Nandigram on November 10 by state ministers Firhad Hakim and Suvendu Adhikari. “Both leaders belittled the significance of the Nandigram movement and it went against everything we had fought for in those years,” said Kar, referring to the 2007 land agitation that is widely credited for Trinamul’s rise to power in 2011. “Not one police officer accused of killing innocent people has been punished,” he said. He added that Hakim credited Mamata Banerjee for the Nandigram movement and Adhikari himself, but no one spoke about the anti-land acquisition movement. “Such comments from top Trinamul leaders made me uncomfortable to stay on in the party,” Kar added. Another panchayat member Shiuli Kar, who joined the BJP on Monday, agreed. “Trinamul rode the Nandigram wave to come to power in 2011 but none of the party’s promises made then, including punishment for the guilty police officers who attacked villagers during Left rule, were fulfilled. We felt disillusioned with the party, and we hope to fulfil our demands through the BJP,” she said. The incident has added to Trinamul’s unease in the district amid a rumoured fallout with Adhikari, though the party heavyweight had recently said in public that he had neither left the party, nor had be been asked to leave. Asked, Trinamul leader Meghnad Pal, also the Nandigram Assembly committee chairman, said the six panchayat members had “acted against the party”. “Panchayat norms dictate that we cannot take action (against these defectors) before they have been in office for two-and-a-half years,” he added. Though Bengal’s panchayat elections — the bloodiest in recent memory — happened in May 2018, it took over a month for boards to form, hence these grassroots leaders have not completed two-and-a-half years in power as of now. BJP leaders in the area sounded both jubilant and optimistic about more from Trinamul joining the saffron camp in the coming days. “Eight panchayat members from Bayal joined us this month and others are in touch with us. You will see them come to us very soon,” said BJP district vice-president Pralay Pal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-300
24-11-2020||West Bengal||14 people, 8 trucks fall off steamer into Ganga in Malda||Fourteen persons are suspected to have fallen in the Ganga as eight trucks loaded with sand and stone chips tumbled into the river from a vessel (large steamer) that had brought the vehicles from Jharkhand’s Rajmahal to Manikchak in Malda. The vessel had just been anchored at Manikchak on Monday evening when the mishap happened. Around 14 people — workers and helpers on trucks, mostly Jharkhand residents — are suspected missing. Senior police and administrative officials, and a disaster management team are searching for the men. In Malda, it is a common practice to bring the trucks from Jharkhand via waterways. “Around 7.15pm, the vessel anchored at Manikchak, and iron planks were laid out so that the trucks could roll out of the vessel. As the first truck moved out, the planks trembled. This shook the vessel, and a truck at the rear fell into the river. As the vehicles were in a row, other trucks started rolling back and fell into the river one by one,” said a source in the administration. During preliminary probe, the police learnt that 22 men fell in the river, among whom eight swam up but 14 could not. A source said the drivers of the trucks managed to get off the vehicles in time. The men who fell in the river were workers (who load and unload consignments) and helpers. Rajarshi Mitra, Malda district magistrate, and superintendent of police Alok Rajoria are learnt to have headed for Manikchak. Gour Mondal, the sabhadhipati of Malda Zilla Parishad, and some Trinamul leaders, also went to the site. The district magistrate said it needed to be verified exactly how many men are missing and it would be probed if proper safety measures were followed. The eight men who could swim up have been sent to a hospital in Manikchak.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-301
24-11-2020||West Bengal||Apolitical forum formed in Darjeeling to pursue Gorkhaland demand||An apolitical forum has been formed in Darjeeling to pursue the demand of Gorkhaland at a time the dynamics of hill politics have changed with both Bimal Gurung and Binay Tamang factions of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha aligning with the Trinamul Congress, a party opposed to the statehood. Leaders of the new organisation — Gorkhaland Sankalp Samua — held a meeting with office-bearers of the Bharatiya Gorkha Parisangh, another apolitical organisation espousing the cause of the Gorkhas across the country, in Darjeeling on Sunday to present their plans and proposals to pursue the statehood demand. Pasang Sherpa, a representative of the GSS, said there had been a realisation that political parties had failed to achieve much through their movements. “This, we feel, is because they are not united. We want to create a platform where a united Gorkha voice can be heard,” said Sherpa stressing that the apolitical organisation would extensively use social media to reach out to the Gorkhas across the country. At a time both the factions of the Morchas have aligned with Trinamul and the  GNLF is talking about the possibility of going for a “permanent political solution”, which is not less than the provisions enshrined in the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution, observers believe the new apolitical organisation is trying to tap in the “silent majority” which do not agree with the present stand of hill parties. Even though most hill parties swear by Gorkhaland, which is an emotive issue, the disillusionment against these parties is slowly coming out in the open, said an observer. The GSS highlighted that the movements by political parties had achieved little but only destroyed “the economy, education, livelihood and even politics of the hills”. “Our primary agenda at the moment is to unite all voices, including parties, and bring them to a common platform so that the demand is pursued strongly,” said Sherpa. Sources said this new forum would not allow its members to engage with political parties. “The forum is looking at agitation which does not severely affect common lives. Movements like not accepting government benefits on a particular day, hoisting national flags to demand Gorkhaland and mobilising people across the region with specific events, are being considered by the forum at the moment,” said a source. Observers believe that these events are probably aimed to first mobilise support for the new platform. The fact that the BGP has given credence to the new initiative suggests there is a bigger churn below the surface. Sukhman Moktan, national president, BGP, said members of the apolitical organisations discussed the present situation of Darjeeling and “the problem, weaknesses and initiatives and strategies that need to be undertaken for fulfilment of Gorkhaland demand”. “We have also decided to hold a national seminar on Gorkhaland in Darjeeling soon,” said Moktan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-301
24-11-2020||West Bengal||ED notices to three Trinamul leaders, including minister Firhad Hakim||The Enforcement Directorate has sent  notices to three Trinamul Congress leaders — Firhad Hakim, Prasun Banerjee and Madan Mitra — asking them to submit the details of their bank account transactions within a week from Monday. “We need to verify the details of the monetary transactions that happened through all the bank accounts held in their names,” said a source in the agency, which is investigating the Narada scam. While Hakim is a minister in the state government, Banerjee represents Howrah in the Lok Sabha. Mitra is a former minister. All these three leaders, along with other accused in the scam, had been questioned by the ED and the CBI. Their voice samples were also recorded in the course of the investigation as people resembling them were seen accepting cash in a sting operation conduced by Narada News. “We have already asked for and received several documents from these accused persons. As the investigation proceeds, we might need more documents as well,” the source said. A few days ago, the ED had asked BJP national vice-president Mukul Roy to share the details of his bank accounts and assets owned by him and his wife. However, this notice was in reference to the Saradha chit fund scam. Roy, who is now recovering from a surgery, had said earlier that there was nothing to hide and he would cooperate with the investigation. Roy — former Trinamul number 2, who joined the BJP in 2017 — is one of the accused in the Narada scam. Former Calcutta mayor Sovan Chatterjee is also an accused. Chatterjee switched from Trinamul to the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-301
24-11-2020||West Bengal||Drop in active Covid cases continues||Bengal on Monday reported a drop in total active Covid-19 cases for the 28th consecutive day as sources in the government said there were indications that the state had successfully warded off the threat of the outbreak worsening over the Kali Puja-Diwali weekend. The state logged 3,687 recoveries, 3,557 infections and 47 deaths on Monday. A member of the Mamata Banerjee cabinet said Monday’s figures were significant as they were believed to represent infections of the November 14-15 weekend. “These figures we are getting now are of the Kali Puja-Diwali weekend. Monday was Day 10 for someone who got infected on Kali Puja,” said a minister. It is between days six and 10 of the infection that most cases get detected. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent the worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja. The numbers of infections from Puja have shown that the intervention was effective. The high court issued a similar set of instructions for Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. “I think we are now getting to find out that the judicial intervention turned out to be equally effective for the November phase of festivals,” said the minister. In the 28 days since the end of Durga Puja, the state has recorded over 1.14 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 1.05 lakh cases found during the same period. It has dragged the total of active cases down from 37,190 to 25,030 in the 28 days. Bengal’s total of Covid-19 cases — since the first was detected on March 17 — is nearly 4.6 lakh, including over 4.26 lakh recoveries and 8,072 deaths. The state’s recovery rate has been on an unbroken spell of rise for 32 consecutive days, reaching 92.8 on Monday, inching closer to the national rate of 93.69 per cent. Of the 47 deaths reported on Monday, 10 were from Calcutta. Of the total deaths, 6,746 (83.6 per cent) have been attributed comorbidities. The state’s mortality rate is now 1.75, compared to the 1.46 per cent nationally. With 42,367 tests on Monday, over 55.65 lakh swab samples have been examined in the state. The number of tests per million people are 61,837. The positive confirmation rate is 8.26 per cent. Bengal reported 29.47 per cent occupancy on 13,508 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 101 dedicated hospitals. Over 4.75 lakh telemedicine consultations have been provided on the pandemic so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-301
24-11-2020||West Bengal||CM seeks to corner BJP on statue faux pas||Mamata Banerjee on Monday pulled no punches against Union home minister Amit Shah and his party over their alleged lack of understanding of and sensitivity to tribal people, and more precisely to Bengal. Ending her silence on the BJP’s faux pas over foremost tribal icon Birsa Munda in Bankura earlier this month, the chief minister attacked the saffron ecosystem before announcing an annual holiday in the state starting next year on the birth anniversary of the freedom fighter. “He (Union home minister Shah) had garlanded a statue... later, you people told me that it was not of Birsa Munda at all, but that of a hunter. I respect hunters, they too are my brothers. But why would you lie like this, that too about such an icon?” asked Mamata at a state government event in Khatra, Bankura. The tribal freedom fighter, religious leader and folk hero Munda has suddenly assumed the centrestage in the battle between the Trinamul Congress and the BJP in Bengal after Shah paid floral tributes to the statue of an anonymous tribal hunter, which his party had identified as that of Munda. A photograph of Munda was kept at the feet of the statue in the last minute, after the blunder was pointed out by tribal outfits. “You will demolish the statue of Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar. You will make mistakes about Rabindranath Tagore. You will pay tributes to an anonymous statue and claim it is of Birsa Munda…. This is simply not right,” said the Trinamul chief. Although the faux pas drew criticism from tribal organisations, the BJP’s state unit – responsible for the mistake – has been trying to put up a brave face and its chief Dilip Ghosh has said — much to the dismay of tribal organisations — that everybody must now consider it a statue of Munda, because Shah had paid tribute to it. On Monday, Ghosh stuck to his guns and said that adivasis were with the BJP and not Trinamul. Ghosh was correct on the decisive tribal support his party managed to garner in the general election, which gave it five of the six Lok Sabha seats in the tribal-dominated Jungle Mahal region of the state, including leads in 31 of the 45 Assembly segments there. Mamata was equally unsparing on Shah over his luncheon at the home of a tribal farmer in Bankura’s Chaturdihi on November 5. “A few days back, our honourable (Union) home minister came here, although only to show off. The food for him was brought from outside… five-star hotel and whatnot… by a cook from elsewhere. The person (Shah’s tribal host) has a daughter with a serious disease. He thought he would get help but he (Shah) told him that he would only have lunch at his home,” said Mamata. Shah had the lunch at the house of Bibhishan Hansda, 12km from Bankura town. Hansda was unable to speak to Shah about the problems he faces over the treatment of his 17-year-old diabetic daughter. After the state administration came forward with help, the BJP state leadership announced that the girl would be taken to the AIIMS in Delhi for treatment. “My Scheduled Tribe sisters were shown cutting vegetables that he did not eat at all. Even the rice was expensive Basmati from a five-star hotel, besides posto’r bawra (poppy-seed fritters),” said Mamata. Reacting with outrage, BJP state chief Ghosh alleged that the Trinamul chief’s 26-day hunger strike against the anti-land acquisition in Singur — a landmark in her political career — was “fake”. On Monday, before the event, Mamata met residents of Benkia, a Scheduled Caste-dominated village in Bankura’s Khatra. She sat in a charpoy and interacted with the villagers, regarding whether they had been benefiting from the state government’s many schemes. She said later that it was not a pre-planned visit, unlike those by the likes of Shah. At the event, she announced a new state-wide programme — Duarey Duarey Sarkar (The government at every doorstep) — to enhance administrative reach-out to the rural masses and sort out their problems ahead of the polls. As part of the programme, camps would be up between December 1 and January 30 in each of the state’s 341 blocks, with officials of every key department. “If any person visits a camp and informs us about a facility they are yet to get, the officials would ensure it is provided. If it is not possible at that time, priority lists would be made,” she said. The chief minister kept asking the people to keep the faith in her and attacked the BJP over its “anti-people” policies. “Many political parties would come before the elections and will deposit money in your accounts…. You can accept the money but don’t vote for them,” she said, holding the Centre responsible for the surge in prices of essential edibles. “There are one or two bad people everywhere, but there are so many good people…. I will serve the people till I die. For after that, I will create a team, to serve the people of Bengal in my absence,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-301
24-11-2020||West Bengal||SUV-bus collision kills two in Cooch Behar||A woman health worker and a driver were killed and two others, including the block medical officer of health, Cooch Behar–II block, were severely injured when their SUV collided head-on with a bus on Monday afternoon. The deceased are Arpita Das, 40, and Sribash Roy, 25. The health team had been to Pundibari to collect swab samples from suspected Covid-19 patients. On their way back to Cooch Behar, their SUV and a Siliguri-bound private bus collided at Chandanchura. BMOH S.K. Mondal and the injured woman health worker are admitted to the Cooch Behar government hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-301
24-11-2020||West Bengal||Healing touch for plastic factory blast victims||A young doctor from Sujapur in Malda has handed over Rs 25,000 to each of the six families who lost a member in the plastics factor blast last Thursday, and Rs 10,000 to six others with injuries. On Sunday, Joeb Ali Biswas, 35, gave Rs 2.10 lakh out of his own pocket to help the bereaved and the injured at a time most politicians are indulging in blame-game over compensation. So far, the state government provided compensations of Rs 2 lakh each to the bereaved families and Rs 50,000 to each of the injured youths. The BJP has demanded that the state pay Rs 1 crore to each of the bereaved families, and the Congress has clamoured for Rs 10 lakh. For the poor families who have lost their sole earning member in the Sujapur factory blast, Biswas’s gesture has come as a much-needed support. Doloni Bibi, mother of Abdul Rehman, 17, who died in the blast, was moved to tears. “My son was the only earning member of the family. After his untimely death, we have no idea how we would arrange our meals. Even Rs 100 matters a lot for us. What this doctor did is beyond our imagination. His assistance would help us for some days,” she said. Biswas downplayed his generosity. “I felt it is my responsibility to stand with these families at this hour of crisis, it is nothing worth mentioning,” he said. “But I would urge all those with steady incomes to help these families as much as possible,” he added. An MBBS, Biswas has worked in a number of private hospitals in Calcutta. Earlier this year, during the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown, Biswas returned to Sujapur and since then has been providing free treatment to residents there and villages nearby. On hearing about Thursday’s blast, Biswas immediately decided to extend some help to the affected families from his own earnings. For this, he contacted Arif Ali, the local panchayat head, on how to go ahead with his plan. Accordingly, on Sunday, Biswas visited the households and handed over the compensation money. Biswas also told the families to feel free to approach him for advice on treatment of the injured once they get back home from hospital or for the treatment of any other family member. The district police are awaiting the report of the forensic team that inspected the blast site and collected samples from the spot. “The probe is in progress. We are waiting for the forensic report and hope it will help us reach a conclusion on the reason for the blast,” said Alok Rajoria, Malda superintendent of police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-301
24-11-2020||West Bengal||Covid patient mix-up showcause ||The state health directorate issued showcause notices to a doctor and two nurses of Khardah’s Balaram Hospital for dereliction of duty that led to a mix-up of names of two aged Covid patients, wherein a 75-year-old patient died but the family of a 62-year-old patient who was alive was informed of the death. The error in hospital data entry came to light on Friday when Birati resident, Sibnath Bandyopadhyay, 62, was waiting for release after his recovery. But Sibnath’s name was recorded as Khardah’s Mohini Mohan Mukhopadhyay, 75, in hospital records, and authorities called up the latter’s family. When Mohini Mohan’s son Sudip arrived, he said the man wasn’t his father. Mohini Mohan, in fact, had died earlier this month, but Sibnath’s family had informed about “Sibnath’s” death. Sibnath’s son Sanjib, who was preparing for his shraddha scheduled for Saturday, came to the hospital to take his father home. Sources at Balaram Hospital said data entry error occurred when Mohini Mohan was being shifted to Kadamgachi Covid hospital in Barasat. Directorate of health services Ajoy Chakraborty said: “The incident has embarrassed us immensely.” “We have identified a doctor and two nurses of Balaram hospital (for the lapse) and they have been issued show-cause notices and asked to reply by Tuesday. Once we get those, necessary action will be taken against them. Nobody will be spared for negligence,” Chakraborty said, but refused to disclose the three names. On the directorate’s orders, the chief medical officer of health, North 24-Parganas, had formed a four-member inquiry panel that submitted its report on Friday night, identifying the hospital employees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-301
24-11-2020||West Bengal||Lightweight Jagaddhatri  for Covid safety||A 71-year-old Jagaddhatri Puja committee in Hooghly’s Chandernagore is worshipping a printed image of the idol this year to make it lightweight and ensure fewer people are involved in its immersion amid the pandemic. The 20-foot-tall vinyl-printed image has been fixed on plywood to give a 3D (three dimensional) look and a feel of clay idol. Chandernagore’s Jagaddhatri Puja is popular for huge idols, 3D illuminations and enormous immersion processions. In view of government regulations because of the pandemic, several Puja committees have downsized the celebrations to avoid huge crowds. A member of the Bagbazar Chowmatha Jagadhatri Puja Committee said the idea to use vinyl printing the idol occurred to them as vinyl prints were offered as high-quality 3D solutions for decorating cars, buildings and windows. A member of the seven-decade-old Puja committee said that after several rounds of discussions they opted for the printed version of the goddess to make the idol lighter and easier to carry for immersion. After talks, local printing press was contacted to find out whether it would be able to print the picture of last year’s clay idol on a 20-foot-long flex (which would be affixed to a piece of ply) to give a 3D effect, said a committee member. The printers said they could do the job. As budget was also a major consideration for the organisers this year, vinyl printing helped slash the cost spent on the idol in normal years. Till last year, the committee had spent Rs 35,000 on the idol and this year it has been significantly less. “The vinyl print cost us around Rs 22,000,” said Somnath Niyogi, treasurer of the Puja committee. However, the factor that weighed most on the minds of the organisers was not cost but weight. With vinyl print that target was achieved. “The technology is called 3D vinyl printing. We have placed it on a plywood and the weight has become much lighter than that of a clay idol. While the clay idol weighs around 8-10 quintals, this weighs less than 100kg,” said Bhaskar De Sarkar, one of the organisers. He added that a lightweight idol meant less people during immersion. Biswanath Niyogi, the president of the Puja committee, said this year only 15-20 persons would be allowed in the immersion process. “Carrying a clay idol would have required many people which is not possible amid a pandemic. As most of our committee members are elderly and some of them are even Covid survivors, we decided to keep them away from the process.” He added that the idol would be immersed on Tuesday, when the four-day-long Jagaddhatri Puja celebrations come to an end.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-301
24-11-2020||West Bengal||Duncan-Goenka Group tea estate workers seek state aid||Around 100 workers of a closed tea estate owned by the Duncan-Goenka Group in Alipurduar district and some leaders of the Trinamul-backed tea trade union walked up to the office of the assistant labour commissioner on Monday and demanded the state’s monthly financial aid for workers immediately. Workers of Birpara tea estate, which closed 13 months back, said they were supposed to receive the monthly state aid of Rs 1,500 each under the Financial Assistance to Workers of Locked Out Industries (FAWLOI) scheme from May this year. None of them had received a penny so far, they said. In all, the garden has 1,300 permanent workers. According to them, under state norms, workers of a tea estate closed for six months or more are eligible for the aid. “Workers were supposed to get the money from May. None received the money. That is why we went to the ALC’s office in Birpara,” said Mannalal Jain, a leader of Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union. Neil Chhetri, the ALC, heard them out and assured them of help. In another development, Joint Forum, an apex body of over 25 tea trade unions, has decided to organise protests in each tea garden of north Bengal for the next two days, starting Tuesday, over a series of demands related to the well-being of the workforce. North Bengal has around 270 tea estates, which employ close to three lakh workers. Ziaur Alam, forum convener, said tea workers were in distress as key demands, including a fixed minimum wage, reopening of closed tea gardens and payment of wages during lockdown, were not addressed. “For the next two days, workers will demonstrate for half an hour in every tea garden of north Bengal. All our constituent unions have been instructed to organise the protests. We want the state government and tea planters to meet the demands,” said Alam. The Joint Forum does not have Trinamul-backed tea trade unions as constituents. Trinamul leaders see these protests as a “planned move” of tea trade unions affiliated to other political parties to exert pressure on the state government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-301
24-11-2020||North East||Mizoram to ban bursting of firecrackers on Christmas, New Year||The Mizoram government has decided to ban the bursting of firecrackers on Christmas and New Year to curb air pollution which could aggravate respiratory problems of Covid-19 patients and others, an official said on Tuesd0ay. The decision in this regard was taken during a high- level meeting chaired by Home Minister Lachamliana on Monday, he said. Apart from firecrackers, the use of sky lanterns and other pyrotechnics including toy guns has also been banned, the official said. Prohibitory orders in this regard will be issued by deputy commissioners, he said. During the meeting, it was also decided to set up special police checkpoints and conduct mobile patrolling during the festive season, the official said. Apart from the police, COVID-19 local task force volunteers will be roped in for the purpose, he said. Bursting of firecrackers and other pyrotechnic materials is a widespread practice during the festive season in the Christian-majority state. The state government had earlier banned firecrackers to enable people to celebrate the festival in a peaceful manner but this year the administration is more concerned about pollution in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, he said. State Health and Family Welfare Board Vice Chairman Dr Z R Thiamsanga said this year's Christmas and New Year celebrations are likely to be subdued due to the COVID-19 outbreak. The government is unlikely to allow congregational singing called 'Zaikhawm' or community feasts, integral parts of the festivities along with church service, as a precautionary measure to prevent the spread of the disease, he said. Health Minister Dr R Lalthangliana will convene a meeting during the day to deliberate on coronavirus-related issues in view of the festive season, he added. The state has so far reported 3,710 COVID-19 cases, of which 452 are active.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-34
24-11-2020||North East||Tarun Gogoi dies of post-Covid complications at 86||Tarun Gogoi, Assam’s longest-serving chief minister who had helped the state “breathe freely again” after years of insurgency, died of post-Covid complications at the Guwahati Medical College Hospital on Monday evening. He was 86. Health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma’s announcement of the death around 5.36pm triggered mourning across political barriers for a Congress leader widely described as a “towering” personality and able administrator whose sense of humour allowed him to enjoy even comedy shows lampooning him. Tributes poured in from President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, Assam governor Jagdish Mukhi and BJP chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal. Social media was alight with accolades. Three days of state mourning have been announced for the man who ruled Assam from 2001 to 2016, with both the ruling BJP and the Opposition Congress cancelling all their programmes. “If Laluji (former Bihar chief minister) gave voice to the downtrodden and the oppressed, Gogoi Sir delivered Assam from fear and uncertainty, fuelled by years of insurgency,” Assam Christian Forum spokesperson Allen Brooks said. “Under him, life returned to normal in the villages and people began stepping out of their homes at night. The development that took place on (Guwahati’s) G.S. Road in his first term, and then the holding of the National Games in Guwahati during his second term, are testimonies to peace and development. He helped Assam breathe freely again.” Columnist Paresh Malakar ageed. “Compared with what Gogoi had inherited, his achievements are remarkable,” he said. “After Bimala Prasad Chaliha (Congress chief minister, 1957-70), Gogoi was the only chief minister under whom Assam witnessed real development. He also tried to preserve the composite character of Assam by taking everyone along.” Educationist and theatre activist Sitanath Lahkar highlighted a different side of Gogoi’s rule. “I’m not a fan of the Congress but I must admit that drama activists like me enjoyed a lot of freedom during his tenure. Freedom of expression was never curbed (unlike) what we are witnessing across India today,” he said. Lahkar recalled the popular TV comedy show, Supati, “where the joke was always on him (Gogoi)”. “But instead of taking umbrage, he used to enjoy the show,” he said, remembering how the chief minister used to break into a grin every time someone asked him about the show. Rights activist Suhas Chakma saluted Gogoi for bringing “peace to the troubled hills” in the Bodo areas, Karbi Anglong and Dima Hasao. “A true secular Ahomiya, he never relied on fear or hate,” he said. When Gogoi took over in May 2001, Assam was struggling with insurgency, its finances in a shambles. But Gogoi’s simultaneous efforts at development and peace turned things around within three years. But his three-term rule ended in one of the Congress’s worst defeats, when it won just 26 of the Assembly’s 126 seats in 2016. The main reasons were high expectations and an intense power struggle with his cabinet minister Sarma, which most Congress insiders blame the high command for not addressing in time. Sarma eventually joined the BJP and scripted its rise to power in the state. Gogoi’s success in state politics is largely attributed to his experience in Delhi, his accessibility and amiable nature behind the blunt manner, his promotion of young politicians and, perhaps most important, the absence of any corruption charges against him personally. He was also a media favourite because he treated veterans and rookies alike, answered calls late in the night and never ducked uncomfortable questions or situations. His government’s efforts to set up medical colleges in every district are seen as having played a key role in Assam’s fight against the Covid pandemic. He doubled Assam’s number of medical colleges from three to six. A Twitter user, Anannya Baruah, posted: “Rest in peace, Tarun Gogoi. For those years of relative peace after the terrors of the 90s and the early 00s, for being a good CM, and for being the sort of person who apparently really enjoyed parodies of himself on Supoti - his death is a loss for all of us.” Gogoi was born into a doctor’s family at Rangajan tea estate in present-day Jorhat district on October 11, 1934. He was a six-time MP and a five-time MLA apart from holding various organisational posts in the Congress at the national and state levels. He was Union minister of state with independent charge of the food ministry from 1991 to 1995 when Coca-Cola, PepsiCo, McDonald’s and Kellogg entered India despite resistance. Gogoi served as chief minister for 5,485 days, from May 18, 2001, to May 24, 2016, covering three straight terms. He tested positive for Covid-19 on August 25 and was discharged from hospital on October 25 before being readmitted on November 2. He was on ventilation, battling multi-organ failure, since Saturday afternoon. He was put on dialysis on Sunday. Gogoi leaves behind his wife Dolly, daughter Chandrima and son Gaurav Gogoi, a Congress MP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-34
24-11-2020||Opinion||Timely decision: No Chhath Puja at Rabindra and Subhas Sarobar||Sir — The decision by the Supreme Court last Thursday to uphold the directives by the Calcutta High Court and the National Green Tribunal banning Chhath Puja rituals in Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar must be lauded (“Sacred and profane”, Nov 21). Rabindra Sarobar, known as ‘lake’ to the locals, is home to three species of turtles, common toads, bullfrogs, cricket frogs, squirrels and several species of butterflies, dragonflies and snakes, among others. Every year after the festivities, the water bodies at Rabindra Sarobar are extremely polluted, causing immeasurable harm to the environment. The NGT’s order was grossly violated in 2018 and 2019 when scores of devotees broke the gates of Rabindra Sarobar to perform Chhath Puja rituals with loud music and firecrackers. In those instances, the government had looked the other way. The petition of the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority and the Calcutta Municipal Corporation urging the apex court to interfere with the directions of the Calcutta High Court and the NGT proves that the authorities continue to opt for populist tactics to appease the people to the detriment of the environment. It is time that the administration sets its priorities right. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — Perhaps the best way to arrest pollution would be to reform festive rituals, especially those that lead to the desecration of natural resources. The Supreme Court has rightly upheld the Calcutta High Court’s ban on Chhath Puja rituals at Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar. The appeal by the CMDA and the CMC to the Supreme Court to review the high court and the NGT’s directives, however, reeks of populism. It is unfortunate that the lackadaisical attitude of the administration in protecting the environment has forced the courts to intervene in such matters. While it is the responsibility of the government to protect the environment, nothing can change without a conscious effort on the part of the people. It is necessary to update traditions in keeping with the needs of the time. Rituals and customs, while important, must not become a cause for environmental degradation. Hopefully people will soon see the merit in this decision and find alternative ways of celebrating the festival. Jahar Saha,Calcutta Sir — We live in strange times. As a custodian of the Rabindra Sarobar, the CMDA is expected to protect the water body. Instead, to everyone’s surprise, the CMDA along with the CMC had questioned the directives by the Calcutta High Court and the NGT to ban Chhath Puja festivities at the site. Last year, too, in spite of a court ban, devotees had thronged to the lake and conducted puja rituals, all with the passive support of administrative bodies. The water bodies remained polluted for months. This year, the West Bengal government had sought permission from the NGT to facilitate Chhath Puja at the eco-sensitive Rabindra Sarobar. To its consternation, the NGT had turned down the plea. It is a relief that the Supreme Court upheld the directives of the NGT and the Calcutta High Court. The government’s lack of commitment towards environmental issues is alarming. It is time the government introspects on its actions. Sanjit Ghatak,Calcutta Sir — As the Supreme Court upheld the ban on Chhath Puja festivities at Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar, last Friday many people gathered at the lake to protest against the decision for nearly four hours. However, the deployment of police personnel and setting up of barricades in anticipation of the violation of court orders prevented the situation from getting out of hand. It seems that the administration in spite of its reservations had upheld the direction of the courts to the best of its abilities. Apart from environmental concerns, the celebration of Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar this year would have posed immense health risks to the public. It is surprising that in spite of the threat posed by Covid-19, people are still keen to gather in large numbers. The celebration of Onam in Kerala and Durga Puja in Bengal had led to a huge spike in Covid-19 infections in both states. It is high time that we learn from these instances and refrain from gathering in large groups. The public has been warned time and again to celebrate all festive occasions at home or in intimate gatherings. The protest gathering at the lake is a glaring example of the kind of behaviour that must be avoided at all costs. It is time we pay heed to the warning of medical professionals and ensure that public health is prioritized over religion. Arunabha Sinha,Calcutta Hollow silence Sir — The pandemic has brought to a halt the musical evenings synonymous with the festive season in Calcutta. This has led to the loss of livelihood for hundreds of musicians who are now struggling to get by. With no means of income, many have been forced to sell their prized instruments to sustain themselves. Live performances with curtailed audiences have resumed recently but they are few and far between. It is likely to be months, if not years, before the situation goes back to that of the pre-Covid days. Till then it will be a battle for survival. Bani Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-112
24-11-2020||Opinion||Get ready: India to receive Oxford vaccine||In a world ravaged by the virus, hope, unsurprisingly, comes in the shape of a vial. The news that India is likely to receive the first contingent of Covid-19 vaccine developed by Oxford-AstraZeneca in the first few months of the new year is certainly encouraging. This development has come among other welcome bulletins: the drugs developed by two other pharmaceutical firms, Pfizer and Moderna, have demonstrated an acceptable degree of efficacy against the coronavirus; the phase three trials of Covaxin, an indigenous drug, is also expected to begin soon. But optimism cannot lead to complacency. The challenges that confront a country like India — burdened with a high, impoverished population and a rickety healthcare network — remain steep with respect to the Covid-19 vaccination programme. There are several areas of concern that the Centre must focus on with immediate effect. The first would be the choice of the vaccine, given the possibility that not every medication is expected to provide the same kind of immunity. The selection of the vaccine must adhere to standards of effectiveness that have been substantiated by scientific trials. It makes sense for India to opt for multiple sources while taking care to weed out spurious medication. The second — interconnected — challenge concerns the pricing of the vaccines. India’s wobbly economy — it has been dealt debilitating blows by the pandemic as well as by its ruling dispensation — dents New Delhi’s purchasing powers considerably, and it is likely that India would have to depend on collaborations with its international partners to make vaccines accessible and affordable for its large population. The G20’s recent pledge to make Covid-19 medication and testing universal and uniform must be followed up with firm, affirmative action. The other, equally formidable, obstacle relates to the scale of immunization in India. The Centre may stagger the distribution of the available vaccines with priority sectors — front-line workers and vulnerable citizens — receiving the early doses. But the cleavages in India’s social fabric and the limited reach of healthcare are likely to lead to substantial exclusions. The government must be mindful of ensuring that the vaccines eventually reach the most marginalized segments of society. These must include socially disadvantaged groups as well as minorities. India’s experiences of indigenous vaccination programmes for polio and tuberculosis could be beneficial in addressing possible gaps in this context. Finally, India must undertake the modernization of its drug storage and supply chain. Covid-19 is unlikely to be the last of the pandemics India and the world would see.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-112
24-11-2020||Opinion||Rights over prejudice: MTP amendment bill||A 15-year-old survivor of sexual assault by an acquaintance discovers that she is pregnant. When she complains of severe stomach ache, her parents come to know of the trauma that she has been undergoing. A decision is taken to terminate the pregnancy. The police are informed and an FIR is registered. However, the pregnancy has crossed the 20-week mark and as per the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971, permission for the termination of the pregnancy can only be obtained from the high court. The girl is able to access legal assistance with the help of an organization working with survivors of violence and her case is filed immediately. The court directs that the girl be examined by a medical board of experts set up in a government hospital and a report be placed before it. The minor and her parents report to the hospital and are made to wait for almost the entire day. But she is finally admitted to the hospital. The medical board files a report but it is inconclusive. It refers to general contentions without giving a specific opinion on whether the termination of pregnancy at this stage is medically appropriate. The court directs it to place another opinion, specifically answering the above question. The girl continues to be in the hospital. The second opinion is also inconclusive. Based on legal precedents and the submissions made on behalf of the minor girl, the court permits the termination of pregnancy in the same hospital where she is admitted. The procedure is carried out. By this time, she is 25 weeks into her pregnancy. The hospital refuses to discharge her till she takes responsibility for the disposal of the foetus even though the order is clear on this being the State’s responsibility. Only after intervention by the police and considerable pressure from the organization is the girl discharged. All this when the Covid-19 pandemic is in full swing and the city is seeing the highest number of cases every day. The hospital where the girl was examined and admitted is a Covid centre. The law is one of criminalization as a rule and medical opinion as an exception. Causing miscarriage is an offence under the criminal law, which makes both the service provider and the pregnant woman an offender. The exception to this is the MTP Act, which was enacted in 1971 and has been amended once since. The law, while making access to abortion legal in specified circumstances, does not make it a right. It is entirely based on the opinion of one registered medical practitioner for up to 12 weeks and two from 12 to 20 weeks. After 20 weeks, the pregnancy can be terminated only if it is necessary to save the life of the woman. This was the limit set out in 1971 and continues to stand even though technological and medical advancements make these procedures safe much beyond the 20-week limit. During the last four years, close to 400 cases of pregnant women seeking permission for the termination of pregnancy have been examined by various high courts. The move to amend the MTP Act has been in operation for more than a decade. The MTP amendment bill, 2020 was passed by the Lok Sabha in March and is now before the Rajya Sabha. The law must acknowledge the right to privacy and the bodily autonomy of a pregnant person and must provide for abortion at will at least till the first trimester. The increase in gestational age for seeking termination must be uniform and not restricted to only a certain undefined category of women. The decision about this should rest with the pregnant person and her service provider and should not include any other third-party authorization like the medical board and/or courts. The law must consider the expansion of the provider base and not restrict the provision of this service to only allopathic doctors. However, the bill does not address these concerns. The bill must ensure that it is in harmony with other existing laws and judicial pronouncements and should additionally recognize that a change in circumstances for a pregnant person is also a key factor in deciding whether to continue a pregnancy or not, including, but not limited to, aspects like desertion by the spouse/partner, change in financial circumstances and so on. It is imperative that the law on abortion keeps the pregnant person at its centre. It must not uphold the point of view of the service provider.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-112
24-11-2020||Opinion||Stress test||There is a horrible fascination in watching the post-election drama playing out in the United States of America. For many people across the world, it’s a bit like watching domestic mayhem explode in a rich man’s house just down the street. Horror mingles with cheap schadenfreude as you hear sounds of furniture smashing and glass breaking from the mansion of the family that has always held itself to be superior to all the lowly neighbours and — if democracy was money — to have the oldest reservoir of wealth in the city; a pool so deep and vast that the family has always sneered at any comparison with the nouveau riche wannabe democracies that line the street on either side of their estate. Old-timers would remember that things haven’t always been hunky-dory at the mansion: just fifty years ago, there was the scandal of Grandpa Nixon and his sleaze and corruption; as if that wasn’t bad enough, that was soon followed by Grandpa Reagan depriving most of the family a fair share of the money; then came Uncle Bush with his dirty dealings with the Contras and drug cartels; then, after Uncle Clinton and his sexcapades, came Uncle Bush’s son, Brother Dubya, who, while being surrounded by a cabal of family retainers who actually ran the show, managed to spread mass death and misery far beyond the estate, even more widely than Nixon, Reagan and Daddy Bush. And, now, here we all are, peering in over the boundary wall as this patriarch to top all patriarchs, Agent Orange, flails around in (perhaps) his final throes, trying to burn down the house from inside. Twenty-odd days after the American elections, in the whirlpool of political uncertainty, a few solid artefacts keep bobbing up and circling past: after four years of naked Trumpism, almost 74 million Americans still voted for the man to have a second term; about 77 per cent of these Trump voters — roughly 57 million people — seem to believe that the elections were fraudulent, that the nearly 80 million who voted for Joe Biden didn’t actually do so, that the actual number was far lower and their man actually won; after four years of Donald Trump and in the throes of the worst (and disastrously mismanaged) pandemic their country has ever undergone, the electorate still made sure that the House and Senate are almost equally divided between Democrats and Republicans; Trump will most likely have to relinquish the White House but he will probably try and take it back in 2024; Trump may or may not go to jail in the many cases prosecutors are waiting to lay against him, but the creed of Trumpism isn’t going anywhere anytime soon. In a column in The Guardian, the Berkeley professor, Robert Reich, points out that American institutions and public figures are being subjected to a “stress test” by Trump’s shameless attempts to hijack the election he has lost. While some institutions and individuals have come out of the test with flying colours, others, according to Reich, have failed abysmally. “Trump will lose because there’s no evidence of fraud. But the integrity of thousands of people responsible for maintaining American democracy is being tested as never before,” says Reich, before going on to put the spotlight on the failure of “most elected Republicans” who are staying silent and avoiding demanding that Trump acknowledge his defeat and participate in an orderly transition. However, for every unprincipled, dishonest politico such as Mitch McConnell and Lindsey Graham, in counter-balance to what Reich memorably calls “a Star wars cantina of lackeys, grifters, sycophants and fruitcakes”, there are people in positions of responsibility who’ve stood up to Trump and publicly drawn their lines in the sand. There is the chairman of the joint chiefs of staff who has publicly instructed his soldiers that their primary duty is not to the president but to the Constitution of the US; he has unambiguously stated that no soldier is obliged to follow illegal orders no matter from how high up they come. There is Anthony Fauci, who, despite gross insults and undermining from Trump, has stood his ground vis-à-vis what needs to be done about the pandemic. Then there is Chris Krebs, the former director of the cybersecurity agency, a Trump appointee, who let it be known that this was one of the safest elections in the history of the US. Krebs was fired for his statement but went out with a defiant and brilliantly succinct tweet: “Honored to serve. We did it right. Defend Today, Secure Tomorrow.” Besides these men, we are now seeing a whole host of Republican government officials and Republican-appointed judges who are throwing Trump’s crazy election accusations out of the window. Clearly they understand the need to defend the truth of today in order to secure the truths of tomorrow. Sometimes, the dramas in the big house next to yours can allow you to forget all that is wrong in your own dwelling. Sooner or later though, the neighbour’s political jatra ends and you are brought back to confronting your own challenges. In India, too, our democracy, our Constitution, and our Republic have been put on the rack of a massive and unrelenting stress test over the last six and a half years. Our bureaucracy and security agencies have been pushed further into the servantship of the Central government than ever before. Top figures from our military have brazenly abandoned political neutrality and enthusiastically joined the regime in Delhi. The independence of the Indian Council of Medical Research and the Reserve Bank of India has been badly compromised, to mention just two examples. Large sections of our media have verged on the nauseous support of the BJP-RSS and its subsidiaries. It is being alleged that one of the most critical failures of the stress test, if it can still be called that, has been seen in the higher echelons of the judiciary. We, too, have our crews of lackeys, grifters and sycophants. If we imagine the stress test as being conducted on a structure, the bridge is still standing, although sections of it are dangerously fragile. The American Republic may come through its current challenges bearing scars and deep damage but our own Republic is struggling to find its responses to the huge pressures being put upon it. Even as smoke billows from the mansion down the road, our own house is fighting to ward off a very possible disintegration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-113
24-11-2020||Jharkhand||Massive anti-encroachment drive held near Court Road in Dhanbad||In an attempt to solve the perennial issue of traffic congestion at the Court Road of Dhanbad, the district administration has made a permanent parking arrangement at Kohinoor Ground adjacent to the road. Announcements were made on a loudspeaker in this regard at Court Road of Dhanbad by a joint team of district administration and traffic police led by sub-divisional officer of Dhanbad Surendra Prasad during the morning hours at around 10.30 am, which was followed by a drive to impose fines on those parking their vehicles in the non-parking area. The team comprising of traffic DSP Rajesh Kumar Yadava, and traffic inspector Rajeshwar Verma also carried out an anti-encroachment drive in the same place during which around half a dozen street vendors putting their stalls beside the road were removed. Notably, Court Road, situated in the heart of town, is one of the busiest places of the district as it houses a large number of important government offices like the district collectorate, the office of the superintendent of police, sub-divisional officers’ (SDO) office, the office of divisional railway manager (DRM) of Dhanbad division of East Central Railway (ECR), Jharkhand Tourism Development Corporation (JTDC) office, Hirapur division office of Jharkhand State Electricity Board, Drinking Water and Sanitation Department’ Office, District Treasury office, district transport officer’s office, besides the civil court and criminal court of Dhanbad, registry office, and sale tax office. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Tuesday, Rajeshwar Verma said, “No vehicle of anybody, be it a car or bike will be allowed to be parked on the Court Road as it causes heavy traffic congestion and resultantly all the vehicles including the ambulances carrying serious patients sometimes get stuck.” “We have made the arrangement of parking of all vehicles at Kohinoor Ground situated adjacent to the Court Road, where the vehicles will be safe and the problem of traffic congestion will also be solved,” said Verma and added their drive will continue tomorrow and onwards to enforce to new parking arrangement. Notably, ever since the joining of the new Dhanbad traffic DSP, Rajesh Kumar Yadav has taken a host of steps to regulate the traffic of the district in a better manner and also initiated steps to minimise the causes of accidents in the district. Yadav also held meeting with officials of different road construction agency including Road Construction Department (RCD), State Highway Authority of Jharkhand (SHAJ), National Highway Authority of India (NHAI), Rural Engineering Works (REO) and discussed the steps required to minimise accident at accident-prone places and particularly on black spots. He also instructed the officials to put signage, speed restriction boards, blinkers, etc. at strategic places on the roads to minimise the possibility of accidents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-226
24-11-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand signs MoU with ITDC to take over Hotel Ashok||Hotel Ashok, a loss-making entity in Ranchi’s prime location of Doranda, can soon hope to become a premier hospitality address as the Jharkhand government has formally initiated efforts to take over the property spread over 2.7 acres. On Tuesday, the state tourism department signed an MoU with Indian Tourism Development Corporation (ITDC) for transfer of stakes in the presence of chief minister Hemant Soren. The hotel was set up in 1988 as a joint venture between ITDC and Bihar government on a 51:49 percentage share ratio. After the formation of Jharkhand in 2000, ITDC retained its 51 percent stakes and the rest was split between Bihar and Jharkhand on a 37:12 ratio following an inter-ministerial meeting under the chairmanship of principal secretary to the Prime Minister in 2004. Meanwhile, the fortunes of the hotel kept declining owing to lack of patronage and clash of interests between both states. The hotel finally stopped operations in March 2018. After the Hemant Soren government came to power, the state tourism department re-initiated steps to take over the hotel following a proposal by the Union government under its disinvestment plan. Dubbing the MoU signing ceremony as historic, state tourism secretary Pooja Singhal said, “Finally, Jharkhand is going to own the entire hotel and run it on its own to promote tourism and hospitality. Today, we are procuring entire stakes of ITDC. The process to take over shares from Bihar will be completed once the new government (Bihar) stabilises.” As per the terms of understanding, Jharkhand will retain all 24 employees of ITDC who are working in the hotel. “We will decide in future whether to continue their services or offer voluntary retirement following one-time payment,” she added. The MoU was signed between Jharkhand tourism director A Dodde and Ranchi Ashok chairman Piyush Tiwari. Chief minister Hemant Soren said the MoU was testimony to the state government’s priorities. “Moving away from big-ticket MoU ceremonies for mines and minerals, which has been the norm in this state so far, this MoU is different to acquire a hotel, which stood for years on our land, but we didn’t have its ownership. We have taken a strategic decision to not leave any of our assets on our land from henceforth,” he said, adding that despite having all that was required to become a global tourist hotspot, the state had failed to achieve much on that front. “I don’t want to get into details on why it never happened. But I want to assure everyone that tourism is our priority sector. We realise that developing tourism will churn out jobs and provide local livelihood. Acquiring this hotel is in our endeavour to provide tourists a place for state-of-the-art hospitality,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-226
24-11-2020||Jharkhand||Huge cache of arms recovered from Chatra hideout ||Police on Tuesday recovered a huge cache of arms and ammunition from Chatra, the district where a coal trader was shot dead by CPI(Maoist) rebels during Chhath festivities recently. After gunning down CPI (Maoist) sub-zonal commander Alok in the district on Sunday, the district police along with CRPF recovered rifles looted by Tritiya Prastuti Committee (TPC) rebels from police patrolling teams in the past. On Tuesday, the raiding team recovered .303 bore rifle, 189 live .303mm cartridges, at least 237 live .306 cartridges and 18 7.26mm bullets, police said. Chatra SP Rishabh Jha said police made the recoveries on the basis of a tip-off from intelligence sources. A TPC rebel, arrested earlier, also passed important information to the police during interrogation, he added. “Krishna Ganju, a TPC rebel who was arrested last week, disclosed the places where they had hidden arms and ammunition which were looted from police teams,” said Jha, adding that Ganju too had a bounty of Rs 5 lakh on his head. The police have intensified operations against Left Wing Extremism in Chatra lately. However, they are yet to get a breakthrough in the killing on the day of Chhath. “Anti-naxal operations have obviously intensified here,” said Jha. While investigation is on to nab the mind behind the killing of coal trader Mukesh Giri on November 21, police are yet to get any major success. “The motive behind the murder is not known yet. But it is confirmed that CPI (Maoist) rebels killed the coal trader,” said the SP. While CPI (Maoist) is the oldest and the most dreaded LWE group in Jharkhand, TPC is one of the 17 splinter outfits active in some parts of the tribal state, say police. According to police, TPC rebels are nothing more than hired guns and thugs who have unleashed a reign of terror on innocent villagers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-226
24-11-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city plans to step up Covid testing to 10,000 a day ||Though the Coronavirus positive cases are well under control in the East Singhbhum district now, the district health facilities are preparing to launch a massive drive of sample test for the killer virus from next week onwards. The district health department is gearing up to conduct as many as 10,000 tests per day from next week which is an increase from the current test rate of 2,000 per day. The drive will start from next week as it is apprehended that majority of those who had been to their native places in Bihar, Odisha and Bengal have returned to the steel city after the festival season by then. Revealing about the step, district civil surgeon RN Jha said that the regular test of samples had dropped considerably during the festivity season starting from Durga puja till Chhath. "From Monday, we have started carrying out about 2,000 sample tests across the nine blocks in the East Singhbhum and also in Jamshedpur. But as people are still returning home in the steel city and in other places of the district after festival celebrations, we apprehend a rise of the Covid-19 positive cases with the influx of the people. We have, therefore, decided to increase the number of tests from 2,000 to 10,000 from the next week. We are mobilising the resources accordingly," said Jha while talking to The Telegraph Online. During the last 24 hours, 27 Coronavirus positive cases were detected, thus making the total number of Covid-19 cases in the East Singhbhum district to 16,591 so far. Meanwhile, the district administration has also increased the mask-checking drive in the city along with the helmet checking. On Monday, the 39 persons were caught without masks during checking at Bistupur, Sakchi, Golmuri, Jugsalai and Mango. The traffic wing of the district police has penalised all those found without masks and earned revenue amounting to Rs 19,500 from the violators of the Covid-19 norms. "We have intensified the mask-checking drive along the helmet checking from Monday. We are charging a penalty of Rs 500 from each of the violators. This is all being done as majority of the commuters have stopped wearing a mask, thinking that the Coronavirus is almost gone from the steel city," said deputy superintendent of police (Traffic) Babban Singh while talking to The Telegraph Online. Singh revealed that they have carried out the drive at the points which are known as checking point, but shortly such drive will also be conducted at the roads and places unfamiliar for helmet or masking checking drive. Significantly, anticipating a second wave in the winter, a section of Congress activists and social activists in cooperation with the civic body, Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) officials on Tuesday carried out an intensive drive to make those without masks to wear them at Sakchi market and making people follow social distancing in public places.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-227
24-11-2020||Jharkhand||Covid norms go for a toss at Sakchi weekly market||The East Singhbhum district administration, which has launched a massive crackdown on those who refuse to wear masks in the steel city, was unable to check violation of social distancing norms at the busy commercial hub of Sakchi on Tuesday. At the weekly fair of footpath vendors, referred to as Mangala Haat, there were huge crowds. People flocked the market in large numbers since 10 am making purchases of various household items including garments. Both vendors and customers flouted social distancing norms. Maintaining a distance of one metre is the usual norm inside the market. But no one paid heed to this norm. Several vendors and shoppers weren’t wearing masks either. The haat was open till evening. "Tuesday’s situation was horrible. When Covid-19 cases are making a comeback in other parts of the country, the local district administration should be vigilant and prevent such violations inside a market," pointed out Satya Narayan Agarwal, who owns a garment store at Sakchi. Singhbhum Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SCCI) has taken note of it. "Some permanent shopkeepers had approached us with complaints of violation of social distancing norms by footpath vendors and buyers. We have requested the district administration to provide an alternate place to footpath vendors for the weekly haat," said Bharat Vasani, vice-president of the trade outfit. Ravi Bharti, city manager of Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC), said efforts were being made to provide an alternative place to vendors to prevent crowding of the market.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-227
24-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad witnesses increase in rail freight loading||Dhanbad division of East Central Railway has witnessed a significant increase in transport of goods through trains during the lockdown. The most significant increase in loading has been recorded from Koderma railway station which is an important station of the division. Talking to the media on Tuesday, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager of Dhanbad Division, Akhilesh Kumar Pandey said, “The efforts of business development unit of the division to contact the traders and other stakeholders and convincing them about the advantages of the railway mode of transport have led to an increase in the parcel loading.” Divulging more details, Pandey said that the parcel income through Koderma has increased three-fold during the current year. “Besides the increase in transport of minerals like coal and mica the division has also witnessed an increase in transport of other goods like food grains, etc. and the division is gearing up to send a railway rake full of food materials to Samalkot railway station of East Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh soon,” said Pandey. Notably, the business development unit constituted as per the directive of Railway Board at divisional level across the country, comprising of senior divisional commercial manager, senior divisional finance manager, senior divisional mechanical engineer, senior divisional operating manager, and senior divisional engineer (coordination) are primarily working on all possibility of increasing the freight loading as well as parcel loading during the lockdown period. All this as the income of Indian Railways through passenger earning has been adversely affected due to the complete halting of operation of passenger trains during the initial period of lockdown and restricted operation during the later days of lockdown. “Our team of ground inspectors deputed at different stations are also working with existing as well as prospective customers apprising them about the convenience of goods transport through railways over road transport and also solving their issues, if any,” elaborated Pandey. Notably, Indian Railways has also developed a Freight Business Development portal (www.fois.indianrail.gov.in/RailSAHAY) for the convenience of freight loading customers through which they can get all the details regarding time table, freight charges, the distance between loading and unloading stations, railway routes, etc. Through the GIS-based system, the customers can also get details of the current location of their consignment through the Track & Trace system of the portal. The stakeholders also, post their suggestions with regard to transportation and freight loading system by logging on the portal which in turn helps the railway to improve the transportation work.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-227
24-11-2020||Jharkhand||North-westerly winds up the chill quotient in state||It was pretty cold in several parts of the state, including Ranchi and Bokaro, on Tuesday with below-normal temperatures hovering between 8 degrees and 10 degrees. Capital Ranchi, which is in central Jharkhand, recorded a minimum temperature of 10.1°C for the second consecutive day on Tuesday. Ranchi's reading was two notches below normal. In Bokaro steel city, the minimum temperature dipped to 8.6°C, seven notches below normal. Ramgarh and Gumla recorded similarly low readings. On Monday, apart from Bokaro, the two other districts - Ramgarh and Gumla - had recorded minimum temperatures of over 9°C. Daltonganj, the Palamau headquarters, and several other places, including Chaibasa in West Singhbhum district and Simdega, notched minimum readings of 10.6 °C on Tuesday. Jamshedpur and its adjoining areas recorded around 12 degree Celsius for the second consecutive day. Tuesday's minimum reading in steel city was two notches below normal. Weathermen attributed the sharp fall in minimum readings to the dominating north-westerly winds. "The crisp and dry north wind has resulted in abrupt fall in night temperatures," said Abhishek Anand, deputy Director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. However, weathermen said the chill will be short-lived as Jharkhand will be under the influence of two weather systems after the next 24 hours. The two weather systems - cyclonic storm Nivar and a western disturbance passing through Northern parts of the country - will impact Jharkhand's weather on November 26 and 27. "The cyclone and the passing western disturbances would result in cloud formation over Jharkhand. We are expecting light rains over northern Jharkhand on Thursday, November 26 and light showers and overcast conditions over central and southern Jharkhand on Friday, November 27," said Anand. The impact of the twin weather systems would wane from Saturday, November 28.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-227
24-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad traders want trains to Calcutta ahead of wedding season||The coal town traders are affected by the non-resumption of popular train services between Dhanbad and Calcutta like the Coalfield Express (12339/12340) and Black Diamond Express (22387/22388) through which a large number of daily passengers and small-time traders brought products from Calcutta. The biggest victim of the lack of non-availability of trains is florists who used to bring a huge stock of flowers from Calcutta. Other traders like readymade garment sellers, footwear traders are also facing the same situation. The heavy cost of road transportation of flowers is adversely affecting the flower prices, at a time when they are much in demand as more than 5,000 marriages are scheduled in Dhanbad during the lagan season between November 25 and December 15. Talking to the Telegraph Online on Tuesday, Raju Malakar, a florist of Court More in Dhanbad said, “Though we are bringing some stock from Shaktipunj Express (11448) but being a long-distance train running between Howrah to Jabalpur with only 10 minutes stoppage time at Dhanbad, there is a limited scope of bringing enough flowers and we have to depend on road transport also.” “The cost for a bunch of flowers used to be around Rs 450 before the lockdown which escalated to around Rs 750 to Rs 800 during the present time due to the addition of extra cost of transportation in the overall cost which used to be much low or almost negligible during normal times,” said Malakar. “The total cost of hiring a pick-up van for a trip to Calcutta is around Rs 9000 and since we cannot afford to bear the cost individually a group of florists use it as a pool van facility to bring flowers from Calcutta,” said Malakar. Echoing sentiments, Karu Malakar, another retail flower seller of Dhanbad said, “Though we are very happy that we are getting a huge demand for flower decoration during the marriage season, at the same time we are facing great difficulty in negotiating prices of flowers with the customers due to increased prices.” “The customers accuse us of taking advantage of the lockdown situation to carry out an exorbitant increase in the prices but the fact remains that the prices have gone up due to the increased transportation cost because of the unavailability of trains,” claimed Karu Malakar. Former president of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Rajesh Kumar Gupta, said, “The Dhanbad retail market is largely dependent on the wholesale purchase by daily passengers from Calcutta and due to lack of availability of popular trains, the market is not picking up to its full strength despite enough scope for increased activity in the marriage season.” “Though big traders are availing the road transport facility for bringing goods from Calcutta by taking orders on phone but the small traders like the readymade garment sellers, footwear traders on the roadside who could not afford to bear the huge transportation cost are suffering,” described Gupta and demanded the state government allow railways to run more trains for important places like Patna, Ranchi, and Calcutta on a regular basis to allow trade to flourish.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-227
24-11-2020||Jharkhand||Covid-19 recovery rate jumps above 97 per cent, 219 infected in a day in Jharkhand||The Covid-19 recovery rate in Jharkhand jumped above 97 per cent on Monday after at least 304 patients recovered in the state against 219 people testing positive for the viral infection in 24 hours, figures compiled by the health department stated. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Monday late evening, of the 1,07,688 people infected by the lethal virus in Jharkhand at least 1,04,533 have recovered, taking the recovery rate in the state up at 97.07 per cent. However, casualties caused by Covid-19 infection continued to haunt Jharkhand on Monday as two more patients, one each from Ranchi and Dhanbad, died during treatment on the day. In the past three days, at least 13 people have died of Covid-19 infection in the tribal state. After testing around 10,000 swab samples in the past two days, the government intensified its Covid testing drive on Monday and tested at least 16,591 people. More than 1 per cent of the ones tested were found infected. While Khunti and Pakur did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection on Monday, Ranchi reported 68 fresh cases, the highest among all the 24 districts in Jharkhand. The number of active cases of infection, however, dropped in Ranchi as the district also reported 109 recoveries on the day, government data highlighted. As per the NHM bulletin, at least 839 people were battling the infection in Ranchi on Monday night. Among other districts, East Singhbhum reported 27 cases against 47 recoveries, while Dhanbad reported 13 cases against the same number of recoveries. As many as 29 people were found infection in Bokaro and 25 patients recovered there. At least 15 districts reported a single-digit-spike in the cases on Monday. The government has so far collected swab samples of 39.40 lakh people and tested 39.24 lakh of them. On Monday, health workers collected swab samples of 14,106 people. While the Covid-19 tally in the state was above 1 lakh, only 2,202 people were battling the infection in Jharkhand on Monday evening. As per the latest figures shared by the NHM, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.16 per cent against the national average of 0.42 per cent. The doubling rate of the infection in Jharkhand was 434.08 days against the national doubling rate of 164.20 days. The Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 0.88 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-227
24-11-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi Met spies Celsius rise||The minimum temperature, which had decreased significantly across Jharkhand over the past weekend, is set to rise again from Thursday onwards. Abhishek Anand, deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre, said the state would experience a rise in minimum temperature by 2 to 4 degrees Celsius on Thursday and Friday. Both the maximum and minimum temperature came down during the last weekend, marking a noticeable departure from the normal. Bokaro was the coldest place in the state on Sunday where the minimum temperature recorded was 9.1 degrees Celsius, 6.5 degrees below the normal, followed by Ranchi which recorded 10.1 degrees Celsius, which was 2.1 degrees below the normal. Even places like Jamshedpur, Daltonganj and Chaibasa recorded minimum temperatures that were below the normal. Barring Chaibasa, that recorded the highest maximum temperature of 29 degrees Celsius on Sunday, the day temperature in most of the other towns of the state were below the normal that day. “The weather is expected to remain dry and there will be no major change in temperature till November 25,” Anand said. He said the minimum temperature across the state was then likely to go up by 2 to 4 degrees Celsius on November 26 and 27. “There is also a possibility of the state experiencing light to moderate rainfall in isolated places during those two days,” he said. A depression in the southwest Bay of Bengal is expected to form into a cyclone within the next 24 hours and hit the Tamil Nadu coast as a severe cyclonic storm on Wednesday afternoon, he further said. The cyclonic system would have an interaction with a western disturbance originating in the upper ridges of Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh, he added. “As a result of this interaction, Jharkhand was likely to receive isolated light to moderate rains on November 26 and 27,” Anand said. While the northwest and southwest parts of Jharkhand would receive light to moderate isolated rainfall on November 26, the northeast and northwest parts of the state would do so on November 27, he said. The minimum temperature would also then go up by 2 to 4 degrees for the next few days, he said, indicating the next weekend would not be as cold as it was the last weekend.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-227
