25-11-2020||Calcutta||Scent of socialising in perfume sale uptick||The scent is back, wafting in slowly. Sale of perfumes, which had plummeted in the immediate aftermath of the Covid-19-induced lockdown, is gradually picking up, said marketers and consumers. The plunge and gradual uptick mirrors how socialising, which had become a forbidden word a few months ago, is crawling back to life. Fragrance is a niche segment and the favourite perfume is reserved for befitting occasions. The occasion to use one had gone drastically down in the initial months of the pandemic. But the situation is changing. Marriages and other social gatherings are happening again and people are stepping out of their homes. For many others, the drawing room has replaced a night club as the new party zone. Gaurav Karnani, who owns The Grid, a popular microbrewery in Topsia, used to go out and socialise three to four times a week before the pandemic, the time when he put on his favourite fragrance — 1 Million by Paco Rabanne. Over the past month or two, the socialising is limited. But Karnani believed the personal care segment would keep growing in the coming weeks. “Self-pampering is becoming and will increasingly become the thing to do to fight the depression caused by this pandemic,” he said. The store of a premium perfume retail chain at a south Calcutta mall has not had the usual Diwali footfall this year. But things were not as gloomy as they looked from June to September, said a store executive. “The footfall is down from last year by almost 60 per cent. But overall business is down by around 30 per cent,” he said. The store has been reaching out to patrons over the phone. “We have delivered some of our products to the doorstep of our patrons. People are spending on fragrance again. But many of them are sceptical to visit a mall,” said the executive. Pooja Basu, who handles communications for a multiplex chain, was getting used to “only deodorants” from June to September. Department stores were the only place she would go to after stepping out of home. Post-October, she has started stepping out of home for work and “very few” after-work events. She bought her favourite fragrance — L’Eau d’Issey by Issey Miyake — at the start of last month. “A friend had got this for me from a duty-free store last time. It lasted way beyond it should have, because of scarce use,” said Basu. An official of the south Calcutta store of another French multinational retailer of personal care and beauty products said June to August-end saw very little sale. “But things started improving from mid-September. We are back at 60-65 per cent of the usual volume, a part of it through online sales,” he added. The offerings from big stables — YSL, Cartier, Davidoff, DKNY, Gucci,  Calvin Klein and Georgio Armani, to name a few — are all imported. The lockdown — in the past as well as the current curbs in force in Europe — has disrupted harvests of key ingredients used to make perfumes. Alcohol, a key ingredient, is becoming harder and harder to get because of its huge demand as a disinfectant. The logistics chain has been disturbed and supply is being affected, said marketers. “But the demand for fragrance is still robust and only expected to grow,” said an ad maker in Mumbai, who has handled campaigns for perfume brands. Marketers said that a section of people — tired of sitting at home — was keen on self-indulgence. The “end-of-seasons” sale of online fashion brands saw brisk movement in the fragrance segment, they pointed out. “People are also using perfumes at home. A young couple are having a dinner date at home. They will do up the dining table and they will want to smell their best,” the advertiser said. “More and more people are now going to house parties.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-227
25-11-2020||Calcutta||Bail for Govind Agarwal; police call IRS officer ||A city court on Tuesday granted accounting firm owner Govind Agarwal interim bail, considering his multiple health complications with a condition that he cannot leave his south Calcutta home till the next hearing. Agarwal was arrested early on Sunday in connection with a corruption case against an income-tax officer. Agarwal’s lawyer said his client was suffering from “critical, life-threatening” kidney and liver diseases, along with oral cancer, and was in need of daily medical care. The court, while granting interim bail, directed Agarwal to “cooperate” with the police and make himself available every time the investigating officer of the case wanted to examine him at his home. Agarwal appeared in the Bankshal court on Tuesday afternoon as his case was being heard. “The magistrate asked my client to sit on the bench after hearing my submission about his health. My client has been granted interim bail against a bond of Rs 20,000. He will comply with all the conditions mentioned by the court,” said Agarwal’s lawyer Biplab Goswami. Calcutta police on Tuesday issued summons to a senior IRS officer based in Calcutta in connection with the case in which IRS officer Neeraj Singh is the prime accused and Agarwal a co-accused. “The IRS officer (who was issued summons during the day) has been asked to be present at the Calcutta police headquarters on November 27. A notice under Section 160 of the CrPC was served at his office,” a senior officer said. The officer, when contacted, said he was unwilling to comment on the matter. “I am not giving you any reaction. I am neither confirming nor denying (having received the notice). It may sound rude, but I am disconnecting the line,” he said. Earlier this month, Calcutta police had summoned Singh, now suspended, in connection with this case, but he expressed inability  to turn up citing medical grounds, sources said. An investigator said some documents seized from a suspect’s office resembled original files of the income tax department and bore purported signatures of senior tax department officials. The police are yet to ascertain how the purported IT papers reached the office. Sources in the business fraternity said one suspect was a well-known face in the income tax department, who would broker deals, especially with those whose houses had been raided by tax officials or had been summoned by the tax department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-227
25-11-2020||Calcutta||Message to Covid patients at home||The health department has started sending WhatsApp messages to those who have tested positive for Covid and have opted for home isolation, telling them, family members and caregivers what to look out for to decide whether one needs hospitalisation. The message tells a patient the health conditions one should keep a watchful eye on, the first among them being breathlessness and a fall in the blood oxygen saturation level. Doctors said if a patient felt out of breath while doing regular activities like going to the washroom or even while lying in bed, he or she should be immediately admitted to hospital. Doctors treating Covid-19 patients said they had noticed that by the time a patient complained of breathlessness, the oxygen saturation level had dropped below the critical mark. “A Covid patient must repeatedly check the blood oxygen saturation level with a pulse oximeter at home. If the saturation level is less than 94 per cent, the patient should be admitted to hospital even if he or she is not having any breathing problem,” said Himadri Chakrabarty, one of the senior doctors leading a team treating Covid patients across government hospitals in North 24-Parganas. “If the difference between two counts of saturation levels measured by a pulse oximeter, say before and after visiting the washroom, is three per cent, the patient is surely developing hypoxia and needs hospitalisation.” The WhatsApp message next speaks of a feeling of tightness in the chest — a condition that calls for immediate attention. Doctors said a patient would feel tightness in the chest if the outer covering of the lungs got inflamed. “The patient needs to be hospitalised immediately so the spread of infection can be arrested,” a doctor said. The message warns patients and others about a condition when one fails to remain alert and recognise the people around. “In such a situation, the patient needs to be hospitalised immediately,” a health department official said. Among the other warning signals the message talks about are loss of smell, which happens when the virus hits the olfactory nerve ends, and exhaustion even after the fever has subsided. “We don’t want patients to land in hospitals in a critical state,” a health department official said. “The message that is being sent is nothing new. The idea is to warn patients over and over again so they visit hospital in time and the mortality rate is lowered.” The practice of sending the WhatsApp message started in Salt Lake, Dum Dum, Baranagar and Barasat, all of which are in North 24-Parganas, which has been witnessing a spurt in Covid cases. Between November 21 and 23, the district has registered over 800 positive cases on an average every day, second to Calcutta. “Steps have been taken to ensure there is no delay in arranging for ambulances and a team of doctors has been kept ready round-the-clock in the district’s Covid control room,” an official said. “The WhatsApp message that is being sent has five numbers of the control room. A patient’s family can call up the control room any time.” The message also lays down Dos and Don’ts for caregivers. A caregiver must wear a three-layer mask and disposable gloves and not come in direct contact with any fluid coming out of the patient’s body. He or she must wash hands with soap immediately after taking off the gloves. ⚫Oxygen saturation level dipping to 94 per cent or below ⚫ Difference between oxygen levels before and after a simple activity is 3 per cent or more ⚫Tightness in chest ⚫Disorientation ⚫Loss of smell ⚫Exhaustion a few days after fever subsides ⚫Covid control room numbers for North 24-Parganas: 7605057325, 7605057326, 7605057327, 7605057328, 7605057329 ⚫ WhatsApp numbers for sending emergency reports: 7439334624, 7605057324||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-228
25-11-2020||Calcutta||Businessman held with ‘fake ED papers’ ||A businessman was arrested from his house off the Bypass for using “fake Enforcement Directorate papers” for personal gain, police said. Officers of the Bidhannagar commissionerate’s detective department arrested Sudipta Roy Choudhury on Tuesday morning based on a complaint filed by the Enforcement Directorate on September 9, an officer of the commissionerate said. Roy Choudhury had earlier been arrested in connection with the same case. He had managed to secure bail from court, the officer said. Lawyers Rajdeep Banerjee and Soumyajit Raha who represented Roy Choudhury in court said all documents the Enforcement Directorate and the police had submitted in court and termed “fraudulent papers” were available in public domain and could be accessed by anyone. A Salt Lake court has sent Roy Choudhury to police custody for seven days, an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-228
25-11-2020||Calcutta||JU dean ‘quits’ after admission ‘pressure’||The acting dean of science at Jadavpur University has resigned following what sources close to him said was “pressure” from the students’ union to accommodate all undergraduate students in postgraduate courses. Subir Mukhopadhyay sent his resignation to vice-chancellor Suranjan Das’s office on November 23, hours after students met him and other heads of departments to press for their demand. “I have not accepted his resignation and have asked him to reconsider,” the VC told Metro on Tuesday evening. “We will hold another meeting with the students to resolve the situation. The university will do its best to cater to the interest of the students. But I will also want students to take a look at the university’s infrastructure and help the university maintain its excellence.” Mukhopadhyay said he had mentioned in “my resignation letter... that from now I will not participate at any meeting of the faculty of science as dean,” At JU, the physics, chemistry and mathematics departments have 81, 76 and 110 undergraduate seats, respectively. At the masters’ level, the seat counts are 41, 41 and 70 in the day programme. There are as many seats in the evening programme, too, but JU students are usually reluctant to join the evening courses, which drag on for three years, compared with the two-year day courses. JU, following a government order, has reserved 20 per cent of the PG seats for students from other universities this year. Till last year, 40 per cent of the seats used to be set aside for students from other universities. This reduction has been brought about by a realisation that graduating students from any state university including JU would prefer to stay back for master’s, instead of moving to other states, because of the Covid pandemic. A JU official said there were more MSc aspirants this year because a section of students who graduated this year had decided to stay back. “Another reason for the rise in the number of aspirants is lenient evaluation,” the official said. “The situation has been made more complicated following the refusal of some internal students to be accommodated in the evening programme…. Caught between the demand to accommodate all internal students and the education department’s order, the dean resigned.” Sources said the dean had mentioned in his letter to the VC that he had been subjected to sustained pressure by office-bearers of the science faculty students’ union. When contacted by this newspaper, the general secretary of the science faculty students’ union, Krishnendu Kundu, declined to speak on the allegations. Repeated calls to the union’s chairperson, Jyotirmoy Biswas, went unanswered. He did not respond to text messages either.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-228
25-11-2020||Calcutta||Pent-up pressure on non-Covid beds||The resumption of local trains has led to a manifold increase in the number of people coming to Calcutta from districts for treatment and hospitals are realising they would soon run out of non-Covid beds. Several private hospitals in Calcutta said the footfall at the outpatient departments had gone up by several hundreds since November 11, when suburban train services resumed. The services had been suspended in March to slow down the spread of Covid-19. Haripada Bhowmik, 66, a small-time farmer from Mahishadal in East Midnapore, suffers from a chronic cardiac ailment. “I used to go to Calcutta regularly for check-up. But since the lockdown, I could not visit Calcutta as buses and trains were not running,” Bhowmik said on Tuesday. “I tried hiring a car but operators were demanding Rs 4,000 for a one-way trip, which I could not afford.” Last week, Bhowmik took a train to Calcutta and went to the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences for a check-up. The hospital at Mukundapur, off EM Bypass, was having around 600 patients at its OPD every day on an average before November 11. Over the past couple of weeks, the number has gone up to 800 daily, said officials of the hospital. Admission of non-Covid patients has also gone up by 20 to 25 per cent. “Owing to resumption of train services, we have seen a sudden jump in the number of patients from districts. Patients from as far as South Dinajpur, apart from East and West Midnapore and Burdwan, have started coming in larger numbers compared with pre-Puja days. We are glad these patients are now able to travel to Calcutta for treatment,” said R. Venkatesh, the regional director of Narayana Health, of which the RN Tagore hospital is a flagship unit. The CEO of a private hospital said patients suffering from chronic ailments had been staying away from hospitals in the initial months of the pandemic for fear of contracting Covid. “They have been coming for some time, but the resumption of train services has led to a manifold jump in the number of such patients,” the CEO said. At Peerless Hospital, the number of daily patients at the OPD has jumped from around 250 to 400 in the last two weeks, officials said. Around 60 per cent of the patients at the hospital are from districts, including the two 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly, Burdwan and Murshidabad. “Patients with chronic disease such as diabetes, kidney ailments and cardiac diseases, who could not come for several months, are now coming to the OPD in large numbers,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. “Also, those patients who had their surgeries scheduled for April or May and got deferred because of the pandemic are coming to the hospital for fresh dates and routine pre-surgery check-ups,” said Mitra. “With the demand for non-Covid beds rising, we are already facing a shortage. The resumption of suburban train services may lead to more and more non-Covid patients visiting our hospital from districts. If that happens, we may have to request the state government to allow us to reduce the number of Covid beds,” said Mitra. At AMRI Hospitals too, officials said the number of OPD patients at its Dhakuria and Mukundapur units had gone up from around 250 daily to more than 350. “We saw a sharp rise in the number of OPD patients, especially in the cardiology, gastroenterology and neuro departments, immediately after the resumption of local trains,” said Rupak Barua, group CEO, AMRI. Surgical oncologist Gautam Mukhopadhyay said the patient count at his clinic had increased by 20 per cent over the past couple of weeks. “Earlier, these patients were having video consultations with me. But it is extremely important to clinically examine a cancer patient,” Mukhopa-dhyay said. One of his patients, Manik Bera, 66, who suffers from colon cancer, was unable to come to the clinic in Calcutta from his home at Sankrail in Howrah. “I work at a school and can’t afford a private vehicle. Now that trains are running, I will visit the doctor within a few days,” said Bera, 59. Railway officials said the number of passengers had been increasing since November 11. Eastern Railway ran about 800 trains on November 11, ferrying about 11 lakh passengers. The spokesperson for Eastern Railway said 956 suburban trains ran on Monday, ferrying nearly 13 lakh passengers. South Eastern Railway ran 81 trains with 1.77 lakh passengers on the first day. On Monday, it ran 95 trains and ferried 2.5 lakh passengers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-228
25-11-2020||Calcutta||IIEST gets Rs 1 crore from octogenarians||Two octogenarians did not think about their health and stepped out of their homes amidst the pandemic to reach IIEST Shibpur on Tuesday evening and hand over cheques of Rs 50 lakh each to the institute. Reba Mukherjee, 81, was seated next to Sunandan Narayan Basu, 86, on the campus of the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology (IIEST) on the institute’s 165th foundation day. Mukherjee wanted to turn the dream of her late husband Ganesh Chandra Mukherjee into a reality. As a student he could not study engineering because of financial constraints, but he wanted to do something so that an aspiring engineering student need not quit studies for want of money. Sunandan Narayan Basu, who had graduated from Bengal Engineering College 64 years ago, donated Rs 50 lakh to his alma mater. He had contributed an equal amount in August and he wanted the institute to buy students devices and help bridge the digital divide at a time when online education is the only option. An endowment fund will be created in the name of Late Ganesh Chandra Mukherjee to help needy and meritorious students to achieve their goal of studying engineering, an institute official said. “I will be happy if the institute fulfils the dreams of my late husband,” Reba Mukherjee, a retired college teacher, said in her speech. Basu’s contribution will be used to buy students who have been facing Net connectivity problems smartphones and laptops so that they can start attending online classes, IIEST director Parthasarathi Chakrabarti said. “The amount will be spent on strengthening the digital education hub that we have started with his previous contribution,” director Chakrabarti said. Basu, who lives in Jodhpur Park, told The Telegraph that he was glad that someone with no connection to the institute had contributed to add to the institute’s coffers. “I believe the precedent set by her will encourage others to step forward,” Basu said. The institute will give scholarship/assistantship to three first-year undergraduate students with the annual interest earned from Mukherjee’s contribution, registrar Biman Banerjee said. Each student will get Rs 30,000 annually. “At least one of the students has to be a woman according to the condition laid out by Mukherjee,” Banerjee said. The institute will set up a committee to screen prospective recipients and the panel will have a nominee of Reba Mukherjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-228
25-11-2020||Calcutta||Elderly couple found dead at home||The decomposed bodies of an elderly couple were found in their closed house in the Girish Park area on Monday. Police have identified them as Biswajit Mitra, 71, and his wife Shipra, 68. No suicide note has been found, the police said. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem. Forensic officials are still to come up with their observations, the police said. The Mitras used to live on the second floor of a five-storey building on Ram Dulal Sarkar Street in Girish Park for several years. Neighbours have told cops they hadn’t noticed the couple for the past few days. Some of their neighbours felt a stench emanating from the house on Monday afternoon. After repeated knocks went unanswered, someone from among them alerted the police around 7pm. “We had to break open the door and enter the house. The bodies had started to decompose… they had turned black,” an officer of Girish Park police station said. “The bodies were taken to RG Kar Medical College and Hospital.” Preliminary investigations have shown the couple did not have any children. “We are still to confirm it with their relatives, though,” the officer said. Some of the residents have told cops that had spotted Mitra stepping out of their home a few weeks ago on his way to the market, the police said. Cops have been trying to get in touch with relatives of the Mitras to find out if he and his wife were in any kind of economic distress or if they were suffering from any ailments, the officer said. Cops did not find any sign of the house being ransacked. Also, there were no blood stains around the bodies, the officer said. “We have started a case of unnatural death. If the post-mortem report says otherwise, we will make necessary changes in the case,” the officer said. “So far, it seems unlikely that they have been murdered.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-228
25-11-2020||Calcutta||Tributes pour in for Soumitra at virtual session||One character that Soumitra Chatterjee refused to play on screen. His love for cricket and ability to reel off statistics at will. Asides and anecdotes abounded in a virtual session organised in memory of Soumitra Chatterjee, attended by a group of actors and directors who knew him from close quarters. “All of us here are proud and possessive about him. Everybody has his or her own Soumitra story to share. He was the rajputra (prince) of Bengali films, the last of the Mohicans,” said actor-director Arindam Sil, who moderated the event — Soumitra Chatterjee, Glowing Memories — organised by the St Xavier’s College Calcutta Alumni Association in collaboration with the Film Federation of India on Monday evening. The participants were Sandip Ray, Atanu Ghosh, Suman Ghosh, Goutam Ghosh, Koushik Sen and Gargi Roy Chowdhury. “He will live forever amongst us… for representing the complete life cycle of a deeply sensitive person with a unique perception of life,” Father Dominic Savio, the principal of the college, said in the keynote address. Director Sandip Ray described Chatterjee as a family member, because of the actor’s three-decade association and 14 films with his father, Satayjit Ray. “With him (Chatterjee), we have lost an extremely important character actor,” said Sandip Ray. But for all his prowess as a character actor, there was one character that Chatterjee refused to play on screen. When Sandip Ray was making Feluda films, Chatterjee was too old to play the sleuth. Sandip Ray had offered him the role of Sidhu jyatha (Siddheswar Bose, Feluda’s uncle with an encyclopaedic knowledge and a photographic memory). “He refused to play Sidhu jyatha’s role on the big screen. He said: ‘I cannot share the big screen with (another) Feluda,’” Sandip Ray recounted at the Zoom session. Gargi Roy Chowdhury, actor, spoke of the dry humour that never left Chatterjee. When his turn came, director Atanu Ghosh, who has worked with Chatterjee in films like Rupkatha Noy (2013) and Mayurakshi (2017), reaffirmed that. Ghosh remembered the first time he saw Chatterjee as a kid — at a pharmacy in the area Deshapriya Park, his mamabari’s para. He had gone to the store to buy some medicine for his maternal grandfather. Chatterjee walked into the same store and bought some pills. Ghosh was awestruck and kept watching till Chatterjee walked out of the store and drove away in an Ambassador. Years later, when the two were working together, Ghosh had reminded Chatterjee of the incident. “Do you remember what medicine did I buy? Must have been something for a headache, which is inevitable in this profession,” Ghosh remembered a poker-faced Chatterjee telling him. Ghosh also talked about Chatterjee’s passion for cricket. “He was like an encyclopaedia on cricket. With eyes closed, he could reel off statistics like how many times Sunil Gavaskar opened the bowling for India,” he said. Koushik Sen, actor who helms Swapnasandhani theatre group, remembered how Chatterjee offered him a chance to follow his passion at a critical phase of his life. The year was 1986 when Sen’s father had been bedridden following a cerebral stroke. Sen, whose passion was acting and the stage, was forced to work at a private firm to help sustain his family. He had “resigned to the fate that I would not be able to become an actor” when a letter from Chatterjee reached his father. Chatterjee was gearing up to stage a play at Star theatre. “I want your son for a role. Can I get him?” Chatterjee had asked. “The letter allowed me to quit my job, earn something every month in a professional theatre group and follow my passion. It was a huge opening for me,” said Sen. The two have had a long association on the stage, with Tiktiki being one of their most successful collaborations. The edge-of-the-seat thriller was based on Antony Shaffer’s play, Sleuth, adapted for the big screen with Sir Lawrence Olivier and Michael Caine. Chatterjee had scripted the successful stage adaptation for the Bengali audience. “The two of you outshone Olivier and Caine,” Sandip Ray told Sen on Monday. Suman Ghosh, a Miami-based economics professor and filmmaker, said Chatterjee would be happiest in the company of books. His directorial debut, Podokkhep (2008), in which Chatterjee had acted, was “loosely based on” F. Scott Fitzgerald’s story, The Curious Case of Benjamin Button, where an ageing man starts behaving like a kid. “He needs an intellectual stimulus… I gave him the book to read… He would be very happy to get things to read,” he remembered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-228
25-11-2020||Calcutta||State pollution board imposes Rs 20 lakh fine on CMC||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation has to pay Rs 20 lakh a month as environmental compensation for failing to scientifically manage waste at a dumpsite in Garden Reach and segregate waste, the state pollution control board has said. The fine amount will keep on adding till the time the CMC takes corrective measures, a board official said on Tuesday. The board has fined the civic body Rs 10 lakh each for unsegregated waste and for not biomining waste, a CMC official said. Kalyan Rudra, the chairman of the state pollution control board, said the CMC hadn’t treated the waste at dumpsites according to the National Green Tribunal order. “The NGT has said legacy dumpsites must be biomined. The CMC did not do that. So, we, as the regulatory authority, have imposed the fine on them.” Rudra said the CMC was among several municipalities that had been fined for the same reason. “There are 107 legacy dumpsites in our state and about 127 municipalities or municipal corporations. Almost all of them have been found to be non-compliant. The fine amount will keep on adding till they take corrective measures.” The civic body had started biomining, also called bioremediation, at the Dhapa dumpsite but not at the Garden Reach site, a CMC official said. “We have been fined for not starting biomining at the Garden Reach dumpsite. It is an 8-acre plot.” Bioremediation is a process in which various types of waste — plastic, paper, metals, construction and demolition waste — are separated and each is sent to its recycling plant. Only the waste that is inert and cannot be recycled is left at the dumpsite. This way, the volume of waste gets reduced and free space is created at a site, which is almost saturated. Bioremediation will create free space at an old dumpsite, according to those specialising in waste management. The civic body must simultaneously begin waste segregation at source, one such specialist said. The fresh waste collected from houses and the mined waste at dumpsites will go to recycling plants. Only the non-recyclable waste collected from houses will go to the dumpsite. The life of a dumpsite will be extended by many years if the bulk of the waste goes to recycling plants. “Waste segregation means segregating the waste at dumpsites and at the source… while collecting waste from houses,” Rudra said. A CMC official said the civic body had started waste segregation in 27 wards in the city. Even in these wards, the segregation is done only in some houses. Other households and commercial establishments in these wards and everyone in the other 117 wards of the CMC mix all kinds of waste and dump the mixed waste into waste collection carts, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-228
25-11-2020||Calcutta||Strand Road, Garden Reach… waste burnt at will ||Burning of waste, which releases toxic gases in the air and can cause a range of critical diseases, is continuing unabated in Calcutta, The Telegraph has found. Heaps of dry leaves, paper cups and other waste were put on fire on the stretch opposite Judges Ghat on Strand Road on Tuesday morning. In the afternoon, a pile of wires was being burnt on Garden Reach Road, near Karbala Tank. The spiralling smoke rising up could be seen from some distance. The state government has filed an affidavit before the National Green Tribunal stating that it has banned waste burning to maintain healthy air in the city. But this newspaper could not spot anyone from the authorities to stop waste burning on Strand Road or Garden Reach Road on Tuesday. Environment activist Subhas Datta, who had moved the NGT about the deteriorating air quality of Calcutta, said it was the government’s responsibility to stop waste burning. “The government has given an affidavit to the tribunal that it has stopped waste burning. Merely issuing a circular is not enough. If the government says it has stopped waste burning, it becomes the government’s responsibility to see that no one is burning waste,” said Datta. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) and police both were responsible for preventing open burning of waste, said Debabrata Majumdar, a member of the civic body’s board of administrators who is in charge of the solid waste management department. A senior officer of Calcutta police said they would look into the matter. Air quality management specialists said burning waste released tiny particulate matter like PM2.5, which can enter the lungs and cause respiratory problems. “Waste accumulating on open grounds releases PM2.5, PM10, oxides of nitrogen and carbon monoxide when burnt. These make the air toxic,” said Anumita Roy Chowdhury, an air quality management specialist and executive director of the Delhi-based Centre for Science and Environment. “During winter, this becomes more problematic as the air close to the ground becomes colder and heavier, hangs around for a longer duration than other seasons and more people end up breathing in the toxic air.” A scientist with the state environment department said the wires were put on fire to burn the insulating material and recover the metal from inside, which is then sold. “The insulating material is made of plastic. It releases gases like sulphur dioxide and carbon monoxide. Some of the elements released are carcinogenic. Exposure to these gases can be harmful,” said the scientist. The civic solid waste management system would need to be more robust if waste burning has to be stopped, said waste management specialists. Burning is an easy way of disposing of the waste, especially the one that accumulates on public land and is not cleaned or transported for many days. During winter, burning of dry leaves is common as most trees shed leaves during the season. Dry leaves are gathered on the corner of a road or a ground and burnt. The CMC is empowered to fine those found burning waste in the open. The minimum fine amount is Rs 5,000 and the maximum Rs 25,000 according to the Solid Waste Management Bye-Laws, 2020. “If we do not get to know about an instance of open burning of waste, we cannot do anything. I would urge people to inform our control room (22861212/1313/1414) if they come across any instance of open burning of waste,” said Majumdar. The problem is plaguing New Town, too. Metro reported earlier that several New Town residents had got in touch with the New Town Kolkata Development Authority about the issue Avishek Chakraborty, a resident of a cooperative housing society near Eco Park, said he had spotted a fire on a field opposite Eco Park on Tuesday. The field is a popular destination for birders. “I went and checked but could not spot anyone who could have started the fire,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-228
25-11-2020||Business||Bengal, Kerala accept Centre’s proposal to meet GST shortfall||Bengal and Kerala, which were among the states that had opposed the Centre’s borrowing plan to meet GST revenue shortall, have accepted the proposal and will get Rs 10,197 crore through a special window. "Governments of Kerala and West Bengal have communicated their acceptance of Option-1 to meet the revenue shortfall arising out of GST implementation. The number of states who have chosen this option has gone up to 25," the Ministry of Finance said in a statement. “All the three Union Territories with Legislative Assembly -- Delhi, Jammu & Kashmir and Puducherry -- have also decided in favour of Option-1,” the statement added. The Centre has, in four installments, borrowed Rs 24,000 crore on behalf of states and passed it on to 23 of them as well as three UTs on October 23, November 2, November 9 and November 23. “Now, Kerala and West Bengal will receive funds raised through this starting from the next round of borrowings,” the ministry said. "Kerala and West Bengal will get Rs 10,197 crore through a special borrowing window to meet the GST implementation shortfall," its statement added. Under the terms of Option-1, besides getting the facility of a special window for borrowings to meet the shortfall arising out of GST implementation, states are also entitled to get unconditional permission to borrow the final instalment of 0.50 per cent of Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) out of the 2 per cent additional borrowings permitted by the Centre under Aatmanirbhar Abhiyaan. This is over and above the special window of Rs 1.1 lakh crore. The Centre has also granted an additional permission of borrowing Rs  4,522 crore to Kerala and Rs 6,787 crore to West Bengal, as it received their choice for Option-1. States including Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Odisha, Rajasthan, Sikkim, Tripura, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, and Uttarakhand have also opted for Option-1. Union Territories like Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir and Puducherry have also chosen this option. Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand are among the states that have refused to agree to the plan, saying the Centre should borrow the entire Rs 1.83 lakh crore shortfall. Kerala and Bengal were also a part of this group. Under the borrowing plan (Option-1), the Centre would borrow from market Rs 1.10 lakh crore which is the revenue shortfall on account of GST implementation. The remaining Rs 73,000 crore shortfall is estimated to be the revenue impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. The second option given by the Centre was for the states to borrow the entire Rs 1.83 lakh crore collection shortfall.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-224
25-11-2020||Business||Government approves merger of Lakshmi Vilas Bank with DBS Bank||The government on Wednesday approved the merger of crisis-ridden Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) with DBS Bank India Ltd (DBIL) and removed restrictions on withdrawal of deposits by depositors. The Union Cabinet has approved the merger of the LVB with DBS Bank India Limited, Union Minister Prakash Javadekar told reporters, adding the decision will provide comfort to 20 lakh depositors and protect the services of 4,000 employees. "Cabinet approves Scheme of Amalgamation of Lakshmi Vilas Bank with DBS Bank India Limited; with this there will no further restrictions on the depositors regarding the withdrawal of their deposits," the official spokesperson said in a tweet. The minister said that those responsible for deteriorating financial health of the LVB would be penalised. The government had earlier on November 17 on the advice of the RBI imposed a 30-day moratorium on the crisis-ridden LVB restricting cash withdrawal at Rs 25,000 per depositor. The RBI simultaneously placed in the public domain a draft scheme of amalgamation of LVB with DBIL, a banking company incorporated in India under Companies Act, 2013, and having its Registered Office at New Delhi. The Reserve Bank had also superseded the board of the LVB and appointed T N Manoharan, former non-executive chairman of Canara Bank, as an administrator of the bank for 30 days. LVB is the second private sector bank after Yes Bank which has run into rough weather during this year. In March, capital-starved Yes Bank was placed under a moratorium. The government rescued Yes Bank by asking state-run State Bank of India to infuse Rs 7,250 crore and take 45 per cent stake in the bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-224
25-11-2020||Business||Sensex plunges 695 points on profit-booking||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled 695 points on Wednesday, tracking heavy profit-booking in index majors HDFC Bank, Infosys and Kotak Bank amid mixed cues from global markets. After touching a lifetime high of 44,825.37 in opening session, the 30-share BSE index ended 694.92 points or 1.56 per cent lower at 43,828.10. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty touched a record intra-day peak of 13,145.85, before ending 196.75 points or 1.51 per cent down at 12,858.40. Kotak Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, falling around 3 per cent, followed by Axis Bank, Sun Pharma, HDFC Bank, Bajaj Finance and Asian Paints. On the other hand, ONGC, PowerGrid and IndusInd Bank were the gainers. "Domestic equities witnessed sharp correction today as profit booking was seen across the counters," said Binod Modi, Head- Strategy at Reliance Securities. As expected, high volatility was seen ahead of monthly derivatives expiry, he noted. "Having seen a sharp jump in the last couple of trading days, a profit booking was broadly expected," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Seoul settled in the red, while Tokyo and Hong Kong ended with gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a mixed note in early deals. Meanwhile, Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, was trading 1.15 per cent higher at USD 48.33 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-224
25-11-2020||Business||Sensex rallies over 300 points to scale fresh peak in opening session||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 300 points in opening trade on Wednesday, tracking gains in index-heavyweights HDFC twins, Reliance Industries and ICICI Bank amid largely positive cues from global markets and persistent foreign fund inflows. After touching a lifetime high of 44,825.37 in the opening session, the 30-share BSE index was trading 242.76 points or 0.55 per cent higher at 44,765.78. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty touched a record intra-day peak of 13,145.85, before trading 76.25 points or 0.58 per cent up at 13,131.40. ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, surging around 5 per cent, followed by SBI, ICICI Bank, Bajaj Auto, HDFC Bank, Reliance Industries and Axis Bank. On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, Asian Paints, Bajaj Finance and Infosys were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 445.87 points or 1.01 per cent higher at a record high of 44,523.02, and Nifty rose 128.70 points or 1 per cent to close above the 13,000-mark for the first time at 13,055.15. Foreign institutional investors remained net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 4,563.18 crore on a net basis on Tuesday, according to provisional exchange data. Domestic equities continued to look good at the moment on favourable global cues, said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. "Strong FPIs flow emerged as the main contributor to domestic markets' sharp rally in November. Monthly futures and options (F&O) expiry is expected to create some amount of volatility hereon," he added. He further noted that US equities closed sharply higher as investors continued to cheer the progress on COVID-19 vaccines along with ease of political uncertainty after Trump's administration indicated a smooth transition for President-elect Joe Biden to the White House. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Tokyo, Hong Kong and Seoul were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was in the red. Meanwhile, Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, was trading 1.26 per cent higher at USD 48.38 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-224
25-11-2020||Business||Landline to mobile calls to start by dialling 0||Callers will soon be required to add the ‘0’ prefix for making calls from landlines to mobile phones in the country, with the telecom department asking telcos to make necessary arrangements by January 1 to implement the new system. The department has accepted sectoral regulator Trai’s recommendation for having the ‘0’ prefix for such calls, a move that will create sufficient numbering space for telecom services. The department of telecom (DoT) in a circular on ‘modification of dialling pattern from fixed line numbers to cellular mobile numbers’ said in order to ensure adequate numbering resources for fixed line and mobile services, Trai’s recommendations dated May 29, 2020 have been accepted by the department. “Following may be implemented...Fixed-to-mobile calls shall be dialled with prefix ‘0’. Suitable announcement may be fed in the fixed line switches to apprise the fixed line subscribers about the requirement of dialling the prefix ‘0’ for all fixed-to-mobile calls,” DoT said in a circular dated November 20. This announcement should be played whenever a subscriber dials a fixed-to-mobile call without prefixing ‘0’, it said. ⦾ What has happened: By starting with 0 you have an 11-digit mobile number for land to mobile calls ⦾ What can we expect: Possible first step to switch to 11 digit mobile numbers. Existing numbers will be prefixed with zero, but new numbers can start with any other number. Numbering resources will, therefore, increase||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-224
25-11-2020||Business||Toyota extends lockout at Bidadi||Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) is taking a major hit in production as it decided to extend the lockout at its plant in Bidadi, Karnataka. Most Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) are trying to ramp up production to meet an uptick in demand after eight months of sluggish sales. However, TKM is not being able to produce at optimum levels because of the workers’ unrest. “Production is affected. It would have been higher had we had 90 per cent of the workers in two shifts at the factory. But we have stocks at the dealership as well as stocks in transit that will last the month. And we are continuing production with workers who have signed the good conduct form,” said a company spokesperson. The company on Tuesday decided to extend the lockout as the situation remains “volatile” over unresolved issues between workers and management. The company has rolled out a new version of its MPV Innova Crysta, which has sold 3 lakh units since its launch in 2016. TKM has retained a 43 per cent market share in the MPV segment with the Innova Crysta. The Innova line was launched in India in 2005 and has sold 8,80,000 units, including the Crysta. Naveen Soni, senior vice-president, sales and service, TKM, said, “The new and bolder Innova Crysta continues that legacy in accordance with our tradition of customer-first approach.” The Innova Crysta is available in the price range of Rs 16,26,000 to Rs 24,33,000 (ex-showroom).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-224
25-11-2020||Business||Regulator confirms Karvy ban||Market watchdog Sebi on Tuesday confirmed the ban on Karvy Stock Broking Ltd (KSBL) from taking new clients and directed stock exchanges as well as depositories to take appropriate action against the entity and its directors. The regulator passed the final order a year after passing an interim order, wherein it had imposed a ban on KSBL for misusing clients’ securities. KSBL has also been prohibited from alienating any of its assets, except with prior permission of the National Stock Exchange (NSE), till the settlement of claims of investors. The final order came after the regulator received a forensic audit report from the NSE in the matter. The bourse has already expelled KSBL from its membership and declared the brokerage house as a defaulter. The directions issued against KSBL in the ex-parte order passed in November 2019 are operating against it till date, Sebi said in the final order. Confirming the directions issued in the interim order, Sebi said, “Transfer of funds/ securities made by the KSBL to its clients subsequent to Sebi order dated November 22, 2019, would not absolve KSBL or its directors from violations of the provisions of the securities laws, as have been found in the forensic audit report received in the matter”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-224
25-11-2020||Business||Oil imports down 20.2% in the 7 months of the current fiscal ||Crude oil imports fell 20.2 per cent during the seven months of the current fiscal and estimates are that the imports in the current fiscal would be down over 12 per cent because of subdued demand. Crude imports decreased 21.6 per cent in October and 20.2 per cent during April-October 2020 compared with the corresponding period of the previous year, according to data released by the petroleum ministry. Analysts estimate imports to fall 12.7 per cent during 2020-21 to 3.97 million barrels per day given the subdued demand from the Indian refiners. India imported 227 million tonnes for $101.4 billion in 2019-20. In volumes, imports stood at 4.5 million barrels per day during 2019-20 and are currently at around 3.6 million barrels per day during during the seven months of 2020-21. “Refiners have almost stocked up on cheap crude as directed by the government but even as the country is in its unlock phase, there won’t be an incremental demand for oil products anytime soon. Because of the fall in demand, import dependency is also likely to fall from the previous 85 per cent. Currently import dependency based on consumption is 82.4 per cent,” Care Ratings said in a research report. Consumption is expected to fall 10.4 per cent in this fiscal to around 4.5 million barrels per day compared with 5.09 million barrels per day in 2019-20. At present, India consumes 4 million barrels  per day. With the spread of the contagion , Indians have become wary of travel, which is impacting the incremental need for transportation fuels. Indian refineries usually operate at more than their capacity but given the current situation most of them are  operating at less than full capacity  to contain the level of rising inventories and protect their margins. Refiners are expected to increase their capacity in the coming months as the economy has been unlocking in a phased manner but with most of the Indian states re-imposing curfews and it could act a major detriment for demand of petroleum products. The price of Brent Crude averaged $40.15/bbl during October, 2020 as against $40.81/bbl during September 2020 and $59.72/bbl during October 2019. The Indian basket crude price averaged $40.66/bbl during October 2020 as against $41.35/bbl during September 2020 and $59.70 /bbl during October 2019, the oil ministry data showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-224
25-11-2020||Business||Nifty crosses 13000-mark||The Nifty on Tuesday closed above the 13000 mark for the first time and the Sensex scaled new peaks riding on banking, auto and FMCG stocks as reports of progress in Covid-19 vaccine trials boosted the hopes of a swift economic recovery with robust inflows of foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) providing additional ballast. The Dow Jones Industrial Average also topped 30000 for the first time ever on Tuesday, extending a stock-market rally attributed to continued progress toward a Covid-19 vaccine as well as the removal of a roadblock to a smooth transition to a Biden administration. However, trading volumes were expected to remain subdued ahead of the Thanksgiving holiday on Thursday when markets will be closed, with only half a day of trading scheduled for Friday. Investors in India took their cues from positive results of the coronavirus vaccine in safety trials. Five vaccine candidates are in advanced stages of development in India, of which four are in Phase II/III trials and one in in Phase-I/II level. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday held a meeting with the chief ministers where they discussed the creation of cold storage facilities for the vaccine. Various high frequency indicators have recently shown the domestic economy is picking up steam and market circles said the expectations of a speedy recovery are behind the rush to buy stocks even though some regions are reporting an increasing number of infections leading to apprehensions of restrictions being reimposed by some states. A crucial factor is the huge global liquidity that has led to strong FPI inflows. So far in November, these investors have brought stocks worth a whopping Rs 53,000 crore. Provisional data showed they made net purchases of over Rs 4,563 crore on Tuesday. During this calendar year, they have invested more than Rs 1 lakh crore in equities. “I have never seen such frenzied buying by foreign investors in the secondary markets. Not even in 2007 did we see such euphoric buying in such a short period of time,” investment adviser Sandip Sabharwal tweeted. Hemang Jani of Motilal Oswal Financial Services said the purchases by the FPIs in November are the highest in the last two decades. Corporate performance has also been much better than analyst expectations, while the fears of a spike in bad loans have been replaced by optimism on better collection efficiency and improved asset quality. “The overall sentiments are strong and the market outlook is positive going forward. If the foreign fund inflows continue we can see higher levels on Nifty in coming days or weeks. Nifty can possibly touch 13200-13400 levels also,” according to Motilal Oswal’s Jani who heads the equity strategy, broking and distribution business of the firm. “But it also depends on the sustainability of the economic growth over the next few months after the festive season. Hence at the current market levels it is advisable to partially book profits and sit on 15-20 per cent cash in the portfolio. Any corrections in the market can be used to deploy funds at lower levels,” Jani said. The 30-share Sensex opened strong at 44341.19 and scaled a lifetime intra-day high of 44601.63. It later settled 445.87 points or 1.01 per cent higher at a record 44523.02. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty climbed 128.70 points or 1 per cent to close above the 13000 mark at 13055.15. RIL on Tuesday notified the bourses that Google has paid Rs 33,737 crore for a 7.73 per cent stake in its digital subsidiary, Jio Platforms Ltd, joining the list of global investors such as Facebook. With this, Jio Platforms has raised a total of Rs 1.52 lakh crore by selling nearly a 33 per cent stake to 13 financial and strategic investors in just 11 weeks. This has helped RIL erase its net debt much ahead of the March 2021 target.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-225
25-11-2020||Business||Mercedes-Benz ties up with SBI for schemes||Luxury car maker Mercedes-Benz India has tied up with the State Bank of India to offer attractive financing schemes on buying a Mercedes vehicle. The collaboration will give the German auto maker access to SBI’s high-net-worth customer base, while the bank’s customers will enjoy exclusive benefits while booking a Mercedes-Benz. The collaboration will offer attractive rates of interest and additional benefits worth Rs 25,000 for YONO customers who book a Mercedes-Benz on SBI’s digital platform. Martin Schwenk, managing director & CEO, Mercedes-Benz India, said, “Mercedes-Benz has been constantly exploring new avenues to reach out to a potential customer base and this is the first time we are collaborating with any bank.” C.S. Setty, managing director (retail & digital banking), SBI said, “With attractive interest rates and customised benefits, including a smart digital option of booking the Mercedes on YONO, we look forward to witnessing our HNI customers getting home the car synchronising with their lifestyles.” SBI and Mercedes-Benz will promote the partnership over online and offline channels, including across branches and dealerships in order to reach the maximum number of customers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-225
25-11-2020||Business||Tata group inches closer to the acquisition of Bigbasket ||The Tata group is inching closer to the acquisition of Bigbasket that will put the salt-to-software conglomerate in direct competition with JioMart, Amazon India and Walmart-owned Flipkart apart from boosting its attempt to create a super-app that will offer a wide range of products under one roof. On Tuesday, a CNBC-TV18 report said the deal has entered the last lap and it could be closed at the end of this month. The Tatas are looking to acquire a majority stake in Bigbasket, which is amongst the largest e-grocers in the country and is reportedly valued at $1.23 billion. The Tata group could pay close to $1 billion for the transaction. It is likely to buy the entire 29 per cent stake held by Alibaba apart from that held by a couple of other shareholders as well. The rest of the investors in Bigbasket include Abraaj group, Ascent Capital, Helion Venture Partners and the CDC group. The acquisition comes at a time the Indian government has placed riders on Chinese investments in the country. More importantly, since the Covid-19 outbreak, the online mode has gained acceptance not only in the metros but also in Tier 2 and Tier 3 cities. Bigbasket has over 18,000 products and 1,000 brands in its catalogue. It currently serves cities such as Calcutta, Bangalore, Hyderabad, Mumbai, Pune, Chennai, Delhi, Noida, Mysore and Coimbatore. The entry of the Tata group into online grocery could heighten competition, particularly at a time Reliance Retail is looking to expand its footprint after a successful fund-raising exercise. Reliance Retail Ventures recently said it has completed the current phase of partner induction and the fund-raising exercise through which it mobilised Rs 47,265 crore from nine financial partners. Analysts at Bernstein said in a recent report that the India retail market was around $700 billion in 2018. This is expected to show a compounded annual growth rate of 10 per cent and reach $1.3 trillion by 2025. “The Indian e-commerce market is the largest opportunity in the Indian internet ecosystem. It is expected to reach $133 billion by 2025 from $24 billion in 2018, around 30 per cent CAGR,” the report added. This is a $ 100 billion incremental opportunity. The winner in the Indian E-commerce market will be the one with the most compelling integrated value proposition’||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-225
25-11-2020||Business||Swadeshi Jagran Manch oppose LVB merger plan||RSS-affiliated Swadeshi Jagran Manch has staunchly opposed the RBI supervised merger of Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) with Singapore-based DBS, alleging the deal lacks transparency and is in contrary to the Modi government’s much vaunted Atmanirbhar Bharat policies. “Appreciate the intent of the RBI to protect the depositors’ in LVB, we believe the same end could be achieved without compromising national interests. The proposal is not transparent and casts a shadow on the fair name of the Reserve Bank of India,” Ashwani Mahajan, national co-convenor of the SJM, wrote in a letter to RBI governor  Shaktikanta Das. Mahajan said in the letter in the 60 years since the first of the 81 bank mergers in 1961, not one involved a foreign bank. “Why is LVB being merged now with a foreign bank? Is this the new policy of the RBI and the government of India? If so, this should be debated and its implications examined thoroughly in the national interest. Why is the RBI changing fundamental policy without transparency? What has been proposed is contrary to the Atmanirbhar Bharat direction of the Prime Minister,” Mahajan wrote. Mahajan said when an Indian bank is merged with a foreign bank, it is immediately exposed to the risks of the foreign bank. The policies and shareholders’ interests’ of the foreign bank become the principal criteria for decision making of that bank. “What if the foreign bank, DBS in this case, is merged or sold off to another entity in its home market in the future? These are routine developments in publicly listed entities overseas, and even the management of DBS cannot say what will happen in the future,” the letter said. DBS is stated to be injecting Rs 2,500 crore in its own Indian subsidiary to enhance its capital to absorb LVB. “The point to note is that the money is coming into DBS India, and not into the troubled LVB. DBS is not paying any price for the acquisition. For this piffling amount being brought into their own subsidiary, DBS is gaining access to the LVB deposits reported to be in excess of Rs 20,000 crore of Indian money,” he said. LVB is stated to have net NPAs of over 10 per cent. On an advances base of Rs 16,000 crore (as of November 20), the amount involved is around Rs 1,600 crore. On a gross NPA level of 25 per cent, the amount could be about Rs 4,000 crore. On November 17, The Reserve Bank of India imposed a moratorium on Lakshmi Vilas Bank, capping deposit withdrawals at Rs 25,000 till 16 December this year, while ordering its merger with Development Bank of Singapore (DBS). The step was taken in view of the declining financial health of the private sector lender. LVB is the third bank to be placed under moratorium since September last year after the cooperative bank PMC in 2019 and private sector lender Yes Bank this March. While Yes Bank has been revived under the guidance of SBI, the PMC resolution is still far away. Usually LVB would have lent to borrowers against a good amount of security. These could be physical assets (land and buildings etc,) financial assets (deposits, current assets and such like) and personal guarantees of promoters of borrowing entities. While the security provided may not be immediately liquid, and the process of recovery will take time, more often than not, as bankers well know, the security does result in a good amount of loan recovery. What is the RBI’s assessment in the case of LVB?, the letter said. On November 17, The Reserve Bank of India imposed a moratorium on Lakshmi Vilas Bank, capping deposit withdrawals at Rs 25,000 till 16 December this year, while ordering its merger with Development Bank of Singapore (DBS). The step was taken in view of the declining financial health of the private sector lender. LVB is the third bank to be placed under moratorium since September last year after the cooperative bank PMC in 2019 and private sector lender Yes Bank this March. While Yes bank has successfully been revived under the guidance of State Bank, the PMC resolution is still far away. If the foreign bank fails, and Indian depositors get impacted, will the RBI be involved in a rescue act of the depositors? Why should the RBI expose the Indian public to these unknown risks?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-225
25-11-2020||Business||More Chinese apps banned by Modi government||The Modi government  on Tuesday blocked access to 43 more Chinese mobile apps, including Alibaba Group Holding Ltd’s e-commerce app AliExpress, citing security concerns, as border tensions after the June clashes in eastern Ladakh continue to fester on trade ties. The apps, which also include a few dating ones, threaten the “sovereignty and integrity of India”, the technology ministry said in a statement. The ministry of electronics and IT has issued the order for blocking the access of these apps based on reports received from the Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Center, ministry of home affairs, an official release said. “The government of India today (Tuesday) issued an order under section 69A of the Information Technology Act blocking access to 43 mobile apps. This action was taken based on the inputs regarding these apps for engaging in activities which are prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order,” the release said. Some of these apps are owned by Chinese firms, including four by retail giant, Alibaba Group. These apps include AliSuppliers Mobile App, Alibaba Workbench, AliExpress — Smarter Shopping, Better Living, Alipay Cashier, CamCard and WeDate. Although AliExpress is not a major player in the country’s e-commerce market, dominated by Flipkart and Amazon, it is popular with a section of small business as they use it to source cheap products from China. The ban is a setback to Chinese giant Alibaba, which is the biggest investor in tech firm Paytm and also backs online grocer BigBasket. Its subsidiary UC Web laid off staff in India earlier this year after New Delhi first banned 59 Chinese-origin mobile apps that included UC Web’s browser and two other products. The Chinese tech giant was also forced to put on hold its plans to invest in Indian companies following the border tensions between the two nuclear-armed countries. Under Section 69A, if a website threatens India’s defence, its sovereignty and integrity, friendly relations with foreign countries and public order, the government can ban it, after following due procedure. The detailed procedures to do so are listed under the Information Technology (Procedure and Safeguards for Bloking Access of Information by Public) Rules, 2009. The Centre has blocked access to several Chinese apps after the border standoff at Galwan in eastern Ladakh. In June, the Centre blocked 59 apps, all from Chinese companies such as TikTok, Shein, Clash of Kings, SHAREit under Section 69A of the IT Act. In July, it banned 47 other apps and in September it added 118 mobile apps to the list. While apps like PUBG are relooking their financial and operational structures to re-enter the country, TikTok has been scouring the globe for investors to take over its  operations in the US and India, including SoftBank and Oracle. India’s slew of app bans have also jolted the ambitions of Chinese tech titans such as Bytedance and Tencent in the South Asian country, which is trying to reduce Beijing’s influence in its burgeoning internet economy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-225
25-11-2020||India||Railways cancel many trains as Cyclone Nivar approaches coast||The Indian Railways has cancelled over a dozen special trains scheduled on November 25 and 26, which would have either originated from or terminated in the southern states, in view of Cyclone Nivar, and offered full refund to passengers. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said Nivar is expected to intensify into a ‘very severe cyclonic storm’ before crossing the coast between Tamil Nadu and Puducherry during the early hours of Thursday. “Owing to the onset of Cyclone NIVAR, Southern Railway has announced cancellation of several special train services to destinations that are likely to be affected by unprecedented rains/cyclonic landfall and to other destinations due to operational difficulties,” the Railways said. “For the trains fully cancelled by Railways in view of Cyclone NIVAR, full refund of fare will be granted on ticket cancellations. The time limit for availing refunds has also been extended to six months from the date of journey,” it added. For PRS (Passenger Reservation System) counter tickets, refunds can be availed on submission of tickets on the counter upto six months from the date of scheduled departure of the train. Auto refund facilities are available for tickets booked online. For trains cancelled partially, passengers can avail full refund for the untraveled portion until six months from the date of scheduled departure of the train, while auto refund is also available for the tickets bought online. The Southern Railways issued a statement saying that several precautions to minimise any damage have been taken. “Instructions have been issued to all the field units, especially those at the districts which are on high alert, to be in readiness with full complements of tools, spares, accessories that are required for restoration of traffic”, it said. “Monsoon reserve trains loaded with rail, sleepers and other tools and also tower wagons loaded with all material required for restoring train operations are kept fully prepared”, the statement said. “It has also been communicated to the field units that, as soon as the threat of cyclone is apparent, all the boom barriers at the level crossing gates are to be kept in closed condition to prevent damage to the booms, duly informing the District Collectors concerned”, it added. “Roof shelters in the platforms at the stations have been checked and fastened with due care. Hoardings at the stations and mid sections in the area which are on high alert have been removed, wherever feasible, to reduce any damage”, the statement further said. The trains that have been fully cancelled include the Dr MGR Chennai Central -- Mettupalayam Special Train (02671), Dr MGR Chennai Central Coimbatore Special Train (02673), Dr MGR Chennai Central Mangalore Special Train (02601), Dr MGR Chennai Central Thiruvananthapuram Special Train (02623), and Dr MGR Chennai Central Alappuzha Special Train Train (02639).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-534
25-11-2020||India||Accused in Delhi riots committed a 'crime against humanity', says police charge sheet||The accused persons in the recent Delhi riots allegedly committed a crime against humanity carried out in an extremely brutal, grotesque and dastardly manner, police have said in its supplementary charge sheet filed in a case in a court here. The charge sheet, which names former JNU student leader Umar Khalid and JNU student Sharjeel Imam as accused, said there was a tacit understanding between the accused persons to carry out an illegal act. It stated that by a sustained and well-oiled campaign, they created an acute sense of fear and insecurity in the minds of the minority community. All the accused persons came together in pursuit of an unlawful object. The offences have been committed by the accused persons in an extremely brutal, grotesque and dastardly manner. Innocent victims and helpless were targeted of this ghastly, horrendous and horrifying crime. Precious lives were lost. Accused persons are charge sheeted for commission of grave, serious and heinous offences. It is pertinent to mention here that their acts and commissions have shocked the collective conscience of the society. The accused persons' conduct exhibits a total disregard for human values and shows a totally depraved, brutal and scheming mind. The accused persons have committed a crime against humanity, Police claimed in the charge sheet filed on Sunday. It further said that the criminal conspiracy was continuing and has suffered setbacks with the exposure and arrest of the accused persons but it was neither aborted nor abandoned. The charge sheet said the brunt of the conspiracy was suffered by those who reside in the most densely populated district of India where day to day survival requires blood and sweat of the toiler and the breadwinner. With the leaders choosing to either remain safely glued to their television sets in the comfort of their homes in upscale locations of Delhi-NCR using their communication devices as the weapon of the enlightened or leaving Delhi for outside destinations to create the most acceptable alibi, the brunt of the conspiracy was suffered by those who reside in the most densely populated district of India where day to day survival requires blood and sweat of the toiler and the breadwinner. The crime committed by the key conspirators is not just legally but morally reprehensible, it said. It alleged the charge-sheeted accused had entered into a deep-rooted and sinister conspiracy to do an illegal act with an objective to disturb societal harmony by their terrorist acts. By a sustained and well-oiled campaign, they created an acute sense of fear and insecurity in the minds of the minority community. Innocent people were killed as a result of this cold-blooded, brutal, gruesome and diabolical conspiracy. Government and private properties were damaged, destroyed and destructed. The law and order situation was paralysed, essential services became unavailable and rumours and disinformation became the order of the day as desired by the accused persons who were acting in a systematic, structured and organised manner, the charge sheet said. Communal violence had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after clashes between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-534
25-11-2020||India||Kovind urges House representatives to maintain discipline||President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday, during an inaugural speech in Gujarat, said elected representatives must engage in a healthy dialogue at Parliament and Legislative Assemblies and should abstain from using unparliamentary languages when a debate is underway in the House. Addressing the inaugural session of 80th All India Presiding Officers' Conference at Tent City in Gujarat's Kevadia village, near the Statue of Unity in Narmada district, Kovind said such actions by the elected members upset the ones who chose them as their representatives. "It is expected from elected representatives that they remain committed to democratic values. The biggest challenge for elected representatives and democratic institutions is to fulfill the expectations of people," he said. "I believe that people of this country expect that their elected representatives will follow parliamentary norms,” the President added. “People get hurt when their elected representatives use unparliamentary words or indulge in indiscipline in Parliament or in the Assembly," Kovind said. He urged Speakers to enable a healthy dialogue in the House and keep away insignificant bitterness in the discussions. “In parliamentary democracy, the Opposition has an important role along with the ruling party, and so there is a need for understanding, cooperation, and meaningful exchange of thoughts between the two”, Kovind said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-534
25-11-2020||India||Customs to take Sivasankar into custody in Kerala gold case||A court here on Wednesday granted the Customs five days custody of suspended IAS officer M Sivasankar, arrested by it in connection with the Kerala gold smuggling case. The Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate (Economic Offences), Ernakulam, granted the Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate five day custody of the bureaucrat considering its argument about his alleged role in the sensational case through the diplomatic channel. In the remand report filed in the court on Tuesday, the Customs had claimed that the key accused in the gold smuggling case, Swapna Suresh, has revealed that Sivasankar was in the know and has also abetted the smuggling activities. The Customs said Suresh made this claim during her interrogation at the Attakkulangara Vanitha jail in Thiruvananthapuram, on November 18. Sivasankar was formally arrested by the customs on Tuesday at a jail where he is currently lodged. Earlier, a special court for PMLA cases had granted the permission of the customs to arrest Sivasankar. He was sent to judicial custody last week following his custodial interrogation by the Enforcement Directorate probing the money trail in the gold smuggling case. The Customs has said it has arrested around 15 people, including prime accused Swapna Suresh, Sarith PS and Sandeep Nair, in connection with the seizure of 30 kg smuggled gold illicitly imported as diplomatic baggage of UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram on July 5. The agency has claimed that it has now come to light that Sivasankar, who has been arrayed as fifth accused in the case registered by the ED, is also involved in the issue. The National Investigation Agency (NIA), the ED and the Customs are conducting separate investigations into the racket that was busted with the seizure of gold on July 5. The IAS officer was suspended after his links to Suresh, a former employee of the consulate surfaced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-535
25-11-2020||India||Delhi hospitals get 1,300 ICU beds, 2,000 normal ones in two weeks||Amid a surge in coronavirus cases and deaths, as many as 2,000 normal and 1,300 ICU beds have been added in hospitals of Delhi in the past two weeks for Covid-19 patients, an official said on Wednesday. The official said Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has been monitoring the situation and added that all efforts are being made by the Delhi government to bring down the mortality rate. The death rate stood at 1.89 per cent on Tuesday. The national capital recorded over 100 Covid-19 deaths for the fifth consecutive day on Tuesday. "A total of 1,300 ICU beds and 2,000 non-ICU beds for Covid-19 patients have been added in Delhi in the past two weeks, with the maximum 232 ICU beds in GTB Hospital. In Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital, 200 ICU beds have been added in the same period," the official said. He also said that there are currently 9,000 normal beds and over 1,000 ICU beds available for coronavirus patients in the national capital. During a COVID-19 review meeting convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday, Kejriwal had requested the PM to reserve 1,000 ICU beds for Delhiites in Centre-run hospitals like AIIMS and Safdarjung Hospital. Kejriwal had said if the central government reserves these ICU beds in its hospitals in the city for the people of Delhi amid a surge in coronavirus case, "it will be a great support to us". At the meeting, the chief minister had underlined that the high severity of the third wave of COVID-19 cases in the national capital is due to many factors, with pollution being a significant one. He said Delhi saw the peak of 8,600 coronavirus infections on November 10 during the third wave and since then, the number of cases as well as the positivity rate are steadily decreasing. The chief minister hoped that this decreasing trend would continue in the national capital. On Tuesday, Delhi recorded 6,224 fresh COVID-19 cases and a positivity rate of 10.14 per cent while 109 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 8,621.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-535
25-11-2020||India||Cyclone Nivar likely to cross coast tonight ||Severe cyclone 'Nivar' would intensify into a very severe cyclonic storm and it is likely to cross the coast between Tamil Nadu and Puducherry before dawn on Thursday, the India Meteorological Department said. Chief Minister K Palaniswami declared Thursday a public holiday for 13 districts including Chennai, Vellore, Cuddalore, Villupuram, Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur, Chengelpet and Kancheepuram considering the safety of people in view of the cyclone. Wednesday has already been declared a holiday. In its latest bulletin, the IMD said Nivar would cross over between Karaikal and Mamallapuram "during the midnight of November 25 and early hours of 26 November." The storm, 250 km off Chennai and 190 km and 180 km from Puducherry and Cuddalore respectively, is very likely to move northwestwards and cross coasts as a "very severe cyclonic storm with a wind speed of 120-130 kmph gusting to 145 kmph." Under the influence of the cyclone, coastal and north interior Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Kariakal regions are likely to receive rainfall on Wednesday at most places with heavy to very heavy showers at a few places and extremely heavy rains at isolated places. Bus services in seven Tamil Nadu districts have been suspended. The state government has said that those involved in essential services will continue to work. Chief Minister Palaniswami appealed to people to stay indoors as far as possible and said over 4,000 "vulnerable" locations had been identified and local officials have been told to ensure peoples' safety. Around 1,200 National Disaster Response Force personnel have been deployed in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and neighbouring Andhra Pradesh as well, NDRF chief SN Pradhan said. South coastal Andhra Pradesh is also likely to witness showers at most places today. Rainfall is expected to continue in many places in these regions Thursday too with heavy rainfall at some places. Surplus water was released from Chembarambakkam lake, one of the key drinking water sources to the city since it almost neared its capacity, the government said. PWD officials said 1000 cusecs was released from the lake as the level stood at 22 feet of the total 24 feet. Chennai and its suburbs, which received heavy overnight rains, continued to witness intermittent showers coupled with strong winds with low-lying areas getting inundated and water entering houses in such localities. Civic body officials were involved in clearing the roads of stagnant water. The Tamil Nadu government appealed to people living in coastal districts to not venture out of their homes and requested those living in low lying areas to reach the cyclone shelters in their respective regions. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is keeping a tab on the situation. He is in contact with the Tamil Nadu and Puducherry's Chief Ministers and has offered every possible support from the Centre. "Spoke to Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Shri Edappadi K Palaniswami and Puducherry Chief Minister Shri V Narayanasamy regarding the situation in the wake of Cyclone Nivar. Assured all possible support from the Centre. I pray for the safety and well-being of those living in the affected areas," the Prime Minister tweeted in English and Tamil.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-535
25-11-2020||India||Modi to lay foundation stone for new Parliament building this December||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to lay the foundation stone for a new Parliament building in the first half of December, sources said. The sources further said that around five statues, including that of Mahatma Gandhi and Bhim Rao Ambedkar, in the Parliament complex are also likely to be relocated temporarily due to the construction work and they will be reinstalled at prominent places within the new complex once the project is completed. The new building will be constructed close to the existing one under the Central Vista redevelopment project and it is expected to be completed in 21 months from the start of construction work. The redevelopment project of Central Vista -- the nation's power corridor -- envisages a new triangular Parliament building, a common central secretariat and revamping of the 3-km-long Rajpath, from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate. Although the proposed date of laying the foundation stone of the new Parliament building is around December 10, the final date would depend on the availability of the prime minister, the sources said. According to the plan, the new Parliament building, which will have separate offices for all MPs, will be equipped with the latest digital interfaces as a step towards creating "paperless offices". The new building will also have a grand Constitution Hall to showcase India's democratic heritage, a lounge for members of Parliament, a library, multiple committee rooms, dining areas and ample parking space. The sources said that five statues, including that of Mahatma Gandhi and Bhim Rao Ambedkar, at the existing Parliament complex are likely to be relocated temporarily and they would be reinstalled once the construction work of the new Parliament building is completed. The iconic 16-feet high statue of Mahatma Gandhi is located opposite Gate Number 1 of Parliament House. The statue greets visitors entering Parliament House and has also been the location of gatherings, protests and press interactions by MPs. According to Rajya Sabha's website, the statue of Mahatma Gandhi in a meditating posture sculpted by Ram Sutar, was unveiled by the then President of India Dr Shankar Dayal Sharma on October 2, 1993. It also said that the statue was donated by the Ministry of Urban Development. In September, Tata Projects Limited had won the bid to construct a new parliament building at a cost of Rs 861.90 crore. The existing building is a British-era building, designed by Edwin Lutyens and Herbert Baker who were responsible for planning and construction of New Delhi. The foundation stone of the existing Parliament House was laid on February 12, 1921 and the construction took six years and cost Rs 83 lakh at that time. The opening ceremony was performed on January 18, 1927 by the then Governor-General of India, Lord Irwin. According to the CPWD, the existing Parliament building will continue to function during the entire period of execution of the project. Once the new building is built, the existing Parliament building will be used for other purposes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-535
25-11-2020||India||Twitter to relaunch account verification process in early 2021||Twitter will relaunch its account verification process early next year, whereby active and authentic user accounts can sport the 'blue verified badge'. Twitter had paused its public verification programme three years ago, after getting feedback that it felt arbitrary and confusing to many people. "A year later, we deprioritised this work further to focus on protecting the integrity of the public conversation around critical moments like the 2020 US election," Twitter said in a blog post. The microblogging platform is now restarting the process and has asked the public to share feedback on a draft of its new verification policy starting November 24 up to December 8, 2020. This policy will lay the foundation for future improvements by defining what verification means, who is eligible for verification and why some accounts might lose verification to ensure "the process is more equitable", it said. "We plan to relaunch verification, including a new public application process, in early 2021... (As) per the proposed policy, 'the blue verified badge' on Twitter lets people know that an account of public interest is authentic," the blog post added. To receive the blue badge, the account must be "notable and active, Twitter noted. The six types of accounts that have been identified include Government; Companies, Brands and Non- Profit Organisations; News; Entertainment; Sports; Activists, Organisers, and Other Influential Individuals. Twitter said it intends to expand the categories and criteria for verification significantly over the next year. The social media giant said there is also a proposed criteria to automatically remove verification from an account, if the account is inactive or if the profile is incomplete. Twitter can also deny or remove verification from certain qualified accounts that are found to be in repeated violation of the Twitter Rules, it said. "We recognise that there are many verified accounts on Twitter who should not be. We plan to start by automatically removing badges from accounts that are inactive or have incomplete profiles to help streamline our work and to expand this to include additional types of accounts over the course of 2021," the blog post added. Twitter said this year, it has verified medical experts tweeting about #Covid19 and added account labels to identify candidates running for office. "But the blue verified badge isn't the only way we are planning to distinguish accounts on Twitter. Heading into 2021, we're committed to giving people more ways to identify themselves, such as new account types and labels," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-535
25-11-2020||India||India's Covid caseload breaches 92 lakh mark||India's Covid-19 caseload went past 92 lakh with 44,376 new cases reported in a day, while the number of recoveries surged to 86.42 lakh, the health ministry said on Wednesday. The number of total coronavirus cases rose to 92,22,216 in the country, while the death toll due to the disease climbed to 1,34,699 with 481 new fatalities, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. The active caseload shot up to 4,44,746, an increase of 6,079 cases from Tuesday, even though it remained below five lakh for the 15th consecutive day, accounting for 4.82 per cent of the total cases, the data stated. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 86,42,771, pushing the national recovery rate to 93.72 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.46 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30-lakh mark on August 23 and 40-lakh mark on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29 and 90 lakh on November 20. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), over 13.48 crore samples were tested for Covid-19 up to November 24, including 11,59,032 on Tuesday. The 481 new fatalities include 109 from Delhi, 49 from West Bengal, 33 each from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, 30 from Maharashtra, 24 from Kerala, 22 from Punjab and 21 from Chhattisgarh. Of the 1,34,699 deaths reported in the country so far due to the disease, Maharashtra accounts for 46,683, followed by Karnataka (11,695), Tamil Nadu (11,639), Delhi (8,621), Bengal (8,121), Uttar Pradesh (7,615), Andhra Pradesh (6,956), Punjab (4,653) and Gujarat (3,892). According to the health ministry, more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-535
25-11-2020||India||Delhi's air quality falls back into 'severe' category||Delhi's overall air quality deteriorated to the severe category from "very poor" on Wednesday morning. The national capital's AQI was in "severe" category on November 15 the last time but after that it had improved and remained in either "poor" or "moderate" category until November 22. According to the Central Pollution Control Board(CPCB) mobile app, SAMEER, the city's air quality index (AQI) was recorded at 401. It was 388 on Tuesday. The AQI in the city was 302 on Monday, 274 on Sunday, 251 on Saturday, 296 on Friday and 283 on Thursday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". The Ministry of Earth Sciences' monitoring system SAFAR had predicted improvement in the AQI for Wednesday. Stubble burning share in PM2.5 in Delhi's air was 5 per cent on Tuesday. Stubble burning accounted for 6 per cent of Delhi's PM2.5 pollution on Monday and 12 per cent on Sunday. It was 13 per cent on Saturday, 15 per cent on Friday, 20 per cent on Thursday and eight per cent on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-535
25-11-2020||India||‘Congressman for life’ Ahmed Patel dies of Covid complications    ||Senior Congress leader and the party's top strategist Ahmed Patel died at a Gurugram hospital on Wednesday due to multi-organ failure caused by complications related to COVID-19. He was 71. Patel’s son Faisal said he died at 3.30 am. "With profound grief & sorrow, I regret to announce the sad and untimely demise of my father, Mr. Ahmed Patel at 25/11/2020, 03:30 AM. After testing positive for Covid-19 around a month back, his health worsened further due to multiple organ failures. May Allah grant him Jannatul firdaus, inshallah," he said in a tweet. He also urged all well-wishers to adhere to the COVID-19 regulations by avoiding mass gatherings. Patel, who was critical for a few days, was admitted to the Medanta hospital in Gurugram on November 15. "AP" to his friends and "Ahmed Bhai" to colleagues, Patel was one of the closest aides of Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, and her political secretary for a long time. He was the trouble-shooter of the Congress and had steered the party out of ticklish situations many a time. He was the grand old party's pointsman for building consensus on key issues with other parties and leaders. A soft-spoken and affable man, Patel was well respected and had friends across the aisle and in different spheres. The veteran Congress leader had himself announced on Twitter on October 1 that he had tested positive for COVID-19 and all those who had come in close contact of him should also get tested. Patel was currently a member of the Rajya Sabha from Gujarat. He was an eight-time parliamentarian -- five times in the Rajya Sabha, three times in the Lok Sabha. His last Rajya Sabha election in 2017 was contested very keenly amid charges of horse-trading. He was currently the Congress treasurer, a post that he occupied thrice. President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, besides Congress leaders, including party chief Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, and Union ministers condoled Patel's demise. "Saddened by the demise of Ahmed Patel Ji. He spent years in public life, serving society. Known for his sharp mind, his role in strengthening the Congress Party would always be remembered. Spoke to his son Faisal and expressed condolences. May Ahmed Bhai's soul rest in peace," the Prime Minister said in a tweet. Sonia Gandhi, in her condolence message, said in Patel's death, "I have lost a colleague, whose entire life was dedicated to the Congress Party." "His faithfulness and dedication, his commitment to his duty, his always being there to help, his generosity were rare qualities that distinguished him from others. I have lost an irreplaceable comrade, a faithful colleague and a friend. I mourn his passing and I feel deeply for his bereaved family to whom I offer my sincere feelings of empathy and support," she said. "It is a sad day. Shri Ahmed Patel was a pillar of the Congress party. He lived and breathed Congress and stood with the party through its most difficult times. He was a tremendous asset," Rahul Gandhi said in a tweet. "We will miss him. My love and condolences to Faisal, Mumtaz and the family," he added. Patel began his political career by contesting local body polls in Gujarat's Bharuch district in 1976. He became a Lok Sabha MP in March 1977 and was a member of the sixth, seventh and eighth Lok Sabha till 1989. He was elected to the Rajya Sabha for the first time in August 1993. Patel was a close confidant of Rajiv Gandhi and the parliamentary secretary to the former prime minister from 1985 to 1986. He later took charge of the Congress' organisational structure both in Gujarat and at the party high-command. Though Patel never became a minister, he always worked as the background man in the Congress and was at the centre stage of the party's decision-making till his death. Patel is the second senior Congressman to have died due to COVID-related complications, as his death comes two days after former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi passed away in Guwahati. Patel leaves behind his wife, a son and a daughter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-535
25-11-2020||India||Congress veteran Ahmed Patel dies of Covid at 71||Senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel, one of Sonia Gandhi’s closest political advisers died in the wee hours of Wednesday at Gurgaon's Medanta Hospital. The veteran politician was 71 and had been admitted there ever since his health condition worsened post covid infection. Confirming the news, NDTV wrote, “In a tweet at around 4 am, his son, Faisal Patel, said that the Rajya Sabha MP from Gujarat died at 3.30 am.” Faisal Patel, around 4 am, had tweeted from his verified account to share the news of the passing of the Congress Rajya Sabha member and party treasurer. “With profound grief & sorrow, I regret to announce the sad and untimely demise of my father, Mr. Ahmed Patel at 25/11/2020, 03:30 AM. After testing positive for COVID-19 around a month back, his health worsened further due to multiple organ failures. May Allah grant him Jannatul firdaus, inshallah,” he tweeted. He also requested all the well-wishers to maintain social distancing. Patel had tested positive on October 1 and had announced that he was going into self-isolation. He was admitted to the intensive care unit of Medanta Hospital, Gurgaon on Sunday after developing Covid-19 related complications. The veteran leader had served as Lok Sabha MP for three terms (1977-1989). He has been representing Gujarat since 1993 at the Rajya Sabha. Having served as the political secretary to Sonia Gandhi, he was the grand old party’s negotiators during the UPA regime. The news of Patel’s death comes two days after the demise of Tarun Gagaoi, another senior Congress. The former CM of Assam had also contracted the virus in August. He too had been rushed to the hospital, after he complained of breathlessness.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-535
25-11-2020||India||Immolation bid outside Odisha Assembly||A couple from Nayagarh district on Tuesday tried to set themselves on fire in front of the main gate of the Odisha Assembly in protest against the failure of the police to arrest those involved in the alleged kidnapping and murder of their daughter in July. Ashok Sahu and his wife Saudamini took the security personnel completely by surprise as they got down from an autorickshaw outside the legislature complex and tried to douse themselves with diesel after coming close to the Assembly gate. Police, however, swung into action quickly and seized the diesel and the matchbox from their possession before it was too late. The Sahus, residents of Jadupur village in Nayagarh district, around 100km from here, alleged that their repeated attempts to seek justice had failed with the culprits still at large. They couple claimed the police had done precious little to nab the accused involved in the kidnapping and murder of their daughter. On July 14, their daughter Pari, aged 5, was kidnapped while playing near her house. A fortnight later her skeletal remains were found in a decomposed state from the backyard of the house. The family alleged that as people involved in the crime were close to a minister, who hails from Nayagarh district, police had not taken any action in the case. The issue found an echo in the Assembly on Tuesday with the Opposition accusing the government of failing to maintain law and order in the state. As the stalemate over the issue continued, Speaker Surya Naryan Patro directed the minister of state for home to place a statement on the issue of the child’s abduction and murder in the House on Wednesday. “Breaking the security cordon, the parents of the child reached the Assembly to commit self-immolation. There are allegations against a minister from the district to which the couple belong. Considering the gravity of the situation, I have directed the minister to place a statement on the issue on Wednesday,” said Patro. The couple left for their village after the police commissionerate made them speak with the Nayagarh superintendent of police who assured a fair probe into the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-535
25-11-2020||India||1,400-page chargesheet in TRP case||Mumbai police on Tuesday filed a chargesheet in a case related to alleged rigging of TRPs by television channels in which 12 persons, including senior executives of Republic TV and two other channels, have been arrested. The 1,400-page chargesheet, submitted before a magistrate’s court, has cited around 140 people as witnesses. Statements of advertisers alleging cheating are also part of  the chargesheet, an official said. Among those arrested are Republic TV’s western region distribution head Ghanshyam Singh. Republic TV and the other accused have denied wrongdoing. Two of the arrested accused had expressed willingness to become approvers and their statements under Section 164 of the CrPC (admissible in court) were recorded before a magistrate, an official said. A supplementary chargesheet of 2,000 pages will be filed later, the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-536
25-11-2020||India||Veterans advise caution on China’s terms||Military veterans have cautioned the Indian Army against the Chinese People’s Liberation Army’s “ulterior” motive behind setting conditions for the proposed disengagement process at the Pangong Lake where troops  from the neighbouring country have reportedly occupied 8km within India-claimed lines. The PLA is said to have asked the Indian side to vacate the dominating Chushul heights on the Kailash range first as part of the disengagement process on the northern flank of the Pangong Lake. Although there is no official word from either the government or the Indian Army on the specifics of the disengagement plan being discussed, sources in the ministry had said last week that the Chinese army had laid down the condition that the Indian Army vacate the Chushul heights. “It will be a big blunder if the Indian side considers this proposal as it will be like walking into a trap. The Indian Army should remain extra cautious as we have already witnessed how the PLA had used deception to launch an attack on our soldiers at the Galwan Valley on June 15 even though both sides had agreed in principle to disengage,” a retired army general said. Twenty Indian soldiers and an unspecified number of Chinese troops were killed in the violence. A former lieutenant general said the Chinese had been intentionally dragging the disengagement dialogue and were now setting conditions after eight rounds of military talks. “Nothing stops the PLA from coming back to the Pangong Lake, even if they move back as part of the proposed disengagement plan,” he said. As per the latest ground assessment, he said, the Chinese troops continue to strengthen their positions by undertaking massive construction activities at multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh and are setting up additional winter camps and other facilities for soldiers. “Why should the Indian Army vacate the strategic heights that are under their control? China has been the aggressor and they should pull back… and return to their side of the LAC first. India should reject outright proposals of any such conditions for disengagement,” the former lieutenant general said. Indian and Chinese troops have been locked in a face-off at multiple points — the Pangong Lake, Hot Springs, and the Depsang Plains — since May. In September the Indian Army had occupied multiple ridges above 14,000 feet in the Chushul region in no man’s land near the southern bank of the Pangong Lake from where they have been keeping a close watch on the PLA’s troop movements. The former lieutenant general also questioned Indian military commanders’ move to take up with the PLA disengagement from only the Pangong Lake while not talking about resolution of the other friction points, especially the Depsang Plains. At the Depsang Plains the PLA is said to have transgressed 18km inside India-claimed lines. “Chinese domination and encroachment at Depsang is 18km deep but it is shocking that it is not even discussed. India should take up all friction points forcefully,” the former lieutenant general said. General V.P. Malik, who was the army chief during the 1999 Kargil War, said in a tweet: “My opinion on India China LAC face-off…. For lasting peace on LAC, military-diplomatic negotiations should first involve the whole of Ladakh-Tibet border — from Depsang to Chumar — and not in small segments. Implementation of the settlement thereafter should be worked segment-wise.” A retired Intelligence Bureau director said there was a complete breakdown of trust after the Galwan Valley incident. The Indian Army last week had completed establishment of habitat facilities for its nearly 50,000 additional troops deployed along the LAC where temperatures have already reached minus 15-20 degrees Celsius. This is the first time such a huge number of additional soldiers are being deployed in the forward areas of the LAC in the harsh terrain 12,000-14,000ft above sea level where temperatures are expected to dip to minus 30-40 degrees Celsius by next month. Indian Army sources said the top brass was still awaiting the PLA’s response on the ninth round of military talks. “The talks were supposed to take place last week. We are still awaiting their response,” said an army official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-536
25-11-2020||India||IMA wants Ayurveda surgery order junked ||India’s largest body of modern doctors on Tuesday asked the Centre to withdraw last week’s gazette notification listing procedures that Ayurvedic surgeons could perform, announcing plans to oppose what it views as the Narendra Modi government’s efforts to mix different medical systems. The Indian Medical Association said the notification that had listed 39 general surgical procedures and 19 ear, eyes, nose and throat procedures along with other recent moves by central government agencies would deny patients the choice of opting for specific medical systems. While postgraduate Ayurvedic surgeons with MS degrees in shalya tantra (general surgery) or shalakya tantra (specialised surgery) have performed surgeries for years, the November 19 notification from the Central Council of Indian Medicine has specified 58 permitted procedures. The IMA, a body that represents over 320,000 medics, has said the notification lists multiple procedures such as abdominal, cataract and nasal surgery, that require competencies that “squarely fall under the ambit, authority and jurisdiction” of modern medicine. Members of the CCIM board of governors have said postgraduate Ayurvedic surgeons are adequately trained and perform some of the listed procedures in Ayurvedic hospitals. But senior IMA executives have said the notification would allow widespread mixing of medical streams. “What is being practised now on a limited scale in a few centres of excellence could now become widespread,” said R.V. Asokan, the IMA’s general secretary. “At some of these centres, they take lateral help of modern medical doctors and drugs — this is cheating,” Asokan told The Telegraph. Ayurvedic surgeons concede that they use modern medical tools such as anaesthetics and antibiotics whenever considered necessary during Ayurvedic surgery. The IMA has described the notification as an “irresponsible” initiative that could place thousands of patients at risk. The IMA’s central working committee said it had consulted the association’s 28 state branches to determine the “quantum and timing” of an “all-India response” to the government’s moves no later than December 2. The CCIM’s notification should not be seen in isolation, the IMA said in a statement on Tuesday. The National Education Policy 2020 released earlier this year mentions medical pluralism and lateral movements that could lay the foundation for mixing traditional and modern medical systems. The IMA also said the Niti Aayog, the government’s apex think tank, had formed expert panels in medical education, medical practice, public health and research that appear to be aimed at integrating different medical systems. “The patient’s choice to choose between systems of medicines is being taken away through such attempts to mix medical systems,” Asokan said. “Today, patients can choose whether they want to consult modern medical doctors or qualified doctors from other medical systems — such mixing will deny patients this choice.” Some doctors fear that efforts to mix traditional and modern medicine could also erode India’s leadership and legacy in modern medicine. “India offers modern medical care of international standards and well-reputed Indian doctors serve worldwide,” said Rajan Sharma, the IMA’s national president. However, sections of doctors and public health experts believe appropriately trained Ayurvedic doctors and surgeons could play a significant role in health care, particularly in areas and circumstances where there are shortages of modern medics. “Many of the 58 procedures listed in the CCIM notification such as traumatic wound management, suturing, drainage of absecces, or intubation could be done by paramedics,” said a senior surgeon in a government hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-536
25-11-2020||India||Kerala govt to withdraw law against free speech||The Kerala government has decided to repeal a three-day-old penal provision against “publishing or disseminating” offensive content, acknowledging the backlash against a law that alarmed free-speech advocates. The state cabinet decided on Tuesday to forward a repealing ordinance to the governor to withdraw Section 118A from the Kerala Police Act, less than 24 hours after putting it on hold. The rapid reversal marked a rare moment in which an elected government and a political party responded to a blizzard of criticism and undertook a course correction. The rethink also stood out in sharp contrast with the stubborn manner in which the Narendra Modi government has approached several issues that have distressed many citizens. The central leadership of the CPM, which heads the Left coalition government in Kerala, is said to have played a decisive role in the dramatic turn of events that sent ripples far beyond the borders of the state. Senior lawyer Kaleeswaram Raj, a vocal critic of the new law, tweeted expressing happiness at the withdrawal. “Introspection is a democratic virtue. Freedom is non-negotiable. Kerala has shown a fine instance of deliberative democracy,” Raj added. Section 118A had prescribed up to three years’ jail and a possible fine of Rs 10,000 “for making, expressing, publishing or disseminating any matter which is threatening, abusive, humiliating or defamatory”. Chief minister and CPM leader Pinarayi Vijayan told a media conference in Thiruvananthapuram on Tuesday: “The government took at face value all the opinions that the amendment would provide excessive powers to the police and it would lead to misuse. Even as doubts and concerns persisted, the government was of the view that it was better to withdraw the amendment.” Vijayan said the government had chosen the ordinance route to insert the provision because the general public, as also media owners and the Opposition, had been in favour of tackling rising incidents of cyber bullying and fake news targeting, in particular, women and transgender persons. But critics felt that the law was brought in to rein in the media in the middle of two scandals and ahead of the Assembly polls next year. Asked if the government planned to bring an alternative provision, Vijayan said no law would be introduced without discussions in the Assembly. CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury had told reporters in Delhi on Monday that the party had “proposed” to the Kerala government that it reconsider the ordinance. CPM politburo member M.A. Baby told reporters earlier on Tuesday that the “decision to halt the law’s implementation was based on the advice of the party and the LDF (Left Democratic Front).” The matter had crossed the borders with the Vienna-based International Press Institute, a network of editors and journalists, demanding that the provision be repealed. The state counsel assured Kerala High Court on Tuesday that the government was “reconsidering” the ordinance and the contentious provision would not be used until further decision by the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-536
25-11-2020||India||BBC includes Shaheen Bagh 'protest leader' Bilkis Dadi in influential women list||When anti-CAA protests erupted in the country last year, all Prime Minister Narendra Modi could see were the clothes with which the trouble-makers could be identified. Turns out others took a closer look and found an inspiring and influential woman. The BBC has included Shaheen Bagh “protest leader” Bilkis Dadi in its “list of 100 inspiring and influential women from around the world for 2020”. The BBC said: “At 82, Bilkis was part of a group of women who peacefully protested against a controversial citizenship law. “She became the face of a long-running protest at the capital’s Shaheen Bagh, the Muslim locality where the protests were held. Indian journalist and author Rana Ayyub described her as ‘the voice of the marginalised’.” Bilkis is quoted as saying: “Women should feel empowered to step out of their homes and raise their voice, especially against injustice. If they don't leave their homes, how will they showcase their strength?” Her fight against the Citizenship Amendment Act had already led to her being included in Time magazine’s Time 100 most influential people in 2020 published in September. In spite of spontaneous protests breaking out in several parts of the country, the Prime Minister, who had said in December that those setting the fire can be identified by their clothes, has done little to resolve the CAA issue. Covid-19 prompted the protesters to suspend their agitation but BJP leaders such as Amit Shah occasionally rake up the new citizenship regime. There is one other Indian on the BBC list – Manasi Joshi, the current para-badminton world champion. Manasi said: “This year has been challenging to women in so many ways. Don’t let the tough times get the better of you: keep exploring every possibility. Give yourself some time off every day.” The Pakistani actress Mahira Khan, whose casting in Rahul Dholakia’s film Raees caused controversy in India in the aftermath of 2016 Uri attack, has also made the final cut. The BBC said: “She is outspoken against sexual violence, refuses to endorse skin-lightening creams and supports the fight against racism.” The BBC said that this year’s list “is highlighting those who are leading change and making a difference during these turbulent times”. “And in an extraordinary year — when countless women around the world have made sacrifices to help others — one name on the 100 Women list has been left blank as a tribute.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-536
25-11-2020||India||Allahabad High Court clears air but Yogi sticks to ‘love jihad’ law ||The Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday approved a draft ordinance to curb religious conversions for marriage, described as “love jihad” by multiple BJP leaders. According to the draft, which will become law once the governor promulgates it, a marriage will be declared “null and void” if the conversion of a woman is solely for that purpose. The Adityanath government, which was one of several BJP state regimes to threaten such a law, went ahead and cleared the draft even after Allahabad High Court ruled that the right to choose a life partner “irrespective of religion” is intrinsic to the right to life and personal liberty and that encroachments on personal relationships would be “a threat to the concept of unity in diversity”. The bench said a high court judgment this September and another in 2014 that ruled against conversion for marriage were not good in law. Adityanath had cited the September ruling when he promised such a law last month. Justices Pankaj Naqvi and Vivek Agarwal quashed an FIR lodged by a man against his daughter’s husband, whom she had married after converting to Islam. “Interference in a personal relationship would constitute a serious encroachment into the right to freedom of choice of the two individuals,” the court said. While allowing the writ petition by Salamat Ansari and Priyanka Kharwar alias Alia of Kushinagar, the judges cited Article 21 of the Constitution that deals with personal liberty. “To disregard the choice of a person who is of the age of majority would not only be antithetic to the freedom of choice of a grown-up individual but would also be a threat to the concept of unity in diversity,” the bench added. “We do not see Priyanka Kharwar and Salamat as Hindu and Muslim, rather as two grown-up individuals who out of their own free will and choice are living together peacefully and happily for over a year,” the court said. “The courts and the constitutional courts in particular are enjoined to uphold the life and liberty of an individual guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India,” the ruling said. “The right to live with a person of his/her choice irrespective of religion professed by them is intrinsic to the right to life and personal liberty. Interference in a personal relationship would constitute a serious encroachment into the right to freedom of choice of the two individuals,” the court said. The draft ordinance cleared by the Adityanath government proposes to do just that. Under the draft, those wishing to change their religion after marriage need to apply to the district magistrate and can proceed only after receiving permission. Punishment is a jail term from one to five years, and a fine of Rs 15,000. If the woman involved is a minor or a Dalit or tribal, the jail term would range from three to 10 years. The fine would increase to Rs 25,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-536
25-11-2020||India||Farmers get ready to march on Delhi||Farmer organisations on Tuesday said their “Dilli Chalo” call to press for repeal of the three farm laws enacted amid Opposition protests in the monsoon session of Parliament could turn into an indefinite agitation beyond November 26 and 27 if the government does not pay heed to their demand. Briefing the media as farmers from across north India set out for the national capital with rations for more than two days, leaders of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee said the agitation for repeal of the new farm laws and withdrawal of the Electricity Bill 2020 will intensify with the “Dilli Chalo” protest action. Since trains are limited because of the pandemic, only farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan are expected in Delhi. A large contingent of farmers from Punjab has already begun proceeding towards Delhi but the farm leaders anticipate that they will be stopped at the Haryana border since the Manohar Lal Khattar government has already arrested several farmer and trade union leaders on Monday night. Chief minister Khattar on Tuesday said Haryana’s borders with Punjab will remain sealed on November 26 and 27. Some farmer leaders have been taken into custody, he added. “We appeal to the public that on November 25 and 26, they should avoid coming to Haryana and Punjab borders. On November 26 and 27, they should avoid going to the Haryana-Delhi border. We will take every step required to maintain law and order,” Khattar said. “I appeal to farmers that the Delhi Chalo call given by some outfits has no meaning because the three laws which the Centre enacted are pro-farmer,” he added. Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said it was “shameful” that the state government had taken farmers into custody. “Is a farmer a criminal? Have farmers committed a crime? Is the raising of voice by them for their rights a crime? The Congress demands that farmers should be allowed to march to Delhi,” he said. Farmers from Punjab announced that they would reach Delhi through five highways connecting the national capital and if they were stopped anywhere, they would hold dharna there for an indefinite period. “We strongly condemn the Haryana government’s move of sealing the borders with Punjab. They have also taken several farmers leaders into preventive custody,” said Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) chief Balbir Singh Rajewal. How they could impose such restrictions to prevent farmers from moving towards the national capital, he asked. “Farmers will move towards Delhi on their tractor-trailers,” Rajewal said, adding that they have collected ration, tents, blankets and other essentials for the protest. “Some farmers who stay at far-off places have even left their homes today for participation in the protest march. They will stay at gurdwaras for a night and then move ahead,” he said. Hannan Mollah of the All India Kisan Sabha said: “If the farmers from Punjab are stopped at the Haryana border, they will picket the place and agitate there itself just like farmers from other parts of India will be protesting in their own places on both days in response to the ‘Dilli Chalo’ call.’’ On Thursday, farmers all over the country are expected to observe Grameen Hartal in solidarity with the call for a nationwide strike given by trade unions against the “anti-people” and “anti-worker” decisions of the Narendra Modi government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-536
25-11-2020||India||Russia's Sputnik sets Covid vaccine price: $10 a dose||Russia’s Sputnik V candidate vaccine against the coronavirus disease that has shown over 90 per cent efficacy will be priced below $10 (Rs 740) per dose in international markets, its developers who have offered India 100 million doses announced on Tuesday. The Gamelaya Centre in Moscow and the Russia Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), the Russian government’s sovereign wealth fund, also released a fresh analysis of clinical trials showing the vaccine’s efficacy at protecting people from Covid-19 as 91 per cent. Eight among 14,095 volunteers in the Russian trial who received Sputnik V developed Covid-19, while 31 of 4,699 who received placebo developed the infection. The split implies a 91 per cent efficacy. For two doses required for protection, the vaccine would cost under $20 (Rs 1,481) per person, the agencies said. This price tag is lower than the $25 (Rs 1,851) to $37 (Rs 2,740) per dose for Moderna’s and around $20 per dose for the Pfizer-BioNTech candidate vaccines, but higher than AstraZeneca’s $3 (Rs 222) per dose for purchase by the Indian government. The RDIF had partnered with the Hyderabad-based pharmaceuticals company Dr Reddy’s Laboratories in mid-September to conduct local clinical trials and distribute 100 million doses of the vaccine across the country after the trials and regulatory approvals. A senior RDIF official said the $10 price was for the “international market”. It is unclear what price India would need to pay for the 100 million doses offered through Dr Reddy’s Laboratories and whether these doses would be routed to the government or be available for the private market. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday indicated that the Centre is awaiting the completion of the clinical trials. “Dr Reddy’s Laboratories will distribute the Russian vaccine in India after conducting final-stage human trials and receiving regulatory approval,” Harsh Vardhan said. He had said in October that the health ministry was hoping to procure 500 million doses of vaccines by July 2021 to vaccinate 250 million people across India from priority population groups such as healthcare workers to be identified by states. A senior Indian official said on Tuesday that the government was hoping for more than one vaccine to become available in India during the first half of 2021. If all goes according to expectations, the most likely candidates to roll out are the AstraZeneca vaccine, a homegrown vaccine from the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, and the Russian vaccine. The AstraZeneca candidate has shown 70 per cent efficacy with a promise of 90 per cent efficacy with a different dosing regimen. The Pune-based Serum Institute — the local manufacturer of the AstraZeneca candidate — has indicated it would seek emergency use approval for the vaccine from drug regulators.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-536
25-11-2020||India||Covid: Modi prod on vaccine storage||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday told chief ministers that many questions regarding coronavirus vaccines still remained unanswered but at the same time urged them to prepare the necessary mechanism, including cold storage, for delivery. Modi on Tuesday held a virtual interaction with chief ministers, including Mamata Banerjee, to discuss the pandemic and preparedness for vaccine delivery. Special emphasis was given to eight states where the Covid situation continues to pose a concern — Delhi, Kerala, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Bengal, Maharashtra, Haryana and Chhattisgarh. The Prime Minister said the development of different vaccines was in the “last stage” but stressed that many questions such as the number of doses and price were still unanswered. Modi also referred to competition among corporate houses and countries in vaccine production. He, however, stressed that vaccination would start only after proper scientific and regulatory clearance. “Whichever vaccine India gives to its citizens will be safe on all scientific standards,” the Prime Minister said. Modi said that providing vaccines to each and every citizen was a “national commitment” that would be achieved together with the states and urged the chief ministers to start preparations for the massive exercise. “Our priority is to make vaccines available to all. The states should put in place the necessary mechanism, including more cold storages,” Modi said. According to him, priority — or who all should get the vaccine first — should be decided by the states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-536
25-11-2020||India||Bihar Assembly to see contest for Speaker ||The recent electoral battle in Bihar spilled onto the Legislative Assembly on Tuesday with the ruling NDA and the Opposition Grand Alliance throwing their hats into the ring for the Speaker’s post. The leading parties of both the alliances have fielded their own candidates — while the BJP has put forward former minister Vijay Sinham, the RJD has nominated Awadh Bihari Chaudhary — breaking the tradition of unanimous selection of the Speaker. The last time Bihar witnessed a contest for the Speaker’s chair was in 1969. Since then, a unanimous candidate has held the post. Voting will be held on Wednesday and the contest is being billed as another showdown between the NDA and the Grand Alliance after the closely contested Assembly elections where they won 125 and 110 seats, respectively, in the 243-member lower House. The BJP, after persuading Nitish Kumar’s JDU to part with the Speaker’s chair on the back of a far better poll performance, zeroed in on Sinham, who has won the Lakhisarai seat thrice in a row, to fulfil the caste considerations. He hails from the Bhumihar caste like previous Speaker and JDU leader Vijay Kumar Choudhary. The move is also being seen as an attempt by the BJP to appease the general category castes after handing over the deputy chief ministers’ positions to leaders from the backward (Tarkishore Prasad) and extremely backward (Renu Devi) castes. This was also one of the reasons behind dropping former minister Nand Kishore Yadav. On the other hand, the Grand Alliance partners met at RJD leader and former chief minister Rabri Devi’s residence in Patna on Tuesday and decided that the alliance would field their own candidate for the Speaker’s post. Awadh Bihari, the alliance’s choice, is a five-term MLA from Siwan and former minister. “We all, including our allies, have decided to field Awadh Bihari Chaudhary as the Grand Alliance candidate for the Speaker’s post,” Tejashwi told reporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-536
25-11-2020||India||Molested UP girl kills herself||A 15-year-old girl in Uttar Pradesh’s Mirzapur district who had set herself on fire two days ago after failing to stop frequent molestation by a neighbourhood boy died on Monday night. “The accused used to molest my daughter on her way to school or coaching. We had submitted a formal complaint with the police last month but no action was taken as the accused belongs to the family of an affluent landlord,” the grandfather of the girl told reporters in Newariya village on Tuesday. The girl belonged to a family of marginal farmers. “We saw flames at the door of her room and rushed to save her. She was engulfed in flames. We wrapped her in a blanket and rushed her to the divisional hospital,” her father said. “She had been crying on Saturday evening and told us that the accused didn’t want her to study and used to molest and misbehave with her.” Harish Chandra Saroj, the station house in-charge of Lalganj, said: “We had not received any complaint from the parents of the girl in the past. The police arrested the accused on Sunday and sent him to jail.” The name of the accused is being withheld as he is a minor. Sanjay Rai, the in-charge of the local police outpost, said: “It is a case of doubtful self-immolation. We are probing all aspects.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-537
25-11-2020||India||Supreme Court dismisses Modi election appeal||The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed an appeal for quashing Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s election from Varanasi in 2019, holding that appellant former BSF constable Tej Bahadur was neither a voter nor an eligible candidate, nor produced the mandatory certificate to prove that his dismissal from service was not for corruption or disloyalty to the country. Bahadur, was on April 19, 2017, dismissed from the BSF after he apparently angered the defence establishment for taking to social media over the alleged poor and substandard quality of food served to jawans guarding the country’s borders. He subsequently filed two nominations — one as an Independent candidate and another on behalf the Samajwadi Party — against Modi in the 2019 elections. However, both the nomination papers were rejected by the returning Officer on the ground that he failed to produce the requisite certificate from the authorities that his dismissal was not on account of corruption or disloyalty to the State. Aggrieved, he had filed an election petition in Allahabad High Court which dismissed his plea on the ground that he had no locus standi as he was neither a voter nor a declared candidate for filing an election petition; following which he appealed in the apex court. Dismissing Bahadur’s appeal, a bench of Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde and Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian ruled that under Section 81 of the Representation of Peoples Act, an election petition may be presented by (a) any elector or (b) any candidate at such election. It noted that the Explanation to Section 81 provides that an “elector” means a person who was entitled to vote at the election to which the election petition relates. Obviously, Bahadur is not an elector registered in the Varanasi constituency since he is admittedly enrolled as an elector of Bhiwani, Mahendragarh parliamentary constituency, Haryana, the top court said. “His locus thus depends entirely on the question whether he is a candidate or can claim to be a duly nominated candidate,” Justice Bobde, who authored the judgment, said. The bench noted that on the date of filing the nomination Bahadur also did not possess the required certificate to prove he was not dismissed either for corruption or disloyalty to the State. The court said along with the nomination papers he had merely produced the oath letter dated April 30, 2019, that he has never been dismissed on the basis of corruption or disloyalty to the State and pointed out that under Section 33(3) of the Act that in the absence of such certificate a person “shall not be deemed to be duly nominated as a candidate”. “It would, therefore, be absurd to construe the legislative scheme as permitting a person who has not filed his nomination in accordance with Section 33 (3), as enabling him to claim that he is a duly nominated candidate even though the provision mandates that such a person shall not be deemed to be a duly nominated candidate. “We are of the view that the mandate of the law that such a person shall not be deemed to be duly nominated must be given full effect and no person must be considered as entitled to claim that he has been duly nominated even though he does not comply with the requirement of law. “We, therefore, see no merit in the appeal and do not consider it necessary to issue notice to the respondent (Modi). The appeal does not raise any arguable question of fact or law and admitting the appeal would amount to an exercise in futility for the court to do so,” the bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-537
25-11-2020||India||Congress opposes corporate-run-bank move||The Congress has strongly opposed the “pernicious idea” of allowing corporate houses to run banks, condemning it as another move by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to help crony capitalists capture the country’s resources. Articulating the party’s concerns, former finance minister P. Chidambaram told a news conference: “This is another example of the Modi government pandering to the aggrandisement and acquisitive ambitions of the business houses of India. If the proposal goes through, it is no secret which politically connected business houses will get the first licences and increase their monopolistic power.” Directly blaming the Prime Minister for the move, Chidambaram said: “This is not the idea of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). This is not the idea of the IWG (internal working group) of the RBI. Like demonetisation, the RBI is being misused to implement a dangerous agenda. We are not sure whether the cabinet ministers knew of this proposal. This is entirely Modi’s idea.” Rahul Gandhi, who had a few weeks ago warned of a sinister plan to enslave India, tweeted: “Chronology samajhiye: First, karz maafi (loan waiver) for a few big companies. Next, huge tax cuts for companies. Now, give people’s savings directly to banks set up by these same companies.” The Congress leader had said while addressing a series of meetings in Punjab in October: “It is a misconception that the new farm laws will hurt the farmers and agriculture workers only because nobody will be spared by the sinister project to demolish the food security system of the country. Koi nahin bachne wala — farmers, labourers, small shopkeepers, traders, youth, women. The day the agriculture sector is taken over by these two — Adani and Ambani — the whole of India will be enslaved. It is not a farmer issue, it is about food security; it is linked to people’s freedom.” While Rahul described Modi as a “puppet of Adani-Ambani”, Chidambaram on Tuesday said in the context of the banking sector: “The world knows who will get the first licences. We know. Political patronage will be the main criteria. There is a difference between professional bankers running banks and corporate houses running them. It is about people’s money. There will be monopolistic control over national resources.” The Congress has been ramping up the criticism of the government, from non-performance and betrayal to facilitation of a complete corporate takeover of national resources. The Opposition party has also raised associated issues — change in labour laws, deliberate destruction of the informal sector and reckless sale of public sector units — to buttress its theory. The Congress on Tuesday appealed to all political parties, trade unions and the general public to support its opposition of the government. Chidambaram detailed the party’s objections to the banking initiative, saying: “The Congress supports the statement of (former RBI governor) Dr Raghuram Rajan and (ex-deputy governor) Dr Viral Acharya stoutly opposing the proposal to allow corporates and business houses to enter the banking sector and establish banks. The proposal, ostensibly based on a report of an IWG, has the fingerprints of the Modi government written all over it. “This proposal, along with some other recommendations, is part of a deeper game plan to control the banking industry. The proposal, if implemented, will completely reverse the enormous gains made in the last 50 years of retrieving the banking sector from the clutches of business houses.” Repeatedly calling the move “pernicious” and “retrograde”, Chidambaram explained: “All over the world, especially in developed economies, three principles govern banking: 1. Broad-based shareholding reflecting shareholder democracy; 2. Strict separation of ownership and management: ownership with shareholders and management in professional hands; and 3. Prohibition of connected lending; building a wall between lender and borrower. All three principles will be thrown out of the window if corporates and business houses are allowed to set up banks.” He added: “Bank funds belong to the depositors who are the people of this country. As a proportion of total deposits, the equity of a bank is minuscule. The total deposits in the banking industry are of the order of Rs 140 lakh crore. If business houses are allowed to own banks, they will, with a small equity investment, control very large amounts of the nation’s financial resources.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-537
25-11-2020||West Bengal||Garbage of lies: Mamata’s latest attack at BJP||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, while addressing a rally in the state’s Bankura district, called the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) a “garbage of lies”, daring them to arrest her and asserted that she would ensure a victory for her party Trinamool Congress (TMC) even from the jail. Referring to the saffron party as the “biggest curse of the nation”, she accused them of trying to poach TMC MLAs by trying to bribe them. Without naming anyone, the CM said that some people are acting as turncoats who are staying under the illusion that the BJP may come to power in the state. The Assembly elections in Bengal is due in April-May, with 294 seats being up for it. Accusing the BJP of various issues, Banerjee said, "The BJP is not a political party but garbage of lies. Whenever the election arrives, they bring up the issue of Narada (sting operation) and Saradha (scam) to intimidate TMC leaders. "But let me tell them very clearly, I am not afraid of the BJP or its agencies. If they have the guts, they can arrest me and put me behind the bars. I will fight elections from jail and ensure the victory of the TMC," she announced at her first major public rally in post-Covid times at Bankura. The chief minister, in a reference to the recently conducted Bihar Assembly elections, said even RJD supremo Lalu Prasad Yadav is serving jail term but he made sure his party performs well. "Even Lalu Prasad Yadav has been put behind bars but still he has ensured his party's good performance. The victory of the BJP (in Bihar) is through manipulation and not through popular mandate," she said. Hitting out at the saffron party for allegedly making attempts to bribe and intimidate TMC MLAs, Banerjee said, “"Few people are under the illusion that they (BJP) will come to power, so some people are trying to take a chance. But I want to say this clearly, there is neither any chance nor 'by-chance' for the BJP to come to power. We will again return to power with a bigger mandate."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-299
25-11-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul refrains from opposing Trade union bandh||Another national strike has been called by several central trade unions on Thursday but this time there appears to be a difference. The Trinamul Congress, which has abstained from strikes for nearly a decade, has so far refrained from actively opposing the bandh. Trinamul’s inactivity till now has raised the possibility of normal life being affected in the state on Thursday. The 24-hour strike from Wednesday midnight to Thursday midnight has been called against the policies of the Narendra Modi government, including the new labour and farm laws. A reason Trinamul is not actively seeking to foil the strike could be that the issues raised are expected to be in play during the Assembly polls. “No force will be applied (to stop the bandh),” Trinamul spokesperson Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said in response to a question on the party’s stand on the strike.  Roy said: “We endorse it morally and we will be out on the roads that day, conducting political programmes against the BJP and its government at the Centre over their anti-people policies.” The Bengal government has so far not announced the usual penal measures on its employees if they shirk work on the day of the shutdown. But asking all employees to attend work in the middle of the pandemic would also have been impractical. Left and Congress leaders, who have been actively campaigning in support of the November 26 strike, have also acknowledged that there had been no significant incidents of opposition from the ruling party during the campaign for Thursday’s shutdown call. CPM MLA Sujan Chakraborty said Trinamul hadn’t been as “violent” as it used to be in the past. Responding to a question whether the party had diluted its anti-strike stand, Trinamul said its stand on the November 26 protest was “crystal clear” and had been announced by secretary-general Partha Chatterjee and its labour arm chief Dola Sen. “Our leader Mamata Banerjee had already protested against the issues on which the strike has been called. We don’t support strikes, but the issues do have our support,” Chatterjee had said a few days ago. Congress leader Pradip Bhattacharya said: “The country’s economy is in a deep crisis. Workers and farmers are up in arms against the Modi government. Trinamul has sensed the anger of the people and realised opposing the strike would alienate the party from the people.” State BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu said his party had evidence that Trinamul was backing the strike. “Most of the campaign rallies brought out by the Left or the Congress are packed with men sent by Trinamul. However, none of it will have any impact. The strike will be a major failure,” he said. Several ground-level leaders of the CPM and the Congress said they had faced less opposition in the run-up to the strike. “So far, Trinamul leaders have not visited our houses to threaten and halt our campaign for the strike. They have also not taken out any rally to protest against the strike,” said a CPM leader in West Midnapore’s Salboni block 1. He, however, said the real test of Trinamul’s stance would come when “we will hit the streets on Wednesday to request shopkeepers to observe a shutdown the day after (November 26)”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-299
25-11-2020||West Bengal||Grassroots feedback key for TMC, BJP||With only around six months left for state polls, the Trinamul and BJP leadership have drawn up plans to reach out to people, listen to them and prepare reports for the party leadership so that further strategies can be drawn up for the 54 Assembly seats in the region that can seal the fate of these political forces. Trinamul is all set to launch its “Bangadhwani Yatra”, a campaign believed to have been planned by poll strategist Prashant Kishor in the region, starting from Jalpaiguri. A statewide campaign, “Bangadhwani Yatra,” will start in north Bengal from Jalpaiguri civic area. “Initially, our party workers will reach out to around one-and-half lakh people who dwell in 25 wards of the town,” said Chandan Bhowmik, a district coordinator of Trinamul Jalpaiguri. For the programme, the town has been divided into eight zones. Teams, comprising six-seven members (there will be Trinamul workers as well as members from Prashant Kishor’s team) will move to households, tea stalls, parks and other places where residents assemble regularly and will also meet prominent residents of the wards. “The teams will even visit houses of supporters of other political parties. The idea is to collect their feedback with regard to social welfare schemes, development works and policies of the Mamata Banerjee government. Also, the teams will check out whether people, who are prospective beneficiaries of the social schemes, have received those benefits. Altogether, it would be a sort of a survey,” Bhowmik added. BJP leaders have instructed their seven MPs in north Bengal to visit all the mandals or zones spread across all Assembly segments of their respective parliamentary constituencies. For the past few days, a number of central and state leaders of BJP were stationed in Siliguri where they attended meetings organised by the party that intends to grab at least 50 of the 54 Assembly seats. On Saturday, these leaders asked the MPs to visit different areas of their constituency and collect information about the party’s support base, local issues and peoples’ opinion about the BJP. “The MPs have been told to visit each mandal of their constituency within the next 10 days or so and intensify their communication with party leaders and workers as well as with common people. They have been also advised to spend nights in each Assembly segment of their Lok Sabha constituency to understand the pulse of the voters and get an idea about the party's activities, right down to the micro level,” said a BJP insider. After their visit, each MP will have to submit a report on their findings to the party leadership, based on which new strategies to galvanise support and plug critical gaps will be framed. In recent times, this is the second decision made by the BJP to engage people for feedback from Assembly seats. A couple of days back, the BJP had also decided to depute “bistaraks” or special observers, one for each Assembly constituency, to find out if the guidelines laid down by the central and state leadership were being implemented in the grassroots by local leaders and understand the voters’ pulse. Additional reporting by our Jalpaiguri correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-299
25-11-2020||West Bengal||More exhibits, safety at science hub||The North Bengal Science Centre (NBSC) here at Matigara has reopened after months with new attractions for visitors, and safety measures amid the pandemic such as sensors for interactive exhibits for a touch-free experience. The centre run by the National Council of Science Museums was closed for visitors since the third week of March, just before the lockdown was clamped across the country. It recently reopened its gates for visitors. Ritabrata Biswas, the project coordinator of NBSC, said they would soon introduce a digital exhibition on Mahatma Gandhi. Named “The Father of the Nation: A Digital Tribute,” the exhibition will open for visitors on November 26 as a part of the two-year-long commemoration of Gandhi’s sesquicentennial birth anniversary, Biswas said. The centre, which opened 23 years ago, will also install HPT-32 Deepak, an aircraft provided by the Indian Air Force, by the end of this month or by December first week for display. “The aircraft is an Indian prop-driven primary trainer manufactured by Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL). It can accommodate two persons and has been donated to the NBSC by the Indian Air Force for display. Because of the pandemic, we could not install it earlier. We have, however, carried out all basic work for installation and are waiting for final work to be carried out by the IAF team,” said a source at the centre. As visitors have started entering the centre in ones and twos this month, the authorities have also taken certain measures to ensure health safety protocols are followed on premises. Among these include the replacement of switches with sensors for interactive exhibits. “With sensors, all such exhibits would start functioning without the need for visitors to touch any surface. This would largely reduce the risk of transmission of the virus,” said Biswas. At the centre, open from 10am to 6.30pm, visitors must wear masks, apply sanitiser and get thermal screening at the entrance. “We have installed foot pedal sanitisers at the entrance. All visitors have to undergo thermal screening before entry. The frequency of cleaning the premises and exhibits has increased,” Biswas added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-299
25-11-2020||West Bengal||Asok invites Trinamul ministers to Bapu event||CPM MLA Asok Bhattacharya, also the immediate past mayor of the Left-run board of Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) who chairs the board of administrators of the civic body, has invited three ministers of the Mamata Banerjee government to unveil a bust of Mahatma Gandhi here, catching political leaders by surprise. Bhattacharya told journalists on Tuesday that state municipal affairs and urban development minister Firhad Hakim would unveil the Mahatma’s bust at Kutcheri Road on November 30. Ministers Aroop Biswas and Gautam Deb will accompany Hakim. “Firhad Hakim will unveil the bust of Gandhiji. Also, the state PWD minister (Biswas) and state tourism minister (Deb) will be present at the event. All members of the BoA will be present. Later, we will meet the municipal affairs minister and submit a memo, seeking the state’s help for some development projects of the city,” said Bhattacharya. As mayor, he accused the Trinamul government of bias against the SMC, so this move left many stumped. Some former CPM councillors, who are members of the BoA at SMC now, maintained the decision was made as there is no elected board in the civic body now. “Like many civic bodies of Bengal, SMC runs under the state’s direct monitoring without an elected boar nowd. The BoA is a caretaker. It is normal that the minister of the department (Hakim) is invited to unveil a bust installed by the civic body,” said one. Political analysts said there could be more to it.  Bhattacharya was instrumental in backing the Congress in 2010 to stop Trinamul from winning the mayoral elections of SMC, the success of which led to the coinage of the “Siliguri Model” or “informal understanding between parties”, said a political observer. “This time, it seems that he intends to thwart BJP’s aggression. Like most other Assembly seats of north Bengal, BJP had led in Siliguri and Dabgram-Fulbari Assembly segments in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, which got the Left and Trinamul worried. It may also be interpreted as a missive to parties that it is necessary to work together, even if informally, to stop the BJP,” he added. District Trinamul leaders reacted briefly. “The state government always gave financial aid to SMC and carried out infrastructure development work in the city, but the former mayor never acknowledged it. It seems that he has finally realised the need for it,” said one.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-299
25-11-2020||West Bengal||TMC’s tea trade union in movement mode||Pressures of competitive politics have prompted the Trinamul-backed tea trade union to launch a movement for the first time since the ruling party’s labour wing started its activities in the tea belt to draw the state government's attention to some of the brew belt’s pending issues in north Bengal. The trigger behind the ruling party-backed trade union's proactive approach is the work of tea trade unions affiliated to other political parties such as the CPM, the Congress, the BJP to voice the demands of tea workers. Aware that the Joint Forum may get an edge by organising movements, Trinamul-backed tea union leaders said they would draw Nabanna’s attention to the key issues. “On Tuesday, these unions under the banner of the Joint Forum, held a demonstration in each tea garden of the region and they are all set to intensify their movement... The ruling party's tea trade union cannot sit idle. This is the beauty of competitive politics. And don’t forget, we are heading towards the elections,” said an observer of north Bengal politics. Among the issues flagged by the Joint Forum, the most prominent is fixing the minimum wage rate for the state’s tea workers, a decision that the Mamata Banerjee government is yet to make. “The chief minister and the state government have always remained sympathetic towards the tea population and we hope our movement will work and make the state intervene and resolve some of the pertinent issues which can help in socio-economic development of  tea workers and their families,” said Mannalal Jain, vice-president of the Inttuc-backed Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union. According to Trinamul insiders, when the Left Front was in power in Bengal, tea trade unions affiliated to CPM and other Left parties steered movements on different issues of tea workers. Trinamul leaders pointed out that while Mamata Banerjee has done a lot for tea workers, it is necessary in the brew belt to organise movements on pending issues of workers, even if that means raising demands before the state government. “Such an exercise is necessary to retain support base. Also, Assembly elections are ahead and we have apprehensions that other political parties would use their trade unions to campaign and draw support from tea workers. We cannot simply sit idle. Also, while carrying out our movement, we will also underscore the initiatives taken by the state during the past 10 years for the tea populace, including the housing scheme,” said a trade union leader of Trinamul in the Dooars. During the past couple of months, the state government has been expediting the implementation of “Cha Sundari,” the scheme under which free houses with land rights will be provided to tea workers. There are clear indications that a section of the workers, including those residing in some closed tea estates, will get the keys of such houses ahead of Assembly elections. Among other demands which the Trinamul-backed tea trade union plans to raise are increasing the retirement age from 58 to 60 years, revision of wages paid to a worker if he/she plucks extra leaves and payment of provident fund, gratuity and other entitlements pending in some gardens. Asked about their further plans, Jain said they would meet state labour minister Moloy Ghatak in Calcutta next week for tripartite talks over the charter of demands submitted by the staff and sub-staff of the tea industry. “We will elaborately discuss the workers’ issues with the minister,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-300
25-11-2020||West Bengal||Glare on child labour in Malda||Child labour is rampant at many of plastic crushing units that mushroomed at Sujapur near here in the past few years — a practice that came under lens following an explosion which killed six persons, including two minor boys, at one of such plants last week. The state labour department decided to carry out surprise inspections at the plastic crushing units and take stern action if minors were found employed. Abdur Rahman, who was 17 years old, was among the deceased in the blast that ripped through the unit on Thursday. He used to earn Rs 200 a day. “My son worked there for four years. When he started working, he used to earn Rs 100 a day. Gradually, he started operating the machine (that crushes used plastic) and had a hike of another Rs 100,” said his mother Daloni Bibi. Another deceased boy, Azizur Rahaman, 13, had also received measly wages, said his neighbours. According to them, the daily wage of minor labourers ranges from Rs 80 to Rs 200. “As they gain experience, the wage gradually increases. But for a minor, it is never more than Rs 200, despite working for eight to 10 hours a day,” said a Sujapur resident. In total, there are around 100 such plastic crushing units in Sujapur, which engage over 1,500 minors, the residents said. Acute poverty forces the families to send minor boys to work in such hazardous conditions. “One would be surprised to see that in this area, the number of girl students is more than boys. This is because the boys can make some earnings by working at these units and thus leave their studies to help families. Besides, girls get scholarships from the state government, which makes the parents to send them to schools,” said a teacher at Sujapur. A 12-year-old boy, who lives near a plastic processing unit, admitted that he found it better to work at a factory. “It helps me make some money for my family. I have given up my studies,” said the boy. The proprietors of the units, however, denied that minors were being employed. “We do not entertain such illegal practices. But sometimes, children come to factories where their parents work. We have even opened a school for children of our workers. The school is, however, closed now because of the lockdown,” said Mofizul Sheikh, secretary, Plastic Prakiyakaran Byabsayee Samiti. The deputy labour commissioner and the assistant labour commissioners posted in Malda have been asked to carry out inspections on a regular basis at the units. “If any factory is found to have violated the child labour act, appropriate legal action would be initiated against the owner concerned,” said Mohammed Rizwan, an additional commissioner of state labour department in north Bengal. Elected representatives of local bodies said they have not received any official complaint about the engagement of child labourers in these units. “But we have become alert after the incident and will keep a strong vigil to ensure that no minor is employed at these units,” said Arif Ali, the head of Sujapur panchayat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-300
25-11-2020||West Bengal||Active cases in Bengal drop below 25,000 ||Bengal on Tuesday achieved the goal of taking its total active Covid-19 cases to below 25,000 within November, riding the 29-day wave of steady drop in that total since Vijaya Dashami on October 26. The total active cases, which fell from 37,190 on Dashami to 24,880 on Tuesday, is almost at the level of September 20, 65 days ago. In these 29 days, the state has recorded over 1.2 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 1.09 lakh cases found. On Tuesday, the state reported 3,646 recoveries, 3,545 new infections and 49 deaths, 11 of which were from Calcutta. “Two of our main goals at the start of November were to ensure sub-25,000 total active cases and a 93 per cent-plus recovery rate by the end of the month. We achieved the first one today, and are on track for the second,” said a minister. The state’s recovery rate, 92.88 per cent on Tuesday, has been on the rise for 33 consecutive days. The national recovery rate is 93.73 per cent. Bengal’s total of Covid-19 cases is over 4.63 lakh now, including over 4.3 lakh recoveries and 8,121 deaths. The minister said Tuesday’s figures largely represent infections of the November 14-15 weekend. “Tuesday was Day 10 for someone who got infected on November 15. These statistics from the Kali Puja-Diwali weekend suggest we managed to get past the festival without much damage during this pandemic, just as we did over Durga Puja,” he said. It is between days six and 10 of the infection that most cases get detected. Calcutta High Court had intervened with instructions against crowding to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. The numbers of infections from Puja already showed that the intervention was effective. Of the total toll, 6,789, or 83.6 per cent are comorbid deaths. The state’s mortality rate is now 1.75, compared to national 1.46 per cent. With 44,562 tests on Tuesday, the state’s total test count went past 56.09 lakh, at 62,332 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.26 per cent. The state reported 29.18 per cent occupancy in 13,508 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in 101 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 4.78 lakh telemedicine consultations so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-300
25-11-2020||West Bengal||‘Bengal can handle Covid shots’ Mamata ||Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said during a videoconference of chief ministers with Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the Bengal government was ready with manpower and infrastructure to carry out Covid-19 vaccination as soon as vaccines were available in India. “We have the needed infrastructure and manpower in place,” an official quoted the chief minister as saying during the meeting that discussed the Covid situation in the country and the upcoming vaccination programme. Sources aware of the discussions during the video conference said that the chief minister made it clear that she wanted the state government to play the pivotal role in the vaccination programme. Officials in the know said that the PM asked the states to send their proposals on vaccination programmes in writing. “The chief minister’s stance on leaving the vaccination programme to the states apparently forced the Centre to ask for detailed proposals from the states,” said an official. The reason behind the clear message to the Prime Minister appeared to be political. The ruling dispensation would not like the BJP-led Centre to take credit for the vaccination ahead of the do-or-die Assembly polls in the summer of 2021, felt observers. “The PM did not say when the vaccine would be available and how the programme would be implemented... So, it was easy for the chief minister to suggest what she felt was the most ideal way of carrying out vaccination,” said a source. However, Mamata also  laid stress on working in tandem with the Centre and other stakeholders, a source said. “She is aware that vaccines would be made available to the Centre first and states would have to depend on Delhi for them... This is why the chief minister did not say even once that the state is ready to buy vaccines. But at the same time she very tactfully made it clear that she wouldn’t allow any central agency to take up the vaccination,” said a source. Sources in the health department said the chief minister was confident of carrying out the vaccination programme at the state level as the health department conducts many immunisation and vaccination programmes. “More than 20 lakh infants are given vaccines and polio drops every year in the state. So it is clear that the state has the infrastructure and manpower,” said an official. As part of its preparations for Covid vaccination, the state has prepared a list of nearly 6 lakh frontline workers, including doctors, nurses, health, ASHA and municipal workers who would get the vaccine in the first phase. A source said that it was also conveyed to the Centre that the cold chain required for storage and supply of vaccines was available in Bengal “in some form of readiness” as the state has the infrastructure to preserve polio drops and other vaccines. “We can store vaccines at 2°C... It is expected that the Covid-19 vaccine could be stored in this temperature,” said an official. Mamata explained why the state health department should be given the onus of vaccination. She pointed out how “efficiently” her government worked to bring down Covid-19 positivity rate and death rate in Bengal during the festive season. “Despite the onset of festivities in the Durga Puja-Kali Puja-Chhath season and the recommencement of the massive suburban rail movements, Bengal has successfully reduced positivity rate and death rate. The discharge rate has also improved,” she was quoted as saying. Bengal’s Covid positivity rate was 8.26 per cent on Monday, down from 9 about a month ago. The number of deaths has also come down. On Monday, 47 deaths were reported in Bengal, but about a month ago the daily average was 60 deaths, sources said. “Despite being a border state with many international borders and...the cosmopolitan heritage of bearing the burden of patients from neighbouring states, West Bengal has been performing remarkably well,” Mamata was quoted as saying. Mamata, sources said, also told the PM that the Centre did not help the state financially to fight against the pandemic though the state’s own revenue generation had dried up amid Covid curbs. “The state has spent around Rs 4,000 crore only on account of Covid management. But the Centre released only Rs 193 crore to the state under this head so far,” an official quoted the chief minister as saying.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-300
25-11-2020||West Bengal||Bid to placate MLA||North Bengal development minister Rabindranath Ghosh on Tuesday visited disgruntled Trinamul MLA of Cooch Behar (South) Mihir Goswami to try and placate him. Ghosh went to Goswami’s home for around 30 minutes. “Mihirda is a senior leader and very much with Trinamul. The party wants leaders like him,” Ghosh said. Goswami, however, said he did not think he “deserved to stay in Trinamul anymore”. In October, Goswami, who has been with Trinamul since its inception, said he was withdrawing from all political responsibilities assigned to him by the party as he didn’t like the way the party worked. More recently, he posted on social media: “This party is no longer in the hands of Mamata Banerjee……thus, it cannot be my party.” On Monday, he posted: “These days, the Yuvraj of Trinamul is passing strict instructions to district leaders to restrict infighting. But it is amusing to note that during the past 10 years, a section of state leaders had encouraged inner rivalry in the districts...” Goswami on Tuesday also asserted that he stuck to his comments on social media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-300
25-11-2020||West Bengal||3 men, 7 trucks missing in Ganga||Police, civil defence, disaster management and national disaster response forces on Tuesday retrieved one of the eight trucks that had rolled off a plank of a large steamer and fallen into the Ganga at Manikchak here on Monday evening. Of the 17 workers on trucks who had fallen into the river, 14 were rescued or managed to swim to safety. Three men and seven trucks are still missing. Eight trucks laden with stone chips and sand arrived from Rajmahal, Jharkhand, on a vessel to Manikchak via the waterway. The mishap occurred when the vessel was anchored at Manikchak, and an iron plank on which the trucks would roll out shook. The trucks toppled in a domino effect. It was initially thought that 22 men inside the eight trucks had fallen into the river among whom 14 were traceless. On Tuesday, counting revealed that 17 men had fallen in the river, and as of Tuesday evening, three — Montu Sheikh, Moina Sheikh and Tarachand Yadav — are missing. Search is on for them. The process of retrieving the rest of the seven trucks is on as well. Since Tuesday morning, excavators have been engaged in the search operations in the Ganga. Speedboats are also making the rounds to track the three men and the seven trucks till sundown. “The search operations will continue on Wednesday as well,” said a police officer at the site. The mishap prodded a number of political leaders, including Sujan Chakraborty of the CPM, Sreerupa Mitra Chaudhury and Gobinda Mandal of the BJP to visit the spot on Tuesday. They blamed the lack of proper infrastructure at the ghat and demanded construction of a proper jetty. “Overloading in trucks, illegal tenders and many other causes are indirectly responsible for the mishap,” Mitra Chaudhury alleged. Trinamul’s Rajya Sabha member Mausam Noor and Malda Zilla Parishad sabhadhipati Gour Mandal also went to Manikchak and supervised the rescue operations. “It was an accident. However, the BJP and some other parties are trying to use it to reap political dividends,” said Gour Mandal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-300
25-11-2020||West Bengal||Teachers plant seeds of greenery||Two teachers of government-run schools in Murshidabad have turned green crusaders and set for themselves the task of distributing one crore saplings free of cost. Humayun Kabir, 29, and Ardhendu Biswas, 29, met three years ago when both got employed as school teachers in Murshidabad’s Beldanga area. Biswas, an English teacher at the Kumarpur Primary School in Beldanga, and Kabir, a chemistry graduate, teaching at the Kumarpur High School, met at the Sargachhi Ramakrishna Mission auditorium where both were volunteering for an environmental programme. Three years on, the youths, both residents of Chandpara village in Murshidabad, have returned to the same venue several times as organisers, attempting to steer a plantation drive for 1 crore saplings. “When we met each other, we realised we had the common goal of environmental well-being,” said Kabir. The duo funds the Mission Green Universe forum, which they kicked off at the same auditorium in January 2019 in the presence of 1,000 youths. “This is funded out of our own salaries. All we ask is that volunteers accept a sapling from us and plant it somewhere,” said Biswas, explaining the duo’s efforts spread to weddings venues, birthday parties and public ceremonies. Biswas said each of them shelled out around Rs 5,000-7,000 to fund the drive every month. Biswas and Kabir both nurture the saplings at nurseries set up at their own homes. “We have already distributed nearly two lakh saplings of common trees, including mango, guava, java plum (jamun), litchi, and mahogany. We want to see one crore saplings planted before too long,” Biswas said. Depending on the area one has, the green crusaders also distribute flowering and decorative trees as well. Asked about plantation venues, he said most saplings were being planted by them and by volunteers on public land near schools, waste lands, or parks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-300
25-11-2020||North East||Assam Congress to miss Gogoi’s strong voice||The Opposition Congress will miss a strong and blunt voice in poll-bound Assam with the passing away of former chief minister Tarun Gogoi, someone who could “stand up” to the likes of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Gogoi’s death has left a huge void in the Congress just months away from the Assembly elections because he was a man who had the courage to call a spade a spade unmindful of the consequences, party insiders told The Telegraph. They described him as a guardian, mentor, father figure, statesman, stalwart and a fighter till the end.  Gogoi, 86, Assam’s longest-serving chief minister, died of post-Covid complications at the Gauhati Medical College and Hospital here on Monday evening. There is no leadership vacuum in the state Congress unit — Rajya Sabha MP Ripun Bora is the Assam PCC chief while two-time MLA Debabrata Saikia is the Congress legislature party leader. Still the departure of Gogoi is being felt across the rank and file because apart from his seniority and experience he could stand up to anyone and any challenge. “We have promising leaders in Bora, Saikia, (Nowgong MP Pradyut) Bordoloi , (AICC secretary Bhupen Kumar) Borah and his son Gaurav Gogoi. All of them have a future. But it was different with Gogoi Sir. Apart from his guidance, we will also miss his strong and blunt opinions, a rarity nowadays,” a PCC office-bearer said. “He could take on anyone without fear, including Modiji, on any issues and his views got widespread coverage even in the national media. He was so up to date with both state and national issues. This gave us a lot of courage to take on the ruling party. His views invariably helped. We will miss him in the run-up to the Assembly polls next year. He left us at a critical juncture,” he said. Gogoi till very recently used to take on the central and state governments on the issues of the day like demonetisation, Covid management, withdrawal of special category status, the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and rewriting history, among others. They cited several examples to prove Gogoi’s strong and blunt views: like criticising the unplanned demonetisation as (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi’s “surgical strike on the common people”. Gogoi also referred to Modi as India’s “Hindu Jinnah” for trying to divide the country on the basis of religion vis-à-vis the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. He had called Modi a liar when the Prime Minister claimed there was no detention camp in the country. Modi was among the national leaders who paid glowing tributes to Gogoi. “Shri Tarun Gogoi Ji was a popular leader and a veteran administrator, who had years of political experience in Assam as well as the Centre. Anguished by his passing away. My thoughts are with his family and supporters in this hour of sadness. Om Shanti,” the Prime Minister tweeted. “We will definitely miss him. He (Gogoi) was among the national leaders who had the guts to stand up to the ruling dispensation for its anti-people policies, whether it is the CAA, farm bills, unplanned demonetisation or the Covid lockdown or rising unemployment,” said PCC general secretary Diganta Choudhury. A reason for Gogoi being so blunt and in the face was he had nothing to hide, according to Satyen Phukan, a former senior additional advocate-general to the Assam government. “He had nothing to hide, open to any scrutiny and was so connected with the masses. Despite being a three-time chief minister there was no corruption charge against him, a rarity in these days. This gave him the strength to take on anybody. There is a lot to learn a lot from Gogoi’s life and times,” he said. Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi, K.C. Venugopal, Jitendra Singh and Rajeev Satav will visit Guwahati on Wednesday to pay their last respects to Gogoi. AICC secretary Bhupen Kumar Borah said the four Congress leaders will reach Guwahati in separate flights and will travel to Srimanta Sankaradeva Kalakshetra, where the mortal remains of Gogoi was shifted on Tuesday evening, and then to his official residence to meet his family members. “Rahulji is expected to reach before 11am. The cremation will take place on Thursday morning with full state honours,” Borah said. State BJP IT cell in-charge and spokesperson Pabitra Margherita said, “Since Monday our members across rank are paying their respect to Gogoi Sir, a son of the soil. Our national president J.P. Nadda has also cancelled his two-day visit to Guwahati from November 26 as a mark of respect. Our government is also taking all possible steps to give him a fitting farewell by discussing with his family.” Both the BJP and the Congress have declared three days of mourning along with the state government. Cabinet minister and government spokesperson Himanta Biswa Sarma said they have not yet found a plot inside the city for a memorial for Gogoi as requested by the Congress. The PCC chief said the last rites will take place at the Nabagraha cremation ground but they will continue the search for a memorial site in the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-34
25-11-2020||Opinion||Goodbye Donald, hello Joe||The US president, Donald Trump, still hasn’t conceded the 2020 election — even though on Monday night he did give a go-ahead for a transition to President-elect Joe Biden. But his self-described “good friend”, Narendra Modi, India’s prime minister, was much quicker to jump ship. Hours after Associated Press called the election for Biden on November 7, Modi tweeted a congratulatory note to the former vice-president for a “spectacular victory”. If that was a little over the top — Biden’s win, while clear, was far narrower than what the polls had predicted — it was justified. Modi has serenaded Trump for the past four years, seemingly even helping the outgoing US president woo Indian American voters through two joint rallies. The exaggerated reference to a “spectacular victory” was an important message to Biden: the prime minister’s no-holds-barred hyperbole and attempts to charm American presidents are not reserved for any one leader. That’s particularly critical for the incoming Biden administration to know because while New Delhi would work with any occupant of the White House, the former vice-president’s win is good news for India. Like many other nations, India has suffered from Trump’s volatile, unpredictable and transactional behaviour since 2016. Trump might call the president-elect “sleepy Joe”, but India will settle for ‘steady Joe’. On the foreign policy front, Biden has affirmed that he will bring the United States of America back into the fold of the Paris climate change agreement. That’s important for New Delhi because one of America’s commitments under that pact involves the US helping finance the transition of emerging economies like India to cleaner technologies. More broadly, the US under Biden is expected to return to global institutions like the WHO that Trump had withdrawn from. Without the US, such multilateral institutions are dominated by China, which is not in India’s interests. Biden is also expected to review — if not reverse — the Trump administration’s controversial peace agreement with the Taliban. It’s unclear whether Trump will follow through on his threat to further cut US troop presence in Afghanistan and Iraq in January and whether Biden will send American soldiers back to those war zones. What is known is that Biden’s administration, staffed and advised by traditional foreign policy experts and diplomats from the Barack Obama era, will be less willing than Trump to leave Afghanistan in the hands of the Taliban. Again, that’s good for India, which would like the US troops to stay in that nation as a buffer against the Taliban and their backers in Pakistan’s military. With Iran, too, Biden’s win could mean better days for India. A raft of rigid economic sanctions imposed on Iran by Trump have meant that India has effectively had to stall its promised development of the Chabahar port — a strategic investment by New Delhi to outflank China’s Gwadar port in Pakistan. With India unable to pursue the port project, Iran had over the past year turned to China for help, much to New Delhi’s chagrin. Biden’s expected to return to negotiations with Iran, and potentially lift some of the sanctions imposed by Trump. Sure, New Delhi will need to win back Tehran’s trust but that possibility at least exists. India-US economic relations could also improve. Biden’s unlikely to whimsically impose higher tariffs on Indian goods and New Delhi is hopeful that he will bring India back within the ambit of the Generalized System of Preferences. Under that system, India had benefited from preferential tariffs until Trump withdrew that protection. But let’s be clear: much of India’s expectations are based on Biden’s past positions. It’s vital for New Delhi to remember that Biden will try and escape the shadow of Obama and carve out his own legacy. The deeply divided nature of American politics — a record 73 million people voted for Trump — means Biden will not be able to reverse all of the outgoing president’s policies, and certainly not anytime soon. Some of that could work to India’s advantage. With Trump and Biden trying to outdo each other in recent months in showing who’s tougher on China, it’s unlikely that the president-elect will walk back on America’s recent steps to strengthen strategic relations with India, Australia and Japan under their Quadrilateral partnership. There will be speed bumps. For one, expect Biden to gently raise Washington’s concerns over India’s crackdown in Kashmir with Modi. Vice-President-elect Kamala Harris has likewise critiqued the Indian government’s positions on human rights in the past. But those will not be too difficult to navigate unless the Modi government lets political ego interfere with the shared interests that bind India and America. Just as mistaking Trump for America was always an error, India’s interests aren’t identical to the political agenda of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party. New Delhi knows Biden and needs to cultivate Harris — who might be the front runner for the Democratic Party nomination four years from now. Trump made the mistake of thinking he’s bigger than the system that brought him to power. Modi’s unlikely to repeat that error.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-112
25-11-2020||Opinion||Magic mountain||The Dzö-nga has been in a benevolent mood. Kanchenjunga, the home of the mountain deity, Dzö-nga, held in reverence by Lepchas, Nimbus, Tibetans and other ethnic groups, condescended to offer majestic glimpses to its devotees in late October and early November this year. Sightings were reported not only from Darjeeling, Sikkim, Kurseong, Kalimpong and Siliguri but also — somewhat unexpectedly — from Raiganj and Islampur in North Dinajpur. The descriptions of these sightings have been as diverse as the settings. One excited viewer — a celebrity — presumably seated on the rooftop of Darjeeling’s famous eatery, insisted that the Kanchenjunga resembles a giant ice cream. Another visitor, spellbound by the glistening mountain in the silvery light of a full moon, was convinced that the Kanchenjunga looked like a ‘gigantic white elephant’. ‘Raibahadur’ Indranath Roy Chaudhuri — he had waited 17 days for a peek of the peak in Satyajit Ray’s Kanchenjungha — would have snorted at the crudeness of the popular imagination. The Raibahadur’s rage has context. The Himalayas — the Kanchenjunga is a Himalayan range — Raghab Bandopadhyay had observed cheekily in his introduction to Upendrakishore Ray Chowdhury’s wonderful, concise book, Darjeeling, transcend geography, casting their long shadow on the realms of Bengali philosophy and aesthetics. Imagining the mountain as an ice cream or a pachyderm can assault refined senses nourished by, say, Upendrakishore’s enchanting sketch of the Kanchenjunga in ruby tones or by literary passages — Mohanlal Gangopadhyay’s Dakshiner Baranda being the text cited here — that describe, poignantly, Abanindranath Tagore, a burning cheroot on his lips, gazing, as if in a trance, at the mountain on a wintry morning as the Kanchenjunga changed colour in waves of light. The brilliance of Satyajit’s Kanchenjungha lay in girding aesthetics with a moral fence. In the film, the mountain —  a pristine entity — seems to reflect the failings of puny humans in pairs: an anachronistic patriarch and his docile, suffering wife; an adulterous woman and her gambling husband; a bachelor pursuing a young woman, Monisha, who is, in a manner of speaking, the proverbial chalk to his cheese. The cinematic plot is made to defer to the moods of the mountain; light bringing in ephemeral moments of tranquility in the lives of these flawed men and women while shadows and mist — the Kanchenjunga is a notoriously fickle deity — portend disruptions. But Ray’s moral enquiry is not limited to the tides of men. It embraces contemporary ecological crises, transforming the film into an environmental treatise. Roy Chaudhuri’s brother-in-law, an amateur ornithologist, confesses to lying awake at night, thinking of migratory birds dropping dead — like rain — from radioactive skies; Monika’s suitor can barely repress his excitement as he rants about dams — an image integral to the enduring iconography of industry taming nature in post-colonial India — even as the young woman looks away, towards the mountain. Kanchenjungha, made in 1962, is thus invested with a distinct, profound — and prescient — environmental consciousness, communicating a vision that echoes the conviction of the soldiers of ecological romanticism, from William Wordsworth, John Ruskin — the man who shaped M.K. Gandhi’s life, philosophy and politics — and Edward Carpenter to, most notably, Verrier Elwin. These thinkers, apart from being trenchant critics of capitalist expansionism, unabated consumption and the deleterious effects of industrial production on the ecology, upheld the idealization of the environment as well as of primitivism, even endorsing, in Elwin’s case, the confinement of indigenous people and cultures within ‘reserves’ to avoid their contamination by modernity. In spite of having their hearts in the right place, Elwin and Co. have been criticized for not applying their minds. Archana Prasad demolished some of Elwin’s precepts sharply and convincingly in Against Ecological Romanticism, arguing that the location of indigenous people within forests — Elwin’s seal of authenticity of the purity of their environmental ethics — is problematic since there is anthropological evidence to suggest that the retreat of the tribes into forested territory was brought about by encroachment on their non-forested land. In other words, Prasad locates India’s tribal people and their environmentalism within — albeit on the margins of — the political economy as opposed to being removed from it. The distancing that held the key to Elwin’s understanding of the untaintedness of indigenous environmentalism was, Prasad writes, the result of an eye blinkered by romanticism. But one philosophical pillar of ecological romanticism stands firm, defiant, like the Kanchenjunga. Rabindranath, Elwin, Gandhi, Ray —  Aranyer Din Ratri (1970) and his last film, Agantuk (1991), were infused with this spirit — posited their faith in the transformative, mystical power of nature. In Kanchenjungha, Ashoke, the young man who slights the Raibahadur but is befriended by his younger daughter, Monica, is made to voice this belief, an opinion shared by Ray argues the commentator, Bhaskar Chattopadhyay, who has translated Ashoke’s dialogue in the following words: “Maybe it is this place that has got something to do with it… I have never seen anything like this before. The majestic Himalayas, these silent pine-trees, this strange play of sunlight, clouds and mist. It’s so unreal, almost like a dream state. My head was in a whirl, and everything seemed to change before my eyes. As if I wasn’t myself anymore, as if I was someone special. A hero! A giant! As if I was full of courage… careless… undaunted… as if no one could stop me anymore.” Tellingly, as the mists lift and the light returns, Ray’s characters emerge from the shadows within, fatigued, not triumphant, but neither broken by the battles they have waged. The question is this: does Kanchenjunga’s rare, spectral appearance remain an occasion for moral replenishment, for an invigoration of the spirit to mend what is broken, for the kindling of unredeemed possibilities in cultures steadily losing their organic relationships with the natural world? At a time when the human imprint is polluting the final, thinning stretches of wilderness — tourism and mountaineering are turning the Himalayas into a colossal trash bin — the Kanchenjunga must remain as a mirror of the fraying, human morality. Else, it could well resemble an ice cream —but one that is melting on account of the fires lit by mankind.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-112
25-11-2020||Opinion||Cheque mate: corporates and banking||Corporate houses may get a shot at banking, once again. An internal working group of the Reserve Bank of India has recommended that large industrial houses should be permitted to set up banks, potentially opening the doors to an arena from where they have been kept out for close to five decades. The move has sparked a buzz of excitement in corporate boardrooms. But it has also drawn sharp criticism from former Mint Street regulators like Raghuram Rajan and Viral Acharya, who have termed it a bombshell that could undermine years of carefully crafted good practices that have been designed to minimize the risks of bank failure. The panel, headed by the RBI director, P.K. Mohanty, has also recommended a couple of other measures which, when seen in totality, can give cause for alarm. Current regulations stipulate that new private banks must operate within a well-defined corporate structure with investments routed through a non-operative financial holding company. The holding company contains within its ambit all the financial services entities of the group. The idea behind this measure is to ring fence the regulated financial services entities from the other commercial enterprises of the group. The Mohanty panel now says that while this will remain the preferred structure for the new universal banks, they may opt out of it if there are no other group entities within the fold. The panel suggests that the minimum initial investment in the bank will be 40 per cent but the promoters’ stake must come down to 26 per cent within 15 years. Current regulations cap the promoters’ stake at 15 per cent after that period. The reason for raising it to 26 per cent — a key threshold under company law with major implications on ownership and control of the bank — has not been adequately explained. At present, banks are not allowed to have any exposure to the promoter or the promoter group entities. The panel has suggested that banks may be allowed to invest up to 20 per cent of its paid-up share capital and reserves in financial or non-financial services companies if the entity is not a subsidiary, joint venture or associate. The corporate world is full of artifice and is adept at creating elaborate structures that can defeat the intent behind the proposed regulation. The biggest concern is that it will lead to the concentration of economic power in a few handpicked industrial houses that are close to the Narendra Modi regime. Mr Rajan and Mr Acharya have evocatively termed it as the rise of “authoritarian cronyism”. The panel’s reason for making the widespread changes to bank ownership guidelines is that prudential regulation around the world has started shifting towards “a widespread disaggregated shareholding structure for banks... (under) the Basel guidelines.” This is pure hocus-pocus as well as a very flimsy excuse to potentially arm some industrial houses that have thrived on crony capitalism and dubious business practices with banking licences. The caveats that the Mohanty panel has tried to worm into its report will count for nothing when these new banking players gain access to vast depositor funds and start to manipulate the financial system.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-112
25-11-2020||Opinion||New formula: inducting the 'hijab' ||Giant strides are often taken by smaller nations. New Zealand recently announced that it would induct the hijab as part of its police uniform. The nation is led by a feisty woman prime minister who had sent out a refreshing signal of empathy and solidarity towards a besieged Muslim population by donning the hijab after the horrific attack in Christchurch in 2019. The spirit of accommodation has been central to New Zealand’s policymaking: the turban made it to the uniform way back in 2008, four years before Britain, the mother of democracies, accepted a turbaned guardsman at Buckingham Palace. The power of such symbolism should not be underestimated. Wellington believes that the police-hijab will encourage greater participation from Muslim women into a force that considers diversity — this must not be ignored either — as one of its core values. What makes New Zealand’s gesture striking is the current global political climate that is afflicted with a potent strain of Islamophobia. With this outreach, New Zealand has given the liberal world much to ponder too. The hijab has a contentious legacy across cultures. It has been banned under the French model of secularism that endorses the principle of neutrality. Jacinda Ardern’s country seems to be challenging discrimination not through cold impartiality but by encouraging, as a matter of policy, a warmer, humane co-existence among faiths. The conflation of secularism with the anti-faith rhetoric has been exploited by nationalist political forces; the rise of Hindutva in India is a case in point. New Zealand, arguably, is experimenting with a new form of secular ethic that seeks to articulate the rightful co-existence of all faiths without condescendingly dismissing public sentiments attached to them and their associated symbols. The resurgence of secularism, an element integral to the edifice of equality, may well begin with this formula.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-112
25-11-2020||Jharkhand||Passerby injured in gun attack aimed at BJP leader||A passerby was accidentally injured in a gun attack on Wednesday when a bullet missed its target, meant to be fired at the BJP mandal chief Pratappur in Chatra by a youth.The victim was immediately rushed to the Pratappur community health centre, following which he was sent to the Magadh Medical College in Gaya, Bihar, owing to his critical condition. He was identified as Ramdhir Yadav, a resident of Sherghati in Gaya. The incident took place on Wednesday evening, at Sildaha bazar under Ghorighat panchayat of Pratappur block, in view of a land dispute between BJP leader Prem Kumar and his relatives regarding a plot in the local bazaar area. Both the sides got involved in a war of words after reaching the plot, and the verbal fight escalated and a youth from the other side suddenly took out his revolver, aiming it at Kumar and threatening to kill him. Before anyone could understand anything, he fired on Kumar. However, the bullet missed him and landed on Yadav, who was visiting his in-laws in Pratappur. The youth was identified as Vikas Kumar Vicky, nephew of the BJP leader. The Ghorighat police, on receiving information, arrived at the spot and launched a probe into the incident, aiming to find the culprit who sped the spot immediately after firing. Ghorighat police station’s officer-in-charge PC Sinha said Vicky escaped to Bihar and a hunt has been initiated to nab him. According to Kumar, the accused is of a criminal background and he was creating trouble for him despite the fact that an agreement had taken place regarding the land issue. Yadav said he was on his bike when all sudden, a bullet hit one of his legs. His father-in-law, Naresh yadav, demanded punishment for the accused. In another similar incident, four persons sustained severe injuries in Mahuganyi village under Pratappur block on Wednesday afternoon. The incident took place when two sides started making claims on a 36-decimal, resulting in a verbal war. It took ugly turn when both sides attacked and injured each other. All of them have been admitted to the local health centre in Pratappur. An FIR has been lodged in this regard.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-225
25-11-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi Smart City plots to be auctioned online||The state government is going to begin auctioning land for public and private buyers at the upcoming Smart City Project in Ranchi’s HEC area to garner investment for the proposed state-of-art township, the urban development department announced on Wednesday at an introductory webinar. State urban development secretary Vinay Kumar Choubey said that so far, the government had spent around Rs 800 crore on creating key facilities like a drainage system, a command and control system and a convention centre. He said Ranchi Smart City Corporation Limited (RSCCL), a special purpose vehicle created for the project, is now getting ready to auction land to invite investments for asset creation. “Today’s (Wednesday) webinar was an interactive effort to apprise people about our intentions and explain why investing in Ranchi’s Smart City plan will be a great opportunity for the future,” he said. Ranchi is among 100 cities under India’s Smart City Mission. In 2017, vice-president M. Venkaiah Naidu had laid the foundation stone for this project. Ground work began last year which included creation of a master plan, building basic infrastructure for power, water and transportation, among others. The Smart City project is spread over 657 acres in the HEC area. Choubey said the site will emerge as a key landmark in the coming years and is well connected. “It is hardly a 6km drive from the airport, 8km from the railway station, 2km from the international cricket stadium and is open Greenfield area,” he said, adding that as per the master plan, 37 per cent of the total area has been set aside for open space and greenery. Explaining the facilities to be created at the Smart City, RSCCL’s CEO Amit Kumar said, “As far as basic infrastructure is concerned, it will have storm water drainage, smart street lighting, waste water management, 24/7 power and water covering an area of 647.08 acre, among others.” On the auctioning process, which is likely to be held in january 2021, Kumar said they would notify a date soon. Around 278.52 acres will be open for auction under various categories, like institutional, residential, commercial, public/semi-public and mixed use covering a total of 52 plots. “Under institution, 11 plots will be up for auction, six under residential, 16 commercial, two for public/semi-public projects and 17 for mixed use,” said another official. Those willing to apply for bidding will have to initially pay a non-refundable application fee of 0.01 per cent of the reserved base price of the particular plot. “After scrutiny of their application, eligible bidders will then have to pay (refundable) 5 per cent of the reserved base price before taking part in the online auction,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-225
25-11-2020||Jharkhand||RSP College gets new counselling centre in Jharia||A counselling centre of RSP College Jharia, the oldest Degree College of Dhanbad, has been launched today at the vacant Ropeway division office of the BCCL at Digwadih. The centre will be used for all official purposes including the issuance and submission of the registration form, examination form, admission etc gradually, beginning with counselling for the ongoing Undergraduate and Postgraduate admission process. Talking to the media at the site, Anjani Kumar Srivastava, Vice-Chancellor of Binod Bihari Mahto Koylanchal University said, “This is not only the launching of the counselling centre of the college but the beginning of the gradual shifting of the college from Belgarhia in Baliapur block to Digwadih in Jharia block. “As part of symbolic re-establishment of colleges admission into the undergraduate and postgraduate courses will be conducted here and though classes are being held through Online mode if any study material distribution is required will also be carried out by the college administration from here” elaborated Srivastava. “The college has a glorious history and we will extend all support to college administration to retain the old glory and further establish a new benchmark of academic excellence in future from its new campus,” said Srivastava. Jharia MLA Purnima Singh, who was present on the site, said, “BCCL has provided 7.99 acres to the college which is sufficient to its present requirement and classes  will be also conducted after the normalization of  Covid 19 situation” The students of the college will not be required to visit distant Belgarhia in Baliapur for minor official work as all the administrative work of college will gradually be performed at the counselling centre. Notably, RSP College, established way back in 1949 at Bhagatdih area of Jharia, was shifted from its original place in Bhagatdih to a two-storey unused building of Jharia Rehabilitation and Development Authority in Belgarhia area of Baliapur block in September 2017 due to the underground fire of the adjoining Rajapur Colliery posing subsidence threat to the College. More than 5000 students of the College of Jharia, however, faced difficulty in reaching the college at Belgarhia as it was located in a remote area devoid of any regular source of transport. The district administration, however, after holding talks with the BCCL administration, made for the shifting of the college to Digwadih in Jharia in association with Binod Bihari Mahto Koylanchal University.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-225
25-11-2020||Jharkhand||Two-day short film festival to be streamed online||Shorts, an annual film festival organised by the Calcutta-based Take 5 Communications and Jamshedpur based social organisation Society for Promotion of Professional Excellence (SPPE), will give the opportunity to film lovers for watching short films this year by going online. The screenings will be streamed on November 27 and 28, where a plethora of short films will be shown to the audience. The films will largely range from a duration of three to 16 minutes during the two-day festival. While the organisers try to accommodate fresh entries each year, the 13th edition of Shorts will only screen a collection of the best films from the previous year. The movies will be screened on Cisco Webex between 6 pm and 7 pm. "We did not want to break the continuity so we thought of organising it online. This time we did not invite fresh entries due to the pandemic but have made a collection of the films that were screened in the past. Completing 13 years is an achievement. Only if times would have been normal, we would have organised it in a much better way. As of now movie lovers can watch it online," Take 5 Communications CEO Tathagata Bhattacherjee said. The two-day affair will have a collection of 15 films. Seven Hindi films, three English, one Bengali, one Arabic and three silent films will be screened over this time. They have been directed by filmmakers from Mumbai, Delhi, Calcutta, Dhanbad and Jamshedpur. The movies, predominantly in English, Hindi and Bengali languages, have already been presented at several national and international film festivals, and address major social issues like education, cleanliness, and menstrual hygiene. Films to be showcased on the first day include Jihad, My Little Steps, Dupatta, Reason, Sound of Silence, Rangrez, I Love India, and The Best Gift. The second-day films include Mind Matters, The Waltz, Gandh, Hum Mehfooz Nahi, Smile Vs Smileys, Abandoned, and Bande Hain Hum Uske.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-225
25-11-2020||Jharkhand||Betla elephant gets surprise visit from friend||Juhi, the 70-year-old elephant at the Betla National Park, had a surprise visitor on Tuesday -- her old caregiver Arjun Baraik. The oldest captive of the national park was undoubtedly delighted as she hugged Baraik passionately with her trunk upon his arrival. Baraik, who was a ranger of Betla’s Palamau Tiger Reserve till 2004 before leaving for Dalma sanctuary, had a sweet rapport with Juhi until he was there. As soon as the 57-year-old called the elephant by her name on Tuesday, she ran to him “like his daughter”. While talking to The Telegraph Online, Baraik dubbed elephants as the most beautiful and intelligent animal, and said that Juhi had wit par excellence. Boasting of the elephant, he said she had an outstanding memory as she recognised him by just his voice. He added that Juhi befriended his wife and daughter as well. Juhi, although given fruits to eat, never left her eyes off him, Baraik said, as she knew he would be gone soon. According to him, while many people think wild animals are raw and untamed, they will return the love with vigour and strength if they receive the same. Talking about his sorrows, the former ranger, who became one at 23 and was the youngest at the time, said he would have been a divisional forest officer by now but that was being denied to him. It is remembering the wild creatures that still make his life better when he feels sad, Baraik said. Baraik, an assistant conservator of forest at Khunti, Jharkhand, recounted his old days at Betla, saying that there was a time when the forest had just three female elephants. All three were named after Bollywood heroines such as  Rajni Juhi and Anarkali, he reminisced. He said Rajni and Anarkali died of natural causes and Juhi is the last surviving female elephant of the trio.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-225
25-11-2020||Jharkhand||Police crackdown on commuters for not wearing masks||As promised, the East Singhbhum district administration started cracking the whip to ensure use of face masks, deploying policemen at various checkpoints on Wednesday and slapping fines of Rs 500 on each offender. "The move is aimed creating awareness. Wearing a mask is mandatory. This, along with following social distancing norms, helps in preventing the transmission of the coronavirus," said an executive magistrate manning a check-point near Keenan Stadium in Bistupur. Those entering Mango through Jai Prakash Narayan Setu without face masks were stopped near the Khudiram Bose statue at Mango Chowk and fined. On Tuesday evening, officials of Mango Notified Area Committee (MNAC) went around Dimna Road asking commuters to wear face masks. The district administration began the ongoing mask checking drive on Monday, November 23. Check-points have been set-up in 10 places at Sakchi, Bistupur, Golmuri, Sonari, Kadma, Jugsalai, Agrico and Parsudih. During the last two days, those without masks were stopped at these check-points and then let-off after a warning. At some check-points, offenders were asked to kneel down. Dhalbhum SDO Nitish Kumar Singh has given instructions to officials to ensure that people comply with the rule to wear masks when outdoors. "The drive will continue for a week. Depending on the situation, we will extend the drive," he said. The district health department has also intensified rapid antigen tests for passengers arriving at Tatanagar station from various destinations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-226
25-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad trade unions gear up for Thursday’s nationwide strike  ||Several collieries of BCCL, ECL and SAIL witnessed gate meetings, burning of effigies and demonstrations on Wednesday as a precursor to Thursday’s nationwide strike against privatisation of public sector units, commercialisation of mines, new labour and farm laws. Talking to the media on Wednesday, national vice president of Rashtriya Colliery Mazdoor Sangh A.K. Jha, said, “All 10 trade unions including, namely, Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS), Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), All India United Trade Union Centre (AIUTUC), Trade Union Co-ordination Centre (TUCC), Self-Employed Women’s Association (SEWA), All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU), Labour Progressive Federation (LPF) and United Trade Union Congress (UTUC), are united in their resolve to make the strike a success.” Attacking the Union government for bringing in changes in labour laws, Jha said, “Altogether 44 labour laws related to workers have been changed to suit capitalist forces, and the rights related to carrying out strike and demonstrations have been drastically curtailed.” Jha said the government did not consult workers while making changes in  the laws. “At a time when unemployment is at its peak, public sector units are being sold to favoured capitalists at lower prices, aggravating the situation of unemployment,” he added. On mining, Jha said the government’s move to allow commercial mining was intended to help capitalist forces which were always the favoured lot of the BJP- led Central Government. “Nationalisation of coal mines carried out by the Central government in the early ’70s has made coal workers free from the oppressive practices of private miners. But now we are apprehending the return of same days of exploitation, oppression and reckless mining with private players coming into the scene,” he explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-226
25-11-2020||Jharkhand||Weddings light up hospitality business in coal town||Dhanbad’s hospitality business is gaining momentum amid a host of factors including revival of business sentiments and the mega wedding season over the recent weeks, with more than 70 per cent occupancy rate being witnessed at hotels in the town. The wedding season, which will take place from November 25 to December 15, has prompted over 5,000 marriages being scheduled at Dhanbad, giving the hospitality sector in the town a hope to revive the industry. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Wednesday, Senior General Manager of Skylark Hotel, Anutosh Bagchi, said, “We have almost 70 to 75 per cent occupancy on all the dates during the wedding season of November 25 to December 15.” “The banquet halls are also booked for all the nine lagan dates scheduled between November 25 to December 15,” he added. Citing the example of Tuesday, when 18 out of 37 rooms of the hotel are booked for corporate customers, Bagchi said, “Besides the marriage related bookings we are getting good corporate bookings due to revival of business sentiments.” “We are also getting direct bookings by some of the guests arriving during the wedding season from other places to the district to attend marriages of relatives, friends and so on,” the manager added. “We are strictly observing all the Covid-19 norms in the peak season and intensive sanitisation is being carried out across all the 37 rooms, reception, banquet halls, and lounge” said Bagchi, adding that once the guests occupy their rooms, hotel staff do not enter in them. “We have also made a mandatory provision for thermal scanning of all the guests inside the banquet halls during the weddings. No  guests will be allowed inside the banquet hall without masks,” he clarified. Sandeep Narang, owner of 17 Degree Hotel, Dhanbad, seemed to be echoing sentiments. Indeed the hospitality business has renewed to some extent due to various factors including the revival of business sentiments and we are also witnessing good booking ranging upto to 40 per cent.” “The bookings during the season have increased significantly and we have also received more than 60 per cent bookings for the entire season”, Vinay Singh, owner of Ramson Hotel, Dhanbad, said. Revealing the key factor for the increased number of bookings, he added, “The main reason for the increase in bookings during this wedding season is the huge number of marriages  scheduled in Dhanbad. During the previous season of June to July, only a few people had got married. Also, after December 15, also there are no lagan dates till next June or July.” “The increased awareness about personal safety during the pandemic era has prompted several guests arriving from outside during this season to make their own arrangement of safer stay in the hotels instead of stay arrangements made by the hosts” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-226
25-11-2020||Jharkhand||Tata Steel aims to use CSR to touch 2 million lives by 2025||Tata Steel has declared that it hopes to reach out to at least two million people annually through its CSR activities and make a meaningful difference to their lives by 2025. In the 2019-20 financial year, the company had reached out to 1.4 million people living in and around its operational areas and made a positive impact on their lives through its continued and rigorous focus on CSR activities. "Tata Steel’s signature CSR programmes are designed to create replicable, large-scale models to address the most pressing community challenges on areas such as education, healthcare, tribal identity and livelihood generation," said a statement issued by the company. It further said that focussed programmes on agriculture, water conservation, rural sports, nutrition and urban slum development were aimed at empowering local communities. "The idea in the long-term is to create a lasting impact on  communities," the statement added. Notably, deep relationships with communities has enabled the company to respond to the Covid-19 pandemic wherein it has meaningfully reached out to more than half-a-million lives across the country. The company is also committed to co-creating scalable solutions for the communities it serves. “Tata Steel’s overarching vision of an equitable and enlightened society where every individual realises his or her potential with dignity guides the company’s partnerships with, and services to, communities, the statement said. Sometime back, the company undertook an extensive exercise to understand the perception of communities it intends to serve over the next 10 years. The insights gathered helped the company develop a long-term CSR strategy. The statement went on to say that rejuvenated CSR strategy was designed keeping three objectives in mind. First, to actualise change models to address core development gaps in Jharkhand and Odisha, while being replicable on a national scale. Second, to enable significant and lasting improvement of communities living in and around the company’s operational areas through identified community development programmes. And third, to embed a societal perspective in key business decisions as an enabler to ensuring community interests. The new strategy has enabled the steel major to make more focussed interventions in identified domains for the larger benefit of communities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-226
25-11-2020||Jharkhand||Covid test on priority for those with comorbidities||Those with comorbid conditions and/or suffering from non-communicable diseases will be tested for Covid-19 on priority in a bid to avert sudden fatalities and put a check on the rapidly rising number of patients, officials belonging to the National Health Mission (NHM) said on Wednesday. State NHM director Ravi Shankar Shukla said the state health department will identify people who were more likely to have severe symptoms of the infection due to underlying ailments and test them for Covid-19 in order to reduce chances of fatalities. “People suffering from comorbid conditions and non-communicable diseases will be prioritised for Covid testing,” said Shukla, adding that the government would also run special campaigns for those suffering from diabetes, cardiac ailments, kidney diseases, cancer and pulmonary disorders. As per government data, as many as 955 people have died of Covid-19 in Jharkhand so far, and a majority of them suffered from some or the other comorbid condition. Figures compiled by NHM highlight that more than 76 per cent of Covid victims in Jharkhand were older than 50 years and had comorbid conditions. At least 727 of the 955 victims were above the age of 50 years, while 224 were in the age bracket of 11 to 50 years. The Covid fatality rate in Jharkhand was, however, lower than the national average. After a significant drop in the Covid-19 testing rate during the festive season, the government has again stepped up testing. A senior official from the health department said the drop in testing rates during the festive season was due to fewer cases surfacing in the state. “Most of the tests are done on the basis of contact tracing. So, once the number of fresh cases surfacing on a daily basis reduces, the number of fresh samples collected also drops,” the official said, requesting anonymity. He added that very few people in Jharkhand volunteered to get tested for Covid-19 unless they suffered from symptoms or were forced to undergo tests by family and friends. Many people who came in contact with infected people also avoided getting tested due to the fear of being isolated, the official said. The growth rate of Covid-19 in Jharkhand is still lower than the national average. It stands at 0.16 per cent against the national growth rate of 0.42 per cent in the past one week, as per government data. By Wednesday morning, the Covid-19 tally in the state was 1,07,921 and at least 2,242 people were yet to recover.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-226
25-11-2020||Jharkhand||BJP accuses Lalu of trying to influence Bihar Speaker election||In the backdrop of Wednesday’s election for Bihar’s Assembly Speaker, the BJP unleashed an online campaign against incarcerated RJD supremo Lalu Prasad for allegedly attempting to lure party MLAs by telephoning them from Ranchi. On Tuesday night, former Bihar chief minister Sushil Modi tweeted: “Lalu Yadav making telephone calls (8051216302) from Ranchi to NDA MLAs & promising ministerial berths. When I telephoned, Lalu directly picked up. I said don’t do these dirty tricks from jail, you will not succeed.” The number mentioned in the tweet belonged to Lalu’s aide—Irfan Ansari. Lalu, who is serving prison terms for being convicted in fodder scam cases, has been lodged at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) for about a year now, undergoing treatment for various ailments. Since Wednesday morning, Jharkhand BJP launched an online campaign using an audio clip, purportedly of Lalu asking a ruling NDA MLAs to skip the House proceedings for the election of Speaker and, in return, promising him a ministerial berth. Leader of the BJP legislature party in Jharkhand Babulal Marandi used the clip in a tweet. “Lalu Prasad Yadav isn’t getting bail from the court, but under the patronage of the Jharkhand government, he has access to mobile phones to horse trade MLAs. While the instances of rape, crimes and lawlessness is on rise, but the state government is busy serving a convicted prisoner,” he wrote. Jharkhand BJP president Deepak Prakash added, “Why is the honorable CM Hemant Soren keeping his eyes shut on this matter?” Jail IG Birendra Bhushan did not answer calls for comments. State BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said they have been alleging brazen violation of the jail manual in case of Lalu ever since the JMM-Congress-RJD government has come to power. “This is just a testimony to our claims of how Lalu Prasad has been violating jail manual day in and day out. A jailed person who is convicted of looting public money is being given preferential treatment by the Hemant Soren government. The government must answer why it is scared of Lalu Prasad? Do all convicted prisoners get treated the same way in Jharkhand?” he said. Shahdeo cited how the newly appointed RIMS director, Kameshwar Prasad, was running the show without staying in official quarters. “He (Kameshwar) is living in a guest house since his appointment because the government has lodged Lalu in the RIMS director’s bungalow,” he pointed out. Lalu, who is being treated for multiple ailments at RIMS, was shifted out of the paying ward to the director’s bungalow, also known as Kelly’s Bungalow, in August following doctors’ advice as a precautionary measure in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. NDA’s Vijay Kumar Sinha was reported to have won the Speaker’s election in Bihar Assembly after defeating the RJD-led grand alliance’s nominee, Awadh Bihar Chaudhary, on Wednesday amid Opposition claims of rigging. Sinha got 126 votes against Chaudhary’s 114.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-226
25-11-2020||Jharkhand||Church: Help ecology and others this Xmas||The Catholic Archdiocese of Ranchi has appealed to the faithful to celebrate Christmas with sobriety, ecological responsibility and generosity to the less fortunate in view of the pandemic. “This year has been a difficult year marked by challenges, difficulties and suffering. Covid-19 and the enforced lockdowns have brought untold misery and hardships for the common man. An economy in distress, growing joblessness and increasing poverty stare in our face as winter sets in,” said the Advent and Christmas Pastoral letter released on Sunday. The letter, signed by Ranchi Archbishop Felix Toppo and auxiliary Bishop Theodore Mascarenhas, will be read at all Masses in cathedrals and parishes. The Church will begin the Advent season — the time to prepare for the celebration of the birth of Jesus — on November 29. The archdiocese also stressed on an ecological Christmas. “In view of the protection of the environment, and as a measure against air and sound pollution, we strongly request you not to use firecrackers during this festive season. The money you would burn by bursting crackers can be given in donation for the poor,” it said. Another suggestion is for sobriety and modesty in the celebrations and expenditure. “We call for sobriety and modesty in celebration and expenditure while celebrating Christmas in remembrance of the poor and recommend that each family and religious community contribute towards charity to help those who have been affected in Covid and the lockdown,” said auxiliary Bishop Theodore Mascarenhas. At a meeting in Ranchi on Tuesday, bishops from the other eight Jharkhand dioceses — Jamshedpur, Hazaribagh, Gumla, Khunti, Daltonganj, Dumka, Simdega and Port Blair — were also requested to adopt the letter. The letter commended that people become “angels of mercy to the poor, the hungry, the afflicted and the weary migrants returning home in miserable conditions” during the lockdown. The letter said: “Through your efforts, the Catholic Church in Ranchi was in the forefront of relief services bringing hope, consolation and comfort to thousands of people and their families.” The prelates have urged the faithful to continue the same spirit of charity based on deep spirituality in their preparations for Christmas. The infant of Bethlehem “wrapped in swaddling clothes and lying in a manger because his parents could not find a room in the inn is the symbol of our Christmas celebration this year”, the letter said. It said Infant Jesus “represents the poor who go to bed hungry because they have no food, the homeless that sleep on our streets because they do not have a roof, the unemployed who struggle to maintain their families because they have lost their jobs, those affected by Covid and other diseases and do not have money to pay for their medicines, parents who struggle to educate their children because they cannot provide them the necessary means”. The letter urged the faithful to strictly maintain the standard operating procedures stipulated by the government. The letter said the archdiocese had sent guidelines to parishes and mission centres to provide as many services as possible in the main churches as well as village chapels and centres “so that the faithful have an opportunity to actually be present for the Advent and Christmas Eucharistic Celebrations”. It allows priests to offer as many as three Masses daily, if required.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-226
