26-11-2020||Calcutta||Fresh app for New Town connects residents with servicemen ||An application called NTRWF was launched last Friday. It promises to act as a bridge between New Town residents and various services available in the township. The android app, to be downloaded from Google Playstore, is an initiative of New Town Residents Welfare Forum. “We thought of compiling a directory during the lockdown when services were difficult to access but later decided to make an app,” said forum joint convenor Samir Gupta. The app, developed by Joy Das, a resident of Sankalpa, has a section on local services where residents can advertise services like tuition, boutique, home delivery and bridal make-up. Other sections allow members to connect and get updates on events. The app was launched virtually by filmmaker Kamaleshwar Mukherjee, Air Chief Marshal (Retd) Arup Raha and scientist Debojyoti Chakravarthy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-226
26-11-2020||Calcutta||Light and colour show at new Town ensure cracker-free Diwali||If New Town registered a cracker-free Diwali, the authorities would like to give a part of the credit for that to the success of the New Town Diya Festival and Rangoli Competition, which involved the participation of several housing societies and some block residents, and spread the message on Diwali-eve of the need to reduce air pollution for the sake of Covid patients with breathing difficulties. “The event worked to prevent fire crackers and also brought in a sense of conjunction of Kali puja and Diwali,” said Debashis Sen, chairman of Hidco which organised the event. Mangaldeep Island, off the Major Arterial Road in New Town, had turned into a colourful hub of activity last Friday. The installation, as mentioned by Sen in his inaugural speech, was an appropriate venue for the festival. The installation called Mangaldeep, created by architect Prabir Mitra, Sen pointed out, represents panchapradeep or five lamps being held in a welcome to visitors entering Calcutta through New Town. The boundary wall was lit up as was the grassy patch at a side. Inside the fenced off island, 15 squares had been created, 4ft by 4ft in size. This was the space in which each team of four would have to create their rangoli. From 4am, women from 15 residential complexes across New Town put their heads together, using colours provided by the organisers. And after an hour and half, Sen and his wife Urmila took a round of the courtyard to decide on the winners. NKDA chief executive officer Animesh Bhattacharya appealed to all those present to shun crackers on Diwali before announcing the results. The appeal “Say no to fire crackers” was part of the design of the rangoli created by Sunrise Point, which was named the first runner-up. “It was one of the deciding factors that got them the rank. They had truly understood the meaning of the festival,” Sen told The Telegraph Salt Lake. Shital Shekhar, a key member of the Sunrise Point team, said notices had been put up in every tower in their complex, announcing a fine for flouting the cracker ban. “We wanted to include the message in our rangoli too,” said Shekhar, a Maharashtrian who grew up watching rangoli being drawn at the doorstep every morning. “It is a ritual back home to ward off negative thoughts.” The winner was the team from Mallika Malancha. Their rangoli featured a peacock painted diagonally in the allotted square and with intricate designs that used the third dimension of height also to good effect. Since their serial number was one, many quipped, tongue in cheek, on the slot being lucky. Team member Saheli Dey Burman, however, emphasised that she had come to win. “When others spoke of giving it a try, I said we should aim to win or not go at all.” Dey Burman, who loves to paint, shared two designs with others. “Since Hidco was providing the colours, we could not anticipate whether to plan for a very colourful rangoli or one with limited colours. So we kept both ready.” She also took upon herself the tough job of drawing the design. “I practised in the morning so I could draw from memory in case they did not allow consulting any external source. Thankfully, no such restrictions were there. Each of my teammates excelled in the part she was assigned.” Restrictions did exist in another field. A rangoli that had caught the judges’ eyes was disregarded after the judges were tipped off that they had used a lot of props to get the shapes right. “We have to give credit for freehand sketching,” said a judge. The team from Bhel Housing Cooperative Society came third. “We got 18 registrations and were in a quandary as there were only 15 slots. But Uniworld City, Sukhobrishti and Millennium Tower backed out so we could accommodate the rest,” said Chaitali Srivastava, who co-ordinated with the participants on behalf of New Town Forum and News, which helped Hidco organise the event. “We bought the rangoli colours from Bhowanipore.” Chance to dance After the rangoli contest, four girls presented a dance item to the stotra Aigiri Nandini. All were students of Mahuya Adhikari, a CA-Block based teacher who danced solo later. After a long mangalarati, led by two priests, the evening was livened up with a ghoomar performance by women in red ghaghra choli. “But it wasn’t ghaghra choli,” laughed Rachita Pati, one of the five dancers. “We wore the sari in the Gujarati style and placed a red dupatta over our head like a pallu and tucked the two ends at our back.” A pallu, used as ghunghat, would have impeded hand movement during dancing. And unless one was very short, the length of the pallu would not have been long enough to have allowed a ghunghat, she explained. The high point of the cultural performance was a dandiya dance to Bollywood hits.” We could not find enough male participants — there were just four — so finally two all-women couples had to be formed,” said Chaitali. Asutosh Anurag thus was in a much-wanted league. “I used to dance regularly in school and college. Three years ago, I danced again for a puja event in my complex. So though I have never danced dandiya before, I wanted to give it a try,” said the resident of Sukhobristi who also created the floral pattern on which the lampstand for the inauguration was placed. If Asutosh had at least some experience in dancing, Mitali Das had none. “My friend Banashree insisted that I join. We could not even hit each other’s sticks initially and kept missing. Every day, some steps had to be changed as someone or the other found it too difficult. On the morning of the show, we had three hours of rehearsal. Yet, such was our state that some were going left while others were going right. Sumit, our choreographer, had his hands on his head in despair and refused to come and see us perform in the evening. We sent him a video clip afterwards and had to assure him that we had done well,” laughed Mitali, a resident of Highland Willows. Indeed, the audience thoroughly enjoyed the energetic moves to foot-tapping numbers like Chogada tara (Loveyatri), Nagada sang dhol (Ramleela) and Kamariya (Mitron). Some of them, like Shital and Mitali, were participating in both rangoli and dandiya. “We rushed home after the contest to change into our dance costumes,” Mitali exclaims. The organisers are so happy with the success of the show that they are thinking of making it an annual event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-226
26-11-2020||Calcutta||1,000 lamps lit by elderly at Swapno Bhor, New Town||With Children’s Day coinciding with Diwali this year, a five-year-old was invited to light the first lamp along with Hidco chief Debashis Sen at Swapno Bhor Citizen’s Park in New Town. Little Ahamstuta Basu could not quite fathom what was going on. Being so young, he could neither recall how he had celebrated Diwali last year nor Children’s Day. “But I like chocolates and I’m very happy I was gifted one (by Sen),” smiled the resident of Uniworld City who had come along with grandmother Chaitali Mazumder, who is a member of Swapno Bhor. Members of Swapno Bhor and Snehodiya, the senior citizens’ home across the street had come over and together the elderly residents lit 1,000 lamps, part of which outlined letters forming the words Swapno Bhor in Bengali. “Despite the pandemic the Diwali ambience is better this year,” said Kakoli Bose of Eastern High, lighting a diya. “Last year I stayed cooped up at home in fear of the crackers but this time I could at least come here.” Shyamapada Gupta of BF Block said they had an active block but the Pujas and all other festivals this year were subdued. “Thanks to Swapno Bhor, we at least have some activity going on.” “Never before have we witnessed such a peaceful Diwali without pollution. It is truly a festival of lights now and we hope to celebrate with the elderly and children, Hindus and Muslims, able bodied and differently-abled,” said Sen. The evening also had some Shyamasangeet, courtesy Debasree Mukhopadhyay, a radio artiste who lives opposite Misti Hub. “After months of singing before Facebook audiences, I thoroughly enjoyed performing on a real stage today. Being a student of Ramkumar Chattopadhyay, I specialise in Puratani and Shyamasangeet and spend every Kali puja performing somewhere or the other. So I’m delighted to have been able to continue the tradition despite the pandemic.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-226
26-11-2020||Calcutta||Soumitra Chatterjee remembered||Had they given us bok phool and kumro phool in place of these flowers, they could be fried and eaten.” These words, spoken in an undertone, came from Soumitra Chatterjee during a felicitation with bouquets of flowers in course of the curtain call for the play Phera. “Such was his sense of humour,” smiled Debsankar Halder, who acted in the play with him. Such intimate memories and impressions from his colleagues formed the core of the four-day homage at Nazrul Tirtha titled ‘Remembering Soumitra’, paid by the Housing and Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco), to the thespian who passed away on November 15. Debsankar, who spoke on the inaugural day of the event, took Soumitra’s last on-camera interview over two hours along with fellow theatre personality Koushik Sen before he contracted Covid-19. “Even till the end, he was so full of life force! He told us he wanted a play to be conceived in today’s language which would shake up everything around yet whose epicentre could not be pinpointed. He wished he could be part of such a phenomenon in theatre. Imagine an 85-year-old having such zest!” In Phera, Debsankar used to play a character that Soumitra himself used to play decades ago. “He had shifted to a smaller role. I used to wonder if he ever compared my acting to how he used to do it 30 years ago. But he never uttered a word that could hurt me. If I ever asked him for suggestions, he would smilingly point out that even to show something to be done the way he used to, he would have to travel back those many years. ‘Tomar boyeshe giye toh ami dekhate parbo na,’ he used to smilingly say. Rather, he used to support me on stage with so much fondness,” he recalled, delivering an exchange between the two from the play to demonstrate the understanding they shared as actors. Of course, he would still be analytical. “If he praised any particular scene after a performance, I would realise that there was scope for improvement there.” As part of the homage, four of Soumitra’s films were exhibited at Nazrul Tirtha — Apur Sansar, Joy Baba Felunath, Atanka and Paromitar Ek Din. “But you cannot show his plays. Yes, you can show recordings of the plays, but those would be documentations, not the real thing. Theatre is like good food. It is meant to be consumed and then it is over. He loved this ephemeral quality of theatre.” Debsankar, who is known much more for his body of work on stage than in films, stressed on Soumitra’s commitment to commercial theatre. “He would take leave even from Satyajit Ray every Thursday, Saturday and Sunday to go and act on stage. He had translated a German play by Friedrich Durrenmatt as Phera, in which till before the lockdown we acted together. His other productions too were awe-inspiring — Namjibon, Neelkantha, Rajkumar... He was very sensitive to the fact that the poor, who did not have access to more expensive forms of art, came to watch theatre, especially in venues like the Academy (of Fine Arts). Someone who, despite being at the height of stardom, found time for commercial theatre deserved more support. But he was not given his place by the theatre world which saw him more as a film hero.” Asked to differentiate between acting in films and on stage, Soumitra had told him that the latter was like the situation of a lover, who is unsure if his love is requited, mustering courage over days and finally declaring his feelings. “That is the one shot you get. It’s out of your hands after that. Much like a rocket cracker. You set its fuse alight and off it goes defying gravity, leaving no trace. In films, you can keep polishing and changing and rejecting till you are satisfied. His response had given me goose bumps.” During performances, Debsankar recalled seeing Soumitra sit in the wings, hidden from audience gaze, long before his own entry was due, instead of relaxing in the make-up room. “It was a play written by him, which once he had directed but now had passed on the reins. His character was yet to enter but mentally he was already there.” Age could not wither him. “Once he was unwell, and I asked him if he would turn up for a performance the next day, he said if he did not, he might not bring himself to come even the day after. It was his pride as an actor to stand and deliver in front of the audience.” His response was similar even when Debsankar silently held out his hand for support, seeing the 84-year-old about to climb down stairs. “He instinctively withdrew his hand, By way of explanation, he added: ‘Debu, if I take your hand today, I will need it tomorrow as well when you might not be there.’” Pride was evident even in the process he adopted in his acting. For the play Bidehi, an adaptation he had done of the play Ghosts by Henrik Ibsen long back which he reworked recently, he would put in a wooden block as a platform under his shoe to portray a limp. “He had vertigo and the block made him dizzy. So he would take it off between scenes. I often wondered why he did that because a limp could be feigned. He used to smile and say ‘Besh lage’. Later I understood the block was what the floating log was to Bilbamangal, who was trying to cross the river to reach his beloved Chintamani by clutching on to a floating log which actually was a carcass. If the beloved was Bilbamangal’s life, in Soumitra’s case it was acting. They tried to reach their destination by dint of their passion. Incidentally, he had acted in the Girish Ghosh play Bilbamangal himself.” Soumitra, Debsankar felt, refused to be categorised. “If you did not like him as actor, he would present himself as elocutionist. If you did not like his poetry, he would ask you to look at his writings. If even those you considered below par, he would ask you to look at his theatre. If nothing worked, he would happily sit face to face with you and indulge in a conversation, and see if his words only floated about like bubbles before popping into thin air or some made their way into your mindspace and stayed there.” Soumitra’s fondness for adda was brought up by several speakers. Debsankar mentioned how he would meet with friends at a common acquaintance’s place after lockdown was eased at an interval of every 20 days. “He spent the lockdown very actively. He wrote three plays and did some translations. He also used to compose two poems daily.” A bonus for the audience at the open air auditorium was the actor breaking into some lines from Ajitesh Bandyopadhyay’s Soudagorer Nouka, on the lips of a rejected actor who imagines the courtyard of his house to be a theatre and delivers his lines in solitude. “Ajitesh was a favourite of his and he enjoyed listening to these lines from me. We used to celebrate his birthday with a programme every January 19. Once he had asked me to recite these lines for everyone present. Next year, too, we will celebrate the day with him just as we are doing so with him amidst us today,” Debsankar concluded. Filmmaker Sekhar Das, a resident of Moonbeam Housing in New Town, has made two films with Soumitra. He started with comparing the two pillars of the Bengali film industry — Uttam Kumar and Soumitra. “I had seen Uttam Kumar at a Bengal Film Journalists Association event where my girlfriend shrieked on spotting the angelic figure. He did not believe in mingling with people to protect his aura. By then, Soumitra had danced to Jibone ki pabona (Teen Bhuboner Pare, 1969). Yet one day, there he was walking into Coffee House in his pyjamas to join the likes of Sunil Ganguly. He did not believe in star worship,” Das said. Years later, Das recalled seeing him walk out of the green room for a cup of tea at the streetside with alacrity before taking the stage for Naamjibon. He touched upon some milestones in Soumitra’s career, mentioning how as a young actor, he acted shoulder to shoulder opposite Suchitra Sen, senior to him in years, in Saatpake Badha, sought director Tapan Sinha’s permission to change his 50-year-old appearance slightly to enact the 70-year-old teacher witnessing his student stabbing someone to death in Atonko, played a thief in Tarun Majumdar’s Sansar Simante or the priest Gangacharan in Satyajit Ray’s Asani Sanket. “He had started acting under the tutelage of doyens Sisir Bhaduri and Ahindra Chowdhury who were both great teachers.” Of the time spent together on the sets of his film Krantikaal, he recalled being woken up at dawn — hours before the 10am call time - by a knock on the hotel door. “There he was greeting the bleary-eyed me. He said he was up all night rehearsing a song I had asked him to give lip to and then composed a poem which he wanted to read out to me.” When Krantikaal got the National Award, he was invited to the film festival in Goa where they wanted to felicitate him. “But he said he had committed four dates to Swapan Saha (a maker of potboilers). He believed in commitments and never distinguished between big and small names.” Satarupa Sanyal spoke of her unfulfilled desire of making a film with Soumitra. “I wanted to direct Shankar’s story Kakolir Dadu with him in the lead. I got the rights from the author, went over to Soumitrababu’s Golf Green house and gave him a script narration, he agreed to do the film and received the advance… But I failed to raise funds. The film never got made.” She did shoot Soumitra later for two documentaries — one on Manna Dey and the other on Mohun Bagan — but the disappointment remained. Sudeshna Roy, the journalist turned actor and filmmaker, first saw Soumitra at a wedding in her childhood. “I had taken his autograph then.” Later, as a journalist with Sananda, she interviewed him many times. “My editor was Aparna Sen who had an easy rapport with Soumitra. We worked together for the first time for a telefilm in 2001. It was a Tagore short story for ETV Bangla and Gargee Roychowdhury was to play his daughter. Fifteen years later, when he did Sraboner Dhara, Gargee was playing his wife. When I mentioned the rest of the cast, he smiled and said: ‘Gargeer podonnoti hoyechhe — meye theke stree.’ Such was his memory!” She shared anecdotes heard from him over the years. “He never objected when I called him a Ray product. Rather he told us when Ritwik Ghatak had badmouthed Ray on stage at an event, he had lost his cool and confronted him. Such was his loyalty to his mentor.” One role he had admitted wanting to do was Goopi Gyne. “He had asked Ray to give him the role. But Ray said he looked more like a prince than a village bumpkin. He told us that he went to the first show of Goopi Gyne Bagha Byne, hoping to have his I-told-you-so moment with Ray. ‘Kintu Tapen ta eto bhalo obhinoy korechhe je ami kichhu bolte parlam na,’ he confessed to us. Uttam Kumar, he said, used to object to his sauntering on the streets in his pyjamas, smoking. “But he said that he could not be Soumitra all his life. He needed to be on the streets to study characters and hone his acting skills.” His wit shone through in his response to Roy’s query on the Uttam-Soumitra feud, much discussed in the press and in public debates. ‘He (Uttam) was a lot bigger than me,’ he said, adding mischievously after a pause, ‘in age’.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-226
26-11-2020||Calcutta||On World Television Day, we find out that the TV has come to mean different things to different generations||Onkar Banerjee remembers the 1986 Fifa World Cup final like it was yesterday. “Back then there would be, at most, one TV in the entire neighbourhood. I was barely a teenager but stayed up all night at my friend’s house watching Maradona lift the trophy. Why, I even remember running home thereafter with street dogs at my heels,” laughs the CK Block resident. And then there’s Amrapali Jana, a 20-something IT sector employee who has two TVs at home, both showpieces. “My parents, sister and I watch Netflix and the like on our phones and laptops. My grandparents would watch TV but after they passed away we didn’t renew the set top box subscriptions and the TV sets now gather dust. I haven’t touched the TV in five or six years,” says the CD Block resident but she watches Netflix every day. November 21 was World Television Day but clearly, the TV has come to mean different things for different people. An extension of the television is over the top (OTT) platforms like Netflix and Amazon Prime Video. These are paid phone apps, which allow users to watch a massive amount of films, documentaries, web series (original serials created for that platform). Besides international content, platforms like SonyLIV and Zee5 stream serials that are shown on their regular TV channels but with the benefit of watching them as and when they like without having to tune in at a particular hour. Users can watch it in the balcony or car if they like and they are not interrupted by commercial breaks either. If users find the phone screen too small, they can watch it on laptops or buy and install a ‘firestick’ device and watch the OTT content on a TV set. OTTs may be the new kid on the block but the time-tested idiot box still has ardent followers. “Some of my friends hang up the phone if it’s nearing 7pm. They have to go watch their serials,” smiles Purabi Basu of New Town’s AB Block. Basu, a senior citizen, watches local as well as international news on TV as her son stays in the UK, daughter in the US and she wants the latest updates from there. “I don’t care much for serials but watch Didi No. 1 come rain, come shine. They get strong women as participants who I feel inspired by,” she says. Rina Chandra of BD Block wouldn’t say she is addicted but likes her Karunamoyee Rani Rashmoni, Krishnakali, Ki kore bolbo tomay and at times Dadagiri and Mirakkel. Sa Re Ga Ma Pa music reality show, Prothoma Kadambini, Alo Chhaya and Firki are other crowd-pullers. Ashis Hazra sticks to Discovery, National Geographic and news channels, “but my wife watches shows on Sarada Ma and Rani Rashmoni and I passively watch them sometimes,” says the AL Block resident. Serials, that form a chunk of television content, have critics galore. “Despite the wealth of Bengali literature our serials are of such poor quality! Why are they stretched till eternity,” asks Basu, who doesn’t like any serial. Sudeshna Maiti had started watching Kheerer Putul, “but after a point I found it so appalling that I decided to read the Abanindranath Tagore fantasy it is based on. The serial had deviated so much from the book that I quit watching it,” says the FC Block resident. “And can someone tell me why every character in serials is dressed in wedding finery all the time?” This is exactly what drove the youth away from television. “When I was in high school, Indian television completely ignored my demography. And if the saas-bahu stupidity wasn’t enough they had just stumbled upon a naagin phase. Everyone in every show was an ichchhadhari naagin!” Amrapali wrinkles her nose. “Star World and Zee Cafe would fill the void somewhat but starved of decent content, every youngster was illegally downloading Game of Thrones then.” The turning point came when this generation left town for college. Their PGs would not have TVs and they began relying on their laptops for entertainment. “That’s when we discovered the plethora of content on OTTs,” says the girl who loves watching crime and mystery. Amrapali has watched international webseries like Mindhunter, Unbelievable, Broadchurch and Indian ones like Sacred Games, Mirzapur and the recently released Scam 1992: The Harshad Mehta Story, that she feels may be the best show produced in the country. Her mother is busy watching The Crown, based on the life of Queen Elizabeth II, and her father caught some IPL action on his phone. After the demise of Sushant Singh Rajput, his last movie Dil Bechara was streamed on an OTT and like all his faithful fans, Eastern Grove’s Debolina Roy tuned in the very minute it was released. “Many faced problems that day as the platform was unable to handle the deluge of visitors but I saw it in one breath smoothly,” she says. Her domestic help, by the way, has started watching re-runs of Rajput’s TV serial Pavitra Rishta. Channels are also showing films of Soumitra Chatterjee after his demise and residents aren’t far away. “Last weekend I saw his Sanjhbati, that was shot in Salt Lake. The streets looked familiar and I recognised BD Market,” smiles Chandra, who lives a few lanes away from the market in question. Manjusri Dutta has a domestic help who loves watching cinema on the telly. “So much so that she has borrowed booklets on Soumitra from me after his demise,” says the CB Block resident. “This girl dropped out of school after Class VIII and I wonder how much she’ll relate to the intellectual content of most Soumitra movies, but I was happy nonetheless to see her love for films drive her reading habit.” Maiti and her mother revisited classics aired on Doordarshan during the lockdown. “We enjoyed Mahabharat and Byomkesh Bakshi and were waiting for Vikram Aur Betaal but they didn’t screen it,” she says. When Debasmita Dutta realised how bored her parents were getting during the lockdown, she installed Jio Fiber on their telly and now her parents can watch several OTTs easily. “For the first time in my life, I had time to watch my favourite show, Crime Patrol,” says her father Rahul Dutta of CA Block. “No one in my generation watches TV anymore,” says Debasmita. “I myself have had OTTs for long but it’s only when offices were shut during the lockdown did I get hooked on to them. I’ve watched Bandish Bandits, Lalbazaar, Tansener Tanpura…” Jayita Choudhury has always kept a check on the amount of screentime her twins get but the charts went for a toss when the lockdown was announced. “I had no other way to engage the four-year-olds,” says the hapless resident of BH Block. Their TV, however, does not have cable connection and the family only watches OTTs. “We subscribed to the kids-friendly Disney+ and now they watch films like Cars, The Incredibles and Frozen on it all the time. My husband and I have different tastes — he likes sports and war films while I’m watching The Crown and we watch our own shows on our own devices at bed time. The only thing we both enjoy together is the Trump drama, which is more entertaining than any piece of fiction!” Even Onkar, the one who got chased home by dogs the night Maradona took home the World Cup, switched to OTTs during the lockdown. “I was so bored with nowhere to go but OTTs opened a whole new world. I saw Sushmita Sen’s Aarya, Inside Edge, a fictional account of betting in the IPL, Eken Babu and Tansener Tanpura. Production values are much higher than on TV,” he says. Arushi Pant, a Class XI student, says neither she nor her parents have any time for the telly now. “The work-from-home format has everyone working round the clock and if I get some time free I go for a run or sing. At most, we sit for a movie as a family once a month and we pick whatever is trending on Netflix,” says the resident of Rosedale Garden. Neelanjana Dutta of DLF New Town Heights says they spent the initial weeks of the lockdown watching nothing but the news. “I used to watch a serial called Sreemoyee before that but I lost interest with all the tension around. We did watch Mahabharat on Star Plus, though.” Most elderly respondents were reluctant to try OTTs as it meant tackling a new technology. “I don’t even click on the links my children send me by WhatsApp so I’m unlikely to try these out,” confesses Basu. Debolina points at the content itself. “The content served on OTTs is for the youth. My granny watches shows on Sarada Ma on TV. How can I ask her to tune into Hoichoi, a platform that serves shows with titles like Charitraheen? The elderly are quite happy with their religious and family dramas.” Maiti is tired of serials on the telly but but won’t bite the OTT bait. “I have high power in my eyes and after a day of working on the computer cannot afford to stare at a tiny phone screen in the name of recreation,” she reasons. In many young families, the effect of OTTs is quite blunt and some parents are concerned. “A TV in the living room used to unite a family or even the neighbourhood. Kids of today are missing out on that fun,” says Onkar. Anikesh Banerjee of NBCC Vibgyor Towers feels the plethora of options — be it in content or devices — is not good for kids in the long run. “Now if a child doesn’t like the news the father is watching he can walk away to his room and watch cartoons on his phone. If he doesn’t like a show he can change it without batting an eyelid. Where is the chance to learn tolerance and compromise? Watching a show may be a piece of cake now but life is not this easy,” Anikesh says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-226
26-11-2020||Calcutta||All Fools’ Day party: Mamata Banerjee||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday tried to calm the nerves of her supporters by asserting there was “zero chance” of the “outsiders” coming to power and accused the sabre-rattling saffron camp of subjecting the people to April Fools’ Day round the year. Addressing the first big political public meeting since the pandemic struck, the Trinamul Congress chief concentrated her firepower on the BJP although she described the CPM as a party of the lobhee (greedy), the BJP as bhogee (intemperate) and her own party as tyagee (self-abnegating). “Some seem to think there is a chance for them, by chance, to come to power. Take it from me; there is zero chance….,” Mamata said. “That is not happening…. Very soon in the future, you will have to lament that you won everywhere else in India, but Bengal denied you, shut you out. Not one corner of Bengal will reward you,” said the chief minister, jeering at the BJP over its bovine politics and condemning it over the controversies affecting Dalits, tribal people and minorities. Mamata’s message to the party’s rank and file came in the wake of increasing chest-thumping by the BJP, including a claim by Amit Shah that his party would win more than 200 of the 294 seats in the Bengal Assembly. “They believe in making fools of the people round the year. For them, every day is April Fools’ Day,” she said. Calling the BJP a “curse” on the entire nation, the chief minister said Bengal in 2021 would show the way to a turnaround. She criticised the BJP of trying to engineer defections with money. “They are inviting people from Trinamul with huge offers of money… Rs 2 crore for just joining them. MLAs are receiving calls: Rs 15 lakh as advance and then another Rs 15 lakh after the defection…. Such horse-trading is utterly shameful,” Mamata said. The Trinamul chief, for the first time, reacted publicly to the Bihar Assembly elections and sought to de-legitimise the results. “Was it a victory (for the NDA) in Bihar? No. It was a victory by manipulation,” she said, echoing allegations from several quarters of the non-NDA space. A Trinamul Rajya Sabha member said Mamata had spoken to Tejashwi Yadav, who spearheaded the Mahagathbandhan in Bihar, the day after the results and lauded him for the valiant fight. “You have kept (RJD chief) Lalu Prasad in jail for so long. Could you stop his influence? You could do nothing,” said Mamata. “If you have the power, arrest me. I will be in prison. I will remain jailed, yet I will ensure the victory of Trinamul in Bengal. This is my challenge,” she added to thunderous applause from an audience of thousands. The Trinamul chief revisited the bohiragawto (outsider) theme. “Outsiders are being sent to attack Bengal…. Be warned, if you trust them, they will snatch and loot everything you have, everything you hold dear,” said Mamata. The chief minister brought up several past instances of alleged cruelty during CPM rule and said she was “ashamed” to see the state of the Left party in Bengal now, accusing it of collusion with the BJP to oust Trinamul. “They (the CPM) think it will be saffron in 2021 and red again in 2026…. But they (the CPM) will be wiped out. The worst of the CPM are now in the BJP. Only the colours have changed, the hearts remain the same,” she said. Mamata criticised the BJP-led Centre for its “anti-people” policies such as the farm laws and labour rules. That party is garbage… a dustbin of lies. Nothing else,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-226
26-11-2020||Calcutta||Majerhat bridge clears road test, ‘use-ready’||The newly-built Majerhat bridge, which has replaced the one that collapsed in September 2018, has cleared a “load test” and design consultants have certified that the structure is “ready to use”. Once the railway’s nod comes, the PWD, which is executing the project, will approach the state government to fix a date for the bridge's inauguration. Since the 260m-long deck slab of the bridge stands over train tracks, the structure cannot be opened for traffic without the railway’s clearance. Senior PWD officials said they were planning to send the “final report” on the bridge to Nabanna early next month, after which the government will schedule the inauguration. The load test began on November 16, and over the next four days the structure was subjected to 534 tonnes of weight. The deck slab of the bridge is held by 84 cables, imported from Switzerland. “Only 40 per cent of the load-bearing capacity of each of the cables will be utilised,” an engineer involved in the construction of the bridge said. Two days into the load test, a team of engineers from the railway, led by Anant M. Chowdhary, the commissioner of railway safety (eastern circle), visited the bridge to inspect the procedure. The engineers who ran the test measured how different components of the bridge - such as the deck slab, bearings, piers and the cables - were responding to both static and mobile load. “The deflection because of the weight of the structure was perfect and well within the calculated limits. There was no deviation even in the stress-bearing capacity of the cables,” said a senior official of the PWD. “Everything was according to the design and the prescribed calculations.” The results of the load tests were compiled and sent to the Taiwan-based design consultant for assessment. Sources said experts at the firm were satisfied with the degree of deflection. The design consultant has approved the results and certified that the bridge is “ready to use” — a clearance that is mandatory for any structure before it is opened to traffic. "Since the commissioner of railway safety observed how the load test was carried out, we hope the railway wouldn't sit on the report for long," said an official at Nabanna. While the state government awaits the nod, the new bridge has started getting its final coat of paint. All the loose ends are being tied up, including the lights and the road-markings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-226
26-11-2020||Calcutta||Former help, son arrested for harassing Hasin Jahan||Hasin Jahan, the estranged wife of cricketer Mohammad Shami, had been receiving calls threatening to post her photographs and mobile number on obscene websites if she did not pay up, she complained to police on Sunday. Based on her complaint, a former help at Hasin’s house and her son were arrested on Tuesday night. Shila Sarkar and Devraj Sarkar, residents of Canning in South 24-Parganas, have been charged with extortion, outrage of modesty of a woman through words and gestures and criminal intimidation. “I started receiving calls from unknown numbers in September. A man who had introduced himself as my former maid’s son said he wanted money. When I asked him why I should pay him, he started abusing me and threatened to post my photographs and mobile number on obscene websites,” Hasin told The Telegraph. She said she had hired Shila for a few days. She had apparently found Shila “rude and always on the phone” and so discontinued her services after “eight or nine” days. “I had paid all her dues and then dismissed her. Soon after a man introducing himself as her son started calling me up saying I owed them money,” Hasin said. She said initially she had tried to ignore the calls and messages and blocked the number. But when the accused kept bothering her, she decided to approach the police. “Maybe he thought I was an easy target as I live alone with my children. So, I decided to lodge a complaint to set an example that they cannot get away with anything,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-227
26-11-2020||Calcutta||Refund order to two private city hospitals||The state clinical establishment regulatory commission on Wednesday asked two private hospitals to refund money to two patients and the family of a third following complaints that the hospitals had overcharged them. R Flemming Hospital in Topsia was asked to return Rs 3 lakh and Rs 1.2 lakh to two men who had been treated for Covid-19, said retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission, Desun Hospital in Anandapur was asked to return Rs 50,000 to the family of a patient who was admitted there with various illnesses. The commission asked R Flemming Hospital to return Rs 1,20,000 to Barun Bhadra, 50, who was treated there from July 31 to August 9. “The patient was billed Rs 3,20,000 for 10 days’ treatment at the hospital. The patient party complained that he did not require any critical care. They said the patient was in the isolation ward for three-four days before being shifted to the Covid general bed,” Banerjee said. “The hospital said the patient was in the isolation ward all through. But that should not be. A patient should be shifted to a bed meant for Covid patients after he or she tests positive for the disease,” Banerjee said. According to him, the hospital said the patient was admitted under a package of Rs 35,000 per day. “Covid general bed treatment cannot cost Rs 35,000 a day. It cannot exceed Rs 15,000 to Rs 20,000 in a general ward. We have asked the hospital to charge Rs 20,000 a day,” the chairman said. At that rate, 10 days’ treatment will cost Rs 2 lakh. “We have asked the hospital to return Rs 1,20,000 to the patient,” said Banerjee. The hospital was also asked to return Rs 3 lakh to 63-year-old Gouranga Sarkar, who was treated there from July 22 to August 10. “The patient was billed Rs 7 lakh for 20 days. They charged Rs 35,000 a day. We again asked them to bill him Rs 20,000 for a day. That way it would cost Rs 4 lakh. We asked the hospital to refund Rs 3 lakh,” said Banerjee. He added the hospital had said they had asked the patient’s family to take him home as he had recuperated but the family insisted on taking him back only after he tested negative. “We will not comment on the commission’s order, but the families of the patients were clearly told of the charges. They got the patients admitted only after agreeing to the charges,” said Sahid Khan, the manager of R Flemming Hospital. The commission also asked Desun Hospital to return Rs 50,000 to a patient who was admitted to the hospital on August 12 and passed away two days later. “The woman’s condition was very critical. She was at the hospital for 35 hours and the family was billed Rs 1,80,000. The cost was very high. We have asked the hospital to return Rs 50,000,” said Banerjee. “We felt that such a huge amount for 35 hours is not possible,” said Banerjee. “We will not comment till we receive a copy of the order,” said Tapas Mukherjee, the deputy managing director of Desun Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-227
26-11-2020||Calcutta||Molest cry against bike taxi driver||A young woman who hired a motorcycle taxi service to return home from Alipore on Sunday night was allegedly molested by the driver, who asked her questions about her body and her relationship with her boyfriend, she has alleged. The woman, who was dropped one stop after her destination at Garfa and had to walk back home through a deserted stretch, was allegedly stalked by the biker, she has mentioned in her complaint. Based on her complaint with the police on their Facebook page, the accused biker has been arrested. The woman has mentioned in her complaint that she booked the bike ride around 9pm on Sunday from Desi Lane in Alipore. “According to the complainant, the driver started a casual conversation with her and then asked questions about her personal life and her relationship with her boyfriend,” said an officer at Garfa police station. The driver also allegedly asked her questions about her body, which made her uncomfortable. When she refused to reply, the driver allegedly refused to drop her at the assigned destination, the police said. “It was only when she protested and threatened to scream and alert the people around that the driver dropped her at Ganguly Pukur, one stop after where she was supposed to alight,” the officer said. The woman has told the police that the biker had stalked her and made indecent gestures at her while she was walking back home from Ganguly Pukur. After reaching home, the woman lodged a complaint with the customer care of the taxi bike service and the Facebook page of the Calcutta police. The cyber cell at Lalbazar took note of the complaint and forwarded it to Garfa police station. Officers from the police station contacted the woman and took all details related to the two-wheeler and the driver. The accused — identified as Aslam Hossain, 39, a resident of Haridevpur — was arrested early on Wednesday from a hideout not far from his home. Hossain has been booked under IPC sections related to outrage of modesty of women, outrage of modesty of women by means of words and gestures and stalking. If convicted, he could be jailed for up to five years. The police said they would question officials of the taxi bike company and seek background details of the driver. “Drivers in app cabs and taxi bikes should be employed only after a thorough background check. In this case we are yet to ascertain whether the person has any criminal history or not,” said a senior officer. ⚫ Carry pepper spray for safety ⚫ Send picture of the hired cab/bike and its number to a family member or friend ⚫ Assign mobile numbers of some family members / friends on the speed dial of your phone ⚫ Dial 100 in case of an emergency||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-227
26-11-2020||Calcutta||Jadavpur University teachers speak out against harassment||Teachers at Jadavpur University have said they are noting with “dismay and concern” the harassment and humiliation a section of teachers has faced at the hands of some students. The Jadavpur University Teachers’ Association (Juta) has issued a statement, blaming the students for the resignation of two deans of science over the past couple of months. The statement, issued two days after acting dean of science Subir Mukhopadhyay resigned, says: “Jadavpur University Teachers’ Association (Juta) notes with dismay and concern the tendency in recent times for a section of students to harass, humiliate, and insult teachers of the university, on issues having to do with academic matters. This has already led to two officiating Deans of the science faculty tendering their resignations in the last couple of months. In both cases, the unwarranted interference of the students, and their insistence that their demands be met, irrespective of academic merit of their demands, and the language that the students leaders have used is nothing short of shocking.” Mukhopadhyay took over as acting dean after Kalyan Kumar Das had resigned in early October after an allegedly “derogatory” letter about him was sent to vice-chancellor Suranjan Das by office-bearers of the science faculty students’ union. Union leaders allegedly misbehaved with him over why only the final-year undergraduate end- semester students were being tested and not the ones in the intermediate semesters. The Telegraph had Wednesday reported that Mukhopadhyay resigned following what sources close to him said was “pressure” from the students’ union to accommodate all undergraduate students in the postgraduate courses. In both cases, the deans were allegedly verbally abused. Mukhopadhyay, in his resignation letter to the VC, has mentioned the dates when he had been allegedly humiliated by office-bearers of the students’ union. Parthapratim Roy, the general secretary of the teachers’ association, said: “The students are demanding that the decisions taken at the meeting of the admission committee or that of the faculty council would have to be reversed. Only the executive council, the highest decision making body of JU, has the authority to ask the statutory bodies to revisit their decisions. They (the students) don’t know where to draw a line.” The latest confrontation between the students’ union and the dean started after the union apparently demanded that all students graduating in science from JU be offered seats in MSc courses, disregarding the fact that 20 per cent of the seats have been reserved for candidates from other universities by a government order. A teacher said the union was insisting that all internal students be accommodated in the day courses at the master’s level. There are the same number of seats in the evening programmes as the day courses, but JU students are reluctant to join the evening courses, which drag on for three years, compared with the two-year day courses. “If we are forced to accommodate all of them, we would have to create additional seats and ask students from other universities to opt for evening courses. How can this be allowed?” the teacher said. A JU official said there were more MSc aspirants this year because students were reluctant to move to other states for a master’s course because of the Covid pandemic. “Another reason for the spike in the number of aspirants is lenient evaluation,” the official said. The Juta statement reads: “It is likely if such actions by the students are allowed to go unchecked by the university administration, then no teacher of the university will be willing to take administrative duties (which they have been discharging despite considerable personal difficulties in this unprecedented pandemic situation) in future. None but the students will be responsible if this comes to pass….” Vice-chancellor Das could not be contacted as he was busy attending a webinar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-227
26-11-2020||Calcutta||Centre’s advice to states on medical class restart 'on or before 1st Dec'||The Union health secretary has written to all states advising that medical colleges resume their classes “on or before 1st December, 2020”, senior officials of the Bengal government have said. “The letter has been sent to the chief secretary. We are awaiting a directive from Nabanna,” said a health department official. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee holds the health portfolio. If Nabanna concurs, the health department will issue an order asking all medical colleges in the state to resume classes. The letter from Delhi mentions that the National Medical Commission (NMC), the regulatory body for medical education, has recommended reopening of medical colleges on or before December 1. MBBS students across the state have been attending online classes since the colleges were closed in March because of the Covid pandemic. Students said they had missed out on learning by watching senior doctors examine patients. “We received the letter (from the Union health secretary) on Wednesday. We are examining the recommendations and speaking to our medical college faculties and the administration,” Bengal’s health secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam told Metro. Another health department official said the final decision would rest with Nabanna. “If Nabanna concurs with the letter sent by the Union health secretary, we will issue a similar order and ask medical colleges of our states to reopen. The letter will mention the dates from when the colleges can reopen,” the official said. Nigam said the medical colleges were closed under the National Disaster Management Act when the Covid-19 pandemic hit India. The state government had issued orders directing suspension of on-campus colleges, he said. “The state government will take the final call on when medical colleges in our state will reopen,” said Rajendra Pandey, the vice-chancellor of the West Bengal University of Health Sciences, to which all medical colleges in the state are affiliated. The Centre had earlier issued guidelines allowing students of Classes IX to XII to go to school to consult teachers from September 21 with written consent from parents. But the state government has not yet allowed students to visit schools. The Union education ministry had on September 22 decided that first-year undergraduate and postgraduate classes in colleges could start on November 1. But the state government has not yet declared when colleges and universities in the state will resume on-campus classes. “The question is not only about medical colleges but all colleges, universities and schools. The question is whether to allow assembly of students and teachers,” said a senior government official. Bengal recorded 3,528 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday and Calcutta accounted for 880 of them. Fifty-one people died of the disease in the state on Wednesday, 15 of them in Calcutta. Referring to the NMC’s recommendations, the letter from the Union health secretary mentioned that “sufficient number of non-Covid beds may be made available in the medical college hospitals to facilitate undergraduate medical training”. An MBBS student said this was required to ensure that future doctors got to learn about treatment of all diseases. The Calcutta Medical College and Hospital and the College of Medicine and Sagore Dutta Hospital in Kamarhati are the two teaching hospitals in and around the city that have been designated as Covid hospitals. “The medical colleges that have been turned into Covid treatment centres are admitting non-Covid patients, too. So students will get the opportunity to examine non-Covid patients,” said Debashis Bhattacharya, Bengal’s director of medical education. Sutirtha Bhattacharyya, a final-year MBBS student at the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, said they had been attending online classes since the onset of the pandemic in India. “The main problem is we are not being able to see our professors or seniors examine a patient and learn from them,” Bhattacharyya said. The letter from Delhi mentions that all guidelines to prevent Covid-19 have to be followed while reopening the colleges. “All the SOPs/guidelines with respect to social distancing and prevention of spread of epidemic” have to be followed “scrupulously” by all the colleges, the letter says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-227
26-11-2020||Calcutta||Strike: what’s on, what’s off on Thursday||A 24-hour nationwide strike has been called from Wednesday midnight to Thursday midnight by central trade unions to protest the policies of the Narendra Modi government, including the new labour and farm laws. Normal life might be affected because the Trinamul Congress — which has a stated no-bandh policy — has so far refrained from a concerted effort to oppose the strike. But a state government order issued on Wednesday asked the police and civil administration to firmly deal with “attempts at forcible closure of government offices… markets… and industrial establishments”. “Normal life and vocation of the people in general should not be allowed to be disturbed,” and “it should be ensured that there is no interruption in normal flow of road traffic or stoppage in movement of trains,” the order said. Another order on Wednesday evening made attendance of government employees — according to the roster — compulsory. Some areas in the city witnessed Trinamul rallies, urging people to foil the bandh, in the evening.  Emergency services like ambulance, fire brigade, hospital, pharmacy and milk supply are exempt from the strike. A CPM leader said home delivery of food would be exempt, too. “We have excluded essential items from the purview of the strike. Food is of course essential. Home delivery of food will be exempt. We have requested people to observe a general strike in their own capacities,” said CPM leader Mohammed Salim. The National Eligibility Test (NET) on November 26 is on course. Citu leader Anadi Sahu has issued a written appeal to fellow strike supporters to allow NET aspirants with admit cards to reach their exam venues. But till Wednesday night, there was no official confirmation of the exam being excluded from the strike. A CPM rally is scheduled to start from Entally on Thursday morning. CPM cadres will set up pickets in Jadavpur, Garia, Behala and some other areas of the city, said a CPM leader. Banking service is expected to see a disruption with a section of trade unions directly participating in the strike and others offering support. As a result, activities at branches such as cash deposit and withdrawal, issuing of demand drafts, cheque clearances and locker services, among others, can be affected. Bank officials said ATMs would remain open and the cash refill has been done according to schedule, but sporadic instances of shutter-downs cannot be discounted. “Most banks unions have joined the strike protesting increasing privatisation in the sector with others offering their support,” said Rajen Nagar, general secretary, BPBEA. Markets run by the civic body will open in the morning as usual, said an official of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. “All our stores will remain open as usual,” said an official at Spencer’s. The deployment will start early in the morning. There will be 71 police pickets across the city to ensure people on the roads do not face any harassment, said an officer in Lalbazar. Metro will run its usual daily fleet of 190 trains, an official said. “All flight operations will be on schedule,” said an airport official. Transport department officials said an additional fleet of government buses will be on roads on Thursday. “We have also requested private bus and minibus operators to run their vehicles,” said an official. Sources in the taxi operators’ association said yellow cabs would be out from the morning. “If things turn disruptive, we will go off the roads,” said one of them. App cabs are expected to run, but a fare surge is on the cards. Suburban trains will also run according to schedule, said a railway official. Liquor store owners said they would open stores on Thursday as usual, but may consider closing down with permission from local excise officials in case of any untoward instances. Dial for help ⚫ Emergency helpline: 100 ⚫ Lalbazar control room: 22143230 ⚫ Traffic control room: 22143644 ⚫ Fire brigade control room: 22521165 ⚫ Ambulance: 102||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-227
26-11-2020||Calcutta||HS and Madhyamik syllabi slashed||The state government has pruned the syllabuses for the students of Classes X and XII who will write their board exams next year as on-campus classes could not be held because of the Covid pandemic. Education minister Partha Chatterjee said the syllabuses would be slashed by 30 to 35 per cent, something that was recommended by an expert committee on school education. “It is true that we have not been able to conduct regular classes because of the Covid situation…. We have decided to accept the proposal of the expert committee on reducing the syllabuses by 30 to 35 per cent for the students of Classes X and XII, who will take their board exams next year,” said Chatterjee. The West Bengal Board of Secondary Education and the West Bengal Council for Higher Secondary Education will post the revised syllabuses on their websites. “They (the board and the council) will announce the details through notifications,” Chatteree said. An official of the school education department said the modes of instruction tried out during the pandemic — through portals designed by the government, over the phone and on TV— were not adequate to complete the syllabuses. The state has around 14,000 secondary schools and close to 7,000 higher secondary schools. “A large number of students at these schools don’t have access to laptops or smartphones. Many of them stay in places that lack robust connectivity. So, it was not possible to hold classes on digital platforms. Hence, reduction of the syllabuses was inevitable,” he said. The Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has twice curtailed the syllabuses for the students of Classes X and XII who will take their board exams next year, after taking into account the findings of a survey on online teaching. Union human resource development minister Ramesh Pokhriyal had announced in July that the CBSE would reduce the syllabuses of Classes IX to XII by up to 30 per cent for the 2020-21 session. Sougata Basu, a teacher of Uttarpara Government School and the secretary of the Government School Teachers’ Association, wondered why it took the government so long to decide that the syllabuses needed to be curtailed. “The department should have acted sooner. The students would have got more time to prepare for the board exams had the announcements come earlier,” Basu said. The government is yet to announce next year’s Madhyamik and HS schedule.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-227
26-11-2020||Calcutta||Vaccine ‘capacity mapping’ in city hospitals||Two agencies, the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare Providers (NABH) and the business chamber Ficci, are “capacity mapping for vaccination facilities in the private sector” on behalf of the Centre. On Wednesday, the two agencies jointly sent a mail to some private hospitals in Calcutta asking a series of questions and stating that they “are collecting this information only to supplement the efforts of the government for Covid-19 Vaccine admini-stration”. “This information will help the government to understand the capacities of the private sector,” the mail reads. There is no clarity yet when Covid-19 vaccines would be available but the Centre and the state governments have already started preparations for inoculation. The mail from the two agencies has triggered questions about “interference” by the Centre. A Bengal government official said the agencies should not have sent such queries to private hospitals in the state. “We will look into the matter. The state government is making all arrangements for vaccinations,” a senior official of the state government said. Some of the questions in the mail sent by Ficci and NABH to private hospitals: ⚫Do you have the physical capacity (eg. earmarked vaccination area) to inoculate people in your facility? ⚫How many trained inoculators do you have in your facility that you can utilise for Covid vaccination? ⚫Are you prepared to take up one community around/nearby your hospital/unit (within 5km radius) to inoculate? ⚫Do you have cold storage facilities in your hospital to store vaccines? ⚫How many trained inoculators can you provide to support the government in semi-urban and rural areas? ⚫If we provide you with the training module, will you be able to impart training for inoculation to: registered nurses, ANMs, resident doctors, phlebotomists, AYUSH doctors, pharmacists, technicians? ⚫How many inoculations can you accomplish per inoculator on an 8-hour and 16-hour basis? ⚫What support will you need to effectively partner with the government to provide vaccination in semi-urban and rural areas in your state? The Mamata Banerjee government has sent a different set of vaccine queries to private hospitals, which are related to the number of healthcare workers at their disposal. On Wednesday, state health department officials met representatives of private hospitals and asked them to send details of all their employees for vaccination. Healthcare providers will be given priority for vaccination and hence, the list is being prepared, said an official. “We recently held a meeting with health ministry officials and have been told to prepare a strategy for Covid vaccination,” said Alok Roy, the chairman of Medica Superspecialty Hospital group and national chairman of Ficci’s health service. “We are preparing a strategy paper to cooperate with the Centre for the vaccination drive.” Sources said the set of questions sent to the hospitals by NABH and Ficci was part of the survey that would help the government prepare a strategy paper on vacci-nation. State government officials, however, said they were making their own surveys and preparations for vaccinations for Covid-19. “We are upgrading the cold chains across the state for storage of vaccines. A database of private and government healthcare workers has already been prepared,” said a state government official. “At Wednesday’s meeting, private hospitals were asked to provide some more details of their employees.” A three-level task force has been set up by the state for the vaccination, said the official. “We have also prepared a list of inoculators,” the official said. An official of a private hospital said separate communications from the Centre and the state government could create confusion. Some of the hospitals have told Metro that right now they might not be able to take part in large-scale vaccination drives. “Manpower would be a big issue for private hospitals,” said the CEO of a hospital. “Already, doctors, nurses and other healthcare workers are struggling with a large number of Covid patients. On top of that the number of non-Covid patients has started increasing sharply.” This newspaper reported on Wednesday that the number of patients turning up at the OPDs of private hospitals from districts has been rising rapidly since the resumption of suburban train services on November 11. “All our doctors and other clinical staff are grappling with so many patients and the number will keep increasing in the coming months. So, it will be difficult to set aside staff for large-scale vaccination drives. It will be difficult to be involved in a vaccination drive within a 5km-radius around the hospital, as suggested by NABH and Ficci,” said an official of a private hospital in Calcutta. Some hospitals said providing space on the premises for vaccination would be a challenge. “Already, we have earmarked a big area for a fever clinic. It will be difficult to provide another big area for vaccination,” he said. Hospitals expect huge crowds for Covid-19 vaccines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-227
26-11-2020||Business||India’s economy recovered stronger than anticipated: Shaktikanta Das||India’s economy has recovered stronger than what was expected from the preliminary impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Shaktikanta Das said on Thursday. However, he added it must be ensured that demand sustainability is monitored carefully  after the end of the festive season. He said there are negative risks to growth all over the world as well as India, while speaking at the annual day event of Foreign Exchange Dealers' Association of India (FEDAI). “It can be noted that the Indian economy contracted by 23.9 per cent in the first quarter of the fiscal year, and the RBI expects the economy to shrink by 9.5 per cent in FY21. However, there has been recovery after the opening up of the lockdown restrictions, especially during the festive season,” Das said. “After witnessing a sharp contraction in the economy by 23.9 per cent in Q1 and a multi-speed normalisation of activity in Q2, the Indian economy has exhibited stronger than expected pick-up in momentum of recovery,” he added. “Even as growth outlook has improved, downside risks to growth continue due to recent surge in infections in parts of Europe and also in parts of India,'' he said. “We need to be watchful about the sustainability of demand after the festivals and a possible reassessment of market expectations surrounding the vaccine,” the RBI governor said. Das guaranteed the RBI’s commitment to make sure that an orderly conduct in the markets are maintained, while saying that regulatory reforms have moved the financial markets to the next trajectory amid Covid-19. He also said that India will continue to approach capital account convertibility as a process, rather than as an event within a broad macroeconomic framework.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-223
26-11-2020||Business||Covid: Airlines seek support to tide over losses||The central government should change its position and support the Indian airlines and other aviation stakeholders in the face of the Covid-19 crisis, a top official of global airlines body IATA said on Wednesday. The Indian carriers have laid off employees, cut salaries and posted significant losses during the last few quarters as coronavirus-induced travel restrictions have drastically impacted the aviation sector. “The Indian government has not come forward in support of airlines and we do urge them to change that position and to assist the airlines and airports and other aviation stakeholders,” Conrad Clifford, IATA regional vice-president for the Asia Pacific region, said. “This is something we continue to encourage and urge the Indian government to do,” he said at a virtual press meet. The Indian airlines have sought an interest-free credit line of at least $1.5 billion for the sector, civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri had told the Rajya Sabha on September 16. The airlines want the government to ask banks and financial institutions to defer repayments of loans by the aviation industry by six months, the minister said. Clifford said given the increase in domestic activity in India, he hopes the Indian carriers would get back to a cash positive situation, possibly earlier than carriers that do not have a strong domestic market. The International Air Transport Association (IATA) represents around 290 airlines across the world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-223
26-11-2020||Business||China denounces India's security risk ruse to ban apps||China on Wednesday frowned upon India’s repeated use of “national security” to ban Chinese apps and called for rectification of “discriminatory practices violating WTO rules’’. Responding to media queries for a Chinese reaction to India’s decision on Tuesday to ban another set of apps with links to China, the spokesperson at the Chinese Embassy here, Ji Rong, said: “We firmly oppose the Indian side’s repeated use of ‘national security’ as an excuse to prohibit some mobile applications with Chinese background.’’ The ministry of electronics & information technology (MEITY) had banned 43 mobile apps on Tuesday, taking the list of such apps banned since June to 220 as part of a series of measures New Delhi is taking as retaliation to China violating India’s territorial sovereignty. New Delhi’s contention is that it cannot be business as usual given the prevailing situation along the line of actual control in eastern Ladakh where the face-off is into its seventh month. The first set of apps were banned on June 20 when the government blocked access to 59 mobile apps, including the hugely popular TikTok – and followed it up on September 2 by banning another 118 apps. According to MEITY, the 43 apps were blocked on Tuesday on the basis of inputs received from the home ministry that they were “engaging in activities which are prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order’’. These inputs were provided by the Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre of the home ministry, MEITY said. Reacting to the specific charges made against these companies, Ji asserted that the Chinese government has always required its overseas companies to abide by international rules, operate in compliance with laws and regulations, and conform to public order and “good morals’’. Reiterating China’s stated position that the two countries should view each other as “opportunities of development rather than threats’’, the spokesperson added: “We hope the Indian side provides a fair, impartial and non-discriminatory business environment for all market players from various countries, including China, and rectify the discriminatory practices violating WTO rules’’. Stating that the ban on the apps was not a violation of the WTO rules, officials said India has not made any separate commitment on digital services at the WTO and China may find it difficult to establish a case. Also, the country could use its right to invoke security exceptions under the General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS) at the World Trade Organisation (WTO) to justify the application ban, they said. Trade analysts said the national security concerns put India’s case on a strong wicket. However, it is debatable whether the app ban is the best way to counter China. Other apps banned in June were Shein, Clash of Kings and Shareit. In July it banned 47 other apps and in September it added another 118 mobile apps to its list of banned apps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-223
26-11-2020||Business||JSW Cement unveils unified plan for east||JSW Cement has unveiled a Rs 1,500-crore investment plan for a clutch of projects in Odisha that have direct links to the ongoing and future expansion of the company’s base in Bengal. The projects will involve crushing plants for dolomite and limestone — the basic raw material for cement — and a 1.36-million-tonne clinker plant, which in turn is going to feed the plant at Salboni, Bengal. A 1-million-tonne grinding unit apart from a 8 mega watt waste heat recovery plant are also being set up. The fresh investments will be channelised through Shiva Cement, a subsidiary of JSW Cement. Parth Jindal, managing director of JSW Cement, said the Odisha project, located in the mineral rich district of Sundergarh, will be key to the company’s plans to reach a 10- million-tonne cement capacity in the east and 25 million tonnes in India. “This is going to be a strategic unit for JSW Cement’s expansion in the east. The clinker produced here will feed the other plants in the region,” Jindal said. A part of the clinker produced will also come to Salboni, where JSW has so far invested Rs 700 crore to build a 2.4-million-tonne grinding unit. The plant serves markets in Bengal and the Northeast region. The Salboni unit is in the process of debottlenecking to 3 million tonnes. “My aim is to put up a 5.5 million tonne grinding unit at Salboni, making it one of the largest such single location plants in the country,” Jindal added. A fresh investment of Rs 350 crore will be called for. Clinker from Shiva Cement will effectively make the cement produced out of Salboni more competitive for the company. Jindal said Rs 3,600 crore would be spent to reach the target of 25 million tonnes by 2025 from the present capacity of 14 million tonnes. The clinker plant will be commissioned by the end of the next fiscal. IPO plan deferred He also informed that an initial public offering of the company is now likely to be announced two years down the line. “In 2019, the sector had degrowth, in 2020 Covid hit us. Now December 2022 is a logical timeline for us for the IPO,” he said. However, the company, which is part of the $14-billion JSW Group having a presence in steel, power and port, may raise Rs 1,000-1,500 crore from private equity funds prior to the listing and has mandated Citi Bank for the job.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-223
26-11-2020||Business||Bengal, Kerala agree to Centre's GST borrowing formula||Bengal and Kerala have dropped their opposition to the Centre’s borrowing option to bridge the gap in the Goods and Services Tax revenue receipts. The two states have opted for the limited borrowing option under which the Centre will borrow funds and pass them on to the states but the debt will be recognised in the balance sheets of the states. The debt will be serviced using the proceeds from the GST compensation cess collected from luxury and sin goods such as tobacco, cars and aerated drinks. The number of states that have opted for the limited borrowing formula is now 25. Three states — Punjab, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh — have not accepted the proposals yet, saying the Centre should borrow the entire Rs 1.83 lakh crore of shortfall. Union territories Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir and Puducherry have also decided in favour of the special window facilitated by the Centre. The finance ministry statement said the two state governments have communicated their acceptance of the scheme and will get Rs 10,197 crore through the special borrowing window. The Centre has also granted additional borrowing permission of Rs 4,522 crore to Kerala (0.5 per cent of Kerala’s GSDP) and Rs 6,787 crore to Bengal (0.5 per cent of Bengal’s GSDP), the finance ministry said. Under the borrowing plan (Option-1), the Centre would borrow from the market Rs 1.10 lakh crore which is the revenue shortfall on account of GST implementation. The remaining Rs 73,000 crore shortfall is estimated to be the revenue loss caused by the  Covid-19 pandemic. The second option given by the Centre was for the states to borrow the entire Rs 1.83 lakh-crore collection shortfall. Under the terms of the first option, besides getting the facility of a special borrowing window to meet the shortfall arising out of GST implementation, the states are entitled to get unconditional permission to borrow the final instalment of 0.50 per cent of the gross state domestic product (GSDP) out of the 2 per cent additional borrowing permitted by the government of India, under the stimulus package announced in May. This is over and above the special window of Rs.1.1 lakh crore. Kerala and Bengal signing up for the borrowing scheme could settle one of the most bitterly fought differences within the GST Council.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-223
26-11-2020||Business||Muthoot bid for IDBI MF rejected||The RBI has shot down the proposal of Muthoot Finance to acquire IDBI Bank’s mutual fund business. According to the central bank, sponsoring a mutual fund is not in consonance with the activity of an operating non-banking finance company. IDBI Bank had entered into a share purchase agreement with regard to the sale of IDBI Mutual Fund to Muthoot Finance on November 22, 2019. “The agreement was entered into by and between Muthoot Finance, IDBI Bank, IDBI Capital Markets & Securities, IDBI Asset Management and IDBI MF Trustee Company... for acquisition by Muthoot Finance of 100 per cent equity shares of IDBI Asset Management held by IDBI Bank and its nominees and IDBI Capital Markets & Securities, and 100 per cent equity shares of IDBI MF Trustee Company held by IDBI Bank and its nominees,” IDBI Bank said in a regulatory filing to the bourses on Tuesday. It added that the acquisition was subject to receipt of necessary regulatory approvals from Sebi and other regulators. “As advised by Muthoot Finance, we (IDBI Bank) would like to inform that their request for a no objection certificate was not acceded to by the RBI on the ground that the activity of sponsoring a mutual fund or owning an asset management company is not in consonance with the activity of an operating NBFC," IDBI Bank said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-223
26-11-2020||Business||Lenders clear Kesoram recast plan||Kesoram Industries has received in-principle approval from its consortium of lenders to its debt recast proposal. The plan envisages retiring the loans of  the Indian lenders by taking on fresh loans from an overseas investor. The company says the swapping of debt would infuse much needed liquidity for its operations, apart from marginally reducing debt burden. The board of Kesoram will meet on Monday (November 30) to approve the fundraising plan from the overseas investor, which could be in the form of non-convertible debentures, among others. A communication to the bourse mentioned a combination of options, including zero coupon optionally convertible redeemable preference shares or equity shares. Kesoram, which has 7.25 million-tonne cement capacities in south India, is likely to raise around Rs 1,800-1,900 crore from the investor. While the identity of the overseas lender is still under wraps, the name of US-based financial powerhouse Goldman Sachs has been doing the rounds, among others. The debt swap will provide Kesoram breathing space by enhancing its working capital to operate the cement plants at a higher capacity, and make the most of the good tidings in the cement sector in India. While the Kesoram board will approve the fundraising plan, the Indian lenders will ratify the package before their  boards. The company is hoping to conclude the transaction by the end of the year when the holiday season kicks in the West. The resolution plan has been prepared under the RBI (Prudential Framework for Resolution of Stressed Assets) Directions, 2019 issued by a circular on June 7, 2019. The company management has earlier guided that the medium term target would be to bring down debt to Rs 1,600 crore and then to Rs 1,300 crore. While the generation of internal accrual will be channelised for future debt repayment, there is a possibility that the promoters of the company will also pump in fresh equity in the future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-223
26-11-2020||Business||Markets screech to a halt after record run||Investors on Wednesday resorted to profit booking after a record run, ending the three-session winning streak of the benchmark indices. The 30-share BSE Sensex ended almost 695 points lower, with  investor wealth taking a hit of Rs 2,24,978.33 crore. However, despite the sharp fall, the sentiment remains upbeat. Market mavens are of the view that stocks will continue their upward momentum on expectations of a turnaround in the economy. The key indices have been scaling fresh highs recently on the back of better-than-expected corporate results, strong portfolio flows and encouraging Covid-19 vaccine trials. In Wednesday’s trading, while the Sensex opened in the green at 44749.73 and touched a day’s high of 44825.37, profit booking saw the gauge ending 694.92 points, or 1.56 per cent, lower at 43828.10. Consequently, the market capitalisation of BSE-listed companies declined Rs 2,24,978.33 crore to stand at Rs 1,72,56,942.95 crore. On the NSE, the broader Nifty ended at 12858.40 — a fall of 196.75 points, or 1.51 per cent, after hitting an intra-day high of 13145.85. “The market rally which was led by developments on vaccine and FPI inflows came to a halt on Wednesday because of profit booking across sectors in the second half of the trading session,” said Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-223
26-11-2020||Business||Cabinet approves Rs 6,000cr equity for core fund||The cabinet has approved a government equity investment of Rs 6,000 crore in NIIF Debt Platform sponsored by the National Investment and Infrastructure Fund. The sum will be invested over two financial years: 2020-21 and 2021-22. The platform is expected to contribute nearly Rs 1 lakh crore in debt to the infrastructure sector over the next five years which will act as a catalyst in attracting more investments.  The government will invest Rs 2,000 crore in 2020-21. “In view of the unprecedented financial situation and availability of limited fiscal space due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation, the proposed amount may be disbursed only if there is readiness and demand for debt raising,” a government release said. Telecom FDI The cabinet has also approved a proposal involving foreign direct investment of Rs 2,480 crore by ATC Asia Pacific to purchase about 12 per cent stock of ATC Telecom, information and broadcasting  minister Prakash Javadekar said. With the approval from the cabinet committee on economic affairs (CCEA), the cumulative FDI of ATC Asia Pacific into ATC Telecom Infrastructure (ATC India) would be Rs 5,417.2 crore. The acquisition of 12.32 per cent of the equity share capital of ATC Telecom Infrastructure by ATC Asia Pacific comes as a result of the exercise of a put option by Tata Tele Services and Tata Sons. FDI up to 100 per cent is allowed in the telecom services sector, wherein 49 per cent is under the automatic route and beyond 49 per cent through the government route, subject to compliance of licensing and security conditions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-224
26-11-2020||Business||Cabinet go-ahead to LVB-DBS Bank merger||The merger of Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) with the Indian subsidiary of Singapore-based DBS Bank received the Union cabinet’s approval on Wednesday, following which the RBI said the curbs on the withdrawal of money from the troubled bank would be lifted with effect from November 27 and all LVB branches would operate as DBS Bank India. With the approval, the Modi government has poured cold water on RSS-affiliate Swadeshi Jagran Manch’s plans to scuttle the deal on the ground of failing the Atmanirbhar Bharat test. “The 20 lakh depositors and Rs 20,000 crore deposits are fully secure. They need not worry, they need not rush. Deposits are in a stable bank. The decision will also protect the services of 4,000 employees,” I&B minister Prakash Javadekar said after the cabinet meeting. The minister said those responsible for the deteriorating financial health of LVB would be penalised. “Two more decisions have been taken: the board which has been removed, the liability will be fixed. Those who have made mistakes, will be punished. There will be improvement in overall oversight also so as not to repeat such events in future. This is one of the big efforts of cleaning up the banking system.” He said there was a need for improvement in oversight by the RBI. “The RBI should be able to comprehend the problem before it becomes unmanageable. If one can sense the lurking problems, it is easier to handle,” he said. He said the speedy amalgamation and resolution of the stressed lender was in line with the government’s efforts to clean up the banking system, while protecting the interests of depositors and the financial system. The government had on November 17 on the advice of the RBI imposed a 30-day moratorium on crisis-ridden LVB, restricting cash withdrawal to Rs 25,000 per depositor. Share delisting The 94-year old LVB will cease to exist from Friday and its shares delisted, the RBI said. All the 563 branches of LVB will function as the branches of DBS Bank India Limited from November 27, the apex bank said. The customers, including the depositors of LVB, will be able to operate their accounts as the customers of DBS Bank India. With inputs from Mumbai bureau||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-224
26-11-2020||India||Inside Taloja, Stan Swamy has to wait for a straw and sipper||Tribal rights activist Stan Swamy, detained for his alleged involvement in the Elgar Parishad case, has to wait longer for a straw and a sipper he requires as a Parkinson’s patient. The National Investigation Agency (NIA), while responding  to the 83-year-old’s plea for these items before a special court in Mumbai on Thursday, said that it did not take them from the activist during his arrest, as claimed by Swamy. The special court then rejected his application, following which Swamy moved a fresh application. He sought permission to use a straw and sipper as well as winter clothes inside the prison. Adjourning the matter till December 4, the court demanded reply from the jail authorities. The NIA, which had arrested the activist from his residence on October 8, had previously sought 20 days’ time to respond to his request to use the items. "I cannot hold a glass as my hands are unsteady due to Parkinson's," Swamy, who is currently at the Taloja central hospital, said in his initial plea before the court. Parkinson's disease is a debilitating disorder of the central nervous system that can cause involuntary tremors, or muscular spasms, which makes carrying out even routine actions like drinking difficult. Some patients may face problems while swallowing or chewing. NIA officials have said that investigations established that Swamy was actively involved in the activities of the CPI (Maoist). The NIA has also alleged that he was in contact with "conspirators" -- Sudhir Dhawale, Rona Wilson, Surendra Gadling, Arun Ferreira, Vernon Gonsalves, Hany Babu, Shoma Sen, Mahesh Raut, Varavara Rao, Sudha Bharadwaj, Gautam Navlakha and Anand Teltumbde to further the group's activities. It also alleged that Swamy had received funds through an associate for furthering the agenda. Besides, he is convenor of the Persecuted Prisoners Solidarity Committee (PPSC), a frontal organisation of the CPI (Maoist), the NIA officials have claimed. They said that literature, propaganda material of the CPI (Maoist) and documents related to communications for furthering the group's programmes were seized from his possession. Last month, the NIA had filed a charge-sheet in the matter against eight people, including Swamy. As many as 16 people have been arrested in connection with the case so far under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the anti-terror law UAPA. The probe into the Elgar Parishad case was taken over by the NIA on January 24 this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-532
26-11-2020||India||Two soldiers killed in militant attack at J&K||Two soldiers of the Indian Army were killed in an attack on a quick reaction team (QRT) at Parimpora in the outskirts of Srinagar on Thursday, officials said. The attack was carried out by three militants who were travelling by a car and security forces are analysing the CCTV footage of the attack to identify the culprits,  Inspector General of Police Kashmir Vijay Kumar said. The terrorists opened fire on the QRT at  Khushipora in the Parimpora area, which led to the injury of two army personnel. The injured persons were immediately rushed to a nearby military facility in the Sharifabad camp but they succumbed to the injuries. "Three militants travelling in a car fired indiscriminately at the army men, leaving two of them seriously wounded. Both the injured soldiers have succumbed,” Kumar informed reporters near the site of the attack. He added that security forces were now on a hunt to find the vehicle that was used in the incident. “It seems the attack was carried out either by Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) or Jaish-e-Muhammad (JeM) outfit,” he told reporters. “There is movement of LeT and Jaish here and we will identify the group behind the attack by evening. Among the three, two could be FTs (foreign terrorists) from Pakistan and one local. We are analysing the CCTV footage,” Kumar added. Notably, 12 years ago on November 26,  10 Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists from Pakistan arrived through the sea and opened fire, killing 166 people, including 18 security personnel, and injuring many during the 60-hour siege in Mumbai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-532
26-11-2020||India||Trade union strike: several states face total shutdown||Kerala, Orissa, Assam, Telangana and Puducherry on Thursday witnessed total shutdown as normal life got partially affected in several other states in view of the nationwide strike organised by central trade unions. Over 25 crore workers had participated in the protest, the unions said. The 24-hour countrywide strike has been called by a joint forum comprising 10 central trade unions to protest against the government’s new farm and labour laws, among other workers-related issues, as well as to raise various demands. Several independent forums and associations were also part of the joint platform. “"The states of Kerala, Puducherry, Odisha, Assam and Telangana have reported complete shut down. Tamil Nadu reported complete shut down in 13 districts, while the industrial strike continues in the rest of the districts. Punjab and Haryana have reported that the state road transport buses have not left their depots in the morning," the trade unions said in a joint statement. “Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh reported 100 per cent strike, including at BALCO,” said the statement. Sporadic clashes were reported in Bengal as the state got partially affected by the strike, as was Tripura. Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS), Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), All India United Trade Union Centre (AIUTUC), Trade Union Co-ordination Centre (TUCC), Self-Employed Women's Association (SEWA), All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU), Labour Progressive Federation (LPF) and United Trade Union Congress (UTUC) are part of the joint platform. However, BJP aligned Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) has not participated in the protest. “Scheme workers, electricity employees, domestic workers, construction workers, beedi workers, hawkers, vendors, agricultural workers, self employed in rural and urban India are holding demonstrations at various places, even defying police restrictions,” the statement read. Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS) General Secretary Harbhajan Singh Sidhu told PTI that the number of workers who joined the nationwide agitation on Thursday exceeded the expected number of 25 crore. He also said that coal mine workers along with those from defence, railways and other public sectors also supported the strike. "Reports of successful strikes in coal and copper mines, including other mineral resource mines, have been received. The employees of postal, telecom and steel sector were also in action and gramin dak sevaks observed 100 per cent strike," the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-532
26-11-2020||India||Farmers’ march: Delhi police deploy personnel in border areas||The Delhi Police on Thursday deployed a huge number of its personnel in the border area in view of the farmers’ march to the national capital opposing central farm laws, while all vehicles entering the state were being checked. According to the police, five sand-laden trucks have been stationed at the Singhu border to prevent tractors being driven by protesters. Drones were also deployed for security reasons. Officials informed that all pickets have been made active but clarified that borders have not been sealed yet. The Delhi Metro trains connecting the neighbouring cities in the NCR could not cross the national capital border till 2 pm as per an initial decision on Thursday, but the services remained suspended even after that, officials said. As such, metro service was not available from Anand Vihar to Vaishali, New Ashok Nagar to Noida City Centre and between Sultanpur and Guru Dronacharya stations sections during the period. Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava took stock of the border areas during his visit in the region. "Due to COVID-19, guidelines have been issued in which political gathering is not permitted here and for this, their (the farmers') request was rejected. If they still make an attempt, we have deployed personnel at the borders to not let them enter the national capital. We are also in contact with Punjab and Haryana Police," he said. Asked about commuters facing inconvenience, the Delhi Police chief said, "Since they (protesting farmers) have already blocked the nation highway, there are going to be some problems, but we will try to sort it out as soon as possible... Instead of coming to the national capital, they (farmers) should go back and do not break any guideline." On Wednesday, Delhi Police said it had not accepted requests from various farmers outfits to protest in the city on these dates. It had, on Tuesday, said legal actions will be taken against anyone who comes to Delhi to gather amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Earlier, the Shambhu interstate border witnessed spiralling tension as Haryana Police used water cannons and teargas to disperse thousands of them amid a cold wave, who in turn chucked some barricades into a river. The farmers were trying to enter the state, determined to make their ‘Delhi Chalo’ march successful. Announcements on loudspeakers by the police could be heard, asking the farmers who assembled at the Punjab side of the border to disperse. Before long, smoke from the teargas clouded the air as uniformed security personnel milled sound, while the protesters stood up on their trucks. Television footage showed some bricks lying on the road as well. In an attempt to stop farmers from marching to Delhi, Haryana has completely sealed its borders while multi-level barricades were put up at several places. On Wednesday, too, the police resorted to water cannons when  a large group of Haryana farmers near Mohra village in Ambala jumped over barricades. A splinter group however, managed to proceed to Tiyora-Tiyori village on the Ambala-Kurukshetra border, where police again used water cannons to stop their march to Delhi. Punjab farmers, representing over 30 farm bodies, have announced they will go to Delhi through several routes -- Lalru, Shambhu, Patiala-Pehowa, Patran-Khanauri, Moonak-Tohana, Ratia-Fatehabad and Talwandi-Sirsa. Tension was escalating at all the border points. They are demanding the repeal of the new farm laws,, which they should be replaced with another set of laws framed after wider consultation with stakeholders. They also want a guarantee on the minimum support prices (MSP).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-532
26-11-2020||India||On Constitution Day, Modi pitches for ‘One Nation, One Election’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi pitched for the 'One Nation, One Election' strategy on Thursday, dubbing it as the need of the country given the fact that polls are conducted every few months hampering development works. Addressing the concluding session of the 80th All India Presiding Officers Conference via video conference, he said it is beyond just a matter of debate and rather the need of India. "Elections are held at different places every few months, the impact it has on development works is known to all. Therefore, it is a must to have deep study and deliberation on 'One Nation, One Election'," Modi said. He also advised using a single voters' list for Lok Sabha, assembly and panchayat polls, saying separate lists are a waste of resources. “Legislature, Executive and Judiciary should work with better coordination and national interest should be the basis for every decision,” the prime minister said. "We must remember that when politics take over people and nation-first policies, the nation has to pay adversely in such situations," he added. In a clear attack on the Congress, Modi cited the example of delay in the completion of the Sardar Sarovar Dam, and said that the project was completed after years as it kept on lingering. "This could have happened earlier if development was given precedence. Those who stalled it, have no repentance," he said. On the occasion of the Constitution day, Modi said there is no place for untouchability in the country. He cited the example of the Statue of Unity built by his government for Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel despite him not being from the BJP or the Jana Sangh. “The Constitution is our guiding light to take on challenges in the 21st century and national interest should be our basis for every decision,” he said. Calling for awareness about the Constitution, the prime minister said, “Our Constitution has many features but one very special feature is the importance given to duties. Mahatma Gandhi was very keen about this. He saw a close link between rights and duties. He felt that once we perform our duties, rights will automatically be safeguarded.” Paying tributes later on Twitter, he wrote, "We began to observe 26th November as Constitution Day in 2015. Since then, people across India have been marking it with great fervour. This is a day to express gratitude to the makers of our Constitution and to reiterate our commitment to building the India of their dreams." The Constituent Assembly of India had adopted the Constitution on this day in 1949, and the Modi government decided in 2015 to observe this day annually as the Constitution Day. "In 2010, to mark 60 years of the Constitution, we organised the Samvidhan Gaurav Yatra in Surendranagar, Gujarat. A replica of the Constitution was placed on an elephant and the procession covered parts of the city. I too walked in that procession. It was a unique tribute,” Modi further noted. During the address, Modi also paid tributes to to the victims of the 26/11 terror attacks in Mumbai and said India is battling against terrorism with new policies and processes now. Noting that it was the biggest terror strike on India, Modi said India can never forget the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks. On November 26, 2008, 10 Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists from Pakistan arrived through sea and opened fire, killing 166 people, including 18 security personnel, and injuring many during the 60-hour siege in Mumbai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-533
26-11-2020||India||Haryana Police use water cannons, as farmers push through barricades||Punjab farmers were sprayed with water cannons while they broke police barricades at the state’s border with Haryana and pushed through them towards Delhi during their protest to the national capital on Thursday. A huge number of farmers, determined to make their ‘Delhi Chalo’ march against the Central farm laws successful, reached close to Delhi by late evening despite every attempt of stopping them. There were traffic snarls during the day at Delhi's border with police checking vehicles coming in from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. Metro services were restricted. At the Punjab-Haryana Shambhu border, police and Punjab farmers in their tractor-trolleys were locked in a confrontation for a couple of hours in the morning. The Shambhu interstate border witnessed spiralling tension in the morning as Haryana Police used water cannons and teargas to disperse thousands of them amid a cold wave, who in turn chucked some barricades into a river. The farmers faced off with the police at a bridge with the Ghaggar river flowing below, with trucks and tractors being queued up and people were seen shouting slogans while waving black flags. Announcements on loudspeakers by the police could be heard, asking the farmers who assembled at the Punjab side of the border to disperse. Before long, smoke from the teargas clouded the air as uniformed security personnel milled sound, while the protesters stood up on their trucks. Television footage showed some bricks lying on the road as well. Apart from this confrontation in Ambala district, there were face-offs between the protesters and police in Haryana's Sirsa, Kurukshetra, Fatehabad and Jind districts bordering Congress-run Punjab. Police had set up steel and cement barricades to stop the tractor-trolleys from coming, some of which were loaded with food. In an attempt to stop farmers from marching to Delhi, Haryana had completely sealed its borders while multi-level barricades were put up at several places. But after a few hours, they were let through at most border points. barricades were also set up at other points on this Amritsar-Delhi highway that passes through BJP-run Haryana. At Karnal, there was another face-off and police again used a water cannon. By afternoon, several groups of protesters from Punjab and Haryana were travelling towards Delhi on tractor-trolleys. Police diverted private vehicles and long lines of trucks were parked on the road. On Wednesday, too, the police resorted to water cannons when  a large group of Haryana farmers near Mohra village in Ambala jumped over barricades. A splinter group however, managed to proceed to Tiyora-Tiyori village on the Ambala-Kurukshetra border, where police again used water cannons to stop their march to Delhi. Led by BKU chief Gurnam Singh Charuni, this group of farmers has reached Karnal as part of their march to Delhi. The BJP-led government of Haryana had earlier informed that it will seal its borders with Punjab on November 26 and 27 to prevent farmers from going to Delhi. On Wednesday, Delhi Police said it had not accepted requests from various farmers outfits to protest in the city on these dates. It had, on Tuesday, said legal actions will be taken against anyone who comes to Delhi to gather amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Punjab farmers, representing over 30 farm bodies, have announced they will go to Delhi through several routes -- Lalru, Shambhu, Patiala-Pehowa, Patran-Khanauri, Moonak-Tohana, Ratia-Fatehabad and Talwandi-Sirsa. Tension was escalating at all the border points. They assembled near the borders in tractor trolleys laden with rations and essentials for their proposed Delhi march. Haryana authorities have also imposed prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC in several parts of the state to prevent assembly of protesters. Farmer bodies said they will hold a dharna wherever they are stopped from moving towards the national capital. Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugarhan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan has said around 25,000 women will participate in the protest march and over 4,000 tractor-trailers have been arranged for it. The organisation claimed that over two lakh farmers associated with it will enter Haryana through Khanauri and Dabwali. Punjab farmers are demanding the repeal of the new farm laws,, which they should be replaced with another set of laws framed after wider consultation with stakeholders. They also want a guarantee on the minimum support prices (MSP).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-533
26-11-2020||India||Almost 45,000 cases take India’s Covid-19 tally to 92.66 lakh||India reported a total of 44,489 new Covid-19 infections over the last 24 hours, taking the country’s caseload to 92.66 lakh, as the recoveries topped 86.79 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry’s data updated on Thursday. The total coronavirus cases surged to 92,66,705, while the death toll stood at 1,35,223 with 524 new fatalities, the ministry data updated at 8 am showed. While the active Covid-19 caseload remained below five lakh for the 16th consecutive day, it has mounted to 4,52,344, an increase of 7,598 cases from Wednesday. According to the data, the active cases account for 4.88 per cent of the total number of cases. The total number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 86,79,138, pushing the national recovery rate to 93.66 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.46 per cent. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29 and surpassed 90 lakh on November 20. According to ICMR, over 13.59 crore samples have been tested for COVID-19 till November 25, with 10,90,238 samples being tested on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-533
26-11-2020||India||Delhi air quality ‘very poor, likely to improve||Delhi on Thursday recorded an air quality of ‘very poor’ category but government agencies expected it to improve with the wind speed picking up. The Air Quality Index (AQI) at 9 am was 374 on Thursday, while the 24-hour average on Wednesday was 413. It was 379 on Tuesday and 295 on Monday, according to the Central Pollution Control Board data. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". However, the air quality in Delhi-NCR is likely to improve to the lower end of the ‘very poor’ category over the day as the wind speed picks up, said the central government's Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi. The predominant surface wind direction was northerly and the maximum wind speed is likely to be 10 kmph on Thursday, it said, adding that the air quality is likely to reach the poor category on Friday. Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR, said stubble burning share in PM2.5 in Delhi's air was just 2 per cent on Wednesday. The minimum temperature was 10.4 degrees Celsius on Thursday. The maximum temperature is likely to settle around 23 degrees Celsius, the weather department said. Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion. Delhi's ventilation index -- a product of mixing depth and average wind speed was around 8,000 m2/s on Thursday and is likely to be 7,000 m2/s on Friday. Mixing depth is the vertical height in which pollutants are suspended in the air. It reduces on cold days with calm wind speed. A ventilation index lower than 6,000 sqm/second, with the average wind speed less than 10 kmph, is unfavourable for dispersal of pollutants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-533
26-11-2020||India||Nivar makes landfall in wee hours of Thursday  ||Very severe cyclonic storm Nivar made landfall near Puducherry in the early hours of Thursday, bringing heavy rains to the union territory and neighbouring Tamil Nadu, India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said. Nivar weakened into a severe cyclonic storm after it crossed the coast near Puducherry, the IMD said. There were no reports of loss of life due to the cyclone which uprooted trees. Incidents of wall collapse were reported from some parts of Tamil Nadu, state Revenue Minister R B Udhayakumar said. Earlier, the IMD had said Nivar will cross the coast near Puducherry with a wind speed of 120-130 kmph, gusting up to 145 kmph. The landfall of Nivar began late on Wednesday night. "Very severe cyclonic Storm NIVAR: Center lies over Land. Crossed coast near Puducherry during 2330 of 25th Nov-0230 IST of 26th Nov," the IMD said in a tweet. "Very severe cyclonic Storm NIVAR: weakens into a Severe Cyclonic Storm," it said in another tweet. Deputy Director-General of Meteorology, Chennai, S Balachandran said rainfall is likely to continue in Tamil Nadu. "The storm now lies inside the land area. There will, however, be rainfall and strong winds as well," he told PTI. In the next six hours, the severe cyclonic storm will further weaken, he said. Udhayakumar said there were no reports of loss of life or crop damage. "There is no loss of lives due to the rains. People have given us full cooperation," he said. Incidents of wall collapse were reported from a few places, he said. "It's a solace that nothing untoward happened and the weakening of the cyclone is good news," he said. The minister said about 2.5 lakh people were housed in cyclone shelters in Tamil Nadu as part of safety measures. According to the inputs received so far, crops and groves are safe in the state, Udhayakumar told reporters. However, the situation would be reviewed and based on its outcome, insurance payout and compensation to farmers, if any, would be announced by Chief Minister K Palaniswami, he said. Cuddalore in Tamil Nadu recorded the highest rainfall at 24.6 cm, followed by 23.7 cm in Puducherry from 8.30 PM on Wednesday till 2.30 am on Thursday. Nagapattinam recorded 6.3 cm rainfall, Karaikal 8.6 cm and Chennai 8.9 cm during the same period. Meanwhile, revenue, civic and police authorities were on their toes coordinating and removing uprooted trees using heavy-duty motor equipment and backhoe loaders. According to initial estimates, over 150 trees were uprooted in Tamil Nadu alone. As the storm began crossing the coast, the rainfall stopped briefly here. It returned with strong winds in some localities close to the city and the suburban shoreline. The approach roads to the Marina beach, off the arterial Kamaraj Salai, were flooded and sheets of water reached close to the main road where the city's fishermen had securely tied up their boats. As rains lashed Mamallapuram near here, troops of monkeys sought refuge under the decorative, cave-like arches, dotted with images of deities carved in stone at the ancient Sri Sthalasayana Perumal temple.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-533
26-11-2020||India||Cyclone Nivar makes landfall, brings in severe rainfall||As the Cyclone Nivar, the fifth strongest cyclone to hit the country began its landfall around 10:30 pm on Wednesday night. The cyclone brought with it, heavy rainfall and strong winds, thereby making the Tamil Nadu government declare public holiday till Saturday. Chennai airport too has suspended flight operations for the next 12 hours. According to The Hindu, at least 26 flights have been cancelled due to the poor weather condition in the city. Flights to cities like Kozhikode, Vijayawada, Bengaluru etc were also affected. Metro services too have been stalled. According to an NDTV report, coastal areas would be receiving heavy rain till Thursday. The cyclone is likely to cause severe damage to houses, trees and crops. Power lines too are expected to be uprooted by the strong winds. According to India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) weather bulletin issued around 10:30 pm on Wednesday night, severe cyclonic storm lay 50 km east-northeast of Cuddalore, 40 km east-southeast of Puducherry and 120 km south of Chennai. According to NDTV, around 1.45 lakh people have been evacuated from low lying areas, while 4000 locations have been spotted vulnerable by the local official of Tamil Nadu. At around 11:30 pm, IMD tweeted, “Very severe cyclonic storm Nivar now lies about 50 km east-southeast of Cuddalore, about 40 km east southeast of Puducherry. LANDFALL PROCESS CONTINUES.CENTRE OF CYCLONE TO CROSS COAST NEAR PUDUCHERRY WITHIN NEXT 3 HOURS WITH WIND SPEED OF 120-130 KMPH GUSTING TO 145 KMPH.” The heavy rain fall has brought life to a standstill in Chennai. The city dwellers are having to face water logging, disruption of electricity and more due to the cyclone, which has been declared as a “red” category cyclone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-533
26-11-2020||India||Supreme Court upholds RPF cop's 'compulsory retirement' for theft neglect||The Supreme Court on Wednesday upheld the order of “compulsory retirement” imposed on a Railway Protection Force sub-inspector for loss of public property, saying a police officer is expected to maintain “high standards of integrity”. “A police officer in the Railway Protection Force is required to maintain a high standard of integrity in the discharge of his official functions. In this case, the charges proved against the respondent ‘were of neglect of duty’ which resulted in pecuniary loss to the railways,” a bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud, Indu Malhotra and K.M. Joseph said. “The respondent was a subinspector in the railway police discharging an office of trust and confidence which required absolute integrity. The high court was therefore not justified in setting aside the order of compulsory retirement, and directing reinstatement with consequential benefits, and payment of back wages to the extent of 50 per cent,” the apex court added. The court passed the ruling while allowing an appeal filed by the RPF challenging a Bombay High Court order setting aside the compulsory retirement in December 2007 of subinspector Rajendra Kumar Dubey after a disciplinary inquiry found him guilty of negligence in preventing theft of railway properties such as trolleys. The high court had, on an appeal filed by Dubey, set aside the order of compulsory retirement and directed his re-instatement with the payment of half of the wage arrears. Aggrieved, the RPF had filed an appeal in the Supreme Court. Writing the judgment, Justice Malhotra noted that Sec¬tion 11 of the Railway Protection Force Act, 1957, provides that it shall be the duty of every superior officer and member of the force to protect and safeguard railway properties and passengers. “The primary object of constituting the Railway Protection Force is to secure bet¬ter ‘protection and security of railway properties’. The restricted power of arrest and search conferred on members of this force is incidental to the efficient discharge of their primary duty to protect and safeguard railway property, and to uphold the law,” the bench said. The court added that the finding of guilt by the disciplinary authority was based on materials on record and the high court was not justified in reappraising the entire evidence threadbare and substituting the order of punishment with a lesser punishment without justifiable reason. “The high court under Article 226 of the Constitution is not a court of appeal over the decision of the authorities holding a departmental enquiry against a public servant. It is not the function of the high court under its writ jurisdiction to review the evidence, and arrive at an independent finding on the evidence,” the Supreme Court said. “The high court may, however, interfere where the departmental authority which has held the proceedings against the delinquent officer is inconsistent with the principles of natural justice, where the findings are based on no evidence… were actuated by some extraneous considerations and failed to reach a fair decision, or allowed themselves to be influenced by irrelevant considerations, or where the conclusion on the very face of it is so wholly arbi¬trary and capricious that no reasonable person could ever have arrived at that conclusion. “If, however, the enquiry is properly held, the departmen¬tal authority is the sole judge of facts, and if there is some legal evidence on which the findings can be based, the ade¬quacy or reliability of that evidence is not a matter which can be permitted to be canvassed before the high court in a writ petition,” the top court added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-533
26-11-2020||India||Malayalam film selected as India’s official entry to Oscars 2021||A Malayalam film, Jallikattu, has been selected as India’s official entry to Oscars 2021. The film, directed by Lijo Jose Pellissery, will compete in the International Feature Film category. A jury of the Film Federation of India, headed by director Rahul Rawail, selected Jallikattu from a list of 27 films. The list included Hindi films like Gulabo Sitabo, Chhapaak, Bulbul and Serious Men. Jallikattu is based on the short story, Maoist, by S. Hareesh. The film, which shares its name with the controversial bull-taming sport, stars Antony Varghese, Chemban Vinod Jose, Sabumon Abdusamad and Santhy Balachandran. The plot follows a bull that escapes from a slaughterhouse. “The 14-member jury was touched by the rawness the film depicted, the complexity of human emotions with well fleshed out characters,” Rawail, chairman of the jury, said on Wednesday. “The jury met virtually this year keeping in mind the worldwide pandemic which has affected all our lives so deeply,” said Firdausul Hasan, Calcutta-based producer and president of the federation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-533
26-11-2020||India||Covid delay in polls allows Reshma to throw hat in the ring||If you are looking for some positive news amid the gloom and doom of the pandemic, look no further than Reshma Mariam Roy. Reshma, Kerala’s youngest local body election candidate who attained the cut-off age of 21 on November 18, would not have been able to contest the election had voting not been deferred from October to December in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. Reshma, contesting for a village panchayat ward in Pathanamthitta district, filed her nomination on November 19, a day after turning 21. “It was sheer luck that the elections were postponed due to Covid. Otherwise I wouldn’t have been able to contest although my party (CPM) had suggested my name,” Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidate Reshma told The Telegraph. “I could have filed my nominations on the day I turned 21. But I didn’t want any controversy. So I waited for one more day,” she added. A typical campus-to-campaign story, Reshma completed her Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) course only this year from VNS College in Konni, Pathanamthitta. She is contesting from her home ward — No. 11 of the Aruvappulam village panchayat. The local body polls in Kerala will be held on December 8, 10 and 14 with southern districts such as Pathanamthitta going to polls on the first day. Reshma had been actively involved in campus politics as a member of the Students Federation of India (SFI) and had been elected the lady representative in the college union. She is now a district secretariat member of the SFI and a district committee member of the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI), the youth wing of the CPM. “Campus politics has been a major factor in my fledgling political career since I learnt a lot by attending to problems faced by students. I am sure this experience can be put to good use as a panchayat member,” Reshma said. Her main objective is to wrest the seat from the United Democratic Front, which has been continuously winning in the last several elections, and take control of the panchayat that the LDF lost to the UDF by a margin of one seat in 2015. Reshma is the first CPM member in her family of traditional Congress supporters. But her family’s political leaning was never a deterrent for her ambitions. “I have the full support of my family. My elder brother even joins me in the campaign,” she said. While the pandemic has wreaked havoc across the world and in her own state, it provided Reshma a platform to work for the people. She was involved in the “Helping Hand” programme of local CPM MLA K.U. Jenish Kumar after the early outbreak in Pathanamthitta, one of the first Covid hotspots in Kerala. “We ran errands for local people who were scared of stepping out of their homes. We took them to hospital and even sanitised houses of Covid patients. I headed the programme in a large area comprising my village panchayat constituency,” Reshma said. The DYFI’s “Recycle Kerala” campaign was another recent project she was part of. Reshma and her comrades raised Rs 1.15 lakh from her neighbourhood by collecting recyclable waste and selling handloom products. The DYFI had raised Rs 10.95 crore, much of it from collecting and selling 3,281 tonnes of recyclable waste, for the chief minister’s disaster relief fund. Reshma spoke with clarity on the importance of youth and their role in active politics. “People want youngsters to be part of politics. That’s why I feel I have a good chance of winning,” she said. While her Congress rival, Sujatha Mohan, is above 50, the BJP doesn’t have a significant presence in the area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-533
26-11-2020||India||Unveiled: Covid curbs till year-end ||The Union home ministry on Wednesday issued a fresh set of guidelines for surveillance, containment and caution against Covid-19 that will be effective from December 1 and will remain in place till year-end. According to the guidelines, states and Union Territories have been asked to strictly enforce containment measures, standard operating procedures on various activities, exercise caution and regulate crowds. The Centre has allowed the states and Union Territories to impose local restrictions, including night curfews, to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. They, however, cannot impose any lockdown, outside the containment zones, without prior consultation with the Centre. The government has also told the states to ensure physical distancing in offices/workplaces and advised staggered timings. “In cities where the weekly case positivity rate is more than 10 per cent, the states and UTs concerned shall consider implementing staggered office timings and other suitable measures, with a view to reduce the number of employees attending office at the same time, thereby ensuring social distancing,” the advisory issued by the Union home ministry said. Some of the guidelines:||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-533
26-11-2020||India||Kerala repeals law against free speech ||The Kerala government on Wednesday repealed a new penal provision against “publishing or disseminating” offensive content, bowing to widespread criticism of a four-day-old law that had been seen as aimed at curbing free speech. Governor Arif Mohammed signed a repealing ordinance from the state government to withdraw the amendment that had inserted Section 118A into the Kerala Police Act with the stated aim of reigning in cyber bullying and fake news. The Left Democratic Front government had swiftly put the new law on hold following an outrage that crossed the state’s boundaries and then came up with the repealing ordinance. The government was forced to bury the ordinance based on advice from a section of the CPM, including the top leadership, and concerns raised by its own sympathisers. Section 118A had prescribed up to three years’ jail and a possible fine of Rs 10,000 “for making, expressing, publishing or disseminating any matter which is threatening, abusive, humiliating or defamatory”. The withdrawal came within hours of the state government informing Kerala High Court, which heard a batch of petitions against the penal provision, that it would recommend to the governor that the ordinance be repealed. A bench of Chief Justice S. Manikumar and Justice Shaji P. Chaly recorded the submission of additional advocate-general K.K. Ravindranath on the state government’s move to forward a repealing ordinance to the governor. Advocate Prashant Sugathan, who appeared for one of the petitioners, said Ravindranath informed the court that the cabinet had recommended that the governor withdraw the ordinance with retrospective effect from November 21, the same day he had approved it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-534
26-11-2020||India||One lakh in Tamil Nadu cyclone relief centres ||Gusty winds and rain lashed parts of Tamil Nadu on Wednesday as severe cyclone Nivar hurtled towards the coast, leaving several areas inundated and sending over one lakh people to shelters. Nivar is expected to intensify into a very severe cyclonic storm, with wind speeds of 120-130kmph and gusts of 145 kmph, and is likely to cross the coast between Tamil Nadu and Puducherry before dawn on Thursday. With rain drenching parts of the state, authorities disconnected power supply in vulnerable areas as a precautionary measure. While chief minister K. Palaniswami declared Thursday a public holiday for 13 districts, a government order included three more districts. Revenue minister R.B. Udhayakumar said 1,03,291 people had been housed in 1,000 relief centres. Food, water and all other essentials, including masks to help prevent the spread of the coronavirus, have been made available at the relief centres. A senior official said later that the number of those in relief centres had exceeded 1,21,152. Chennai airport authorities said operations would remain suspended from 7pm on Wednesday to 7am on Thursday. Southern Railway said eight trains had been cancelled. Chennai Metro halted services early on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-534
26-11-2020||India||Lists contest ‘land jihad’ line in Jammu||Lists of purported land encroachers released this week by the Jammu administration appear to contradict a “land jihad” campaign by some BJP politicians and Delhi-based TV channels that has gained steam ahead of the District Development Council elections, which begin on Saturday. According to the “land jihad” theory, first propounded more than a year ago, Muslims have been encroaching on government land in the Hindu-majority Jammu region to try and change its demography. However, one list the administration has released, naming 541 people in Jammu district whose encroachments were regularised under a controversial law named the Roshni Act, appears to have only 3 Muslim names. Another list of 1,237 whose alleged encroachments in Jammu district were not regularised seems to contain only around three dozen Muslim names. These two officially released lists cover only a fraction of the encroachments in Jammu district, which is just one among 10 districts in the Jammu region. However, a lawyer privy to encroachment-related documents submitted before Jammu and Kashmir High Court insisted that “a big majority” among the more than 1.5 lakh people whose encroachments in the Jammu region were regularised under the controversial law were non-Muslims. The high court had on October 9 quashed as unconstitutional the 19-year-old Roshni Act — which regularised encroachments on government land by thousands, including many influential people, often against a nominal fee — on a public interest petition filed in 2011 by Jammu resident S.K. Bhalla. Apart from ordering a CBI probe and retrieval of the regularised plots, the court had directed the Kashmir and Jammu administrations to publish the lists of all grabbers of government land – both those whose encroachments had been regularised and those whose hadn’t. From Monday, the administration began releasing the lists and by Tuesday had covered parts of Jammu district in the Jammu region and parts of Srinagar district in the Kashmir region. Bhalla’s lawyer, Sheikh Shakeel Ahmad, said he had already accessed the full lists of the Roshni Act beneficiaries and other encroachers and these had confirmed that “land jihad” was a myth. “Of the 44,000 kanals (eight kanals make an acre) encroached on in Jammu district, only 1,180 kanals have gone to Muslims. In Kathua district (of Jammu), 98 per cent of the 11,000 kanals have gone to non-Muslims,” Ahmed told The Telegraph. “In all, a big majority among the 1.58 lakh beneficiaries of the Roshni Act in the Jammu region were non-Muslims.” Former BJP chief minister Kavinder Gupta, who had recently joined the “land jihad” bandwagon in Jammu, said he had been misquoted. “I want action against all people (encroachers), irrespective of their faith,” he said. “(But) it (the lists) proves how influential politicians were grabbing land in J&K.” The “land jihad” campaign comes at a time people in the Muslim-majority Kashmir region are worried about changes to the Union territory’s land laws, seeing in them a plan by the Centre to settle outsiders and change the Valley’s demography. The Valley administration too had by Tuesday released two encroachment lists — but only of “influential persons” who had benefited from the Roshni Act. They showed 35 and 101 beneficiaries, respectively, of whom 20 — around 15 per cent — have non-Muslim names. The Valley’s Muslim population is around 95 per cent. Apart from running the “land jihad” campaign, the BJP has been targeting Valley politicians, including former chief minister Farooq Abdullah and former finance minister Haseeb Drabu, accusing them of being encroachers and beneficiaries of the Roshni Act. The act was passed in 2001 under a government headed by Farooq. Many believe that the lists are being released just before the district body polls to tarnish Farooq and other mainstream Valley politicians, who have formed an alliance to contest the elections to try and prove to the world that Kashmiris want Article 370 restored. While the Srinagar list names Drabu, who has denied any wrongdoing, one of the Jammu lists accuses Farooq of encroaching on less than an acre of land close to his family home in Sunjwan. The list says Farooq has physically encroached on the land but clarifies that the revenue records do not mention the purported encroachment, and that the alleged land grab was not regularised under the Roshni Act. That did not stop several media outlets to claim that Farooq was the beneficiary of the “Roshni scam”. The list mentions eight other “influential” people, none of whose alleged encroachments are confirmed by the revenue records. Farooq’s son and former chief minister Omar Abdullah said: “Dr Farooq Abdullah has not availed of the Roshni Scheme for either his residence in Srinagar or in Jammu and anyone who says otherwise is lying. The fact that they are using sources to plant this story shows that it has no legs to stand on.” According to the high court order, a total of 604,602 kanals (75,575 acres) of encroached government land had been regularised and transferred to the occupants. This included 571,210 kanals (71,401 acres) in the Jammu region and 33,392 kanals (4,174 acres) in the Kashmir region. Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said: “It’s very unfortunate that key leaders of Jammu and Kashmir, including Farooq Abdullah, used their influence and power for land grabbing.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-534
26-11-2020||India||Congress loses ‘irreplaceable comrade’||Ahmed Patel died of post-Covid complications on Wednesday, leaving the Congress without its most accomplished peacemaker at a time when internal conflicts are threatening to tear the party apart. He was 71. Patel, political secretary to Congress president Sonia Gandhi and also the party treasurer, had contracted Covid-19 on October 1 but had returned home from a hospital in Faridabad, Haryana, earlier this month. Post-Covid complications again forced him to hospital — to Gurgaon’s Medanta City — where he was put on a ventilator. The end came at 3.30am on Wednesday. Patel was not only adept at mollifying the disgruntled and the dissident within the party, he was the Congress’s bridge with other parties and stakeholders like civil society members and social activists. Nor can his knack for generating resources for the party be overstated. Sonia rightly described him as an “irreplaceable comrade”. Patel’s untimely death comes just when he was expected to talk to the two party factions that have been warring publicly over the past few weeks. He had an excellent rapport with the “Group of 23” seniors who have aired concern at the drift and leadership crisis in the Congress, and he alone could have persuaded Sonia and Rahul Gandhi to take the middle way and seek a truce. Not too many in the Congress have the authority or stature to mount pressure and bring to the negotiating table veterans like Ghulam Nabi Azad, Kapil Sibal, Anand Sharma and Veerappa Moily, as well as the Rahul loyalists who have openly condemned the seniors. While Manmohan Singh never shows any interest in such conflicts, A.K. Antony is said to be seriously ill. Antony and Mallikarjun Kharge have anyway taken a partisan position by attacking the “Group of 23”. Some like Ashok Gehlot, Kamal Nath and Amarinder Singh could possibly play a role in resolving the dispute and uniting the party but none of them can match Patel’s networking and conciliatory skills. It’s now up to Sonia to rise to the occasion and prevent disintegration of the party at a time the country is looking to the Congress to resist the overwhelming dominance of Narendra Modi. However, any truce will now take much longer, and the possibility of organisational elections being delayed by a few months cannot be ruled out. What has given Patel’s death the feel of a crisis is that seniors like Azad who could have filled the vacuum, both in terms of organisational supervision and negotiations with friendly parties, are sitting on the other side of the fence. It won’t be easy for Rahul to find another treasurer and interlocutor equally trustworthy and efficient. Some, however, argue that Patel’s domineering presence was the biggest hurdle to the process of transformation and that unifying the party may have become easier now. A section within the Congress has long viewed Patel with suspicion — as an obstacle to Rahul’s complete takeover of the party machinery. But Sonia and Rahul intervened on Wednesday to ensure the departed soul received the respect from the party that was his due. K.C. Venugopal, the Congress general secretary in charge of organisation, has ordered the party flag flown at half mast for three days. While the body could not be brought to the party headquarters because of the Covid protocol, the Congress arranged for it to be sent to Patel’s village in Gujarat by special flight. Patel wanted to be buried in his native village. Seniors and young leaders expressed their condolences. Sonia led the mourners, saying: “I have lost a colleague, whose entire life was dedicated to the Congress party.” She added: “His faithfulness and dedication, his commitment to his duty, his always being there to help, his generosity were rare qualities that distinguished him from others. I have lost an irreplaceable comrade, a faithful colleague and a friend. I mourn his passing and I feel deeply for his bereaved family to whom I offer my sincere feelings of empathy and support.” Manmohan praised Patel’s knowledge of the Congress and his dedication. Rahul tweeted: “It is a sad day. Ahmed Patel was a pillar of the Congress party. He lived and breathed Congress and stood with the party through its most difficult times. He was a tremendous asset. We will miss him.” In a letter to Patel’s son Faisal, Rahul said: “I am saddened by the passing of your father. We have lost a leader who dedicated his life to the Congress party. Ahmed ji epitomised courage and loyalty in public life. He stood by the Congress party through its most difficult times.” “I will miss his wisdom, his intellect and his unwavering commitment to the Congress party. He will continue to guide us and inspire every Congress worker to carry forward our mission. My thoughts, prayers and love are with you and your family in this difficult time.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-534
26-11-2020||India||Written test in Raj Bhavan for Odisha VC aspirants||Senior professors shortlisted by search panels for the posts of vice-chancellors of six state universities in Odisha were made to take a written test at the Raj Bhavan, a move many of the candidates and other academics described as humiliating. Some of the candidates said one question was: “If God appears before you and asks for a boon, what will you like to ask for?” The 16 shortlisted candidates had been invited to the Raj Bhavan on Monday for an “interaction” with the governor — the ex officio chancellor— before the final selection, three candidates told The Telegraph. But governor Ganeshi Lal, whose wife Sushila Devi had passed away on Sunday night, did not meet them. His secretary, Pramod Kumar Meherda, told the senior academics they would have to take a written test. “His (the governor’s) secretary came and gave us a piece of paper each with four questions. They asked us to write the answers in 45 minutes. Three officials were in the room while we wrote the answers. Then they asked us to go,” one of those shortlisted said, requesting anonymity. A second candidate said: “It was a joke. The written test was in bad taste. The officials were keeping an eye on us as though we would talk or something. If the chancellor was occupied elsewhere, the interaction could have happened another day.” The results were declared in the evening. Sunil Sarangi, former director of NIT Rourkela, said academic leaders needed to be respected. “If the VC is respected by the chancellor, he would treat his colleagues in the university with respect and the teachers would behave well with the students and vice versa. This helps healthy functioning of the institutions,” Sarangi said. He did not object to written tests per se but said they must be accompanied with a briefing from the chancellor, and not an official. Educationists could remember only one instance of a written test for would-be VCs. Two years ago, one such test was held to select a VC for Berhampur University, but the chancellor had interacted with the candidates. “If the chancellor wants a written test in the final round, it’s fine. But we expect the chancellor to treat the shortlisted candidates as colleagues. All of them have proven their academic credentials,” Sarangi said. “It’s expected that the chancellor should brief them on why he has chosen to hold a written test and request them to participate. But a briefing by his secretariat is, I think, not proper treatment.” The candidates said the four questions, reproduced verbatim here, were: 1. The universe is built on.... 2. The role of the university to build the universe? 3. You have work experience. The style of working? The spirit of working? 4. If God appears before you and asks for a boon, what will you like to ask for? A retired professor from an Odisha university, seeking anonymity, said the questions were woolly and irrelevant. “If these types of questions are asked, I’m afraid they may not help select a credible academic leader,” he said. He said the question on a boon from God ran counter to the scientific temper. An email to Meherda seeking reactions to the academics’ concerns brought no response. The six universities for which VCs needed to be chosen were Utkal University, North Odisha University, Fakir Mohan University, Rama Devi Women’s University, Khalikot University and Gangadhar Meher University. Six search panels had recommended the 16 names. The process of appointing state university vice-chancellors had recently been embroiled in another controversy when the government amended the Odisha Universities Act in September through an ordinance, changing the composition of the search panels. Search panels were earlier made up of nominees of the chancellor, the University Grants Commission and the syndicate of the university concerned. The ordinance replaced the syndicate representative with an Odisha government representative.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-534
26-11-2020||India||Mehbooba Mufti's key aide arrested now, admired then||Mehbooba Mufti’s key aide, Waheed ur Rahman Parra, was arrested by the counter-terror National Investigation Agency on Wednesday in a militancy-related case, after which the former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister released a 2018 video where defence minister Rajnath Singh is seen heaping praise on him. Parra, who had unbridled access to the Union home ministry, to which the NIA directly reports, during the previous PDP-BJP rule in Jammu and Kashmir, was picked up in connection with the arrest of deputy superintendent of police Davinder Singh along with Hizbul Mujahideen commander Naveed Babu. Parra is the first politician to be arrested in the case. Parra heads the youth wing of the PDP and was being interrogated at the agency’s New Delhi headquarters for the past two days. The arrest has come at a time Valley politicians who have formed the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration to fight for the restoration of Article 370 have been accusing the Centre of unleashing the NIA to force them into submission and prevent them from canvassing for the upcoming District Development Council polls. Parra is to contest the election. PTI quoted an NIA spokesperson as saying: “Today, the NIA arrested Waheed Ur Rehman Parra, the youth wing leader of the People’s Democratic Party, in connection with the Naveed Babu-Davinder Singh case for supporting Hizbul Mujahideen in a conspiracy with the other accused persons.” Mehbooba hit back and described the arrest as “blackmail” and “intimidation” by the Narendra Modi government. The PDP chief tweeted a video where Rajnath is seen praising Parra during an event in Srinagar in 2018 when he was the home minister. Parra, as secretary of the erstwhile state’s sports council, had organised a huge audience of sports enthusiasts for a Rajnath event in Srinagar, a rare feat for any politician amid relentless stone-throwing those days. “For that (channelising the energy of the state’s youth in a positive direction), I want to specially congratulate the secretary of the Jammu and Kashmir Sports council, Waheed Parra. He has organised a wonderful programme here,” Rajnath, awed by the participation, said in the video. Mehbooba tweeted along with the video: “PDP’s @parrawahid applauded by then HM @rajnathsingh for strengthening democracy in J&K has been arrested on baseless charges by NIA today. No coincidence that he filed his nomination for DDC on 20th Nov & received NIA summons next day itself.” Parra is contesting from Pulwama. “Everyone knows at whose behest Davinder Singh worked,” Mehbooba tweeted. “Waheed has no connection whatsoever with this man & is being falsely charged. All just to blackmail & intimidate PDP & other mainstream political parties in J&K.” Davindar was a top counter-insurgency cop before he was arrested last year for ferrying top Hizb commander Naveed Babu and his associate in his car. The arrest was a major embarrassment for the security establishment and immediately brought the focus back on the dark secrets of the murky counter-insurgency world, even raising fresh doubts on the government’s claims on the 2001 Parliament attack. Afzal Guru, the prime accused who was hanged in 2013, had claimed that the attack was an insider job and Davinder had been involved. The claim was never investigated. Mehbooba said Parra had been illegally arrested in 2019 along with hundreds of politicians ahead of the scrapping of Article 370. “Yet his belief in democracy didn’t waver & he chose to contest the DDC elections. Seems like those who place their faith in the power of democracy will earn the wrath of a hostile & communal government. I can personally vouch for Waheed’s integrity, honesty & character. It’s up to the judiciary now to dispense justice & ensure @parrawahid is released at the earliest,” she tweeted. The NIA has conducted multiple raids in recent weeks in Kashmir and many claim it was being used by the Centre to prevent any resistance against the scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-534
26-11-2020||India||Ahmed Patel: Friend, peacemaker and Sonia’s voice||“Political management” is a crude expression. What it really stands for is harmonising contradictions, forging solidarities and cultivating trust. That’s what Ahmed Patel excelled in. The initials “AP” may have reverberated across the corridors of power for decades, but the man rarely inspired awe or fear. For, AP had quietly transformed into AB —Ahmed Bhai — the friendly politician who never used power as a weapon of retribution or blackmail. Patel wasn’t a mass leader but carved a space for himself in national politics with his dedication, hard work and extraordinary ability to win people’s trust, his humility and willingness to help people earning him popularity across the political spectrum. He was Sonia Gandhi’s eyes and ears during her first tenure as Congress president. His word was blindly accepted as hers, both within and outside the Congress. Patel’s behind-the-scenes management and unselfish loyalty were key to Sonia’s 18 years as party president being bereft of any major mishap or embarrassment. Tags like “behind-the-scenes operator”, “backroom strategist” or “political manager” often evoke distrust and contempt. But these labels, so often attached to Patel, fail to come close to encapsulating what he did for the Congress and Sonia, during whose long presidency he remained the pivot of the party’s politics and organisational affairs. The sheer volume of his engagements as political secretary to Sonia was awe-inspiring. From disgruntled party worker to dissenting leader, minister to party official, businessmen to bureaucrat, social activist to wheeler-dealer, he met hundreds of them every day and tried to resolve their problems. And whether it was a rebellious leader from Maharashtra or a ticket seeker from Odisha, they all knew that an assurance from him was an assurance from the party president. Ahmed Bhai heard every complaint, digested every invective, calmed every dissenter, reassured every favour seeker. He tried to respond to even the most mundane of queries from journalists, often after midnight. His cool temperament, unending patience and uncomplaining ability to handle countless responsibilities and grievances every day made him a buffer and a bulwark for Sonia, protecting her from the pressures and pitfalls of running a big organisation. Patel’s networking skills had helped Sonia forge the national coalition that ousted the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government in the 2004 election. He could talk to any politician irrespective of their party’s relations with the Congress and get things done. During the UPA’s 10-year rule, Patel strengthened his ties with politicians from other parties by choosing accommodation and understanding over the use of force to extract favours. Among his greatest virtues were his ability to set aside personal ambition and his refusal to flaunt the trappings of power. Patel never became a minister despite calling the shots in the Congress. He kept a low profile at party or government functions, if he couldn’t stay away altogether. He abhorred media focus and often discouraged journalists from writing about him. Patel, however, understood the reality of factions in the party system and viewed politics as the cohabitation of diverse forces. He often said that problems could be “managed” if not “solved”, as the chief objective was peaceful coexistence. This trait of his was misunderstood by some party colleagues and political observers, who were suspicious of his role in persuading the Manmohan Singh government against taking strict action against then chief minister Narendra Modi over the Gujarat riots and fake-encounters. Many Congress leaders, young and old, felt there was a tacit understanding between Patel and Modi despite the raids and investigations he and his family faced under BJP rule and the personal barbs Modi subjected him to. During the last Gujarat elections, the Prime Minister had played on sectarian sentiments, referring to “Ahmed Mian” and hinting that Patel, a Muslim, would be chief minister if the Congress won in Gujarat. Nor did Modi and Amit Shah spare any effort to try and prevent Patel retaining his Rajya Sabha seat in 2017. While it’s true that personal enmity and coercive measures had no place in Patel’s politics, his loyalty to the Congress and Sonia was unquestionable. Yet his last days passed amid an atmosphere of distrust and suspicion within the party. Patel suffered this irony all his life: many party colleagues who drew strength from his authority also ran whisper campaigns against him. This despite his never having publicly shown any unease with the party leadership through the decades since he had begun his journey under Rajiv Gandhi. While the veterans Arjun Singh and N.D. Tewari had left the Congress after the demolition of the Babri Masjid on P.V. Narasimha Rao’s watch, and Sharad Pawar had formed his own party, Patel showed unflinching loyalty even when he was briefly removed from party posts. But the native of Bharuch in Gujarat — a Lok Sabha seat he represented thrice apart from enjoying five Rajya Sabha terms — realised he lacked Rahul Gandhi’s trust and had begun talking of retiring from politics. Yet his politics was so deeply entwined with Sonia’s that her return as party president again brought him to the centre stage of Congress affairs. Patel would have had a critical role to play in the Congress’s revival process. But at 71, he lost his battle against post-Covid complications after 55 days’ resistance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-534
26-11-2020||West Bengal||Soon, Gurung public meeting in Siliguri||Bimal Gurung will reach the hills shortly and address a public meeting at Baghajatin Park — located in the heart of Siliguri — on his way to the hills, said Bishal Chhetri, a vice-president of the Gurung faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, on Wednesday. Since 2007, when Gurung had floated the party, this will be the first time that the Morcha will hold a meeting at a location within Siliguri. So far, the Morcha held public meetings in places such as Sukna and Gandhi Maidan on the fringes of Siliguri. “Our leader Bimal Gurung will soon reach north Bengal. Thousands of supporters across the region are eagerly waiting for his arrival. That is why we have decided to organise a grand welcome for him and on the same day, a public meeting will be held at Baghajatin Park here. People from the hills, Terai and the Dooars will be there at the event,” said Chhetri. The decision, party insiders said, was made to pass a message to the Trinamul leadership with whom the Gurung faction joined hands, the rival Binay Tamang faction of Morcha and the BJP, the party with which Gurung recently severed ties. “Leaders of the other faction (of the Morcha) often make tall claims about their support. We will prove our support base through the meeting and our leader (Gurung) will address the gathering. Our leaders are confident that the meeting will also give a fillip to Trinamul and will make BJP read the writing on the wall,” said an insider. Gurung's decision to hold a rally in Siliguri is seen as an attempt to test the waters, said an observer. “The decision clearly indicates that they want to gauge the support base before Bimal Gurung goes up to the hills and simultaneously show their strength to the other faction and political parties, particularly Trinamul and BJP,” he said, adding the turnout at the meeting would help the Gurung faction draw up further plans. Chhetri told newspersons that they would give their “all out support” their “beloved Mamata Didi” as they want to see her in the chief minister’s office after the 2021 Bengal elections. He was also critical of the BJP and questioned the party’s sincerity in meeting the two key demands of the hill residents — separate statehood and Scheduled Tribe status to 11 hill communities. “There hasn’t been an inch of progress in these demands. It seems the BJP leaders have forgotten what they had mentioned in their election manifesto. We want to make it clear that the BJP leaders should not have any major expectation from north Bengal. We are no longer with them and our absence will be reflected in the poll results,” said the Morcha leader. Those in rival Tamang faction of the Morcha said they did not give any importance to the announcements. “After Bimal Gurung resurfaced in Calcutta, there was spontaneous reaction among people across the hills, they came to the streets and demonstrated against him. We are not concerned about such meetings as people have summarily rejected him,” said a leader of the Tamang faction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-298
26-11-2020||West Bengal||TMC backs off from Jalpaiguri land talks for highway||Trinamul leaders in Jalpaiguri have decided to back-track from their plan of convincing people to part with their land for the largest highway project taken up by Centre in north Bengal. The party may instead insist on higher compensation, the move admittedly dictated by electoral compulsions. “It is true that the work to widen NH27 into a four-lane highway is pending in some stretches of Jalpaiguri district as land is yet to be obtained from people. We want the project to finish but simultaneously, we do not want to leave the land owners antagonised by asking them to part with their land against the existing compensation offered to them as the elections are ahead,” said Mitali Roy, the Trinamul MLA of Dhupguri. As of now, work is delayed in Maynaguri and Dhupguri blocks of the district as land is yet to be acquired. However, in most other parts of the district, work on the highway has finished or is going on in full swing. A Trinamul leader in Maynaguri spoke on similar lines. “Before the Assembly elections, we cannot afford to go ahead and persuade people, many of whom are farmers, to give away their land,” he said. He added that one of the reasons people support Mamata Banerjee is her “strong stand against forcible acquisition of land”. “As the project got delayed, some elected representatives and leaders of our party did approach these people to convince them (to part with land) and the administration had also taken certain initiatives. But now that a few months are left for the polls, we cannot make any move that is contrary to the policy of our party and the state government. In fact, we want the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to consider the demand for higher compensation,” the leader added. Almost 20 years back, the NHAI had taken up the East-West Corridor project — a four-lane highway to connect Porbandar of Gujarat with Silchar of Assam. In north Bengal, the project had stumbled on many stretches, and particularly since 2011, over delay in land acquisition. This made the Centre ask the state to facilitate land acquisition for the project while underscoring that the highway — the principal road route to northeast — was also of strategic importance. Elected representatives of Trinamul, including state tourism minister Gautam Deb, were involved to expedite the process. However, now that Trinamul intends to change its plan, some NHAI officials are worried that this would further delay this road project. Jalpaiguri’s BJP leaders questioned Trinamul’s motives at this point. “Trinamul deprived the residents of Bengal from infrastructure development. In Jalpaiguri, the highway project halted only for their political interest,” said Bapi Goswami, the district BJP chief.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-298
26-11-2020||West Bengal||Body, 2 trucks fished out of Ganga||The body of a worker was recovered and two more trucks were pulled out from the Ganga on Wednesday at Manikchak Ghat in Malda, where eight trucks and several workers tumbled from a large steamer into the river in a freak accident on Monday evening. The trucks and workers had come from Jharkhand via the waterway. A hydraulic crane was brought from Farakka Barrage Authority on Wednesday to speed up the recovery and rescue process, because till Tuesday only one truck had been retrieved. Around 10am, the second truck was lifted from the river, and around 6pm, up came the third. The lifeless body of Saidul Haque, 20, the helper, was found in the cabin of the truck that was retrieved at 10am. Masrul Sheikh, Saidul’s father who was anxiously waiting at the spot, identified the youth. Saidul, sources said, was from Udaya area under Barharwa police station in Sahebganj district of Jharkhand. He could not get out of the closed cabin of the truck that suddenly fell into the Ganga on Monday. Goutam Choudhury, officer-in-charge of Manikchak police station, said that the five more trucks were still there in the river. Two men are yet to be traced, he said. On Tuesday, it was known that 14 men — helpers and workers — had managed to swim to the banks or had been rescued by the police and the disaster management teams, and three men were traceless. With Saidul’s body recovered, search is on for the two missing men.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-298
26-11-2020||West Bengal||2 held with gunpowder in Malda||The police in Malda arrested two persons carrying gunpowder on Wednesday morning, leading to an explosive verbal battle between the BJP and Trinamul. According to police sources, Rajesh Mandal a.k.a. Kali, and Litan Mandal a.k.a. Niton, both residents of Sukhdebpara village under Baishnabnagar police station of Malda, were arrested from NH12. Both were on a two-wheeler carrying plastic packets of gunpowder. “They were carrying two plastic packets with around 2.5kg gunpowder in all. Both were intercepted and we confirmed the substance is used to make bombs,” said Tridip Pramanik, inspector-in-charge of Baishnabnagar police station. The police are probing if the duo are peddlers of explosives or are involved in the manufacture of crude bombs. “They have been taken into custody for interrogation,” a police officer said. The seizure and arrests prompted BJP leaders to claim that it was again proved that vast stretches of Kaliachak and Baishnabnagar, blocks that share borders with Bangladesh, are havens for criminals. “This is not the first seizure,” said Sreerupa Mitra Chaudhury, a senior BJP leader. “Earlier, illegal arms and bomb making units have been busted in these areas and many arrested with firearms and bombs. As the Bengal elections are nearing, these people, with the indulgence of Trinamul, are becoming active. Trinamul leaders knowing well that they will not win any Assembly seat in Malda are desperate to engage criminals for poll success,” she said. Trinamul reacted sharply to the allegation. Subhamay Bose, a district spokesperson of Trinamul, said: “BJP is trying to capitalise on even routine police actions.” “Also, the district police and not any central agency have seized the explosive and arrested two persons. BJP leaders should find better issues,” added Bose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-298
26-11-2020||West Bengal||South Dinajpur BJP leader found dead, MP alleges murder||The body of a BJP leader in Gangarampur of South Dinajpur district was found in a deserted field near his village on Wednesday morning, prompting the district party leaders to accuse local Trinamul goons of killing him. Police suspect Swadhin Roy, 45, a vegetable seller and BJP president of a booth committee in Banspara village of Sukdebpur panchayat, died in an accident. Police recovered the body and sent it for a post-mortem to Balurghat. “Trinamul supporters have strangled him to death as he was a BJP activist,” said BJP’s Balurghat MP Sukanta Majumdar. Trinamul district leaders have denied these allegations. The police have learnt that around 9am, Roy took his motorcycle to Salbari market to procure vegetables, but did not return. Other vegetable sellers on the route found his body on a deserted field with his bike. “BJP leaders and supporters are facing such attacks and many have been murdered in different parts of the state,” the BJP MP said. “We condemn the attack and want the police to find out the culprits,” he added. Subhash Chaki, a district coordinator of Trinamul, said the BJP was indulging in cheap politics. “Any death is unfortunate but BJP leaders these days, are trying to reap political dividends from such incidents. Probe has started and we want the truth,” said Chaki. South Dinajpur superintendent of police Debarshi Dutta said preliminary probe suggested Roy was drunk. “We suspect he fell off the bike and died of injuries. We are waiting for the post-mortem report to know the exact cause of death,” Dutta said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-298
26-11-2020||West Bengal||TMC sit-in against TMC leader||A group of Trinamul leaders of Kaliachak-II block in Malda led by Mothabari MLA Sabina Yeasmin held a sit-in demonstration at the BDO’s office on Wednesday, alleging that the head of a Trinamul-run panchayat of the block was engaged in corrupt activities in connivance with the BDO. Trinamul protesters demanded that the pradhan of Gangaprasad panchayat, also a Trinamul leader, should face legal consequences and that the BDO should be removed. The demonstration in presence of the Trinamul MLA, as well as Sudhir Das, the Trinamul president of Kaliachak-II block, against an elected representative of the party and an administrative official has caused a stir within the party. Yeasmin said the protest was held in people’s interest. “Aminul Islam, the head of Gangaprasad panchayat, has lost confidence of most elected members. Except two or three, most of the 16 members are disgusted with his inaction and corruption. All developmental work has come to a halt in the panchayat for over one-and-a-half years. People regularly complain that they are deprived of various social welfare schemes launched by the state government,” she said. She alleged that BDO Sanjay Ghisingh had not taken any step against Aminul, even though others had approached Ghisingh against Aminul a number of times. “Hundreds of people are facing inconveniences. That is why I felt it necessary to hit the streets. The chief minister is sincerely working to help people of the state but here, it is because of this panchayat head and the BDO that people are being deprived of such schemes,” Yeasmin, a former state minister, said. This paper could not contact Aminul over phone. BDO Ghisingh refrained from commenting on the MLA’s allegations but claimed that an inquiry had been ordered against the panchayat. District Trinamul leaders reacted with caution. “We will surely check out if the pradhan is involved in corrupt activities. But the MLA and the block leaders should have acted with restraint. What they did on Wednesday has been a loss of face for the party,” said a district leader. BJP picked up the issue with glee. “It is a common scene in most rural bodies in the state where Trinamul is in power. The situation has reached such point that even some Trinamul leaders are finding it tough to remain silent,” said Sreerupa Mitra Chaudhury, senior BJP leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-298
26-11-2020||West Bengal||Didi knows everything: Mamata||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday sent out a message to rebels in the Trinamul Congress without naming them that she had been watching every move and there would be consequences. The chief minister maintained a silence till Wednesday on murmurs that transport minister Suvendu Adhikari and some MPs and MLAs were about to quit the party and join the BJP in the run up to the Assembly polls. At her first political rally since the Covid-19 pandemic pressed a pause button on all public programmes, Mamata made it clear that she was keeping a tab on everything. “You will see one or two, who are in the party, but have been staying in touch with others, here and there. Do not think that Didi (Mamata) doesn’t know. She does. Didi has allowed them to do this for this long because she needed to understand what they are capable of,” Mamata told the rally in Bankura. “Down to every block, who is doing what, where, staying in touch with whom… every account I have been keeping. A to Z… and will continue doing so,” she added. Bengal has been rife with rumours over Adhikari’s political future since this summer and the speculation intensified in the past one month because of his certain remarks and absence from several state government and party programmes, the BJP’s comments regarding him and cryptic banners hailing him at various places across the state. Besides, Trinamul has also been firefighting in several corners of the state, with MLA after MLA speaking out against the management of party affairs, especially by poll consultant Prashant Kishor. From Singur MLA Rabindranath Bhattacharya to Cooch Behar South MLA Mihir Goswami, Sitai MLA Jagadish Barma Basunia to Hariharpara MLA Niamot Sheikh, there have been many public statements of displeasure in a matter of weeks. On Wednesday, Mamata responded sternly. “We think they are… dhandabaj (opportunists). There is a group of such opportunists. That group is very small…. Those trying to clear their paths (for switching sides) thinking there is a chance. There is zero chance of them (the BJP) coming to power,” she said. “Everywhere, our workers must watch out for them, monitor them closely. Who is going to whose place at 2am. In the dead of night, who is speaking to whom… look out for cars moving around in the dark. You will understand everything,” she added. Amid speculation on what Adhikari’s next step would be, the Trinamul leadership has shown eagerness to retain him in the fold and fielded party vice-president Saugata Roy to break the ice with him. Two rounds of meetings have failed, a source said before adding that another meeting was lined up in the next few days. Mamata touched upon the abolition of observer posts in Trinamul, which many believe was a direct reference to transport minister Adhikari. “Some seem to wonder, who is the observer of Bankura, of Purulia… who is handling Midnapore, what about Asansol, or Jalpaiguri…. Let me tell you this now, let me give this message to the party first: across Bengal, as a worker, I am the observer now,” said Mamata. “In every corner of the state, as a worker of our party, I will be the only observer... The way I handle all responsibilities of the government, I will do the same for the party too now. Because I think I was getting overburdened with work, which resulted in a bit of laxity (party-wise). I will no longer allow that,” the Trinamul chief added. The buzz in Trinamul has been that Adhikari has been bitterly displeased with the leadership over his loss — as the party’s observer — of control over six key districts of Bankura, West Midnapore, Jhargram, Murshidabad, Malda and North Dinajpur. Adhikari, a source said, was convinced that the decision to do away with the observers had been taken by Mamata’s nephew and Trinamul’s de facto Number Two Abhishek Banerjee and Prashant Kishor. “In his parleys with the party, Suvendu has suggested that he wants that control back, but Didi doesn’t seem to be in the mood to give in to his demand.” Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-298
26-11-2020||West Bengal||Sixteen-year-old from Murshidabad gets bravery award for saying ‘no’ to marriage||A 16-year-old village girl from Murshidabad, who complained to the BDO against her parents for arranging her marriage this April after her Madhyamik exam, received the state Birangana (bravery) award. With Covid lockdown norms stringent in April and no mode of transport from her village in Pradipdanga to the office of the BDO in Hariharpara 12km away, Nurbanu Khatun, 16, walked the entire stretch to try and prevent her impending marriage. The BDO led a team to her home and got her father Bakkar Sheikh to pledge that she would not be married off before the legal age of 18. Nurbanu’s courage did not go unrecognised. Block officials in Hariharpara, 22km from district headquarters Behrampore, nominated her for this annual honour of the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights. Though the award ceremony was held at Calcutta's Rabindra Sadan last Friday, Nurbanu, now a Class XI student of Nischintapur High School, could not make it to the event. Late on Tuesday, Nurbanu received the award when block officials — including BDO Raja Bhowmick — felicitated her at her village home. An official said this was the second time Nurbanu complained against her parents to prevent her marriage. The first time was in 2018 when she was 14, and she was in Class IX. Nurbanu did not flinch then or now. She told this paper she would get married only by “choice” and not before she graduated from college and spent years in “social work”. The eldest of three siblings, Nurbanu comes from a very poor farming family. She is also the first in her family to pass her Madhyamik this year, an official added. Her neighbours alleged that after she stopped her marriage this April, she had been beaten up and reprimanded by her family for acting this way. Sheikh told The Telegraph that he was unaware of the law that forbade the marriage of girls before the age of 18. Reminded that this was his second attempt at getting Nurbanu married off before 18, the father said: “It is difficult for us to get a good match. See, we are very poor people and so we decided to get our eldest daughter married off because we had got a good match.” The poor farmer, however, added that he had pledged to the BDO not to get Nurbanu married off before 18. “We are constantly in touch with her and are taking care of her educational needs and expenses,” said BDO Bhowmick.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-299
26-11-2020||West Bengal||30-day dip in active Covid cases||Bengal on Wednesday reported a fall in its total active Covid cases for 30 consecutive days since Vijaya Dashami on October 26. In these 30 days, the state recorded around 1.24 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 1.13 lakh cases found. On Wednesday, the state reported 3,605 recoveries, 3,528 new infections and 51 deaths, 15 of which were from Calcutta. Active cases dropped from 37,190 on Dashami to 24,752 on Wednesday. On Tuesday night, leader of the Opposition Abdul Mannan, 68, was hospitalised on testing positive for Covid-19. He showed signs of lung infection. Those he came in contact with, including governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, have been alerted. The Congress veteran and Champdani MLA has several comorbidities. “Mannanda has not been keeping well for some time and has been in and out of the hospital in recent years. That is why we wanted to take no chances. A CT scan revealed he developed a lung infection. But he is stable right now,” said a party colleague. Mannan tested positive three days after Trinamul’s Singur MLA Rabindranath Bhattacharya, who had developed a chest infection. The Champdani and Singur MLAs are the latest addition to over 40 sitting members of the Bengal Assembly to test positive for the virus. Over half of them are from the ruling party. Prior to this, 11 members of the 44-member state cabinet tested positive, including Gautam Deb, Nirmal Maji, Rabindra Nath Ghosh, Tapas Roy, Manturam Pakhira, Suvendu Adhikari, Binay Barman, Jyotipriya Mullick, Sujit Bose, Swapan Debnath, and Soumen Mahapatra. The virus also infected at least six MPs from Bengal — the Congress’s Abu Hasem Khan Choudhury, BJP’s Dilip Ghosh, Locket Chatterjee, Sukanta Majumdar and Jayanta Roy, and Trinamul’s Rajya Sabha member Shanta Chhetri. Covid-19 also claimed the lives of CPM veteran Shyamal Chakraborty, Trinamul’s MLAs Samaresh Das, Tamonash Ghosh and Gurupada Mete. Bengal’s total of Covid-19 cases is nearly 4.67 lakh now, including over 4.34 lakh recoveries and 8,172 deaths. The state’s recovery rate has been on the rise for 34 consecutive days, reaching 92.95 per cent on Wednesday, close to the national rate of 93.69 per cent. Bengal’s mortality rate is now 1.74, compared to the national rate of 1.46. Of the total toll, 6,833 or 83.6 per cent, were reported comorbid deaths. With 44,631 tests on Wednesday, the state’s total test count went past 56.54 lakh, at 62,828 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.26 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-299
26-11-2020||West Bengal||Dilip calls Bengal ‘second Kashmir’||BJP Bengal president Dilip Ghosh on Wednesday called the state a “second Kashmir” and claimed there were more terrorists in Bengal than in Kashmir. “All terrorists are being arrested from Bengal. It is more than the number of terrorists arrested in Kashmir. All terrorists have taken shelter in Bengal. Arrests (of terrorists) were made twice from Murshidabad. Bengal has become second Kashmir,” said Ghosh while addressing BJP workers in Birbhum’s Suri. Ghosh’s comment drew sharp reactions from Trinamul and CPM leaders who criticised the state BJP chief for referring to Bengal and Kashmir in the same breath. “He spoke like Kangana Ranawat, who had in the past likened Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. People had then asked her to leave Mumbai. I am also asking Dilip Ghosh to leave Bengal,” Trinamul MP Sougata Roy told reporters in Calcutta. Urban development minister Firhad Hakim claimed that Ghosh was tarnishing the image of Bengal for petty vote-bank politics. “Terrorism has gripped their mind,” he added. Leaders of the CPM and the Congress also condemned Ghosh equating the state to Kashmir. Later, speaking at a rally in Murshidabad’s Kandi, Ghosh took on chief minister Mamata Banerjee for describing the BJP as bhogi (self-indulgent). At a rally in Bankura on Wednesday, Mamata had attacked the BJP for being self-indulgent party, while she described the CPM as greedy (lobhi). “The people of Bengal know who bhogi is and who tyagi (committed to sacrifice) is. The houses and cars owned by Trinamul leaders show whether they are bhogis or tyagis,” said Ghosh. Hitting out at Trinamul leaders for their alleged corrupt lifestyle, Ghosh said those indulging in dishonesty would be thrown behind bars if the BJP came to power in Bengal. “The process to grill Trinamul leaders will start from January. The letters have started to reach them. Many of them (Trinamul leaders) will be sent to jails in Behrampore, Dum Dum or in Odisha,” he added. Trinamul-BJP clash The rally of Dilip Ghosh in Suri was preceded by armed clashes between Trinamul and BJP supporters at Shimulia near Bolpur. Sources said the first clash took place at Shimulia village when alleged Trinamul-backed goons tried to stop vehicles carrying BJP supporters heading for the rally in Suri. A BJP worker was allegedly shot at and a Trinamul worker injured in the clash while a few vehicles hired by the BJP were damaged. Police sources said six mini-trucks carrying BJP supporters were travelling towards Suri to attend the rally by Ghosh on Wednesday morning when a group of Trinamul-backed goons allegedly attacked them with iron rods and guns and ransacked the vehicles. “The BJP claimed that their worker had been shot at but we found a small cut in the man’s chest. A Trinamul worker was beaten up by BJP supporters during the clash,” said a police officer. Later, the clash spread to the adjoining village of Shimulia where supporters of both the parties clashed with crude bombs and fled when police arrived. The police had to fire tear gas shells to disperse the warring groups. District police chief Shyam Singh said: “Police have started raids in the villages but no arrests have been made so far.” On Wednesday evening, BJP state leaders alleged that the convoy of Ghosh was attacked by Trinamul goons when it was passing by Purandarpur. Ghosh was on his way to Behrampore from Kandi. According to a press statement issued by the BJP, the attack took place in front of police who apparently did not intervene to prevent the incident. Although Ghosh was unharmed, his car was damaged. Additional reporting by Alamgir Hossain||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-299
26-11-2020||West Bengal||Attendance must for Bengal govt roster staff on bandh day||The Mamata Banerjee government issued an order on Wednesday evening making attendance mandatory for employees, who were drafted for duty on roster basis on Thursday when the joint committee of several central trade unions would enforce a nation-wide general strike against the Centre’s economic policies, including new labour and farm laws. The order issued by the finance secretary said those who would not report for duty on Thursday without specified reasons would face deduction of a day’s salary and a day from his/her service life as all kinds of leaves had been cancelled for the day. Sources said the state government could not make attendance of all employees mandatory like on previous bandhs days because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Government offices are being run with only 50 per cent of the employees because of Covid 19. That is why employees who have been drafted for duty on Thursday were asked to report for duty positively while remaining employees would work from home,” said a senior government official. All kinds of leaves were cancelled on bandh days since Trinamul came to power in 2011 as part of its attempts to restore lost work culture of the state. Since then, the government has been issuing orders cancelling all kinds of leaves during the bandh days in the state. Not only this, the state government has been initiating action against all the employees, who did not report for duty on bandh days despite stiff resistance from Opposition employees’ union like the Coordination Committee, the umbrella organisation of the employees unions back by the Left Parties. “We can’t change our stance against strikes even as the bandh this time has been called against the policies of the central government,” said a minister. The sources said all the departments had been asked to inform the employees who were drafted for roster duty on the day in advance so that the employees could attend office without any problem. The state government has initiated required steps to ensure that buses, taxis and other modes of transpiration function normally. The chief secretary has spoken to all district magistrates, police superintendents and other officers to ensure that commuters don’t face trouble on roads, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-299
26-11-2020||West Bengal||Pugmarks sparks panic  in Sunderbans village||A trail of pugmarks, later identified by foresters as that of a tiger, triggered panic at a village in the Sunderbans on Wednesday morning. The marks were found on the fringes of Purba Debipur village in Kultali block. A tiger had strayed into another village in the block in October. A narrow river called Moni separates the village from the Ajmalmari forests. The pugmarks were found inside a small mangrove cover on the riverbank. “The marks seem to be of a young tigress. They suggest she has gone back into the forest she came from,” said Milan Mandal, the divisional forest officer of South 24-Parganas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-299
26-11-2020||North East||In tributes, a message ||The All Assam Students’ Union (Aasu), the influential organisation that spearheaded the Assam Agitation against illegal immigrants and a trenchant critic of the erstwhile Congress government, has paid glowing tributes to  Tarun Gogoi, the former chief minister who passed away on Monday. Aasu, which was at the forefront of the anti-CAA agitation in Assam last year,  lauded Gogoi’s “democratic and humane” approach towards resolving problems, appearing to send a message to the ruling BJP for crushing protests and dissent. “… We have to admit today that the former chief minister always tried to face each of our protests in a democratic manner.… And we feel our other political leaders need to respect this democratic thought, this is most necessary,” Aasu chief adviser Samujjal Kumar Bhattacharjya said in a statement about Gogoi. Bhattacharjya is one of the influential voices who raise Assam’s pressing problems. The Aasu leadership, including president Dipanka Kumar Nath, general secretary Sankor Jyoti Baruah, outgoing general secretary Lurinjyoti Gogoi and Bhattacharjya, in their separate tributes to Gogoi underscored the seasoned politician’s democratic and humane manner in handling dissent. Aasu had been a bitter critic of the Gogoi government. Although Aasu is apolitical, its original leadership had floated the Asom Gana Parishad that is now part of the BJP-led alliance. The Aasu leadership recalled how three-time chief minister Tarun Gogoi had helped people sleep in peace after the dark days of secret killings when rebels and their relatives were killed at the peak of Ulfa insurgency between 1998 and 2001, how he always tried to protect Assam’s interests through dialogue and new initiatives, his efforts to implement the Assam Accord and the NRC, the sealing of the international border with Bangladesh and the flood problem, among others. Aasu is vehemently opposed to the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), which it sees as a threat to the identity and culture of Assam. Former member of the state minority commission, Allen Brooks, said he stood “100 per cent” with the views of Bhattacharjya and the Aasu leadership with respect to Gogoi’s democratic and human values while dealing with complex situations. “These values are more relevant today when the political atmosphere is becoming suffocating, when dissent is being muzzled. It is these qualities — to rise about pettiness and become accommodative of a different point of view — that are always cherished. Aasu’s message today is as much a tribute to the departed leader as it is to the ruling dispensation and every aspiring politician to give space to democratic dissent, views and perspectives,” Brooks said. Lurinjyoti Gogoi, who termed six-time MP Tarun Gogoi as a leader of a national party with a regional outlook, said a “fascist mentality” was taking root in Assam and that was why there was the need for democratic and human values to deal with dissent. Lurinjyoti Gogoi referred to the manner in which the anti-CAA protests were curbed, police’s detention of artists painting a mural of jailed peasants’ leader Akhil Gogoi and its removal last week, the filing of cases against peaceful protesters and mandatory Covid-19 testing for agitators, among others, to point out why a democratic approach was the need of the hour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-34
26-11-2020||Opinion||Dig deep: 'Safai karmacharis' need more||Laws cannot be effective if they fail to help the very people whose rights and, indeed, lives they are designed to safeguard. As such, it is heartening that the Centre has decided to make the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act, 2013 more stringent. Among some of the key reform measures to be implemented with the goal of eliminating manual scavenging is a move to make the mechanization of the cleaning of sewers and septic tanks mandatory. Official records — these are usually conservative estimates — show that the hazardous job done by sewage workers has led to 376 deaths over the past five years, including 110 in 2019 alone, a jump of 61 per cent from the previous year. This in spite of the slew of preventive policies that have been enacted over the past 27 years: manual scavenging was outlawed as far back as 1993. Given these worrying figures, the move towards mandatory automated cleaning must also include methods to make the machinery easily available in municipalities in cities and, equally important, in the hinterland. Incentivizing their purchase may encourage municipal authorities to induct them quickly. Automated cleaning holds out the hope of efficiency, but the idea of mechanization must be examined more closely. Last year, an urban affairs ministry official made a telling statement, suggesting that the primary reason why no law against manual scavenging had been effective was because “no alternative” had ever been “made available”. This is a damning indictment of the nation’s troubling endorsement of the unshakeable hold of caste identities on the division of labour. Deeply entrenched and disempowering ideas concerning purity and pollution are upheld to trap underprivileged communities in dehumanizing labour practices. Shockingly, the new amendments are not free of tokenism: one of the new changes in the law proposes to replace the word, ‘manhole’, with ‘machine-hole’. A change in term is unlikely to challenge caste differentiation. There is also the possibility of unscrupulous agencies using mechanization to deny employment. Are there plans to rehabilitate safai karmacharis and equip them with skills to pursue other, hazard-free work? Moreover, mandatory automation must be accompanied by a change in the institutional approach towards urban waste management, a transformation that will be thwarted unless it embraces the wider community. Mechanization may lead to welcome cultural shifts, particularly with regard to caste, but that cannot be the only means of erasing social marginalization.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-111
26-11-2020||Opinion||Rub it out: Right to be forgotten||Privacy has more than one aspect. Circulating sexually explicit images of women when a relationship has soured, or of acts of sexual violence against them, on the internet —  specifically on social media — destroys privacy. More, the images endure in online memory. It is then not enough to penalize the person who has uploaded the images; the subject must be recompensed too. The Orissa High Court recently underlined the need to enforce ‘the right to be forgotten’ as part of the fundamental right to life and liberty. It is a corollary to the right to privacy that the Supreme Court had established as a fundamental right deriving from the right to life in 2017. In the General Data Protection Regulation of Europe, the right to be forgotten is allied to the right to erasure. Data must be erased as soon as the need for their processing has ended or when the subject has withdrawn consent from their publication and there is no legal need for processing. A society in which exploitation and blackmailing of women and violence against them are part of daily practice, online routes of shaming, harassment and revenge can shatter privacy, dignity and even the expected course of life. In the West, the right to be forgotten emerged from the need of each person not to be stigmatized as a result of an action in the past. Not a criminal act, of course. Besides, documenting and uploading acts of rape can be devastating for the survivor. India is a country where shame can kill. While the need for the right to be forgotten is undeniable, its use has to be carefully worked out. It is a weapon against revenge porn and upholds the subject’s right over private data. But it must also be seen — and measured — in each individual application against the right to freedom of expression and the possibilities of undesirable censorship. Abused, as many laws often are, it could be used to distort narratives by erasing necessary facts. The internet and social media have changed the contours of the world in which Constitutional rights and legal codes were formulated. So it would not be enough to extend the principles and create new rights and laws; the methods and spheres of application must be considered too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-112
26-11-2020||Opinion||Conservation should take wings||Small, tired birds are arriving from colder countries to India’s coastlines and shores. The onset of autumn and winter in India is synonymous with local wetlands, rivers and sea-fronts filling up with birds which weren’t there even a few weeks ago. Birds are possibly a person’s first sighting of a wild creature: they are on balconies and beaches, favouring both cities and secluded areas. Yet, till recently, we have not had a fair assessment of how birds in India are doing. Indian wildlife is protected through the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, which divides wildlife into Schedules. India has over 1,300 bird species, and they do not have adequate representation in these decades-old Schedules. This year, we moved a step closer to understanding how birds are doing on a national scale. The first State of India’s Birds report, created through a coalition of organizations, studied abundance trends of 867 bird species. 101 species were found to be of High Conservation Concern. Hitherto common species — the Yellow-fronted Pied Woodpecker, the Common Woodshrike, the Indian Thick-knee and the Short-toed Snake Eagle — have shown alarming declines over the last 25 years. Birds of prey are doing badly; so are coastal birds. For instance, the population of the Pacific Golden Plover — found on shorelines, turning bright spotted gold-and-black during its breeding season — has declined steeply. The common migratory bird, the Common Greenshank, is now no longer common and, like the Pacific Golden Plover, is of High Conservation Concern today. But both are classified as ‘Least Concern’ on the International Red List, which ranks species for endangerment. This highlights the importance of having nationally relevant assessments. India has recently launched its first National Action Plan for the Central Asian Flyway, which seeks to conserve key migratory sites for birds that winter in this country. This includes conserving a mosaic of wetlands and wetland complexes that are awash with birds looking to rest or feed in. The plan could not have come sooner: studies show that because of a warming Arctic, migration timings are changing, resulting in birds undertaking longer migratory journeys. For this, they will require more stopover sites. Yet, migratory bird sites are under great stress, including those identified as being of global importance by the Ramsar Convention. Last year, around 20,000 migratory birds died in Sambhar lake of suspected botulism; the lake’s premises are used for salt production. The National Green Tribunal then called for the creation of a management plan, which considers conservation, not just salt-making. In October, the Manipur High Court gave a go-ahead for tenders for turning Loktak lake into a site for inland waterways and to build eco-tourism. As per a meeting held this April by the state tourism department, the latter includes a complete gentrification of the area that is opposed to any ecological consideration: water sports, helicopter landing, rope ways, resorts, and, incredibly, a golf course. The SOIB report’s findings imply the need to rethink conservation planning strategies. Apart from certain common birds becoming rarer, restricted range birds — with small ranges in India — will be squeezed between changing climates and human activities. This year was devastating for avians in Northeast India on two counts. Oil India Limited secured permissions for oil exploration in the Dibru Saikhowa National Park in Assam. This park and its surroundings are full of restricted range birds found in just a few places on earth. Explorations for oil in a national park — with the realistic premise that oil will be extracted if found — is new for India and akin to breaking up pristine Alaskan areas for dirty fuels. The dust had not settled on the clearance when an oil well next to Dibru blew up, and has been burning since May. Maguri Beel, a wetland in the area next to the Baghjan oil spill, is gutted. It was one of the few places where two birds of High Conservation Concern — the Swamp Prinia and the Marsh Babbler — were found. These are not random events. They result from a studied neglect of conservation of smaller creatures. It is hard to call for protection of endangered birds when there seem to be so many of them. But we must better conserve the habitats of the 101 bird species precisely because of this complexity. The next SOIB report should look at all bird species, along with the drivers of endangerment. More conservation concerns may emerge then. We must become a State that thinks twice before opening up national parks for oil extraction, and considers the presence of dwindling birds in commonly used areas. These need not be through the institution of new protected areas, but in regulation and monitoring of current habitats by a network of scientists and citizens. This report used 10 million bird records uploaded by birdwatchers. It has already harnessed the power of citizen science. This is the power that may ensure that words like chorai (Sparrow), shalik (Myna) and toontooni (Sunbird) never leave our lexicon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-112
26-11-2020||Opinion||Learning from the past||Those of us old enough to remember 1970 will recall the wall writings and agitprop that defined the political turbulence of Calcutta. The one I remember most vividly was a gigantic drawing of Mao Zedong that decorated the façade of a faculty building of Jadavpur University. Clearly visible from the main road, it showcased the millenarianism of a restless and disoriented generation: “China’s Chairman is our Chairman.” Outside, on the streets of a city approaching the dawn of decline, young men and women waved red flags and chanted, “Amar naam, tomar naam, Vietnam Vietnam.” Depending on your inclination, the mood was either heady or defined by rank insanity. The inclination of the Bengali Hindu bhadralok to be swayed by global fashion has been a feature since the early 19th century. A defining feature of what is presently called the Bengal Renaissance was the absorption of Western thought, including Christian theology, into the bloodstream of intellectualism. For many stalwarts of this ‘awakening’, the exposure to Western ideas also involved a corresponding rejection of almost everything associated with Bengal’s traditional Hindu inheritance. Although there were others, notably Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar, Bhudeb Mukherjee and Bankim Chandra Chatterjee, who refused to be blown off their feet by this onrush of cosmopolitanism, there were many others who were not so steadfast. It took Swami Vivekananda’s journey to the West and his incorporation of nation-building into Hindu devotionalism to correct the huge loss of self-esteem that had engulfed a section of educated Bengali Hindus. Following Independence, there was a second wave of regressive disorientation, which was inextricably linked to the steady growth of the communist movement in the post-Partition state. The new ‘progressivism’ which had its impact on politics, the arts and culture, combined disdain for traditionalism with an internationalism that, in effect, boiled down to endorsing one side in the Cold War. It is significant that there was a loose convergence between the emerging communist mindset in Bengal and the socialism that came to be associated with the camp followers of Jawaharlal Nehru. Yet, it is also a fact that in West Bengal at least, the influence of the Left in the Congress was tenuous. In the first two decades after Independence, the state Congress encapsulated traditionalist impulses in society. This meant that a part of the political world in the state was spared contamination. Although a more rounded assessment of the social and intellectual history of West Bengal since its creation in 1947 is awaited, certain broad features may be identified. First, there was a close and, sometimes, inextricable link between cultural and political life in a section of bhadralok society. This became more marked after the defeat of the Congress and the forward march of the Communist Party of India (Marxist). The CPI(M) may have claimed to represent the ‘toiling masses’ but its leadership was drawn almost exclusively from middle and lower middle class Bengali society. During the three decades of Left Front rule in West Bengal, the hegemonic position of the Bengali bhadralok wasn’t ever disturbed. The language of politics changed but the messengers of the new ideas remained the same. Secondly, ‘progressive’ impulses in West Bengal comprised a curious mixture of Bengali asmita and intellectual cosmopolitanism. There was, of course, the spirited adulation of the great heroes of the Left — from Lenin, Stalin and Mao to Ho Chi Minh and Fidel Castro. To this was added a curious preference for the avant garde that included subtitled films, the poetry of Mayakovsky and Pablo Neruda and Russian classics, courtesy cheap editions imported from Moscow. However, unlike the colonial-era Renaissance where the English language played an important role, the dissemination of the Left Front’s progressivism was almost through Bangla. While this ensured that the impulses were more deeply rooted than was the case in pre-Independence Bengal, it also ensured that West Bengal was largely insulated from influences that prevailed in the outside world. The steady brain drain from the state — a process that went hand in hand with the flight of capital and the de-industrialization of the region — also aided West Bengal’s new exceptionalism. Finally, the hold of this exceptionalism in defining political attitudes and policies was considerable. From the 1920s, after Mahatma Gandhi assumed control of the main body of the Indian national movement, Bengali Hindu society charted its own path — not in opposition, but distinctly apart. This was as true for Deshbandhu Chittaranjan Das as it was for his foremost disciple, Subhas Chandra Bose, and those idealists who flocked to the revolutionary organizations. The Left movement that began flowering after Independence also incorporated this belief in the uniqueness of the Bengali path. After 1967, even those battling the Left on the streets used the proverbial red flag to attack the red flag. Indira Gandhi’s socialist turn from 1969 attracted many followers all over India. However, the reforging of the Congress in West Bengal assumed a distinct character, different from the rest of India. This inheritance was absorbed by Mamata Banerjee’s breakaway movement, at least before it assumed power in 2011. The Trinamul Congress’ successful movement against land acquisition for industry which broke the back of the Left Front and secured support from Bengali intellectuals was, in essence, a movement that incorporated all the Left’s traditional impulses. The exceptionalism of the state’s politics was maintained, even while there was a transfer of power from Jyoti Basu’s successor to Mamata Banerjee. In the past year, particularly after the TMC was jolted by the rise of the Bharatiya Janata Party in the 2019 general election, the invocation of regional Bengali pride has been a feature of the West Bengal chief minister’s spirited political response. A part of this has incorporated the Left Front’s familiar gripe against the Centre’s alleged neglect of West Bengal. However, unlike the Left which stressed the unity of the ‘toiling masses’ in the fight for ‘people’s democracy’ — a struggle that, in theory at least, incorporated all the peoples of India and even the world — Mamata Banerjee appears to have taken a leaf from the identity-based movements that have made headway in the West. Her assertion that West Bengal cannot be run from Gujarat and by a party of ‘outsiders’ preys, quite predictably, on the old stereotype of the state BJP being a party of Hindi-speakers. There is also some evidence to suggest that a section of the TMC has encouraged — on social media at least — organizations that have combined Bengali pride with a message to kick Hindi-speakers out of the state. The electoral calculations behind this discernible shift from regional pride — incorporating the exceptionalism of the past — to Bengali exclusivism are quite obvious. In the 2019 general election — if surveys are any guide — the BJP secured the support of more than 55 per cent of the state’s Hindu population. The TMC could save face by winning an overwhelming majority of Muslim votes. Assuming that this Muslim support will be intact in 2021, the idea is to divide the Hindu vote, in the urban and semi-urban areas at least, by creating a schism between Bengali-speakers and Hindi-speakers. The approach builds on pre-existing political impulses of the Hindu bhadralok but complements it with the simmering resentment of those who feel left behind economically. It is unlikely that the disdain for Hindi-speakers will dominate the TMC campaign. It will, at best, be a proverbial dog’s whistle. What could be more ominous for the future of politics in West Bengal is if this caricature of cultural pride with a garnishing of Left rhetoric actually sways a section of voters. From solidarity with Vietnam to booting out Hindi-speakers, West Bengal politics would have travelled a long way.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-112
26-11-2020||Jharkhand||National Metallurgical Laboratory celebrates 71st Foundation Day||City-based leading CSIR lab-National Metallurgical Laboratory (NML), celebrated its 71st Foundation Day and the Constitution Day on a virtual platform on Thursday. To highlight CSIR-NML’s glorious journey since its inception in 1950, the program started with the NML film ‘Beyond the boundary’. The foundation day program was presided over by S. C. Mande, director-general of CSIR (Council of Scientific and Industrial Research). The chief guest of the function was T. V. Narendran, CEO and managing director of Tata Steel. Prof. Indranil Manna, vice-chancellor BIT Mesra was present as the guest of honour. Indranil Chattoraj, director of NML, in his welcome address, briefly mentioned the contribution of NML in the development of our nation over the past 70 years through various technological developments and pioneering works. Prof. Manna delivered a lecture on ‘Perspectives and Prospects of Additive Manufacturing’ in which he highlighted how additive manufacturing is becoming relevant to many industries by making production processes cost-effective with minimum waste. He mentioned that this industry is growing rapidly and is likely to rise to $120 billion by 2025. As highlighted in his presentation, this manufacturing process has several advantages and is ideal for the production of high-value low volume engineering components and devices, which find applications in automotive, defence and aerospace industries. At 11 am, the preamble of the Constitution of India was read to celebrate Constitution Day. The annual awards were also declared on the occasion. Chief guest, T.V. Narendran, delivered the Foundation Day lecture on ‘Creating an Ecosystem for Innovation in Materials and Manufacturing’. In his speech, Narendran mentioned that the biggest challenge in India’s target to reach 300 million tonnes of steel production by 2030 is the government regulations related to the environment. He discussed the Chinese approach of having dedicated universities and institutions for research and handling issues in the production of steel and other materials. He emphasised the need for new technologies for carbon dioxide capture and utilisation and production of green electricity and green hydrogen. Before delivering the presidential address, S. C. Mande released two issues of the Journal of Materials Science and Metallurgy (JMMS). These special issues are on ‘Advanced materials’ and ‘Specialised and smart coatings’. The issues of the journal include the contribution of various eminent researchers in the areas of advanced and functional materials in the fields of health, environment, and energy. In his presidential address titled ‘CSIR: Past, Present & Future’, Mande mentioned a few pioneering works of CSIR in the past and elaborated on the present ongoing works and achievements of CSIR to combat the current situation of Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-224
26-11-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city joins nationwide trade union strike||Banking, insurance and postal services in Jamshedpur and the entire Kolhan region comprising of three districts – East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan were affected on Thursday as various trade unions joined the nationwide strike to protest the policies of the Narendra Modi government, including the new labour and farm laws. All public and private sector banks, except for the State Bank of India, remained closed. The offices of Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) and post offices also kept their shutters down and did not transact any business as workers joined the strike. Various central trade union organisations participated in the strike including Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS), Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), All India United Trade Union Centre (AIUTUC), Trade Union Co-ordination Centre (TUCC), Self-Employed Women’s Association (SEWA) and All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU). The BJP-aligned Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) did not participate in the strike. Members of various trade unions with placards and banners assembled at the Ambagan grounds in Sakchi. They raised slogans against the policies of the central government. Later, they formed a human chain. Veteran trade union leader Rakeshwar Pandey also participated in the human chain opposing the policies of the centre. General secretary of AITUC Ambuj Thakur, who was leading the stir at the Ambagan ground said, “We got an overwhelming response of the strike in Kolhan. The strike was called to oppose the policies of the centre which is anti-labour. We are against privatisation public sector units, commercialisation of mines, new labour and farm laws.” The strike failed to have any impact on production activities at factories based on steel city and Adityapur industrial area in adjoining Saraikela-Kharsawan district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-224
26-11-2020||Jharkhand||Four Palamu college students attend pre Republic Day Parade training at Agra||Four college girls and boys from Palamu went to Dr B R Ambedkar University, Khandari campus at Agra in Uttar Pradesh for the pre-Republic Day Parade training. The two girls – Swati Kumari and Shewta Kumari – are from Yodh Singh Namdhari Mahila College, Daltonganj and A K Singh College, Japla respectively. The program coordinator of the National Service Scheme of the Nilamber-Pitamber University whose four students have gone for the Pre Republic Day Parade at Agra, Dr. Vijay Kumar Prasad said pre-Republic Day Parade training has started from November 25 and will last till December 4. Prasad said it is a big thing as parents of the four students especially the parents of the girls have shown great courage in sending their children to Agra during the pandemic. Palamu is coming out of its age-old rudiments where girls are fighting for equal space. The two Palamu's college boys are Aniket Kumar and Ravi Ranjan. Prasad also said a total of 30 college students from 8 universities of Jharkhand have gone to Agra. State regional director of National Service Scheme, Patna Vinay Kumar, had written letters to the program coordinator of National Service Scheme of 8 state universities namely Ranchi University, Ranchi; VB University, Hazaribag; S K M University, Dumka; NPU, Daltonganj; Kolhan University, Chaibasa; B B Mahto University, Dhanbad and BIT Mesra to send a team of four students for the Pre Republic Day Parade at Agra. The students have taken with them four masks and a pair of gloves besides black leather shoes and white shirts and pants. As Agra is a cold place students have also taken with them sufficient warm clothes. Prasad said our team went to Varanasi by road, where they joined the Jharkhand contingent and then all went to Agra by train. Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports, Government of India conducts Pre Republic Day Parade in different regions of the country and converge in Delhi for the mega show on the Republic Day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-224
26-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad Anti-Corruption Bureau arrests cop for accepting bribe||A team of Anti-Corruption Bureau of Dhanbad carried out a raid in the Govindpur area on Thursday and arrested an assistant sub-inspector of police, Munesh Tiwari for demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs 50,000 from a coal trader. Ramesh Pandey, a coal trader of Jharia has complained to the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) a couple of days back about ASI Munesh Tiwari. He complained that ASI Munesh Tiwari of Govindpur police station is demanding a bribe of Rs 50,000 from him in order to clear the name of his two own brothers namely, Ganesh Tiwari and Mantu Tiwari, in a police case related to the operation of an illegal coal dump in Govindpur on November 11, 2020. The ACB found the allegation of bribery demand true during the preliminary inquiry as to the complainant, Ramesh Pandey, has also provided an audio recording of his telephonic talk with the accused Munesh Kumar Tiwari in which Tiwari was demanding a bribe of Rs 2.5 lakh from him – Rs 2 lakh for DSP Sarita Murmu and Rs 50,000 for himself. The accused ASI instructed the complainant to provide Rs 50,000 to him immediately and provide Rs 2 lakh for the DSP later. Notably, Munesh Tiwari is the Investigating officer of the coal dump operation case lodged in Govindpur Police station on November 11. The ACB laid a trap and asked Pandey to give the money to Tiwari near a betel shop in Govindpur on Thursday. After Pandey handed over the money to Tiwari, the ACB team present there arrested him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-224
26-11-2020||Jharkhand||Nationwide trade unions strike gets lukewarm response from Dhanbad mines||The nationwide strike call, given by 10 different unions in protest against several issues, including privatisation of PSUs, commercial mining, changes in labour laws and farm laws, evoked a lukewarm response in over 80 mines of the district. Production remained almost normal in all the mines. Only road and rail despatch was affected to some extent in different areas like Kusudna, Bastacola, Block II, Block IV and Chanch Victoria area. Notably, the contractual workers working with different private contractors engaged by coal companies have been exempted from the strike by the trade unions. The Coal India management had also forewarned the employees against the strike and also threatened about the days’ salary cut for those participating in the strike. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Thursday, Rajendra Paswan, area secretary of Bihar Colliery Kamgar Union affiliated to Central Industrial Trade Union (CITU) said, “We have reached at the CK railway siding area since early morning at around 5 am and stopped loading of coal in the railway rake in order to disrupt the rail transport of coal.” “The message of our protest is clear that we are not going to allow the commercialisation of coal mining which is aimed at benefitting the capitalist forces,” said Paswan. Echoing sentiments, district president of Central Industrial Trade Union, Hari Prasad Pappu said, “Our activists steered the workers everywhere to stop work as we are fighting against the anti-poor or anti-worker policy of the central government being executed through different steps like privatisation of public sector units.” He, however, charged the other trade unions of not making active participation in today’s strike and said, “Only CITU leaders were present on the ground in different collieries leading the workers but others were not in the sight.” Meanwhile, the employees of Life Insurance Corporation of India under the banner of Insurance Employees Association and postal department employees also took part in the strike along with the sales representatives of different pharmaceutical representatives. Hemant Mishra, Joint Secretary of Insurance Employee’s Association said, “We will protest against any attempt of the government to carry out the disinvestment of LIC of India as it the backbone of Indian economy which has a customer base of more than 40 crore people,” and added that they also demanded the review of the revision of salary of LIC and GIC employees through their strike on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-224
26-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dilapidated Jharia-Baliapur Road a nightmare for commuters||Travelling on the 8 km Jharia-Baliapur main road is a nightmare for a large number of commuters as large number of potholes and boulders are dotting its surface. More than one lakh residents of different parts of Jharia, Baliapur, and Nirsa block are compelled to risk their lives to pass through the road in routine. The worst condition of the road is on the 3 km section from Ghanudih in Jharia to Jairampur in Tisra Police Station area. The road is still awaiting its concretisation by coal company Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL) for several years. Aggrieved over the situation, local residents in association with a joint front of different trade unions have served an ultimatum to the BCCL management to carry out immediate repair of the road failing which they will be compelled to carry out disruption of coal transportation work from November 30. Talking to The Telegraph on Thursday, Yuddheshwar Singh, a local resident and area secretary of Bihar Colliery Kamgar Union affiliated to Central Industrial Trade Union said, “Not only the residents of Jharia and Baliapur but also the residents of neighbouring Bengal who visit the Jharia wholesale market using this road face the brunt of a bumpy ride on the road risking their lives.” “We are demanding the improvement of road condition for the past several years but only the stop-gap arrangement is made by BCCL management by filling the potholes occasionally with stones, earth, and soil which again meets the same fate,” said Singh. General Manager of Bastacola Area of BCCL in Jharia, Soumen Datta said, “As a large section of the road falls in the coal-bearing area from where smoke arises so we can’t make a permanent structure in the area but we have forwarded a proposal to our headquarters for the comprehensive repair of the road.” Echoing sentiments Tulsi Rawani, another resident of Jairampur area said, “Though the situation of the road from Jairampur to Baliapur is slightly better as the state government has concretised the road but Ghanudih to Jairampur section is worst hit.” “A large number of school students on school vans and buses pass through the road, along with ambulances carrying patients from remote areas,” said Rawani. “After the massive protest carried out in 2017, the BCCL management carried out reconstruction of the road and agreed that they will be carrying out the concretisation of the road after developing a diversion but no headway was made in this regard in the last four years,” said Rawani. “We will be using WBM technology which also known as Water Bound Macadame technology. Since this involves huge cost, it is taking some time to be cleared but we are hopeful that the project would soon see the ground,” added Datta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-224
26-11-2020||Jharkhand||Deoghar frames building norms keeping airport in mind||Construction of buildings in the Deoghar municipality region will now be regulated in view of the upcoming international airport in the temple town to facilitate smooth flying operations. Officials of Deoghar Municipal Corporation and Airports Authority of India on Thursday jointly announced the introduction of a color-coded zoning map in the entire region as per norms prescribed by the Director-General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). After missing the November deadline, flight operations from Deoghar airport is now expected to begin in the next couple of months. Talking to the media, Deoghar town commissioner S.K. Lal said the entire municipal area has been divided into seven colour-coded zones. “In red category, no civil work can take place without the prior approval of AAI. In yellow zone, maximum height of a building has been capped at 265 metre above the mean sea level, 275metre in pink zone, 285metre in grey zone, 295metre in blue zone, 325metre in orange zone, 355metre in green zone and 385metre in light blue zone. Any kind of construction will now have to abide by these restrictions and due clearances from AAI and civic body as and where needed.” Lal said the initial survey conducted in the entire municipal area revealed that currently none of the buildings are violating the colour coded norms. “Once the airport starts operating, there will be a boom in purchase of land for setting up hotels, resorts around its periphery and elsewhere. To curb unmindful construction in the interest of safe flying, we are gearing up to streamline the expansion of such activities,” he said, adding that the survey has identified a handful of obstructions in and around the airport which will be cleared on priority basis. For example, in Bhandarkela village in ward 34, a few structures are now in the red zone. “There is a toilet building of the municipal body, about 25 small residential houses and a 15-year-old private school. We have informed AAI. Based on their feedback, we will move to relocate them to other places,” said Lal. The town commissioner said the colour codes would be publicised through various media soon. “Thereafter, any construction which is found to be violating the colour-coded norms will be razed by the administration, besides initiating legal and punitive action,” he said. In September, the Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri had announced flight operations from Deoghar and Darbhanga—two regional airports centrally funded under UDAN scheme _ from the first week of November. While Darbhanga airport commenced operations, Deoghar lagged behind due to infrastructural gaps. However, earlier this week, deputy commissioner Manjunath Bhajantri, after reviewing the project, said the state government had prioritised clearing of all bottlenecks. The foundation stone of the Rs 401.34-crore Deoghar airport was laid by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 25, 2018. It is being developed by the Airports Authority of India in collaboration with the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and the Jharkhand government. The airport is spread over 653.75 acre and its terminal building is being built over an area of 4,000sqm, while the runway is 2,500 metre long. With an environment-friendly architectural design and state-of-the-art passenger facilities, the terminal building will be a composite structure inspired by the rising towers (shikhar) of the Baba Baidyanath temple. This will be Jharkhand’s second-largest airport after Birsa Munda International terminal in Ranchi and will be suitable for operation of Airbus A-320 type of aircraft.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-224
26-11-2020||Jharkhand||PIL filed in HC against Lalu over ‘phone call’ to BJP MLA||A PIL was filed in Jharkhand High Court on Thursday against incarcerated RJD chief Lalu Prasad after a purported audio recording of his alleged phone call to a BJP MLA to persuade him to join the UPA fold in Bihar went viral. Lawyer Rajeev Kumar filed the PIL to seek the court’s intervention since the use of a mobile phone by a prisoner was a blatant violation of the jail manual. The petition alleged that Lalu was making phone calls to BJP leaders with the intent to destabilise the Nitish Kumar-led NDA government in neighbouring Bihar. Soon after the PIL was filed, Lalu was moved from Kelly’s Bungalow, which is Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) director’s official residence, to the paying ward. Lalu was staying in the director’s palatial bungalow since September, and the newly-appointed RIMS director, Dr Kameshwar Prasad, has had to put up at a guest house. Kumar’s PIL also pointed out that the high court in the past had taken cognizance of instances wherein RIMS cottages were used by high-profile convicts for the purpose of enjoyment. Lalu, who is serving jail terms after his conviction in fodder scam cases, has been undergoing treatment at the state-run RIMS. He was shifted out of the paying ward to the director’s bungalow, also known as Kelly’s Bungalow, in August following doctors’ advice as a precautionary measure in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Opposition parties criticized this move, claiming that Lalu was not being treated as a prisoner. On Thursday, Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan issued a 24-hour ultimatum to the superintendent of Birsa Munda Central Jail in Ranchi, asking him to state categorically how and under what circumstances a mobile phone reached Lalu at RIMS. IG (Prisons) Birendra Bhushan said he had ordered an inquiry after hearing the purported audio recording of the conversation between Lalu and a BJP MLA in Bihar. “A prisoner is not allowed to use mobile phones. If the authenticity of the audio recording is proved, then an investigation will be initiated to find out how a mobile phone reached Lalu,” said Bhushan. Senior BJP leader and former deputy chief minister of Bihar Sushil Kumar Modi blew the whistle on the incident on Tuesday night after he claimed that Lalu had access to mobile phones, and followed it up by sharing an audio recording of a purported telephone conversation between Lalu and BJP Pirpainti MLA Lalan Paswan. A CBI court on December 23, 2017 convicted Lalu in a fodder scam case related to fraudulent withdrawal of Rs 89 lakh from the Deoghar treasury from 1991 to 1994 and sent him to jail. A month later, he was convicted in another fodder scam case and sentenced to five years imprisonment. Lalu was admitted to the cardiology wing of RIMS the next year after he complained of discomfort while serving imprisonment in the Birsa Munda Central Jail in Ranchi. Since then, he has been undergoing treatment at the hospital. In 2018, he was referred to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi from where he was later discharged and sent back to Ranchi. A hearing is scheduled on Friday on a bail petition filed by Lalu in a fodder scam case. His lawyer had earlier told the court that Lalu had served more than half of his imprisonment term.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-225
26-11-2020||Jharkhand||Cyclone effect: overcast sky, light showers at several places||A light drizzle amind an overcast sky replaced the dry and crisp northwesterly winds across Jharkhand on Thursday with the weather taking a sharp U-turn because of the severe cyclonic storm Nivar which originated from the Bay of Bengal and had landfall in the Tamil Nadu coast on Wednesday night. Several places including Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Daltonganj and Bokaro woke up to overcast conditions on Thursday. Some parts of northern Jharkhand, including Latehar, Garhwa, Godda and Chatra, experienced light showers on Thursday. IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre also issued a forecast of light rain in central Jharkhand on Thursday and Friday. Deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre Abhishek Anand said easterly winds were dominating over Jharkhand and that such a pattern was expected to continue for another 48 hours. "Jharkhand is under the influence of the severe cyclonic storm Nivar which is resulting in cloud formation and heavy moisture incursion. An induced cyclonic circulation over north-west Rajasthan was also impacting Jharkhand's weather. The twin weather systems would result in light rain at isolated places over Jharkhand during the next 24 hours, " said Anand. The Met department forecast also suggested a gradual fall in night temperature (by two to three degree Celsius) after 48-hours. Because of the adverse weather, days have become cooler while night temperatures have increased by a few notches. Statistics available from the Met department revealed that apart from Ranchi, night readings also witnessed a rise in Jamshedpur, Daltonganj, Bokaro, Dhanbad and many other districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-225
26-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad: premiere schools see dip in admissions||With no sign of resumption of classroom teachings in school, admission counters of the premiere schools of the district witness lesser rush for the admission of the next session beginning from March next year. The situation can be assumed from the fact that only one third to half of the LKG admission forms have been sold so far compared to last year of premiere CICSE affiliated schools. Admission into some of the CICSE affiliated schools including Carmel Schools and De Nobili Schools, observes maximum rush every year. Only around 600 LKG admission forms of De Nobili School, CMRI, have so far been sold since November 23, which is less than half compared to last year’s sale of over 1,400 forms. The school has 250 seats in LKG and form distribution is open till Saturday, November 28. Similar is the situation in other schools like Carmel School, Digwadih; Carmel School, Dhanbad and all ten branches of De Nobili School situated across the district. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Thursday, Principal of De Nobili School, CMRI, KA Joseph said, “Though we are the expecting more people to come during the next two days for taking the admission forms but there is no denial of the fact that the response of parents about admissions is relatively poor compared to last year.” “The only reason for this is the uncertainty regarding the resumption of classroom teaching in the schools during the next academic session as classroom teaching could not be held this year and only online teaching was conducted,” added Joseph. “We are fully prepared to launch classroom teaching at any point of time observing all the social distancing and Covid-19 protection norms but it will ultimately depend on the government’s decision and also the decision of the council (Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations),” stated Joseph. Echoing sentiments, Tanushree Banerjee, Principal of De Nobili School, Sijua said, “Yes indeed the form distribution this year is comparatively less. On November 23, the first day of form distribution, we had a large number of parents but the graph started diminishing gradually.” “The apprehension among the parents is quite palpable. Those who are coming to take forms have a lot of question like when the classes will be held, whether they have to pay the fee all at once or in installments, what will be fee structure, etc.,” said Banerjee and added that they are also not sure when the classroom teaching will begin. “We are, however, hopeful that things will improve gradually and by January a clearer picture will emerge. The majority of the parents feel that having the strong foundation of their children is quite important for their career,” said Banerjee. Ravi Ranjan Kumar, a resident of Bekarbandh locality who took admission form of Carmel School, Dhanbad for his daughter on Wednesday said, “Many of parents are indecisive as they are not sure whether classes will be held next year or not and others are not coming as family income has been affected. It is one of the most difficult times of our life.” Satyam Lala, another parent who took the LKG admission form of De Nobili School for his son said, “As classroom teaching could not be conducted this year in all schools due to Covid-19 constraints so all the parents are apprehensive about the situation and thus very few are coming for taking forms.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-225
26-11-2020||Jharkhand||Howrah-Barbil Jan Shatabdi Express to start services from Saturday ||The Howrah-Barbil Jan Shatabdi Express will resume services from November 28, Saturday, and go via Tatanagar station. The office of chief transportation traffic manager of South Eastern Railway issued a circular and time-table of the train which will run daily as It will run as Howrah-Barbil Special. The train, No. 02021, will leave Howrah daily at 6.20 am and reach Barbil at 12.55 pm. In its return journey, the train, 02022 Barbil-Howrah Special will leave Barbil daily at 1.45 pm and arrive at Howrah at 8.55 pm. The Up train will reach Tatanagar at 10 am while the return train will come to Tatanagar railway station at 4.42 pm. The train will have four AC chair cars and 14 general chair car coaches. The train will stop at Kharagpur, Ghatsila, Tatanagar, Chaibasa, Dongaposi, Noamundi and Barajamda stations between Howrah and Barbil. The return train will also stop at Santragachi. Notably, South Eastern Railway withdrew the train in September this year due to poor occupancy. The occupancy of the train was reduced to as low as 15 percent due to the pandemic and this was severely affecting railway revenues. " A decision was taken to resume the train as the situation has improved now. We are expecting a good number of passengers in the train like Steel Express which is currently running between Howrah and Tatanagar, " said Sanjay Ghosh, chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway. Jan Shatabdi was the only train available for people travelling between Jamshedpur and Calcutta till the second week of September. The train was withdrawn on September 12. Two other signature trains for a quick trip to Calcutta were the Steel Superfast Express and Ispat Express. Steel Express resumed services before Durga Puja last month, while the service of Ispat Express, between Howrah and Titlagarh via Tatanagar, is still suspended. Chhotanagpur Passenger Association expressed happiness over the decision to resume Jan Shatabdi. “Many passengers travelling between Jamshedpur and Calcutta opt for Jan Shatabdi because of its convenient timing. Regular passengers were feeling handicapped in the absence of the train, " said Arun Tiwari, general secretary of the association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-225
26-11-2020||Jharkhand||Recoveries outnumber fresh Covid cases in Jharkhand||The number of active cases of Covid-19 infection dropped below 800 on Wednesday in Ranchi, the worst affected district in Jharkhand, while the count of active cases in East Singhbhum jumped to 309, figures compiled by the state health department highlighted. As many as 237 fresh cases of infection surfaced in the state on Wednesday, while 316 patients recovered, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. Ranchi reported 92 fresh cases against 161 recoveries, which brought the total number of active cases in the district to 797. A month ago, there were around 1500 active cases of Covid-19 infection in Ranchi. Barring Chatra, all districts in Jharkhand reported fresh cases of Covid-19 on the day. However, at least 17 of the 24 districts in Jharkhand reported a single-digit-spike in Covid caseload, government data highlighted. Only three districts – East Singhbhum, Ranchi and Bokaro – had more than 100 active cases after Wednesday’s test results. The government on Wednesday tested swab samples of 17,593 people and more than 1 per cent of them were found infected. Health workers also collected 15,205 swab samples in 24 hours. As per government data, around 17,000 swab samples were pending for tests in Jharkhand. While the trajectory of active cases saw a downward trend, fatalities caused by Covid-19 virus continued to haunt Jharkhand on Wednesday. At least three Covid patients – one each in West Singhbhum, Deoghar and Hazaribag – died during treatment in the past 24 hours, taking the Covid toll in the state to 958, the NHM bulletin further stated. As per government data, the growth rate of Covid-19 in Jharkhand was 0.16 per cent against the national average of 0.42 per cent. The doubling rate of the virus was 440.05 days against the national doubling rate of 167 days. The Covid mortality rate in the state was 0.88 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. So far, the government has collected swab samples of 39.83 lakh people and tested 39.65 lakh of them. The Covid-19 tally in the state was 1,08,158 and at least 1,05,040 patients have recovered from the infection so far. The Covid recovery rate in the state was 97.11 per cent against the national average of 93.70 per cent, and at least 2,160 people were still battling the viral infection in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-225
