27-11-2020||Calcutta||This Month, That Year||2019: Two new police stations were inaugurated in New Town on November 27. One is near the Eiffel Tower replica at Eco Park and the second, called Technocity, is at a rented space near the Sukhobrishti complex of Action Area III. The older thana opposite Tata Medical Center remains. 1962: Social reformer Maharshi Karve dies on November 9, at the age of 104. This math professor of Maharashtra is best known for his efforts to promote women’s welfare, particularly widow remarriage. He married a widow himself. In 1958, in his centenary year, Karve was awarded the Bharat Ratna. 1996: The world’s deadliest mid-air collision occurs when Saudi Arabian Airlines Flight 763 (en route from Delhi to Dhahran, Saudi Arabia) and Kazakhstan Airlines Flight 1907 (en route from Chimkent, Kazakhstan, to Delhi) collide. The November 12 accident occurs west of Delhi and kills all 349 people on board both the planes. 2000: A long-standing demand of residents is fulfiled when Chhattisgarh is carved out of Madhya Pradesh to form the 26th state of India. The resource-rich state decides on Raipur as its capital and Ajit Jogi becomes the first chief minister. The state comes into being on November 1. 1970: About 5 lakh people die due to a tropical cyclone that hits East Pakistan and West Bengal on November 11. Named Bhola, the cyclone wind speed reaches 185km/hr and is the deadliest tropical cyclone ever recorded and one of the world’s deadliest natural disasters. The Pakistani government delays relief work and the opposition, Awami League led by Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, wins a landslide victory in the affected province in the election that takes place a month later. This leads to unrest with the central government and eventually leads to the Bangladesh Liberation War.2005: Donald Watson, who coined the term ‘vegan’ and was one of the founders of the The Vegan Society in 1944, dies on November 16, aged 95. As a child, Watson was horrified to see the slaughtering of a pig on his uncle’s farm and became a vegetarian at the age of 14. Believing dairy products to also be unethical, he gave them up four years later and dedicated his life to stop the exploitation of animals. 1859: The first ever trapeze routine (representative picture above) is performed at Cirque Napoleon winter circus, Paris, by Jules Leotard on 12 November. Leotard was the son of a gymnastics instructor who ran a swimming pool and the man would practise his routines over the pool. He also introduced a one-piece knitted garment suitable for the trapeze that came to be known as the ‘leotard’, after himself. 2019: Fifteen-year-old Shafali Verma breaks Sachin Tendulkar’s 30-year record of becoming youngest Indian to score a 50 in international cricket. Tendulkar was 16 when he scored his half-century against Pakistan; Verma was 15 years and 285 days when she smashed 73 off 49 balls in her first T20 International against West Indies on November 13. The Haryana-born teenager’s innings included six fours and four sixes and helped India win the match by 84 runs.  2001: After a string of successful books, the first film under the Harry Potter banner, Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone releases on November 4. Directed by Chris Columbus, it is based on the first book of the series by author J.K. Rowling. The film becomes the highest-grosser of the year and makes stars of the actors playing the leads like Daniel Radcliffe as Harry and Emma Watson as Hermione etc.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-224
27-11-2020||Calcutta||Online show after ghot puja low ||If residents of New Town’s CD Block were feeling low about having to worship a simple ghot in place of an idol this Durga puja, because of Covid-induced restrictions, their online Vijaya Sammelani tried to revive their spirit. Ruma Baul began with a Brahmosangeet and Somsuddha Palit recited a self-composed poem titled Muktir Khoje. “This was the first time I saw a ghot puja being performed. But since the camaraderie among neighbours is strong, I never felt the absence of the idol and didn’t feel the urge to go pandal-hopping either,” said the IT professional. Rita Basu recited Suvo Dasgupta’s poem Ekdin while Patralekha Mukherjee sang Ami Banglay gaan gai, the Pratul Mukhopadhyay composition, and recited a portion of Tagore’s Pujarini. Sukla Dasgupta sang two songs — Mon cheyechhe ami hariye jabo  and Aj jibon khuje pabi — and that too over microphone at home. “This is the first time that I used a mic for an online show. Actually I wanted to feel like I was on stage. Nothing can equal that satisfaction,” said the lady who was a graded artiste on All India Radio, Jhargram. Kabita Sarkar sang two folk numbers and Purba Kar read out an excerpt from Meghnad Badh Kavya, related to the slaying of Ravana and its connection with Dussehra. After a period of wait because of technical hitches, the organisers could bring in their guest artiste, Aparajita Saha, a disciple of Sipra Basu, who started off her presentation with a bhajan. “Such shows boost our spirit at a time when we are getting bored and depressed staying home,” she said. The event concluded with a Lata Mangeshkar cover by Swati Bairagi. The event was co-ordinated and compered by Sithi Kana Ghatak, cultural convenor of the puja. “Despite going minimal with our puja, we encouraged residents, especially the elderly and the children, to perform cultural activities. Later, we compiled and uploaded performances by both age groups separately on YouTube for all to watch. We wasn’t everyone to feel involved,” said the lady who herself recited a section of Michael Madhusudan Dutt’s poem Atmabilap and her own work Debir Kailashgamon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-224
27-11-2020||Calcutta||New York to next door||CJ Block streamed cultural programmes on Saptami and Ashtami evenings on its Facebook page to keep residents entertained in the absence of on-stage cultural programmes this year. The virtual platform allowed an NRI Nandini Kundu Guha to participate. The lady, who danced to the Tagore song Anandaloke Mangaloke, lives in New York now but her parents Ashis and Malabika Kundu are residents of CJ Block. "Trained by Ranjabati Sircar, she would perform in block programmes when she lived in Salt Lake,” they said. While most virtual cultural programmes had to do away with plays this year, CJ Block managed to pull off one for Durga puja. The participants here had no problem gathering as they belonged to the same family. Unlock was staged by a four-member family of parents, son and daughter. An apt subject to explore in the present times, Unlock told the story of  how parents, visiting their son and daughter-in-law, behave when stuck at home due to lockdown. Uneasiness of both the generations comes to the fore when they have to share space for a longer duration. Susmita Mukherjee, who plays the mother, wrote the script. “I felt the need to highlight this topic as many parents were stuck with their children settled outside the state, or vice versa. I tried to show how the generation gap plays its part in relationships. But I chose to give it a happy ending,” said Susmita. The family got just a day to rehearse together but for the Mumbai-based son, Sourya, and Bangalore-based daughter, Sayanti (who played the daughter-in-law), the short preparation was not a hiccup as they had performed as a family before. “Sourya had arrived early on leave and Sayanti landed just before Puja. I had shared the script with all in advance, including my doctor-husband Sandip, so we could prepare on our own,” said Susmita, who has been writing short stories since school. The lockdown also gave retired engineer K.L. Sanyal time to complete a book on outer space, titled Onno Prithibir Khoje, and he went online to share his thoughts with his neighbours. “It took me almost four months to finish the book, including the research on it,” he said, while being interviewed by the block’s cultural secretary Debabrata Das. The conversation was streamed online as part of the cultural programme. The 1964 Bengal Engineering College graduate is a fan of Arthur C. Clarke and his science fiction novel 2001: A Space Odyssey. He is now writing as a full-time hobby and has completed another novel, Pretinir Prem. “In school, my poems and stories would regularly get published in the annual magazine,” he said. Twin sisters, Srinika and Srihitha Mukherjee of Class III, put up a dance recital on Saptami. “Both learn Odissi and were very disappointed as cultural programmes were not being held this Puja. But when they learnt that they could still perform, albeit in front of the camera, they were very excited. I choreographed the dance with tips picked up from YouTube. The pandemic taught me this skill,” said Moumita, their mother. Law professional Srijani Bhattacharya Mukherjee presented an agomoni song on Ashtami. Singing against the backdrop of the Durga idol at home, Srijani said she initially had planned to dance but could not manage due to paucity of time. “Cultural shows are an intrinsic part of the Pujas but since we couldn’t organise them on stage this year we decided to hold them virtually. After all, Zoom meetings are the new normal. So we had some pre-recorded and some interactive virtual events. The end result has been good,” said Das.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-224
27-11-2020||Calcutta||Stink of garbage vat promise not kept||lMy house was built 30 years ago and later on, a housing complex got built on the opposite side. The trouble is that their garbage vat faces the road and in effect, my house. The offensive vat is not cleared regularly or even twice a week. Last time, it was cleared after a span of 10 days! I am 89 years of age, my wife is 80, and we are unable to contact the ward boys or the councillor every time it needs to be emptied out. Why are we made to suffer for someone else’s refuse? The Left-run civic board went on promising for seven or eight years that they would dismantle this vat, but nothing happened. Now the Trinamul-run board is repeating history. The chairperson, board of administrators (formerly mayor), said at a meeting with residents at CK-CL community hall that it had decided to seal the vat, but now she has changed her mind. The logical solution is for vats of housing quarters to be cleared from inside their boundary walls. Even in foreign countries, I have seen this to be the norms. Sankar Prasad Ghosal,  CL Block||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-224
27-11-2020||Calcutta||Life certificates to be received at Snehodiya||The New Town Kolkata Development Authority(NKDA) has planned to start a camp at Snehodiya from December 1 where pensioners can deposit their life certificates. Pensioners have to deposit the certificate every November to their pension disbursing agency (bank or post office) in person as proof of their survival to continue to receive their pensions from the government. This year, in view of the pandemic, senior citizens are wary of queuing up at banks or post offices. NKDA has tied up with the State Bank of India to offer the service. The facility will be offered to senior citizens irrespective of which bank they hold their pension account with at the Snehodiya Activity Centre every day from noon to 2pm, except Sundays. According to NKDA sources, pensioners will be let in one at a time into the activity centre of Snehodiya while others can wait outdoor in the lawn in chairs. “The pensioner has to bring his or her pension payment order, Aadhaar card, pension account number and the mobile phone, which is linked to the account,” said an official. India Post has launched a doorstep delivery service, through its India Post Payments Bank, to generate digital life certificates (Jeevan Pramaan) by having postmen visit pensioners at home. While the Action Area III post office is offering the service in New Town, in Salt Lake it is being done by CC Block and Sech Bhavan post offices for a fee of Rs 70. The central government has extended the last date for submitting life certificates to February 28.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-224
27-11-2020||Calcutta||Soumitra’s visit to BB-BC block for shoot inspires puja theme||The Jagaddhatri puja at BB-BC Park this year was themed around Soumitra Chatterjee. Not only did the decor use pictures of the late actor but they also screened three of his best-known movies outside the pandal. “Initially we were mulling whether to hold the puja at all this year, given the pandemic. Once we decided to go ahead, we searched for a theme as we use one every year. With the demise of the great actor, we thought this would be the right theme,” said Sushanta Saha, treasurer of Bidhannagar (Salt Lake) Kishore Sangha, that holds the puja in an empty plot next to BB-BC Park. There was another reason for the organisers to choose the theme they did. “Soumitra had come to this very park for the shooting of Sanjhbati last year. The house the film was shot at is right behind the puja pandal. There was a huge crowd to see Dev, Paoli Dam, Lily Chakravarty and, of course, Soumitra. However, we were never allowed to go up close and interact with them. But we are happy to have built the pandal on the ground that Soumitra must have walked on,” said secretary Surajit Pal. Outside the pandal, the organisers installed a giant screen with pictures of the actor as border. “On Sunday evening, we played his songs, dialogues and recitation and on Monday, we screened Sonar Kella,” says Saha. On Tuesday, they screened Jhinder Bondi and Basanta Bilap and visitors were free to occupy the chairs placed at safe distances and enjoy the shows. Sonar Kella drew the highest crowd, of about 40 people. “Many kids had come and even the elderly who wanted to revisit their childhood,” Saha said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-224
27-11-2020||Calcutta||Kali puja vignettes from across the twin townships||The coronavirus may have turned all pandals into containment zones this year, because of the high court ruling to that effect, but it also gave Nayapatty Aditya Smriti Sangha in Sector V its theme for Kali puja. The club, in its 28th year, chose the theme ‘Deepabolir aloy hok mohamarir binas’ (May the pandemic be destroyed by the light of Diwali). The walls of the passage to the pandal were lined with tiny spiked spheres representing the virus. A giant virus, about six feet in diameter and looking even more sinister being bathed in a red light, was visible above the arch of the pandal. A trident pierced it from below. The choppers in each of the goddess’s eight hands had chopped a virus each. The two remaining hands in front held a mask and a sanitiser in each.  “The club traditionally worships a 10-handed Kali, instead of the traditional four. And such was the theme that the goddess, I thought, would look even more powerful against the virus if she had 10 hands,” said Nayan Metya, the theme-maker who has been in charge of the club’s pandal for eight years now. Over 700 masks have been used in the pandal. “They were new masks. When we were dismantling the pandal, some locals took away a few for their use,” he smiled. In any other year, a catchy theme like this would have found takers during Jagaddhatri puja but there was no scope to recycle this time. “Budgets are so low everywhere that few could afford a theme.” The virus, along with the rest of the decor, therefore, are back in his Tamluk workshop.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-225
27-11-2020||Calcutta||Mop-up drive for pulse polio on Sunday||Children who have missed out on the oral polio vaccination dose last Sunday can avail of the facility free of cost next Sunday when a mop-up drive will be conducted across New Town. Health workers will conduct camps from 11am to 2pm at specified sites (see box). Children from any locality can avail of the facility. As part of the sub-national immunisation day drive, children under the age of five are being administered polio doses across the twin townships. In New Town, the drive is being conducted by New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) in association with the primary health centre of Rekjuani block in Rajarhat. The entire NKDA jurisdiction is being covered along with the commando hub in Jothbhim in Action Area III and the Border Security Force camp in Sector V. “We have 1,090 children in this age group registered with NKDA and another 43 in the additional areas we are covering. Vaccination took place last Sunday both at the booth level and door to door. About 600 children are expected to be covered next Sunday,” an official said. The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation (BMC), too, undertook a five-day polio drive from Sunday. But because of the pandemic situation,  there was no booth day to avoid public gathering.  Health workers did the rounds from door to door. There are over 39,600 children aged under five in the BMC area, of which by Tuesday 25,447 were covered, according to civic body sources. Children in India have to be administered two drops of oral polio vaccine six times — at birth, at six weeks, at 10 weeks, at 14 weeks, between 18 and 24 months and by the age of five years. ⚫ AD Park  ⚫AI Park ⚫ Sonar Kella Park in BA Block ⚫ CB Park ⚫ Unlock park at Biswa Bangla Gate ⚫ Bisarjan Ghat ⚫Tarulia Refugee Rehabilitation site ⚫ NBCC and CE Park ⚫ Balaka Abasan ⚫ Aloka Abasan ⚫ Eco Urban Village ⚫ Greenwood Sonata ⚫ City Centre 2 ⚫Uniworld City ⚫ Sukhobrishti||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-225
27-11-2020||Calcutta||Trafficking survivor helps others||A woman in her late twenties has counselled scores of teenage trafficking survivors rescued from brothels and hotels. Before the pandemic, she had been taking them to schools and stitching classes from government homes. Occasionally, she also accompanied them to courts to testify against their tormentors. Maya (name changed) has been earning her living for the past several years, first as a nanny and then as a freelance beautician. She is also one of the several mentors for young survivors at an anti-trafficking NGO. But there are few like her. In February 2009, she was rescued from an East Midnapore hotel — owned by a notorious trafficker who used it as a front for running a brothel — along with some other women. A resident of a village in South 24 Parganas, she was trafficked by a neighbour and landed at the hotel off NH41. In March 2013, the man and four other traffickers were sentenced to 10 years in jail in a landmark judgment by a court in Haldia. Before the verdict, Maya had looked her tormentor in the eye while testifying against her. The legal fight was tedious but Maya was firm. She also provided the police and prosecutors with information that strengthened the case. Metro called her around 11am on Wednesday. She was busy at work. Around 10pm the same day, she was busy on a call with a young survivor. She was finally able to speak around 12.30pm on Thursday. “I wanted to have him (the hotel owner) punished so badly that after the verdict, I started feeling a void,” Maya told Metro over the phone. But seven years have changed a lot in her. A few minutes into the conversation, Maya said she did not like going back to her past. “I want to live in the present. That is what I tell young survivors to do,” she said. “Counselling one young survivor, so that she is ready to forget her past and start life afresh is as gratifying as having my tormentor punished,” she added. Maya said earning the trust of a survivor was the most difficult job. Persuading them to study, take up a computer course or explaining the need to believe in the legal system becomes much easier once their trust is earned, she said. Many of them are lured with false promises by loved ones or close relatives. “The trust is shattered and it takes them a while to come to terms with that. Then, they are tortured every day. Even after they are rescued, they find it impossible to trust another person,” she said. Maya can relate with survivors — even those in deep trauma. She was 16 then. She had spent a few months at the hotel and was pregnant when rescued. Today, she is raising her child independently. The number of rescues has gone down in the wake of the pandemic. She had a far busier schedule with IJM a year ago than she has now. Earning a living and charting her own course take up the bulk of her time now. “The owner of the hotel where she was kept is one of the most dreaded traffickers we have ever come across. He ran the brothel with impunity and thrived on the terror he invoked in the women,” said an official of International Justice Mission’s Calcutta arm that has been working alongside government agencies to rescue and rehabilitate victims of sex trafficking and prosecute offenders since 2006. Before being caught in 2011, the hotel owner had survived six previous police raids. He would be tipped of in the nick of time before every raid, said the IJM official. Maya was herself traumatised when rescued. It took her months to regain her composure but once she did, she did not look back. On Wednesday, IJM officials retold Maya’s story to a fresh group of survivors to mark the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. “Each survivor is unique. But Maya is rare. The abuse she had been subjected to was not common, even in the business of trafficking. Her mental strength is also hard to match,” said Anju Sherpa, a social worker with the IJM who had counselled Maya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-225
27-11-2020||Calcutta||Botanic to open on December 1||The Indian Botanic Garden in Shibpur will be open again for morning walkers from December 1. The garden has been closed since March 15 because of the Covid pandemic. According to instructions from the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change, the premises will remain open only for morning walkers from 5.30am to 7.30am, an official of the garden said. Walkers will be encouraged to buy e-tickets and pay the entry fee through the Bharat Kosh portal (https://bharatkosh.gov.in). Visitors will be allowed entry on production of a downloaded or printed version of the e-receipt, along with a valid identity card of the morning walker. Sale of tickets from counters will continue, too. People above the age of 65 and those with comorbidities, pregnant women and children below 10 have been advised not to enter the garden for now. No visitor will be allowed after 7.30am and those who have entered the garden before that time will be asked to leave by 7.30am. All visitors have to wear masks and their body temperature will be checked by thermal scanners at the gate. Those found running a temperature will not be allowed entry. Markings have been made at the entrance, in front of the ticket counter and washrooms and on benches in the garden for visitors to maintain a safe distance among themselves. Covered bins have been placed all over the garden for disposal of used masks. “Touching of barricades and other surfaces will be actively discouraged,” a garden official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-225
27-11-2020||Calcutta||Parents thanked for paying full fees||A school on the northern fringes of the city has sent out letters of appreciation to the parents who have not availed themselves of the fee waiver scheme. As many as 400 of the 1,600-odd parents of the students of Julien Day School Ganganagar have not opted for the waiver and the school has thanked them for “their support and cooperation” in such “trying times” by sending them an e-certificate. “Thank you so much Sir/Madam for your timely support & cooperation to the JDS (Julien Day School) family during these trying times for not availing of the fee waiver. It means a lot,” said the certificate of appreciation addressed to the parents individually. The letters are being sent online to the parents. Hard copies will be handed over to them later. “These are hard times for the school as well as for the parents. There are some parents who did not lose out on their salaries and are not taking advantage of the waiver. At this time there are parents who stand by the school and so we appreciate them,” said Julian Glynn Broughton, the chairman of the Julien Day Group of Schools. The idea came from the principal of the Ganganagar branch, but it will be implemented by the other three schools of the group (in Calcutta, Howrah and Kalyani), Broughton said. Calcutta High Court had said in an order: “Parents and guardians of students are requested not to avail of the reduction in schools fees if their financial situation does not merit the reduction. However, if any set of guardians or parents obtains the benefit, no questions in such regard can be asked.” “The school needs to give a token of appreciation to parents if they support the school in such a crisis,” said Bobby Baxter, the principal of Julien Day School, Ganganagar. “Some of the parents said their small contributions will help teachers get their full salary.” The school has also been receiving applications for further waivers from parents who are finding it difficult to pay the revised fees because of their financial constraints. Julien Day School, Calcutta, will soon be giving certificates of appreciation to the parents. “Not all parents are opting for waivers…. We plan to appreciate the effort of such parents,” said Colleen Smith, the principal of Julien Day School, Calcutta, which has over 1,000 students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-225
27-11-2020||Calcutta||8 macaws rescued||Eight macaws were rescued on Thursday while they were allegedly being smuggled from Bangladesh, a BSF officer said. BSF officers posted along the India-Bangladesh border near Tentulberia, in North 24-Parganas, rescued the birds, which were crammed into wooden boxes. The birds have been sent to Alipore zoo.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-225
27-11-2020||Calcutta||Memories of date with Diego||Class XII student Aritra Sarkar played for his school for four years but it is a pass received in December 2017 that remains his biggest moment. That tap came from Diego Maradona, who was there to inaugurate a stadium at his school. Gourabdeep Bhattacharjee touched his left shoulder on waking up on Thursday, recalling it was there that Maradona’s head had rested when the latter had given him a hug in December 2008. Calcuttans, bewitched by Maradona magic since the 1986 Mexico World Cup, are mourning the passing of the prince of football who had visited the city twice in the recent past. And for those lucky enough to have crossed his path on those visits and those who have only marvelled at his left foot from afar, the pain is almost personal. “The news is as hard to accept as it was to believe that he was coming to our school. In fact, I did not till I saw him take the field with us,” said Aritra, a student of Aditya Academy Senior Secondary School. At the stadium near Barasat, which on Thursday was renamed after the legend who had inaugurated it, Maradona had held a workshop with the students. “He gestured at us to take shots at the goal as he passed the ball to each. The first time the goalie blocked my shot. When I succeeded in scoring the second time, he shook my hand. It was like a dream,” Aritra recalled. Though Maradona could not play the match against Sourav Ganguly’s team afterwards due to injury, he took the field on and off for either side, he added. But it was not easy to get him on the field. “He would not let go of the mic. He simply kept singing one song after another with Charles Anthony, a musician we had flown over from Kerala who was belting out Spanish numbers,” recalled Satadru Dutta, the tour organiser. Music cooled down the temperamental soccer star. “I knew that Maradona loved music. So every time we needed him to do something, we got Charles to sing and then tell him the needful. That man saved us!” So unpredictable was Maradona that the 2017 trip almost did not happen. “The day he signed the contract my son was born and I named him Diego.  Maradona was delighted to know that. Yet he changed his mind about the visit later and had to be persuaded again,” said Dutta, who had met the Argentine in Buenos Aires and again in Dubai to seal the tour deal. Not one to take a chance, Dutta picked him up from his Dubai home to bring him to Calcutta. “But he went missing at Al Majlis, the VIP lounge of the airport.  When we found him shopping, he argued that the flight would not depart without him. Another 10 minutes’ delay, and it would have! At Dum Dum, he refused to give his fingerprint at the immigration counter, offering his footprint instead, which he said people usually take. His girlfriend made him see reason after I told her he could be jailed.” The trip to the Barasat stadium was difficult. “I had told him it would take 20 minutes from his New Town hotel but it took 45. Towards the latter part of the ride, he kept banging the back of my seat, yelling ‘20 minutes’.” He could be pleased just as easily. “He was so happy with the stadium event that he hugged me later. In fact, seeing the hotel suite named Maradona had also delighted him and I got a kiss on the cheek. Even earlier, in Dubai, he had gifted me a wristband,” said Dutta, adding that the Pele trip he had organised in 2015 had been a cakewalk for him in comparison to managing Maradona. In 2008, when Maradona came on invitation from the sports department, Gourabdeep was at the airport to receive him at night along with thousands. “The next day, (former goalkeeper) Sibaji Banerjee and I handed him a golden boot on behalf of Salt Lake Club Samannay Committee during his felicitation. He had hugged me then,” he said, recalling seeing the wizard juggle a ball in front of a packed stadium soon afterwards. The next day, he went to meet Jyoti Basu. “He said Fidel Castro, whom he considered a second father, had told him that Basu was his friend. He was supposed to spend 10 minutes but got so engrossed seeing an album with pictures of Castro’s Calcutta visit that he spent two hours there. Our 2009 club calendar was printed with the pictures I took of his.” Sculptor Sushanta Ray’s moment of glory was when Maradona embraced the wax statue of the legend that he had created. “It was with the ball I had placed at the foot of the statue that he juggled that day. Many had offered me money for it but I have not parted with the ball,” the Asansol artiste said emotionally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-225
27-11-2020||Calcutta||CMC uploads data from comorbidity survey||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation on Thursday completed uploading on its server the data from the comorbidity undertaken two months ago. The survey, aimed at further fine tuning the state government’s Covid response, was held from September 7 to 30. An official of the civic body said the data of 7.36 lakh households had been uploaded on the server. The data collected from about 34,500 households could not be uploaded as the forms were incomplete. The surveyors had visited 7.69 lakh households, as part of the study undertaken by the Covid Care Network (an organisation of medical professionals, volunteers and people who recovered from Covid-19), state health department and the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC). “Since the forms of 7.69 lakh households had been submitted by the surveyors, we thought all households gave information about comorbidities. But while uploading data, we found about 4.5 per cent of those forms were incomplete,” said the official of the CMC. The CMC had first decided to upload the entire set of data by Durga Puja. The deadline was later extended to October 31, but even that was missed. The next part will be analysis of the data. “We will meet Covid Care Network officials to decide on the analysis,” said a CMC official. A doctor said comorbidities were diseases that impacted the workings of vital organs. A person with one or more comorbid conditions can develop complications if he or she contracts a new disease. The data will show how many Calcuttans or what percentage of the total population of the city had comorbidities when the survey was done. Health workers in each of the 144 wards carried forms to record whether a respondent had kidney disease, heart disease, liver disease or tuberculosis. The respondents were also asked whether they had diabetes, COPD or hypertension. This was the first time a survey was conducted among Calcuttans on comorbidities. Doctors said people with comorbidities had been found to be more vulnerable to Covid-19. “Whenever someone tests positive for Covid-19, we can check from the server whether the person has comorbidities. Someone with comorbidities may need more attention and we will tailor our response accordingly,” said the CMC official. The data will also help in preparing a list of people who should be given priority for Covid-19 vaccination, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-225
27-11-2020||Calcutta||Strike  fails to  have  impact||⚫ Central Avenue at 11am: A shutter of Central Metro station was downed by strike supporters ⚫ Garia and Barasat between 9am and 9.30am: Two buses were stopped and the passengers were asked to alight. A tyre of one of the buses was deflated. ⚫ Jadavpur at 9am and mid-afternoon: Local trains were disrupted. Some students played football outside Jadavpur University, disrupting traffic on the main road. The majority of Calcuttans stepped out of their homes like on other work days despite disruptions in pockets of the city. Shops and markets were open, pubs and restaurants welcomed customers and government and private offices bore little impact of the strike. A few banks were closed, but some remained operational. All ATM kiosks were open. People could avail themselves of public transport like on other days to reach their workplaces and return home. There were only a handful of exceptional cases where protestors had disrupted movement. For Aditi Agarwal, 32, a Salt Lake resident, it was a normal day which she spent shopping clothes and groceries. Agarwal first drove down to Axis Mall in New Town, where she shopped for groceries. Then she drove to City Centre in Salt Lake, around 7.5km away. “Although I spent most of the afternoon driving around, I was not stopped anywhere. It felt pretty much like a normal day,” said Aditi. Prakash Maity, who works in a store at New Market, said he had no problem reaching his workplace from Garia in a government bus he had boarded from Garia. Rahul Mehra, a resident of Patuli, drove to his office on Russell Street like on other days without being stopped, he said. Hundreds of people travelled by Metro without the fear of being stranded or stopped. Sourav Das, who runs a resto pub in New Town, near City Centre II, said his place followed the normal schedule, opening at 10.30am and closing at 11:30pm. He said he had families and groups of friends walking in for lunch and the footfall went up after 6pm. “We cannot afford to keep the establishment closed given that Covid-19 has left an impact and have hit sales. Things are picking up and people are stepping out for lunch and dinner,”said Das. He said he had heard that bandh supporters had forced some shops to shut down in the nearby Chinar Park, but he did not face any problems. Nor did anyone ask him to close his establishment for the day. There were a few instances of disruptions in the city, but life went back to normal in those pockets once the protestors left. Raja SC Mullick Road was blocked for some time as Jadavpur University students started playing football blocking the thoroughfare. However, there were no reports of violence or forcible implementation of the strike in Jadavpur. Earlier in the day, a few protestors had forced passengers to alight from a bus near Garia, triggering protests from a group of men and women who were getting late for office. “This is no way to register protest. They deflated a tyre. What can anyone gain by stopping people like us from going to office? Offices have just started opening and we cannot afford to be late,” said an angry passenger, who took an autorickshaw after he was forced to get off the bus. The city police arrested 140 men and women from across the city for trying to disrupt life. They were taken to the central lock-up at Lalbazar, from where they were released on personal bond, police said. A senior officer at Lalbazar said police arrangements had been made across the city from 7am but the disruption was negligible.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-225
27-11-2020||Calcutta||Nurse shortage hits homecare||An increased demand for homecare and nursing assistance has left many Covid patients in Calcutta who are getting discharged from hospital without help even as family members are desperately calling up homecare service providers. Several such agencies who provide trained nurses and attendants for patients said the demand had gone up by more than 20 per cent in the past couple of weeks. Most of them are attributing it to a rise in the number of non-Covid cases. A 70-year-old woman in Kasba was treated at a private hospital off EM Bypass with Covid for 10 days. On Wednesday, she was discharged after doctors found her condition stable. However, she is extremely weak and is unable to even go to the washroom and needs assistance for eating. “For two days we have been calling up homecare and local centres which provide untrained assistants. The centres said they could not provide one for a Covid patient who has not tested negative, while professional homecare centres said they would not be able to provide an assistant before a couple of days,” said a relative of the woman. The problem is mostly with elderly people who were admitted to hospital with moderate to severe symptoms of Covid and need professional assistance at home. “We are getting many calls from family members of both Covid and non-Covid patients, but the demand has gone up so much in the last few weeks that in most cases we are needing one to two days to provide a caregiver,” said Kalpataru Banerjee, a general physician with Buurtzorg India, a Netherlands-based agency providing nursing care at home. The agency has about 40 nurses and attendants in Calcutta. On Thursday evening, there was just one male attendant available, said Banerjee. He said the demand had gone up because many non-Covid patients are now undergoing surgeries and procedures and are requiring assistance and nursing care at home. Covid patients, he said, mostly need assistance, rather than clinical care, because of extreme weakness. However, some with comorbidities need clinical care, too. Apollo Home Healthcare has about 120 nurses at its Calcutta unit. On Thursday, all were engaged. “We had to refuse several people who called us to hire a nurse,” said Souvik Bhattacharya, the unit head of Apollo Home Healthcare, Calcutta. Bhattacharya said one main reason for the shortage was that trained nurses usually did not want to join such agencies where career options are limited. “Most nurses who have the ANM (Auxiliary Nursing Midwifery) and GNM (General Nursing and Midwifery) degrees prefer to join hospitals because the career prospects there are better. Only a few join homecare agencies because they are offered more money,” said Bhattacharya. So, there is always a shortage of nurses for homecare and the high demand during the Covid pandemic has only aggravated the crisis. Nabarun Saha of Portea Home and Healthcare Service said in the last 15 days the demand had gone up significantly for nurses and attendants. Till last month, the agency would get new demand for nurses and attendants every alternate day. Now, every day they get two or three new requests. Also, before the pandemic, private hospitals would provide nurses to take care of critical patients at home after discharge. That has stopped now because of a shortage of nurses. “We are facing an acute shortage of nurses because many have recently joined government hospitals, while some have been assigned to Covid wards,” said the CEO of a private hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-225
27-11-2020||Calcutta||JU dept head asks for rooms  for classes||The head of Jadavpur University’s physics department has written to vice-chancellor Suranjan Das to provide additional rooms for theory and laboratory classes for MSc students “on an urgent basis”. Sukhen Das wrote in the letter, sent to the VC on Wednesday, that in the absence of additional space, “it will be almost impossible to continue theory and laboratory classes for PG students, especially in this pandemic situation” once on-campus classes resume. “We earnestly request you to provide us at least two classrooms and two rooms for laboratories for PG students on an urgent basis so that it can accommodate 45 students. Otherwise it will be almost impossible to continue theory and laboratory classes for PG students — especially in this pandemic situation,” he has written. The VC said: “I have forwarded the letter to the university’s space committee. Let the committee send its report.” Sukhen Das sent the letter at a time the science faculty students’ union has been insisting on accommodating all students who have passed BSc from the university in the master’s programmes, even if it meant creating additional seats. “We cannot do without in-person classes in science for long, as visiting a lab is a must for pursuing science. But we cannot ask students to attend classes in cramped rooms or labs, as that will invite health hazards,” the head of the department told Metro. “I am amazed to learn that the students’ union is demanding creation of additional seats to absorb all internal students even as we are struggling with the existing infrastructure.” For the 45 students studying each in MSc first year and MSc second year, there are two classrooms and three rooms which serve as labs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-226
27-11-2020||Calcutta||CM blames railway for bridge delay||The Majerhat bridge could have been inaugurated nine months ago had the railway not delayed providing the necessary permission, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Thursday. “We have been meeting (the railway) every day for nine months seeking clearance for the project. Paye dhoreychhi je clearance dao (Have held their feet seeking clearance),” Mamata said at Nabanna. “This could have been done nine months back. The railway didn’t give permission at the right time. For over two years people of Behala and south Calcutta have suffered so much.” The chief minister made the statement on a day some BJP supporters held a rally at Majerhat demanding the opening of the bridge. The Majerhat bridge, which has replaced the one that collapsed in September 2018, has cleared a “load test”. The state government can fix a date for inauguration after the railway gives its nod. The BJP supporters gathered around the bridge and started pulling down guardrails that have been put up to prevent any movement along the service roads around the bridge for safety reasons. Some allegedly attacked the police and damaged two-wheelers parked along the road. “We tried telling the protesters that the guardrails had been put up to restrict movement around the bridge and prevent any mishap,” a police officer said. “But they refused to listen and kept pulling them down.” With the peak-hour traffic hit by the agitation — on a day when the Left-backed unions were observing a state-wise bandh — a strong contingent of police arrived and shoved away the protesters, led by Kailash Vijayvargiya, the party’s national general secretary. The police removed him but the leader claimed he was arrested. “For nine months the railway didn’t give permission (for the project), were the BJP party workers sleeping then?” Mamata asked. “The PWD has completed its task. But it is still not ready. There are some technical points that the railway has to clear because of the railway tracks below.” The chief minister made it clear that the delay was not because of the state but for the Centre. “The delay is because of the BJP’s politics. Residents of Behala and other areas have been harassed… There are some clearances (from the railways) that are still required and it will take around seven days. Since railway tracks are below we have to take clearance (from the railway). So it is (the inauguration of the bridge) is not in our hands.” PWD officials said they were hoping for a quick response from the railway since a team of engineers had visited the bridge when the load test was on. State PWD minister Aroop Biswas said the railways should not delay the clearance as the central utility had supervised the construction of the bridge over the railway tracks. “We have given a total of Rs 33.29 crore to the railways…. Of which, Rs 7.30 crore was given for supervising construction of the bridge. Now, they should not delay the approval to inaugurate the bridge as they themselves have supervised the construction,” said Biswas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-226
27-11-2020||Calcutta||Salt Lake: LED lights to boost winter blooms ||If you are travelling by the Biswa Bangla Gate crossing towards Sector V in the evening, on looking leftward your eye would catch a luminous glow over the median of the road that goes towards Balaka Abasan. Come January and this is where chrysanthemums would bloom in a riot of colours. The Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) is harvesting a two-acre stretch of the median divider with chrysanthemum and tuberose plants. The chrysanthemum bed has been lit up with LED lamps at a height of 2.5ft. “The lights will be turned on for the next 25 days from 6pm to 10pm. According to experts from the Bidhan Chandra Krishi Vishwavidyalaya (BCKV), this will boost their growth,” said Hidco chairman Debashis Sen, as he switched on the lights on Saturday evening, on the occasion of Diwali. Explaining the grow-light technology, BCKV associate professor Tapas Kumar Chowdhuri said: “Chrysanthemum needs 14 hours of light for its growth. With daylight hours reduced in winter, photosynthesis is happening inadequately. This will mean less branches and less flowers. But if the hours can be increased with artificial lights, more photosynthesis will occur and the plant can produce enough nutrients. Chrysanthemum is a short-day plant, blossoming in winter. However, the ideal harvesting time is April-May when days are long. If planted at this time, a chrysanthemum cutting can produce more than 1,000 flowers in course of its life cycle. But if the harvest is done after September, this is a way to ensure proper growth.” After 25 days, the lights need to be switched off for the next 40 days to ensure reproductive growth, he added. During this illuminated period, the stretch presents a great view, especially from atop the Biswa Bangla Gate. “This technology has been put to use by flower growers in Panskura. Tourists actually travel there during this period like they go to Japan in April to see cherry blossom,” said Sen. In Panskura, pollution and smog compel farmers to cover the plants for some hours during the day during their growth period and make up for the lost daylight hours by switching on lights at night. NKDA has planted 12 varieties of chrysanthemum, numbering 50,000 cuttings, over one acre to produce a multi-colour bed. Once the season is over, summer varieties of flowers that are in demand commercially will be planted. In the adjoining one acre, about 30,000 tuberose bulbs have been planted. “We will use a special strain of tuberose developed by BCKV that grows round the year,” Sen said. The NKDA is looking to augment livelihood of villagers from adjoining areas. “We will provide the commercial linkage — where to get cuttings from, where to get cheap fertilisers from, how to protect the plants, how to take the crop to the wholesale markets… We will speak to nurseries and set up the forward and backward channels.” The project will finally be handed over to local self-help groups. “We are speaking to the panchayat samiti to make the selection. We will provide the training,” Sen said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-226
27-11-2020||Business||Economy in recession but faring better than expected||India’s economy now is officially in recession after posting a second straight quarter of shrinking growth. The economy contracted 7.5 per cent in the three months to September from the same period a year earlier. This marks the first time India’s economy has tumbled into recession since quarterly records began in 1996. But there is good news concealed in the gross domestic product numbers released Friday and that is economic recovery could be in sight. The 7.5 per cent shrinkage in gross domestic product in the September quarter was a much better showing than the shrinkage of 8.6 per cent forecast by the Reserve Bank of India. (Some private economists had expected the second quarter to show negative growth of 9 per cent). The September quarter performance was also a big improvement on the brutal 23.9 contraction the economy notched in the April-to-June quarter. Analysts said the GDP figures reflected a better-than-expected pickup in economic activity after Covid restrictions were lifted. The big star was manufacturing which grew 0.6 per cent compared with analysts’ expectations that it would shrink by as much as 9 per cent. Electricity and other utilities climbed by 4.4 per cent while farm growth also fared well, posting growth of 3.4 per cent. Trade, hotels and transportation also clocked a sharp improvement during the quarter. “With a relatively stable festive season and less-than-expected economic damage so far, the economic growth recovery trajectory is likely to be accelerated," said Pankaj Pandey, ICICI Direct’s head of research. The surprisingly good numbers have come as the government sees light at the end of the Covid-19 tunnel with the expected rollout of a vaccine against the coronavirus. Also buoying sentiment is the fact that Covid cases have slid to half their peak of the nearly 100,000 a day that were being registered just over two months ago. The central bank on Thursday said that the recovery from the lockdown has been better than expected, buttressed by a good monsoon season. Net exports continued to add to GDP growth helped by more positive economic trends globally. The economy is still seen posting negative growth for the full 2020-21 financial year of around 8.7 per cent and that would be India’s worst GDP numbers in over four decades. But the projected showing would not be as bad as the 10.5 per shrinkage forecast earlier by economists after the Covid lockdown hammered India’s economy. The strength of the recovery will be tested during the next few months when pent-up consumer and festival-led demand subside. Economists are looking for the economy to possibly move into positive growth by the third quarter to December and definitely by the fourth quarter if activity continues to rally. “India is in an expansionary phase,” said Manju Yagnik, vice-chairman of the Nahar Group, a real estate developer. Phased unlocking, supported by the reduction in duties, developer offers and lower interest rates, “have led to improved business sentiment in real estate, and the positive sentiment will continue,” Yagnik said. Butanalysts are still sounding notes of caution and there is concern about the health of economic activity indicators that increased quickly during the last two months only to subsequently lose pace. CARE Ratings said the economy continues to face downward pressure from the sustained spread of the pandemic in the country. “Consumption demand and investments which are necessary to propel the economy would continue to be tepid and are unlikely to see a noteworthy improvement during the course of the year,” the ratings agency said. Analysts also say that weak government stimulus in response to the economic crisis means that there will still be a wave of bankruptcies and that unemployment will remain high, all putting pressure on any upturn. Indeed, Reserve Bank of India Governor Shaktikanta Das also urged caution about the sustainability of demand. “Even as the growth outlook has improved, downside risks to growth continue due to recent surge in infections in advanced economies and parts of India,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-221
27-11-2020||Business||Centre caps surge pricing charged by cab aggregators||The government on Friday capped surge pricing charged by cab aggregators like Ola and Uber at 1.5 times of the base fare. The development assumes significance in the backdrop of a long-pending demand of citizens to cap the pricing of transport services. "The aggregator shall be permitted to charge a fare 50 per cent lower than the base fare and a maximum surge pricing of 1.5 times the base fare," said the Motor Vehicle Aggregators Guidelines, 2020 issued by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways. This will enable and promote asset utilisation which has been the fundamental concept of transport aggregation and substantiate the dynamic pricing principle which is pertinent in ensuring asset utilisation in accordance with the market forces of demand and supply, the ministry said. The driver of a vehicle integrated with the aggregator shall receive at least 80 per cent of the fare applicable on each ride and the remaining charges for each ride shall be received by the aggregator. In states where the city taxi fare has not been determined by the state government, an amount of Rs 25/30 shall be the base fare for the purpose of fare regulation, the guidelines said. Similar fare fixation shall be done by the state government of other vehicles integrated by aggregators with the relevant state, the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-221
27-11-2020||Business||GDP contraction of 7.5% pushes India to technical recession||While India’s economy recovered better than expected in the September quarter, the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) still contracted by 7.5 per cent. The economy slumped at a rate of 23.9 per cent, making a record, in the first quarter of the 2020-21 fiscal (April 2020 to March 2021) in view of the Covid-induced lockdown, and the growth from there has held out hopes  for further improvement on better consumer demand. The official data released on Friday has however confirmed that India has entered its first technical recession, as two consecutive quarters witnessed GDP contraction. But based on records going back to 1996, a sharp recovery held out hopes for the economy turning around before the end of the fiscal year. According to the data, the economy has picked up as a result of the country’s gradual opening up since June. Manufacturing clocked a surprise 0.6 per cent growth in July-September after it had shrunk by a massive 39 per cent in the preceding quarter. While trade and service industries faced a contraction of 15.6 per cent, the agriculture sector grew by 3.4 per cent. Public spending was down 12 per cent. The GDP contraction of 7.5 per cent in July-September compares with a growth of 4.4 per cent in the same quarter last year. Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Shaktikanta Das said on Thursday that the country’s economy has recovered stronger than what was expected from the preliminary impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. The improvement in the economy came ahead of next week's interest rate decision by the RBI and coincides with a drop in India's daily virus cases, which have tapered off to half of its peak of more than 97,000 infections a day in mid-September.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-221
27-11-2020||Business||SC asks Centre to implement decision of forgoing interest on loans||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Union government to ensure that all steps are taken for the implementation of its decision to let go of interest on eight specified categories of loans paid upto Rs 2 crore in view of the coronavirus pandemic. The eight categories of loans include MSME (Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises), Education, Housing, Consumer durable, Credit card, Automobile, Personal and Consumption. The bench, headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan, observed that the Covid-19 pandemic had not only caused serious threat to health, but also had affected the economic growth of India as well as other countries. "Due to lockdown imposed by the Government of India in exercise of powers under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, there can be no denial that most of the businesses including private sector as well as public sector has been adversely affected,” it said. "For several months, a large number of industries were not allowed to function and exemptions were granted only to few of the industries to run and carry on its activities, which were found essential and necessary in the fact situation," the bench, also comprising Justices R S Reddy and M R Shah, said. “Although, gradually, due to Unlock- 1, 2 and 3, the industries and other business activities have been restored and the economy of the country is on track, although at a slow pace,” it added. The top court noted that the moratorium period granted by the Reserve Bank of India was implemented from March 3 to August 31, over six months. It further noted Solicitor General Tushar Mehta’s submission that measures taken by the Centre in exercise of jurisdiction under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 to mitigate the hardships and miseries of few sectors. Senior advocate Rajiv Dutta, appearing for the petitioner, has also expressed satisfaction regarding the steps taken by the government. “We dispose of the present writ petition with directions to the respondents to ensure that all steps be taken to implement the decision... so that benefit as contemplated by the Government of India percolates to those for whom financial benefits have been envisaged and extended,” the bench said. The top court's judgement came on a PIL filed by Agra resident Gajendra Sharma seeking directions to declare the notification dated March 27, 2020 issued by Reserve Bank of India as ultra vires to the extent it charges interest on the loan amount during the moratorium period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-222
27-11-2020||Business||Sensex, Nifty start on tepid note amid weak global cues||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty opened on a tepid note on Friday, tracking subdued cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 25.74 points or 0.06 per cent higher at 44,285.48. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slipped 17.60 points or 0.14 per cent to 13,004.60. NTPC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by Bajaj Auto, Maruti, Tech Mahindra, L&T, Asian Paints and Bajaj Finance. On the other hand, PowerGrid, Reliance Industries and TCS were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 431.64 points or 0.98 per cent higher at 44,259.74, and Nifty surged 128.60 points or 1 per cent to 12,987. Foreign institutional investors remained net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 2,027.31 crore on a net basis on Thursday, according to provisional exchange data. Domestic markets do not appear to be inspiring at the moment as most of the Asian markets are trading in red, said Binod Modi, Head- Strategy at Reliance Securities. "Continued buying in BFSIs has been driving markets with robust FPIs flow for November so far. Going ahead, considering better prospects of earnings rebound in banks and favourable valuations, further buying in banking and financials cannot be ruled out," he noted. US markets were closed on Thursday due to Thanksgiving holiday. However, European stocks witnessed pressure as rising COVID-19 cases across Europe and extension of partial lockdown in Germany until December dented investor sentiment. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul were trading with losses in mid-session deals, while Tokyo was in the positive territory. Meanwhile, Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, was trading 0.02 per cent higher at USD 47.80 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-222
27-11-2020||Business||Govt conducts trial run of e-highway Yamuna Expressway||The government has conducted a trial run of the e-highway Yamuna Expressway between Delhi and Agra with MG’s ZS electric vehicle. Launched as part of the government’s mission to put more EVs on the road by 2020, the trial run was flagged off by Meenakshi Lekhi, member of Parliament and chairperson of New Delhi Municipal Corporation; Faggan Singh Kulaste, minister of state in the steel ministry; and Bipin Singh Rawat, chief of defence staff among other senior dignitaries from the government. The trial run was done to test the viability of the Yamuna Expressway as an e-corridor for public EV transit. It focused on the charging infrastructure as well as roadside assistance services along the popular tourist route. Rajeev Chaba, president and managing director, MG Motor India, said: “The ZS EV has a range of 340 kilometers on a single charge and is ideal for Delhi-Agra commutes”. We believe that charging infrastructure across India’s national highways will create the right awareness among consumers and help solve the range-related concerns.” MG Motor India has a  60 kW Agra charging station. MG had launched ZS EV in India in January 2020 and has retailed more than 1,000 units. The vehicle is now available in 21 cities across the nation including Agra starting at Rs 20.88 lakhs (ex-showroom Agra).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-222
27-11-2020||Business||Faqir Chand C Kohli, father of Indian IT industry, no more||Faqir Chand C Kohli, considered as the father of Indian IT industry, passed away on Thursday. Kohli, the founding chief executive of sector leader TCS, was 96. In a statement, TCS said it mourns the death of Kohli, who died this afternoon, and added that it was J.R.D. Tata’s insistence that had got the young Kohli to join the Tata group in 1969. “He pivoted first into management consultancy, and then over the next two decades, into software development, helping the organisation navigate multiple technology waves over two-and-a-half decades by continually investing in people and staying relevant to customers,” TCS said, adding Kohli stepped down as the CEO of the business in 1996. Nasscom termed him as a “visionary leader” who foresaw an opportunity in technology for India and built TCS. “He was a true legend, who laid the foundation of India’s spectacular IT revolution and set the stage for the dynamic modern economy we enjoy today,” Tata Sons chairman and former TCS chief executive N. Chandrasekaran said. Kohli led innovations in areas far-ranging from adult literacy, water purification, software engineering, software automation, complex-systems and cybernetics, Chandrasekaran added. Wipro's founder chairman Azim Premji called Kohli as the "true pioneer" of Indian IT and added that the rest followed his footsteps. "His contribution to the IT industry and thus to India is immeasurable," he said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-222
27-11-2020||Business||Cronyism in banking feared: Former World Bank chief economist||The RBI working group’s proposal to allow corporate houses to set up banks is a ‘good-looking’ step in a ‘bad direction’ and may lead to crony capitalism and eventual financial instability, Kaushik Basu, former chief economist of the World Bank, said on Thursday. Basu said there is a good reason why all successful economies have a clear dividing line between industries and corporations on the one hand, and banks and lending organisations on the other. “The proposal from the recently set up internal working group of the Reserve Bank of India to allow Indian corporate houses to own and run banks is a good-looking step in a bad direction,” he said. Basu, who was also the chief economic adviser during the UPA period, said at first sight, this may look good because the close connection between corporations wanting to borrow and banks wanting to lend speeds up lending activity and makes the banking sector look more efficient. “But such connected lending is almost invariably a step towards crony capitalism, where a few big corporations capture the business space in the country, slowly edging out the smaller players. “Also, connected lending can lead to eventual financial instability,” he argued. Last week, the RBI group made various recommendations, including that large corporates may be permitted to promote banks only after necessary amendments to the Banking Regulation Act. “There is a lot of evidence that connected lending was the biggest cause of the build-up of bad loans in 1997 in Asia, which resulted in the East Asian Crisis that began in Thailand and turned out to be one of the biggest financial crashes in the world,” he said. India’s Banking Regulation Act, 1949, which was originally the Banking Companies Act, 1949, is a very well-crafted law, the eminent economist said adding it reflects the sophistication of the founders of modern India. Basu, however, noted that times have changed and there are reasons to amend some parts of it. “I think creating avenues for some non-banking financial companies, which are not controlled by industrial houses, into proper banks is worth considering seriously. “But the change in law that will allow industrial houses to own and run banks is a completely wrong move and a recipe for two possible outcomes — crony capitalism and financial crash,” he said. Recently, former RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan and ex-Deputy Governor Viral Acharya in a joint article had said that the RBI working group's proposal to allow corporate houses to set up banks is a “bombshell” and at this juncture, it is more important to stick to the tried and tested limits on involvement of business houses in the banking sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-222
27-11-2020||Business||Life insurance premium eligible for reimbursement under LTC cash voucher scheme||The premium paid for insurance policies purchased between October 12, 2020 and March 31, 2021 by central government employees will be eligible for reimbursement under the LTC cash voucher scheme. Issuing the third set of FAQ, the department of expenditure under the finance ministry also clarified that for purchases of goods such as cars employees can submit self-attested photocopies of bills instead of the original bills as proof for availing themselves the benefit under the scheme. On October 12, the government announced the LTC cash voucher scheme under which employees can purchase any goods or services with a GST rate of 12 per cent or above to avail themselves the benefit. The payments for such purchases have to be made via digital mode or cheque or demand draft or NEFT/RTGS. So far, employees had only leave travel concession (LTC) benefits on travels made, or else they had to forgo the amount. The expenditure department said payment of premium for existing insurance policies would not be covered under the LTC cash voucher scheme. “However, the payment of premium for insurance policies purchased during the period between October 12, 2020, and March 31, 2021, is eligible for reimbursement under the scheme,” it said. Vouchers/ bills for availing the benefit under the scheme has to be submitted on or before March 31, 2021. On the submission of bills by employees who would superannuate before March, the expenditure department said, “vouchers/ bills should be submitted and settled before the date of superannuation”. On whether an employee would be required to submit original bills for purchase of cars as the same may be required for claiming its warranty and ownership, it said, “self-attested photocopy” would suffice. “However, the original bills may be produced on demand for information,” it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-222
27-11-2020||Business||Future Retail shares invoked by Vistra ITCL||Vistra ITCL, an independent corporate trustee, has invoked shares amounting to 6.61 per cent stake in Future Retail Ltd (FRL), according to a regulatory filing by the company. As many as 3,58,15,889 equity shares of Future Retail pledged with Vistra have been invoked on September 10 and November 24 in capacity as a debenture trustee in order to secure the debentures issued by Future Capital Investment Pvt Ltd and Future Corporate Resources Ltd, Vistra ITCL said in a letter to BSE. A total of 6,52,32,692 shares of FRL aggregating to 12.03 per cent stake were pledged with Vistra, it added. The invocation of shares comes at a time FRL is locked in a legal battle with e-commerce giant Amazon, which received a favourable interim order from the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) last month against the Kishore Biyani-led firm’s Rs 24,713 crore deal with Reliance Retail. The arbitrator had barred FRL from taking any step to dispose of or encumber its assets or issuing any securities to secure any funding from a restricted party. Future Retail Ltd on Thursday accused Amazon of adopting a media strategy of “having every development reported and converted into a line of communication with stock exchanges” regarding the Amazon-Future Coupons' arbitration proceedings in Singapore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-222
27-11-2020||Business||Kapil Wadhawan files petition in the National Company Law Tribunal||Kapil Wadhawan, the erstwhile promoter of Dewan Housing Finance Ltd (DHFL), has filed a petition in the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) seeking access to meetings of DHFL’s committee of creditors (CoC) and data on the assets of the mortgage lender. In an appeal made to the Mumbai bench of the NCLT, Wadhawan urged the tribunal to consider the financial package for revival of DHFL prepared after the June 7 circular of the RBI. Wadhawan said in his petition that DHFL has assets of Rs 68,000 crore and the bids received for the entire company is only for Rs 31,000 crore. “The applicant is given to understand from information in the public domain that only a third of this amount is payable upfront whereas the balance amount is deferred payment, payable over several years from the accruals of DHFL itself. “Ex-facie, the upfront amount is less than the cash, real estate and investments available with DHFL and, therefore, is a complete eyewash,’’ the petition said. It alleged that the bidders are seeking with “barely any investment” to take over the company using the resources of DHFL while offering a massive haircut on the amounts due to the creditors of DHFL. He, therefore, sought the intervention of the tribunal to ensure that the interests of all stakeholders are protected. The petition urged NCLT that the resolution plan drafted by the company be submitted to an independent expert appointed by the tribunal along with the bids received from the resolution applicants and the independent expert submit a report with his opinion on the most appropriate plan. “...permit the applicant to assist the CoC to consider the bids being received for DHFL in the proper perspective and to permit the applicant to assist in the CIRP process,’’ it added. Wadhawan said pending the hearing and final disposal of his application, the tribunal should direct the administrator of DHFL to give him or his representative access to all the documents and records of DHFL, including documents like the minutes of the CoC meetings, presentations of bids made to them and revisions made by the bidders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-222
27-11-2020||Business||RBI governor points at fault lines Indian bond market||Reserve Bank of India governor Shaktikanta Das has said that a lot of imperfections have crept into the Indian bond market that the regulator needs to weed out before it can emerge as a vibrant alternative fundraising port of call for big businesses and entrepreneurs. The Indian bond market, which is excessively skewed towards trading in government securities, shows a marked preference for only a “few benchmark tenors” even though the sovereign yield curve spans gilts with a maturity tenor of up to 40 years, Das said. One of the biggest problems for the Indian bond market is that it is restricted to only a few players — largely domestic financial institutions. “Markets with a small number of participants tend to become ‘closed user clubs’ with predictable behavioral attitudes,” the RBI governor said while addressing the fourth annual day of the Foreign Exchange Dealers’ Association of India (FEDAI). The governor said that this conservative, herd-like market behavior manifested itself in the “predominance of ‘buy and hold’ and ‘long-only’ investors”. The interest rate derivative market has also grown but “remained limited to one product — the Overnight Indexed Swap — and to a small set of participants”, Das said. The RBI governor also flagged concerns about the manner in which the market was valuing the Indian rupee. “Domestic foreign exchange markets grew but so did the offshore markets, fragmenting the global market for the Indian rupee and impairing market efficiency,” Das said. Dollar inflows India has seen a massive inflow of dollars — a fact that the government has tom-tommed as investors’ confidence in the country’s economy and its equity and debt markets. But the RBI governor made a nuanced observation about the dollar inflows. “Speculative flows in thin markets can create distortions. In deep markets, these very flows can add liquidity and make the markets more resilient. A calibrated opening up of the economy can supplement domestic savings and help finance growth and development,” he said. The RBI governor’s comments come at a time the Narendra Modi government is trying to develop a strong bond market from which the government and companies can access debt without overstraining the resources of the banking system. According to Das, while the pace of financial market reforms has gathered momentum since the past three decades, the recent measures have centred around four major themes — liberalising financial markets and simplifying market regulation, internationalising financial markets, safeguarding the “buy side” – user protection and ensuring resilience and safety. Capital account On capital account convertibility, he said that the RBI will continue to approach this as a “process rather than an event” while taking note of the prevalent macroeconomic conditions. The RBI governor further disclosed that the country’s economy has recovered stronger than expected from the initial impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. He, however, added that here is a need to be watchful of demand sustainability after the end of festivities and that there are downside risks to growth across the world and also in India. The Indian economy contracted 23.9 per cent in the first quarter of the financial year, and the RBI expects the economy to shrink 9.5 per cent in 2020-21. “After witnessing a sharp contraction in the economy 23.9 per cent in the first quarter and a multi-speed normalisation of activity in the second quarter, the Indian economy has exhibited stronger than expected pick-up in momentum of recovery,” he observed. He, however, reminded the participants that though the growth outlook has improved, downside risks to growth continue because of a recent surge in infections in parts of Europe and also in parts of India. “We need to be watchful about the sustainability of demand after the festivals and a possible reassessment of market expectations surrounding the vaccine,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-222
27-11-2020||Business||RBI asks to fully write down Rs 318.20 crore of LVB Tier-II bonds||It’s not only the equity shares of Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) that are being written down: there was bad news for those who had invested in the Tier II bonds of the lender as the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) asked the administrator to fully write down the Rs 318.20 crore of these bonds. In a late evening regulatory filing to the stock exchanges, LVB said that the RBI has advised the need to fully write-down the Series VIII, Series IX and Series X Basel-III complaint Tier-2 Bonds before the amalgamation comes into effect from the appointed date of November 27. LVB had issued the three tranches of unsecured, non-convertible redeemable fully paid-up Basel III complaint Tier II bonds. They were issued in March 2014 for Rs 78.10 crore, in September 2015 for Rs 140.10 crore and June 2017 for Rs 100 crore. The RBI cited the information memorandum of the bonds for its decision to write off the debt instruments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-222
27-11-2020||Business||Bombay HC refuses to stay Lakshmi Vilas Bank merger||The Bombay High Court has refused to stay the hastily-crafted amalgamation scheme under which Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) is being folded into DBS Bank of India that comes into effect on Friday. Certain promoter group entities of LVB rushed to the court to seek legal redress against the RBI, the Centre and DBS Bank as the scheme effectively turns their shares in the bank into dud stock with no value. A division bench comprising Justices Nitin Jamdar and Milind Jadhav set December 14 as the next date for hearing on the petition. “We are refusing the interim relief sought by the petitioners to stay the amalgamation. The petitions shall be placed for hearing on December 14 when the respondents shall file their affidavits in reply,” the division bench said. The petition was filed by Kare Electronics & Development, Pranava Electronics and K.R. Pradeep. A separate petition was filed by Indiabulls Housing Finance, which holds a 4.99 per cent in LVB, and had evinced interest in taking over the troubled bank last year. An elaborate smear campaign against the promoters of Indiabulls eventually scuttled the bid. The spokesperson of the mortgage lender could not be reached for comment on the latest developments. The petitioners said they were not against the rescue plan for LVB but were upset over the fact that the RBI had completed the process without considering the shareholders’ interest. Senior advocate Darius Khambata appeared for the promoters while D. D. Madon represented Indiabulls. Under the terms of the amalgamation scheme, the entire amount of the paid-up share capital and reserves and surplus, including the balances in the shares or securities premium account of the transferor bank, has been written off. The LVB stock will stand delisted from Friday. The promoter group, which includes K.R. Pradeep and others, holds close to 6.80 per cent of LVB as of September 30. Based on the closing price of the LVB scrip in Thursday’s trading, their holding is worth around Rs 17.50 crore. However, large financial institutional investors like LIC, which holds 1.62 per cent, Aditya Birla Sun Life (1.83 per cent), Srei Infrastructure Finance (3.34 per cent), M.N. Dastur (1.89 per cent) have chosen to remain silent after the announcement. In Calcutta, Srei officials said they would not like to comment on the LVB developments. This is not the first time that the shareholders of a bank have received short shrift when it has been merged with another lender. Back in 2013 when Global Trust Bank was amalgamated with Oriental Bank of Commerce, there was no share swap for GTB shareholders even though both banks were listed. Data reveals that individual shareholders — who together held 46.73 per cent of the LVB stock as of September 30 — had been buying shares and increased their collective stake by more than 4.5 per cent since the end of June. The stock has dived from Rs 70 per share in January 2019 to Rs 25 in late June before being frozen for trading on Thursday at a nominal value of Rs 7.65 on the BSE. Some observers believe that the RBI should not have carried out a frenetic process to devise a rescue plan and ought to have invited bids from other banks for better valuation. There were bidders like Clix Capital which had submitted a non-binding bid in October proposing to invest Rs 1700 crore in LVB's equity but were spurned by the regulator. J.N. Gupta, MD of proxy advisory firm Stakeholders Empowerment Services, told The Telegraph that for a regulator, the important stakeholders are the banking system and the depositors. He, however, added that though RBI has powers under Section 45 of the Banking Regulation Act, it has to be used rationally and judiciously. “While one could argue that the regulator should have stepped in earlier to prevent LVB’s deterioration to this level, it was left with little choice than to allow another bank to take over and protect the depositors. Retail shareholders will feel the loss of equity value, but equity investments do come with risks,” said Hetal Dalal, chief operating officer of Institutional Investor Advisory Services. “Transparency is the best medicine for efficiency. It's what sets you apart from everybody else,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-223
27-11-2020||Business||SC refuses to quash criminal cases against Skoda Auto Volkswagen India||The Supreme Court on Thursday refused to quash the criminal cases of cheating and breach of trust  against Skoda Auto Volkswagen India Private Limited and its officials for allegedly installing “cheat devices” in its Audi and other cars sold in India to camouflage the emission of pollution beyond the permissible limits . “The power of quashing should be exercised very sparingly and with circumspection and that too in the rarest of rare cases. While examining a complaint, the quashing of which is sought, the court cannot embark upon an enquiry as to the reliability or genuineness or otherwise of the allegations made in the FIR or in the complaint  … criminal proceedings ought not to be scuttled at the initial stage,” the court said. “Quashing of a complaint should rather be an exception and a rarity than an ordinary rule. … In view of what is stated above, the special leave petition is dismissed. There will be no order as to costs,” the apex court said . The bench of Chief Justice S.A. Bobde, Justices A.S. Bopanna and V.Ramasubramanian passed the judgment while dismissing the automobile giant’s appeal for quashing  the criminal cases of cheating, breach of trust and other IPC sections registered against the company and its executives by one Aniljit Singh, a Noida-based customer. The Allahabad High Court had earlier declined to quash the FIR aggrieved by which the company had appealed in the apex court. Singh had filed the complaint in July this year alleging the company had cheated him in 2017 by claiming that there were no cheat devices which according to him was false as the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had imposed a fine of Rs 500 cr on the company and had directed the Central Pollution Control Board(CPCB) to prosecute the company. He cited the NGT order to say that the company’s cars were emitting 5-8 times more than the permissible limits of emission. The Allahabad High Court had earlier declined to quash the FIR aggrieved by which the company had appealed in the Apex court. In the Supreme Court, the company argued that it cannot be prosecuted for any criminal offence since the NGT was already seized of the matter in connection with two civil petitions filed by some environmental activists against the alleged excess emission from the company’s Audi cars. Rejecting the argument Justice Ramasubramanian who authored the judgment noted that the proceedings before the NGT were not intended to address issues relating to alleged cheating of  individuals., etc “…we are unable to agree with the contention of the learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner (Volkswagen) that the substratum of the police complaint is something that is already the subject matter of adjudication before this court in the appeals arising out of the order of the NGT. “As a matter of fact, the High Court has been fair to the petitioner, by granting protection against arrest till the filing of the report under section 173(2) of the Code (charge sheet). We do not think that the petitioner can ask for anything more,” the Apex court said while dismissing the appeal. Referring to the company’s claim that the customer Aniljit Singh had purchased only three Audi cars in 2019 and not seven as claimed in the police complaint, Justice Ramasubramanian said: The question whether the 3rd Respondent­complainant (customer) purchased 3 vehicles as revealed by the VAHAN Portal   of the Government or 7 vehicles as claimed by him in his complaint, is a question of fact which has to be established only in the course of investigation/trial. In a petition for quashing the FIR, the Court cannot go into disputed questions of fact. “The mere delay on the part of the 3rd Respondent-­complainant in lodging the complaint cannot by itself be a ground to quash the FIR. The law is too well settled on this aspect to warrant any reference to precedents. Therefore, the second ground on which the petitioner seeks to quash the FIR cannot be countenanced,” the bench said. The NGT had earlier on March 7, 2019 directed  the CPCB to consider the initiation of prosecution for the alleged excess emission and had asked the manufacturers to deposit Rs.500 crores as compensation for the   damage caused to the environment. On October 1, the Allahabad High Court had rejected the plea for quashing of the FIR but stayed the arrest of the company officials till the filing of the charge sheet and had asked them to cooperate with the investigating agency. Some of the findings and directions by the NGT Tribunal were:­ (i) That   the   manufacturers had in fact used cheat devices to suppress the laboratory tests; (ii) That NOx  emission was higher by Portable Emission Measurement System (PEMS); (iii) That Volkswagen vehicles gave much less   NOx emission under the Warm Test Cycles after recall; (iv) That the emissions measured on PEMS were higher than BS­IV limit; (v) That the manufacturers are liable to pay damages to the tune of Rs.500 crores; and (vi) That the CPCB shall consider initiation of prosecution in the light of applicable statutory regime. However, the directions of the NGT were stayed by the Apex court on May 6, 2019, while dealing with the civil appeals filed by the company. The matter on the civil side is yet to be dealt with by the Apex court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-223
27-11-2020||India||Agriculture minister ‘ready for talks’ with farmers||Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, in an appeal to agitating farmers to end their protest, said on Friday that the Centre is ready to discuss all issues with them. Farmers have been marching towards Delhi against the three central farm laws, and after hours of clashes with the police in the national capital as well as Haryana, they were finally permitted to carry out their agitation at the Nirankari ground in Burari. Earlier in the day, Tomar had opined that the new laws will bring in tremendous improvements to farmers’ lives. He said the government was already engaging with various farmer bodies and they have been called for discussions on December 3. He urged the protesters to end their agitation and come forward to talk. "The government is ready for all discussions...," the minister said. Following a meeting between the farmer leaders and senior police officials, the Delhi Police granted them permission to hold the peaceful protests, one of the biggest in the national capital, after several hours of confrontation with the police at different border points with Haryana. On the other hand, Delhi Metro services resumed on all lines in the evening after they were disrupted since Thursday in view of the march. "Services normal at all corridors from 5:35 pm onwards," the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) tweeted, adding that the services will be regular on all lines on Saturday. Dhansa and Jharoda Kalan borders were closed for traffic movement due to the demonstration and the commuters were asked to take an alternative route, the Delhi Traffic Police said earlier in the day. "Tikri Border is completely closed for traffic movement by local police. Traffic intending to go towards Haryana is also closed. All motorists are advised to avoid this route in view of the protest by Kishan Sangharsh committee," it tweeted. Punjab farmers are demanding the repeal of the new farm laws, which, they said, should be replaced with another set of legislations framed after wider consultation with the stakeholders. They also want a guarantee on the minimum support prices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-530
27-11-2020||India||Modi govt has to agree to farmers’ demands: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government over the farmers’ march to Delhi against the newly enacted central farm laws. He said that no government in the world can prevent the protesters from fighting the “battle of truth”. The former Congress president’s jibe came in view of thousands of farmers marching towards the national capital as part of their ‘Dilli Chalo’ march, carrying flags and shouting slogans, after hours of clash with the police. At several borders of the city, the farmers were blocked by the police with barricades, teargas shells and batons. Later, the authorities allowed them to enter Delhi and protest peacefully, Delhi police said. The prime minister should remember whenever arrogance clashes with truth, it faces loss, Gandhi wrote on Twitter in Hindi. "No government in the world can stop the farmers who are fighting the battle of truth," he said. "The Modi government will have to agree to the demands of the farmers and take back the black laws. This is just the beginning!" the former Congress chief tweeted, with the hashtag 'IamWithFarmers'. Punjab farmers, representing over 30 farm bodies, have announced they will enter Delhi through several routes -- Lalru, Shambhu, Patiala-Pehowa, Patran-Khanauri, Moonak-Tohana, Ratia-Fatehabad and Talwandi-Sirsa. They are demanding the repeal of the new farm laws, which, they said, should be replaced with another set of legislations framed after wider consultation with the stakeholders. They also want a guarantee on the minimum support prices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-530
27-11-2020||India||Dilli Chalo: After Punjab, UP farmers march to national capital||Hundreds of farmers from west Uttar Pradesh were headed towards Delhi on Friday to take part in the ‘Dilli Chalo’ march against the three central farm laws that have been newly implemented. Protesters from Meerut, Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat, Gautam Buddh Nagar and other western UP districts on Friday reached the Eastern Peripheral Expressway in Greater Noida, in response to a call from the Bharatiya Kisan Union to join the march. They were stopped by the police upon their arrival. Shortly after, they moved on from the area as the news of farmers being allowed to Delhi came in. "We have started our onward march. But our route to Delhi is yet to be decided by our union leaders. We may take the UP Gate route (via Ghaziabad) or the Kalindi Kunj route (via Noida)," BKU's UP unit spokesperson Pawan Khatana told PTI. He further said that the BKU had shown support to the ‘Dilli Chalo’ call of Punjab and Haryana farmers against the farm laws. "These laws are anti-farmer and should be taken back or changed. There should be a new law on minimum support price of crops to benefit farmers," Khatana told PTI. "The situation at the expressway is peaceful and under control. There has been no violence or untoward situation. The police are making efforts to ensure there is no law and order situation," Gautam Buddh Nagar's Additional Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Love Kumar said. Farmers are demanding the repeal of the new farm laws, which, they said, should be replaced with another set of legislations framed after wider consultation with the stakeholders. They also want a guarantee on the minimum support prices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-530
27-11-2020||India||States must rise above politics to combat Covid, says SC  ||The Supreme Court said on Friday that states would have to rise above politics, and harsh measures were required to contain the surge of COVID-19, observing, after submissions by the Centre, that things “have gone from bad to worse”. The apex court also said there were policies, guidelines and standard operating procedures (SoP) for COVID-19 management in the country but that there was lack of implementation by the authorities and no concrete steps had been taken to deal with the issue. “This is high time to take strict measures, otherwise the Central government's effort will go in vain,” the top court said. The observations, by a bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan, came after the Centre apprised it that the ongoing wave of the pandemic appears to be harsher than earlier. The bench, also comprising Justices R.S. Reddy and M. R. Shah, was hearing a case in which it had taken cognisance regarding the need for proper treatment of COVID-19 patients and dignified handling of dead bodies in hospitals. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told the bench that states would have to ensure strict implementation of the guidelines and SoPs as this wave appeared to be harsher than the earlier ones. Taking note of his submissions, the bench said, then harsher steps were needed to be taken. “Things are going from bad to worse, but no concrete steps are being taken. States will have to rise above politics. All states will have to rise to the occasion. “Strict measures are required. This is high time to take strict measures,” the bench said, adding, “there are policies, guidelines and SoPs but there is no strict implementation. There is no will to implement all this.” When Mehta said that states would have to tighten up the implementation of measures to deal with the situation, the bench said, “Yes, otherwise the Central government's effort will go in vain”. The solicitor general said, “It cannot be ‘me’ versus ‘they'. It has to be ‘us’.” During the hearing conducted through video-conferencing, the bench observed, “We are watching celebrations and processions being taken out in which 60 per cent people have no masks and 30 per cent have their masks hanging.” Mehta informed the bench that 10 states, including Maharashtra, Kerala and Delhi, were currently contributing around 77 per cent of the active caseload of COVID-19 in the country. The apex court, which posted the matter for further hearing on December 1, also took cognisance of the fire at the ICU of a designated COVID-19 hospital at Rajkot in Gujarat in which five patients died. It came down heavily on the states for not taking any concrete action to mitigate the problem despite repeated instances. Terming the fire incident at Rajkot as shocking, the apex court said this was very serious and reflected the situation of designated government hospitals as similar instances had taken place in other places too. It also asked the Gujarat government to submit a report on the fire incident by December 1. The top court on November 23 had said that the COVID-19 pandemic had worsened in Delhi and gone out of control in Gujarat. It had also directed the Centre and states to apprise it of the steps taken to contain the situation nationwide. It had expressed concern over the spurt in coronavirus cases across the country and said the situation was likely to worsen in December. “All states have to be ready to combat it,” it said. In the June 19 order, the apex court had directed the Centre and states to set up an expert panel for effective monitoring, supervision and guidance of government and COVID dedicated hospitals for providing proper care to patients. It had directed the Centre to bring uniformity in charges of testing and other facilities and ordered it to constitute an expert committee of senior doctors of Central government hospitals, GNCTD-run hospitals, AIIMS and responsible officers from the Union health ministry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-530
27-11-2020||India||No respite for TN, Puducherry as more rain likely from Dec 1||Tamil Nadu and Puducherry may face rains from December one as a result of the formation of a low pressure area over the Bay of Bengal on November 30, the regional weather office said on Friday. The system is expected to intensify into a depression later, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, S Balachandran, told reporters. "A low pressure area is likely to form over southeast Bay of Bengal during the next 48 hours. It is very likely to intensify into a depression on November 30 and move towards the Tamil Nadu coast," he said. This will result in Tamil Nadu and neighbouring Puducherry receiving widespread rains from December 1 to 3, he added. The forecast for more  rains for the southern state and the union territory comes a day after severe cyclonic storm Nivar battered Tamil Nadu and Pudicherry after making a landfall on early Thursday, bringing in heavy showers. At least three people were killed in Tamil Nadu due to the cyclone in rain-related incidents including tree and wall collapse, while more than a thousand trees were uprooted. Over the last 24 hours, northwestern districts in Tamil Nadu received rains, with Sholinghur in Ranipet recording the highest rainfall of 23 cm, Balachandran further said. He also forecast light to moderate rains in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry for the next two days in some places.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-530
27-11-2020||India||Priyanka calls for 'one nation one treatment' as farmers' protest continues||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday took a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over attempts to stop farmers from marching to Delhi over farm laws, saying the prime minister who is worried about 'one nation, one election' should also implement 'one nation, one treatment'. Her attack on the prime minister came a day after Modi advocated 'one nation, one election' system and a single voters' list, saying polls taking place every few months hinders development. Posting a video on Twitter of water cannons being used on protesting farmers, Gandhi said, "To suppress the voice of farmers -- Water was rained on them. Roads are being dug up to stop them." "But the government is not ready to show or tell them that where MSP being a legal right is written," she said in a tweet in Hindi. The prime minister who is concerned about 'one nation, one election', should also implement "one nation, one treatment", the Congress general secretary in-charge Uttar Pradesh said. The Delhi Police on Friday used tear gas shells and water cannons to stop farmers from entering the national capital. Punjab farmers, representing over 30 farm bodies, have announced they will march to Delhi through several routes -- Lalru, Shambhu, Patiala-Pehowa, Patran-Khanauri, Moonak-Tohana, Ratia-Fatehabad and Talwandi-Sirsa to protest against new farm laws. Farmers have assembled near the borders in tractor-trolleys laden with rations and essentials for their proposed Delhi march. Farmers' bodies said they will hold a dharna wherever they are stopped from moving towards the national capital. Punjab farmers are demanding the repeal of the new farm laws, which, they said, should be replaced with another set of legislations framed after wider consultation with stakeholders. They also want a guarantee on the minimum support prices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-530
27-11-2020||India||Mehbooba Mufti, daughter allegedly put under house arrest||PDP president and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti and her daughter Iltija on Friday claimed that they had been detained at their residence to prevent them from visiting the house of arrested party leader Waheed Ur Rehman Parra in Pulwama in South Kashmir. Reacting to the alleged detention, National Conference (NC) vice president Omar Abdullah said personal liberty is treated as a favour by the government, giving and withdrawing it at will, with no interference from the judiciary. "I've been illegally detained yet again. Since two days, JK admin has refused to allow me to visit @parawahid's family in Pulwama. BJP Ministers and their puppets are allowed to move around in every corner of Kashmir but security is a problem only in my case," Mufti tweeted in English and Urdu. "Their cruelty knows no bounds. Waheed was arrested on baseless charges and I am not allowed to even console his family. Even my daughter Iltija has been placed under house arrest because she also wanted to visit Waheed's family," she said. Parra was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday for allegedly seeking help from Hizbul Mujahideen terror group in seeking their support in the 2019 Parliamentary elections in which Mufti was the PDP candidate. Mufti had sought security clearance for her visit to the residence of Parra at Naira village on Friday to meet his family. In a communication posted on her official Twitter handle, Additional Director General of Police and Director Special Security Group (SSG) S D Singh sought rescheduling of the proposed visit of the former chief minister to the Naira village on the demand of the Pulwama district police. The Pulwama Police sought the rescheduling of her programme citing that neither an anti-sabotage check nor a proper route sanitisation had been done as the entire manpower was committed for other election-related operation duties. Jammu and Kashmir is all set for the maiden District Development Council (DDC) polls and by-elections to the panchayat and urban local bodies, scheduled to be held in eight phases beginning November 28. NC vice president Omar Abdullah accused the Jammu and Kashmir administration of treating personal liberty as a favour. "Parking a truck in front of our gates is now the standard operating procedure for this admin. They did the same to my father recently to stop him from praying. Personal liberty is treated as a favour by the govt, to give & withdraw at will, with no interference from the judiciary," Omar Abdullah wrote on Twitter. His father and NC president Farooq Abdullah was on October 30 prevented from leaving his residence to offer prayers at Hazratbal shrine on the occasion of Eid-Milad-un-Nabi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-530
27-11-2020||India||Kangana bungalow demolition smacks of malice, says High Court||The Bombay High Court on Friday said the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation's (BMC) action of demolishing a part of Kangana Ranaut's bungalow here smacks of malafide and was done to cause substantial loss to the actor and quashed the demolition order. The court also said it does not approve of authorities using "muscle power" against any citizen. A division bench of Justices S J Kathawalla and R I Chagla noted that the action undertaken by the civic body leaves hardly "any manner of doubt" that it was unauthorised. The bench was hearing Ranaut's petition challenging the demolition carried out by BMC at her Pali Hill bungalow in suburban Bandra on September 9. The civic body has proceeded to act wrongfully and illegally against the rights of a citizen," the bench said. Ranaut had sought Rs two crore in damages from the BMC and urged the court to declare BMC's action illegal. On the issue of compensation, the bench said it was appointing a valuer who would hear the petitioner and the BMC on monetary damages caused to her due to the demolition. "The valuer shall by March 2021 pass appropriate orders on compensation," the court said. The civic body had opposed the plea and said the actor had brazenly and unlawfully carried out extensive alterations and additions to the bungalow in breach of its approved plan. Ranaut had filed the petition on September 9 when the demolition process was initiated by BMC. The court had in an interim order on September 9 stayed the demolition work.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-530
27-11-2020||India||SC extends Arnab Goswami's interim bail||The Supreme Court on Friday said the interim bail to journalist Arnab Goswami and two others in an abetment to suicide case will continue till the Bombay High Court disposes of their plea, and stated that the judiciary should ensure criminal law does not become a weapon for selective harassment. The apex court had granted interim bail to Goswami on November 11, saying it will be ''travesty of justice'' if personal liberty is curtailed. A bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud on Friday gave reasons for granting relief to the TV anchor and two others in the case. It said Goswami's interim bail shall be operative for another four weeks from the day the high court decides his pending plea in the 2018 abetment to suicide case. The bench also said the Supreme Court, high courts and lower courts must be alive to the misuse of criminal law by the state machinery. They should ensure criminal law does not become a weapon for the selective harassment of citizens, it said. "Doors of this court cannot be closed to the citizen who has prima facie showed state has misused its power," it said, adding that deprivation of personal liberty even for a single day is too much. There is pressing need for courts to remedy institutional problems of delay in dealing with bail applications, it said. Referring to the facts of the case, it said prima facie there is a disconnect between FIR and ingredients of the offence of abetment to suicide. The top court had granted interim bail to two others in the case -- Neetish Sarda and Feroz Mohammad Shaikh -- on a personal bond of Rs 50,000 each and directed that they shall not tamper with the evidence and shall cooperate in the probe. The accused were arrested by Alibaug police in Maharashtra's Raigad district on November 4 in connection with the suicide of architect-interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother in 2018 over alleged non-payment of dues by companies of the accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-531
27-11-2020||India||Finally, farmers get permission to protest in Delhi’s Burari||The Centre has allowed farmers to enter Delhi and permitted them to hold their agitation at the Burari ground, claimed Punjab’s agricultural outfits that are protesting against the central farm laws on Friday. "We have been allowed safe passage to Delhi," Krantikari Kisan Union president Darshan Pal said. He claimed that Union home ministry officials had permitted them a place in Delhi’s Burari to carry out their agitation. Confirming the news, Delhi Police PRO Eish Singhal said, "After holding discussion with farmer leaders, the protesting farmers have been permitted inside Delhi to hold peaceful protest at Nirankari Ground in Burari. We appeal to all farmers to maintain peace," Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) president Balbir Singh Rajewal informed that the protesters were on their way to the destination. At the Tikri border, farmers were escorted by police personnel amid tight security around 3 pm and taken towards the Nirankari Ground, one of the biggest in the city. But those gathered at the Singhu border, one of the main routes used to access the city from Punjab, had not entered the city till evening. Earlier, farmers had demanded that they be allowed to hold their protest at the Ramlila ground but the Delhi Police had denied the request. The Delhi Police has enhanced deployment of security personnel, stationed sand-laden trucks and water cannons and used barbed wire for fencing at the Singhu and Tikri border points (Delhi-Haryana border) to prevent the protesters from entering the city. Delhi police used tear gas shells in the morning on Friday to disperse a group of farmers who had reached the Singhu border as part of their “Dilli Chalo” march to protest against the Centre's new farm laws, a senior police officer said. The shells were fired at the border point at Narela which connects Delhi with Haryana. Punjab farmers, representing over 30 farm bodies, have announced they will enter Delhi through several routes -- Lalru, Shambhu, Patiala-Pehowa, Patran-Khanauri, Moonak-Tohana, Ratia-Fatehabad and Talwandi-Sirsa. The might of the State was unleashed to prevent protesting farmers entering Delhi on Friday, triggering a political slugfest and calls for intensification of the agitation against the new farm laws. On Thursday, Haryana police used heavy construction equipment to position boulders as protection for their barricades and employed crowd-control vehicles to prevent the farmers approaching Delhi. This, after drenching the marching farmers from Punjab with water cannons on a cold and bleak Wednesday. The Haryana police action attracted more publicity for the agitation, the sight of farmers drenched with water cannons drawing sympathy even from the chattering classes who are generally unmoved by such issues. By Friday morning, heavy police deployment was in place at Singhu border, a possible entry point for farmers coming from Punjab and Haryana can enter the city. Five sand-laden trucks, barricades with barbed wire and three water cannons had been stationed to stop tractors being driven by the protesters. Also, drones had been deployed to keep a tight vigil to maintain law and order, police said. Another officer said barbed wire fencing was used at the Singhu border near the first barricade so that the protesters do not break the barricades put up by security personnel. By Friday morning, traffic had been diverted at several places along the national capital's border in view of the protest. Checking of vehicles has also been intensified at the Delhi-Gurgaon border leading to heavy traffic jams. CISF personnel have also been deployed on the Delhi-Gurgaon border. Taking to Twitter, the Delhi Traffic Police posted a series of tweets asking people to avoid outer Ring Road, Mukarba Chowk, GTK road, NH-44 and Singhu Border. "In view of the rally/ march/protest by All India Kishan Sangharsh co-ordination committee, the traffic police is diverting traffic from Mukarba Chowk & GTK road. Traffic is very heavy in this area," it said. It further requested commuters to avoid Mukraba Chowk Delhi as there is diversion and vehicles are not being allowed towards Singhu border. However, inter-state vehicles are suggested to take Western/Eastern peripheral expressway. "Tikri Border is completely closed for traffic movement by local police. Traffic intending to go towards Haryana is also closed. All motorists are advised to avoid this route in view of the protest by Kishan Sangharsh committee," the Delhi Traffic Police said in another tweet. In order to prevent farmers from entering Delhi, police deployment has also been made at NH-24, DND, Chilla Border, Tigri border, Bahadurgarh border, Faridabad border and Kalindi Kunj border. The Delhi Police has also sought permission from the AAP government to use the city's nine stadiums as temporary jails in view of the protest, government sources said. Metro commuters in the city faced inconvenience as the Delhi Metro announced the closure of exit and entry gates at six metro stations on the Green Line in view of the 'Delhi Chalo' march. "Entry & exit gates of Brigadier Hoshiar Singh, Bahadurgarh City, Pandit Shree Ram Sharma, Tikri Border, Tikri Kalan and Ghevra stations on Green Line are now closed," the DMRC tweeted. Farmers' bodies said they will hold a dharna wherever they are stopped from moving towards the national capital. Punjab farmers are demanding the repeal of the new farm laws, which, they said, should be replaced with another set of legislations framed after wider consultation with the stakeholders. They also want a guarantee on the minimum support prices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-531
27-11-2020||India||India's Covid caseload goes past 93 lakh mark||India's COVID-19 tally of cases climbed to 93.09 lakh with 43,082 new cases in a day, while 87,18,517 people have recuperated so far pushing the national recovery rate to 93.64 per cent on Friday, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 93,09,787 and the death toll climbed to 1,35,715 with the novel coronavirus virus claiming 492 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed. The COVID-19 case fatality rate has further declined to 1.45 per cent. There are 4,55,555 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 4.89 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 13,70,62,749 samples have been tested up to November 26 with 11,31,204 samples being tested on Thursday. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29 and 90 lakh on November 20. The 492 new fatalities include 91 from Delhi, 65 from Maharashtra, 52 from West Bengal, 30 from Uttar Pradesh, 27 from Kerala, 26 from Punjab, 25 from Haryana, 18 from Chhattisgarh and 12 from Karnataka. A total of 1,35,715 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 46,813 from Maharashtra followed by 11726 from Karnataka, 11669 from Tamil Nadu, 8811 from Delhi, 8224 from West Bengal, 7674 from Uttar Pradesh, 6970 from Andhra Pradesh, 4710 from Punjab and 3922 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-531
27-11-2020||India||Strong winds contribute to a cleaner Delhi air||Delhi's air quality improved to the moderate category on Friday morning due to favourable wind speed and is likely to get even better. The city's air quality index (AQI), which was 302 at 4 pm on Thursday, improved to 131 by 9 am on Friday. On Wednesday, the 24-hour AQI was 413, which falls in the severe category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". Stronger winds and a drastic reduction in the contribution of stubble burning were two major reasons for cleaner skies over Delhi. V K Soni, the head of the India Meteorological Department's environment research centre, said the wind speed remained favourable throughout the night, leading to a better-than-predicted situation. Usually, winds remain calm at night. On Thursday night, favourable wind speed (8-12 kmph) led to better dispersion conditions, he said. The maximum wind speed is predicted to be 14 kmph on Friday, according to the India Meteorological Department. The share of stubble burning in Delhi's pollution has also reduced significantly as the harvesting season has ended. The contribution of stubble burning in neighbouring states to Delhi's PM2.5 levels was just 1 per cent on Thursday and 2 per cent on Wednesday, according to the Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR. The minimum temperature was 10.2 degrees Celsius on Friday. The maximum temperature is likely to settle around 25 degrees Celsius, the weather department said. Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-531
27-11-2020||India||A government geared to halt, not the Chinese but farmers||The might of the State was unleashed to prevent protesting farmers entering Delhi on a day dedicated to the Constitution, which begins with “we the people”, triggering a political slugfest and calls for intensification of the agitation against the new farm laws. Haryana police used heavy construction equipment on Thursday to position boulders as protection for their barricades, and employed crowd-control vehicles to prevent the farmers approaching Delhi. This, after drenching the marching farmers from Punjab with water cannons on a cold and bleak Wednesday. A collective of farmers’ organisations has given a “Dilli chalo” call to press the Centre to repeal the three new farm laws and introduce a bill that guarantees a minimum support price (MSP) for the farmers. The Haryana police action attracted more publicity for the agitation, the sight of farmers drenched with water cannons drawing sympathy even from the chattering classes who are generally unmoved by such issues. As visuals of the crackdown began circulating online, the Rakesh Tikait faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, which has not joined the all-India platform of farmers’ and farm workers’ organisations, called for an indefinite blockade of all national highways from Friday. The call is likely to be most effective in western Uttar Pradesh, where the organisation wields influence. Asked about the faction giving its own call, Hannan Mollah of the All India Kisan Sabha said Tikait was clearly feeling isolated in the face of the support the farmers were receiving and had decided to join in. Tikait’s call remains an independent one and is not part of the programmes of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), which is now gearing for the possibility of the farmers from Punjab entering Delhi. The farmers have managed to push past the barricades at eight points on the Haryana-Punjab border. AIKSCC leaders said the Punjab farmers had initially planned to hold pickets wherever they were stopped. But Wednesday’s water-cannoning by the Haryana police and the multi-layered barricading -- as though it was the Pakistan border -- agitated them so much that they decided to march on. Now that they have crossed into Haryana, the authorities' entire focus is on barricading Delhi, where the borders were sealed for the major part of Thursday. The Centre’s apprehension is that if the farmers are allowed to enter Delhi, they may well start a prolonged agitation as the Punjab farmers, in particular, are moving with rations to last them a fortnight. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal questioned the Centre’s efforts to prevent the farmers from protesting. “The three farm laws are anti-farmer. Instead of repealing these laws, the government is preventing the farmers from protesting peacefully and using water cannons against them,” he tweeted in Hindi. “This crime against the farmers is wrong. It is their constitutional right to protest peacefully.” A verbal battle broke out between the Congress chief minister of Punjab and his BJP counterpart in Haryana. Urging the BJP not to ask its state governments to use strong-arm tactics against the farmers, Amarinder Singh of Punjab said: “The hands that feed the nation deserve to be held, not pushed aside.” He underlined that the farmers had been protesting peacefully in Punjab for two months and asked why the Haryana government was provoking them by using force. “Don’t the farmers have the right to pass peacefully through a public highway?” Amarinder tweeted. “It’s a sad irony that on #ConstitutionDay2020 the constitutional right of farmers is being oppressed in this manner. Let them pass @mlkhattar ji, don’t push them to the brink. Let them take their voice to Delhi peacefully.” Khattar responded by accusing Amarinder of inciting the farmers and lying, and said he would leave politics if there was any trouble over the farmers securing the MSP. The Haryana chief minister also asked Amarinder not to put people's lives in danger during the pandemic. But this did not cut much ice, either with Amarinder or with the public in general, given that BJP leaders have themselves been holding rallies across the country through the pandemic. “It’s the farmers who’ve to be convinced on MSP, not me. You should’ve tried to talk to them before their #DilliChalo. And if you think I'm inciting farmers then why are Haryana farmers also marching to Delhi?" Amarinder countered. The Trinamul Congress reminded Haryana that it had always been viewed as a “farmer-oriented” state. “But today, the policies undertaken by the central govt have brought farmers on the roads. The same water that cultivates crops is being used to quell protests! Is this how @BJP4India doubles farmers' income in their states?" the party tweeted. While the Punjab farmers caught all the media attention because of the sheer numbers moving towards Delhi, smaller groups of farmers made for Delhi from Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan amid reports they were being stopped at various places and their leaders detained. Elsewhere, farmers observed a “grameen hartal” (rural strike) in a show of solidarity with the nationwide strike call given by trade unions. In Delhi, some farmers made it to Jantar Mantar but their efforts to stage a protest were foiled by the police, who rounded them up within minutes and took them to different police stations. Most of them had been let off by evening. Since the “Dilli chalo” call was for November 26 and 27, the AIKSCC has asked farmers across the country to gherao central government offices and district headquarters on Friday. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has invited the Punjab farmers for talks on December 3 but they are insisting the government talk to the farmers’ collective instead of trying to divide them state-wise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-531
27-11-2020||India||ISC council signals delay in board exams||The ICSE and ISC board exams are not likely to take place “before the end of May or in June”, ICSE council chief executive and secretary Gerry Arathoon said on Thursday evening. Arathoon told The Telegraph over the phone that there was no clarity on when the schools can reopen, even for Classes X and XII. He said the students were unable to attend practical classes, crucial for the board exams. “The schools and the board would like students to come to school for the practical classes and exams. Right now, the practicals that they are doing or what they are learning is through videos. But there is no hands-on training. There should at least be two months of practicals that they do and then exams can take place,” Arathoon said. He also referred to the upcoming elections in some states and the pandemic. Arathoon said: “Taking all these into consideration — the hands-on practical classes, election in some states next year and the fact that the pandemic is still on, I can’t see the board exams taking place before the end of May or in June.” Arathoon said that for the board exams to take place, parents’ consent to sending their children to school was necessary. “To have the board exams, parents have to agree to send their children to school.” He said the state governments too needed to take a decision on the reopening of schools, and being a “national board” the council had to take all the states into account. Usually, the ICSE and ISC exams begin in February and the exam timetable is published by the council by the end of November. The practical exams for the ISC take place as early as the first week of February. The Telegraph had reported on November 13 how teachers across schools in Calcutta were concerned about the loss of practical classes because of the pandemic, especially for the Class XII students who are to appear in board exams next year. Usually, for each of the science subjects — physics, chemistry and biology — Class XII students attend approximately 45 to 50 hours of practical classes in an academic year. This year there have been none so far. The heads of several ISC and ICSE schools had expressed concern about the loss of practical classes to the council. The council had asked the schools for feedback on teaching, coverage of the reduced syllabus, and the conduct of Classes X and XII assessments. The heads of several ICSE schools this newspaper spoke to said that because of the pandemic, the students were unable to perform experiments in school. Although the teachers were sending them videos of the assignments or showing live demonstrations online, it was not the same as doing hands-on experiments, they said. This year, the Class X and XII board exams had to be stalled midway because of the pandemic. Eight ISC papers and six ICSE papers were pending when the council suspended the exams in March. Later, the Supreme Court announced that the remaining Class X and XII exams for both the CBSE and the ICSE/ISC boards that had been rescheduled for July would be cancelled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-531
27-11-2020||India||Maulana Kalbe Sadiq: A scholar, reformer and educationist||Maulana Kalbe Sadiq, Islamic scholar, reformer, educationist and the most important Shia cleric in India, died on Tuesday night in Lucknow after a prolonged illness. Sadiq, 81, had been admitted to Era Medical College on November 17 and was undergoing treatment for severe pneumonia. He had been battling colorectal cancer for the last three years. Lakhs of mourners across the world tuned into his funeral virtually, to pay their last respects to a man who had devoted his life to helping the poor. Born in Lucknow on June 22, 1939, to a family of Shia religious scholars — his father Syed Kalbe Hussain and brother Kalbe Abid were all acclaimed for their Islamic scholarship and oratory — Sadiq followed in their footsteps. He obtained a master’s in Arabic literature from Aligarh Muslim University and a doctorate from Lucknow University. In the 1970s and 1980s Dr Kalbe Sadiq was among the first clerics who went on lecture tours to the West where the tiny Indian Shia diaspora was growing. Along with preaching about Imam Husain and the martyrs of Karbala, he would also address the needs of his audience for an understanding of Islam, living in countries that were ignorant of its beliefs and rituals. Unlike other maulanas, Sadiq lectured in easy Urdu, peppered with English, so that youngsters could understand his message. Sadiq was a great believer of modern education and felt it was the only panacea to the problems of society. He exhorted Indian Muslims to arm their sons and daughters with both religious and modern education in order to eradicate the ignorance and poverty plaguing the community. In 1984, Sadiq founded the Tauheedul Muslimeen Trust, which over the years has given educational assistance and scholarships to thousands of needy and poor students irrespective of their religion. Renowned for his charitable work, Sadiq was the guiding force behind the Unity group of schools and colleges in Uttar Pradesh, the Era Medical College and Hospital, Hiza Charitable Hospital and many other educational and health establishments. A liberal at heart, what distinguished Sadiq from many other religious preachers was his propagation of secular values and inter-faith camaraderie. He stressed on Shia-Sunni harmony in Lucknow, which is known for its long enmity between the two sects that could even turn violent. Practicing what he preached, he regularly read Eid-ul-Adha namaz in congregation with Sunni Muslims. He also worked tirelessly for Hindu-Muslim unity amid rising religious polarisation. He represented the Shia voice as the long-standing vice-president of the All India Muslim Personal Law Board, and in the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid case he urged Muslims to peacefully accept whatever the courts decide. Sadiq always looked at the bigger picture. In 2017, a couple of years prior to the Supreme Court’s verdict, Sadiq had even suggested Muslims give the Babri Masjid land to Hindus if “by giving away a piece of land the community can win millions of hearts” and establish communal harmony. Sadiq fought always on the side of justice. Despite his failing health in January this year he showed solidarity with the CAA-NRC protests by visiting the women at the Clock Tower in Lucknow. “If you don’t take back this law, then these demonstrating women, these children will unseat you one day,” Sadiq advised the Narendra Modi government from his wheelchair. Despite enjoying enormous following among the 50 million Shias in India and goodwill across communities, religions and countries, Kalbe Sadiq was an incredibly humble man living a Spartan life. He was a vegetarian by choice and had no desire or time for the pomp and ceremony that some religious leaders crave. He travelled by A/C three-tier trains to deliver his lectures and charged a very modest fee. If the organisers wished to give him more, he would tell them to donate it towards the education of orphans. The whole community today has been orphaned by his sad demise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-531
27-11-2020||India||Father Stan Swamy’s wait for sipper in jail||A court here on Thursday sought a reply from the prison authorities on 83-year-old tribal rights activist Father Stan Swamy’s request that he be provided a straw and sipper in jail. He also filed a bail plea in the special NIA court on Thursday citing health issues. Earlier in the day, the court rejected his previous application seeking a directive to the NIA to return the straw and sipper allegedly seized from him during the arrest. On Thursday, the agency denied that it had confiscated his straw and sipper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-531
27-11-2020||India||Cyclonic storm Nivar kills 3 in Tamil Nadu, wrecks trees||At least three persons were killed in Tamil Nadu, over 1,000 trees uprooted and some low-lying areas marooned due to waterlogging following heavy rain on Thursday as severe cyclonic storm Nivar made landfall near Puducherry. Subsequently, Nivar weakened into a cyclonic storm and further into a deep depression, centred about 50km west-southwest of Tirupati at 2.30pm, officials of the India Meteorological Department said. According to the IMD, it will weaken into a depression during the next six hours. Heavy rains lashed Tamil Nadu and Puducherry as Nivar made landfall in the early hours, leading to inundation and uprooting of trees. Union home minister Amit Shah tweeted, “We are closely monitoring the situation in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry in the wake of Cyclone Nivar. Have spoken to CM Shri @EPSTamilNadu and CM Shri @VNarayanasami and assured all possible help from the centre. NDRF teams already on ground to help people in need.” In Tamil Nadu, three persons, including a woman, were killed in rain related incidents such as tree and wall collapses in Chennai, nearby Ponneri and Villupuram, authorities said. Officials said about 1,086 trees were uprooted in Tamil Nadu and almost all of them have been removed. In a few places, overhead electricity cables snapped as heavy trees fell over them and also some vehicles. In Chennai, citizens in many parts complained of disruption in Internet. Chief minister K. Palaniswami visited Cuddalore, close to Puducherry, and took stock of the damage in the district. Low-lying neighbourhoods in Chennai witnessed flooding and water entered the houses of many residents. Rescue personnel ferried cooked food to the people using inflatable boats and while some chose to shift to the homes of their relatives, others continued to stay put battling odds. In city areas, civic workers pumped out stagnant waters from several locations. Airport operations, Metro rail and bus transport resumed on Thursday. State-run bus transportation services, suspended in Villupuram, Cuddalore, Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur, Thanjavur and Pudukottai districts from November 24, resumed from noon on Thursday. In neighbouring Puducherry, which saw heavy rains and inundation in some parts, there were no reports of loss of life because of the cyclone. Chief minister V. Narayanasamy said there were no reports of loss of lives adding whether boats and nets were damaged or not would be known only later. In view of the cyclone, a prohibitory order that was in force in the Union Territory since November 24 to prevent movement of people and also gathering was lifted on Thursday. In Andhra Pradesh, chief minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy asked SPS Nellore district collector to render all assistance to the family of the person who died of electrocution on Wednesday. In Chittoor district, three farmers went to their fields to fetch electric motors but were suddenly caught in a swirling flood from the Mallemadugu reservoir on Thursday. While NDRF and state emergency response and fire services personnel rescued two farmers, another was washed away and efforts were on to trace him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-531
27-11-2020||India||Aligarh Muslim University to take BJP flag dispute to SC||Aligarh Muslim University’s act of removing a BJP flag from an MLA’s vehicle after it had entered the campus will now go to the Supreme Court. The university has decided to challenge in the apex court an Allahabad High Court order refusing to quash criminal proceedings against members of the varsity’s proctorial board for having the flag removed from the SUV of Barauli MLA Dalveer Singh. The vehicle had come to take Vijay Kumar Singh, grandson of Dalveer and a first-year BA student, home on October 22 last year. Its driver Guddu Singh later complained to the chief judicial magistrate’s court against proctor Brij Bhushan Singh and the 12 other members of the board, alleging they had forcibly removed the flag and manhandled him. The university petitioned the high court on January 23 this year to quash the case, arguing its rules banned political parties’ flags inside the campus. On November 21, the bench of Justice J.J. Munir passed an order refusing to stop the proceedings in the lower court. University spokesperson Shafey Kidwai said everyone on the campus — students, teachers and other staff —“meticulously” followed the ban on political parties’ flags. “After we failed to secure relief from the high court, the university management decided at a meeting to approach the Supreme Court to quash proceeding against university members who were doing their duty,” Kidwai said on Thursday. “The members of the proctorial board were standing at the Bab-e-Sayed, the main gate of the university, when the SUV entered the campus. The driver said the vehicle belonged to a BJP leader and that he had come to take a student home. But, following the university rules, the board members removed the flag.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-531
27-11-2020||India||Militants kill 2 jawans in Srinagar||Militants travelling in a car killed two soldiers during an attack on a quick reaction team of the army at the busy HMT crossing here, showing again their capability to strike at will in the city. There have been multiple militant attacks on security forces and half-a-dozen encounters between the two sides in Srinagar this year, betraying how the city is back in their focus after last year’s abrogation of Article 370. A police spokesman said preliminary investigations have revealed that militants travelling in a Maruti car took “undue advantage of crowded place” and fired indiscriminately at an army party, resulting in injuries to two jawans. “The injured jawans were rushed to the hospital for treatment; but both succumbed to their injuries and attained martyrdom. They have been identified as Sepoy Ratan (Lal) of 163 Battalion Territorial Army and Sepoy Deshmukh of 101 Battalion Territorial Army,” the spokesman said. Both were attached to the Rashtriya Rifles. “The movement of LeT and Jaish has been noticed in the area. We are investigating which group was behind the attack,” inspector-general of police Vijay Kumar said. Kumar said three militants were travelling in the car and it appeared two were foreigners and one was a local. Defence spokesman in Srinagar, Colonel Rajesh Kalia, said militants fired indiscriminately at the quick action team near Khushipora. “Being a crowded area, troops exercised restraint to avoid any civilian casualties and collateral damage,” he said. The area remains packed with vehicles during the day. The attack triggered panic and many vehicles were stuck in a jam. Official sources said there had been around a dozen militant attacks or gunfights between the security forces and militants this year in Srinagar, the highest in the last several years. In October, bike-borne militants carried out an attack on a road opening party of the 110 Battalion of the CRPF at Kandipzal area of Nowgam bypass, which killed two cops and left three others injured. In August, militants killed two policemen in an attack in a nearby locality. The city has witnessed around half-a-dozen encounters at Batmaloo, Nawakadal, Zoonimar, Malbagh, Mujgund, Parimpora and Panthachowk this year. There was also an attack on the BSF in Pandanch. When the BJP-led government scrapped Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir last year, it had claimed the move would end militancy in the region and bring peace, but that has remained a far cry so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-532
27-11-2020||India||Mother-tongue debut in some IITs, NITs||The government on Thursday announced its decision to introduce engineering courses in the mother tongue in some IITs and NITs from the next session. After education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal held a review meeting with senior officials of the ministry, the Press Information Bureau said in a statement that a “seminal decision” had been taken to start technical education courses, especially engineering, in the respective mother tongues of the states where the IITs and NITs are located. A ministry official said the mother tongue version would be optional. Engineering courses in India are offered in English, while the Joint Entrance exams are held in English and Hindi. The education ministry believes that courses in the mother tongue will have many takers in the IITs and NITs. Other than reservations for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, OBCs and economically weaker sections, a sizeable number of poor students get enrolled in these institutions. Many of them have had a vernacular education in school. The names of the institutions that will offer the mother tongue option have not been announced yet. Sources said IIT Banaras Hindu University could introduce engineering courses in Hindi. Former director of NIT Rourkella, Sunil Sarangi, welcomed the decision but favoured a gradual process. “Teaching of students in the mother tongue is essential and feasible. Language is not a barrier for teaching any subject. The preparation of study materials will take time. In 10 years from now, a complete degree programme in any branch of engineering can be offered in the mother tongue,” Sarangi said. He said employability and the reputation of Indian institutions globally would not be affected. Satya Narayanan, chief executive officer of the coaching institution Career Launcher, said teaching in the mother tongue would help democratise the professional education space. “Today, the professional education space is crowded with students from English-medium schools. There are talented students studying in regional-medium schools who can excel in courses taught in their mother tongue. This will give a level playing field to students from all sections of society,” Narayanan said. Syllabus pruning The government has decided that the National Testing Agency (NTA), which conducts JEE-Main, will come out with a new syllabus for competitive examinations “after assessment of the existing scenario in various boards”. An official said the syllabus for JEE-Main would be reduced because the school boards had pruned their syllabus by about 30 per cent in view of the pandemic. Exam feedback The education ministry will launch a campaign to seek the views of students, parents and teachers on how and when to conduct board exams next year. Ameeta Mulla Wattal, principal of Springdales School, said the schools had been talking to parents for the past two months to understand their concerns on the schedule of board exams. The practical exams usually start by February 15 while the written exams begin in March and continue till the third week of April. “By and large, parents in Delhi want the board exams to be pushed back by a month or a month-and-a-half. They want to see the Covid trajectory before taking a decision,” Wattal said. Former CBSE chairman Ashok Ganguly said the board exams should be held in April next year while the practical tests should be conducted in March instead of February.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-532
27-11-2020||India||Farmer rebuttal to Modi on Constitution Day ||While Prime Minister Narendra Modi was holding forth on constitutionalism on Thursday morning, the Congress tweeted a quote by Mahatma Gandhi: “What you do says what is most important to you. Action expresses priorities.” The message was posted along with several photographs and videos showing the police of BJP-ruled Haryana using force and water cannons to stop farmers from reaching Delhi to protest against the new farm laws. The Congress described the police action, on the anniversary of the day the Constitution had been adopted, as an attempt to crush the farmers’ rights. It described the farmers’ march to the national capital to convey their feelings to the government as perfectly legitimate. While Rahul Gandhi lauded the farmers for standing up to the authorities’ high-handedness, party spokesperson Gourav Vallabh tore into the government. “Are only the suited-booted friends of Modiji allowed to come to the national capital? Which part of the Constitution empowers the government to stop peaceful protesters from entering Delhi? Only aircraft will land in Delhi, tractors won’t enter?” Vallabh said. “The Prime Minister said today (that) KYC is ‘know your Constitution’. The first line (in the Constitution) is ‘We the People’. Modiji has forgotten that the Constitution is about the people, who include the farmers. “Why are they coming to Delhi? To request you to give a legal guarantee for an MSP (minimum support price). You talk about the Constitution and, on the ground, crush the farmers’ right to protest?” The Congress supports the farmers’ agitation and has been protesting the crackdown on their leaders over the past two days in Haryana. “Farmer leaders were picked up in midnight raids. Barricades, barbed wire, stones have been put up on roads to block the march,” party communications chief Randeep Surjewala said. “Farmers are (being) lathi-charged. Are they terrorists? Has the Modi regime become more cruel than colonial rule?” Former BJP ally Akali Dal, which had parted ways over the “draconian” new farm laws, too slammed the Haryana government. “Today is Punjab’s 26/11. We are witnessing the end of the right to democratic protest. Akali Dal condemns the Haryana government and the Centre for choosing to repress the peaceful farmer movement,” Sukhbit Badal tweeted. “Is it forbidden to go to Delhi? The protest is against the central government. Why is Haryana chief minister using force to stop farmers?” Badal’s reference to 26/11 — the November 2008 terrorist siege of Mumbai — reflected the seriousness the Akalis attach to the situation. The BJP has lauded the Prime Minister for agricultural reform and put up large hoardings across the country. Vallabh criticised Union agriculture minister Narendra Tomar’s assurance that the issues would be discussed with farmers on December 3. “What will be discussed on December 3 can be discussed today as well. Is there a muharat on December 3? You don’t have time to talk to the farmers who worked in the fields during corona to ensure agriculture becomes the only sector to (show) positive growth,” he said. “But for agriculture, the minus 24 per cent (growth) would have been minus 40 per cent. What is Modi doing, what engagement is more important than the issue that has agitated 62 crore farmers?” The use of force against the farmers triggered a Twitter war between the Congress chief minister of Punjab and his Haryana counterpart from the BJP. Amarinder Singh, who didn’t try to stop the march in Punjab, tweeted: “For nearly two months farmers have been protesting peacefully in Punjab without any problem. Why is Haryana government provoking them by resorting to force? Don’t the farmers have the right to pass peacefully through a public highway? “It’s a sad irony that on Constitution Day the constitutional right of farmers is being oppressed.... Let them pass (Manoharlal) Khattarji, don’t push them to the brink.... The hands that feed the nation deserve to be held, not pushed aside.” Khattar responded: “Amrinderji, I have said it earlier and I am saying it again, I will leave politics if there will be any trouble on the MSP. Therefore, please stop inciting innocent farmers. “I have been trying to reach out to you for the last three days but sadly you decided to stay unreachable. Is this how serious you are for farmer’s issues? You are only tweeting and running away from talks.... Please stop putting the lives of people in danger during the corona pandemic.” Amarinder responded: “Shocked at your response Khattar ji. It’s the farmers who have to be convinced on MSP, not me. You should have tried to talk to them before their Delhi march. And if you think I am inciting farmers then why are Haryana farmers also marching to Delhi? “As for endangering lives during Covid-19, have you forgotten that it was BJP-led central government that pushed through those farm laws amid the pandemic, uncaring about the impact they’d have on our farmers? Why didn’t you speak out then Khattar ji?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-532
27-11-2020||India||Separated conjoined twin dies in Odisha||Balia, aged 5, one of the conjoined twins from Kandhamal who was separated from his brother following a marathon surgery at All India Institute of Medical Science, New Delhi, three years ago, passed away at SCB Medical College and Hospital, Cuttack, on Wednesday. He was cremated on Thursday at his native village Milupada in Kandhamal. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik conveyed his condolences to the family and said that despite the best efforts of the doctors the child could not be saved. “May god give strength to the bereaved family members in this difficult time,” said Naveen. The twins were joined at the head since birth. Later on the initiative of the Odisha government, a marathon surgery was conducted at AIIMS, New Delhi, in 2017 to separate the craniopagus twins. After their separation, they remained in AIIMS for two years. In 2019 they came to Odisha and were under the constant supervision of doctors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-532
27-11-2020||India||Plea in Orissa HC for CBI probe into girl death||A public interest litigation (PIL) petition has been filed in Orissa High Court seeking a CBI probe into the kidnapping and murder of a five-year-old girl in Nayagarh district.  Bharat Vikash Parishad, which has filed the petition, has also demanded Rs 25 lakh as compensation for the family of the victim Pari. On Wednesday, the Odisha government had ordered a crime branch probe into the incident following a public uproar and mounting pressure from the Opposition. The Odisha Assembly again witnessed pandemonium over the issue on Thursday. The Opposition BJP and the Congress trained their guns on higher education minister Arun Sahoo, who hails from Nayagarh district, and demanded his resignation. He has been accused of shielding the culprits. The BJP also burnt effigies of the minister. Under fire from different quarters, Sahoo issued a statement on Thursday saying he welcomed the crime branch probe and that “whoever is involved in the murder case of Pari” should be brought to the book. “The issue should not be politicised. Let Pari get justice and the truth come to the fore,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-532
27-11-2020||India||Bihar ‘inclusive’ pitch and parallel speech||Bihar governor Phagu Chauhan emphasised on “social and communal harmony” and “inclusive development” by the state government while addressing the joint session of the Bihar Legislative Assembly and the Legislative Council on Thursday amid ruckus by the Opposition. At the same time, the CPI-ML read a parallel speech in the House to showcase the failures of the government. Setting the agenda and course of action for the new National Democratic Alliance government headed by chief minister and Janata Dal United leader Nitish Kumar in the state, the governor highlighted the focus areas of governance. Chauhan’s speech had a distinct influence of what had been the thrust areas of Nitish in governance, but at the same time it did not fail to mention the welfare works of the BJP–led central government. “Social and communal harmony is prevailing in the state. The government’s policy is of zero-tolerance on crime, corruption and communalism,” the governor said.    Chauhan added that he fully believed that the government would “tread on the path of inclusive development and go ahead towards making a developed Bihar. We see an extensive awareness about development in different categories of the people, especially the youth, women and deprived sections”. In what could be seen as the government’s effort to address the rising crime graph in the state, Chauhan assured that it was determined to uphold the rule of law. “The government is determined to ensure development with justice and development of every region and section of the society. It is determined to maintain the rule of law. Law and order has been implemented without any animosity or discrimination. Organised crime has been strictly curbed and this will continue in future also,” he said. Chauhan asserted that the state government would strictly implement prohibition and continue its social campaign against child marriage and the dowry system. While highlighting the work done by the state government over the previous years, the governor said, “New programmes will be brought for the development of the state and all sections of the society. Bihar will be taken to greater heights of progress by the state’s own efforts and assistance of the central government.” While the governor was addressing the joint session, CPI-ML legislator Satyadeo Ram read a parallel speech to highlight the failure of the government on several fronts. “We are continuously seeing the murder of the constitutional rights of labourers and farmers. We are fully determined to protect the socio-economic and political rights and the Constitution,” he said. Ram, the Darauli MLA, pointed out that employment, quality education and health facilities, protection of the rights of farmers and labourers, and the rule of law and justice have come up as popular issues during the recent elections. “Unemployment, issues pertaining to migrant workers, and making contractual workers and teachers as permanent employees remained at the centre of the elections despite desperate attempts of the BJP and the JDU to stop them,” he added. The CPI-ML also asserted that though the NDA scraped through with a small margin, the poll mandate has come as a setback to the BJP’s efforts to make an “Opposition-free India”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-532
27-11-2020||West Bengal||Suvendu tenders resignation from state transport minister's post||Senior Trinamool Congress leader Suvendu Adhikari, who has been at odds with the party's leadership, tendered his resignation as the state's transport minister on Friday amid speculations over his next political move. Adhikari, the face of the Nandigram movement that catapulted Mamata Bannerjee to power in 2011, sent his resignation letter to the chief minister by fax, which he then forwarded to Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar by e-mail. "I do hereby tender my resignation from my office as Minister. Steps may be taken for its immediate acceptance. I am simultaneously by e-mail this to His Excellency-Governor of West Bengal, for doing the needful at his end," Adhikari said in the resignation letter. "I thank you for giving me an opportunity to serve the people of the state, which I did all through with a commitment, dedication and sincerity," he added. On Wednesday, he had resigned as the chairman of the Hooghly River Bridge Commissioners (HRBC). Adhikari also shunned his Z-category security cover provided by the state government, sources said. "Today at 1:05 pm a resignation letter of Mr Suvendu Adhikari from office as minister addressed to Hon'ble Chief Minister has been forwarded to me. The issue will be addressed from a constitutional perspective," the governor tweeted. The Trinamool Congress remained tight-lipped on the development, while the BJP said that the resignation was a reflection of the anger of TMC leaders against the party's top brass. Sources close to Adhikari, who has not attended state cabinet meetings over the last few months, said that he was unhappy with the organisational rejig, effected a few months ago. MPs Sougata Roy and Sudip Bandopadhyay were deputed to talk to him and address the grievances, even as he continued to tour the state and lead rallies organised by his supporters but without the TMC's banner, an unusual for the party. The Telegraph had previously reported that at an event in East Midnapore last week, Suvendu claimed, “I am still a primary, active member of a political party. I am still a member of a cabinet. The chief minister has kept me as a minister…. Political statements cannot be made while being in the party, while remaining a member of the cabinet…. I am the son of the same soil as Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar. I will never do anything unethical." Adhikari had provided a hint about his future actions by admitting that there were rajnoitik mawtantawr (differences of political opinion) and bibhed (disintegration), which could lead to bichchhed (separation). “There are times, once in a while, when there are differences of political opinion, disintegration… from that disintegration, there can be separation. But for as long as one is in that party, in that cabinet… for as long as decision-makers have not thrown you out, or you haven’t quit yourself, till then statements like that cannot be made from such platforms (like these),” he had said. Speculations over his possible switch to the BJP or creating a political party aligned with the NDA have been doing the rounds for years, intensified by the rise of Mamata’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee in the party as her political successor. BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, however, declined to comment on speculation that Adhikari was joining his party. Apart from his home district of East Midnapore, Adhikari has influence over at least 35-40 assembly segments that are in West Midnapore, Bankura, Purulia and Jhargram, and parts of Birbhum -- the tribal-dominated Junglemahal region. Elections to the 294-member Bengal assembly is likely in April-May next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-296
27-11-2020||West Bengal||CPM rally taps anger against BJP-TMC row||Around 2,500 people, including women and those from the tribal community took part in a rally on Thursday called by the CPM in Bolpur’s Shimulia and nearby villages against Wednesday’s clash between the BJP and the Trinamul. CPM leaders claimed the rally had been called as a part of the countrywide strike, but in Shimulia it turned to be a peace rally against the recurring violence in the region. CPM leaders said the clash between Trinamul and BJP workers had angered people so much that they came out in large numbers to join the rally. Armed clashes had rocked Shimulia and its adjacent village on Wednesday when allegedly Trinamul-backed goons tried to stop BJP supporters from attending the rally of the party’s state chief Dilip Ghosh in Suri. A BJP supporter was injured in the clash and police had to fire teargas shells to disperse the warring rivals. Several vehicles were damaged as well. Sources said most people took part in the CPM rally for the first time to express their disgust against the prolonged turf war in the area between the BJP and the Trinamul for nearly a year. “This is the first time I have joined a political rally. Frequent clashes between the two sides to take control of the area are a threat to peaceful existence. Wednesday’s clash forced me to join the peace march (on Thursday) against such violent incidents,” said Budhi Murmu, a primary schoolteacher in Birbhum’s Gosaidanga village adjacent to Shimulia. The rally passed through five villages, including Shimulia, to protest against Wednesday’s violent clash, hours before the police rounded up six persons from Trinamul and the BJP for their role in the turf war. “They were produced at a court in Bolpur and remanded to judicial custody,” said a police officer. Goutam Ghosh, the CPM state committee member who led Thursday’s rally, said: “Most of the people at the rally had come to protest against the violence. We were surprised to find so many people who had never joined our political meetings or rallies. It proves the rural populace, especially farmers, are angry with the politics of violence,” he said. Sources said soon after Wednesday’s clash, a few CPM leaders in Shimulia and nearby villages sensed the anger in the people and urged them to join Thursday’s rally. “Clashes with bombs and bullets are too frequent. We campaigned among villagers to come and protest and they responded positively,” said Dinesh Ghorui, a CPM area committee member in Shimulia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-297
27-11-2020||West Bengal||5-hour traffic bar on NH10 for repair||Traffic will be suspended for five hours along a 12km stretch of NH10 on Sunday when Bengal public works department will carry out a comprehensive repair of the principal highway that connects Sikkim and the Kalimpong district of Bengal with Siliguri. The state PWD (roads) will remove debris which piled up at 29th Mile along the highway during landslides and repair a 1.5km stretch there. A source in the PWD said traffic would be suspended between Rambhi and Teesta Bazaar — which are 12km apart — from 11am to 4pm on next Sunday. “Recurring landslides during the monsoon and thereafter damaged the road at 29th Mile. We will remove the rubble and repair the highway on Sunday. That is why vehicles will be barred from NH10 between Rambhi and Teesta Bazaar for five hours,” said a source in the department. A meeting of officials concerned was held in Kalimpong on Wednesday to discuss as to how traffic could be suspended. The Sikkim government as well as the administration of the neighbouring Darjeeling district were informed about the impending traffic ban. “People are requested to avoid travel between Rambhi and Teesta Bazaar for five hours on Sunday. However, commuters can take the Peshok-Jorebungalow-Sukna, Algarah-Lava-Gorubathan and Kalijhora-Panbu-Yangmakum-Pala-Kalimpong routes,” said Hari Krishna Pai, the superintendent of police, Kalimpong. “We are happy that the PWD has finally decided to address the problem at 29th Mile. Commuters are facing inconveniences because of landslides, which lead to traffic congestion,” said Debasish Maitra, president, Eastern Himalaya Travel & Tour Operators’ Association. “Also, it is risky for vehicles to move through the stretch as debris often fall from the hillside.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-297
27-11-2020||West Bengal|| North Bengal University genome hub to save indigenous plants||A genome centre that preserves samples of various plant species in north Bengal for future use will come up on the campus of the North Bengal University (NBU) on Siliguri outskirts. NBU vice-chancellor Subires Bhattacharyya said they had been working on the proposal for the past couple of months after the issue was raised by chief minister Mamata Banerjee at an administrative review meeting here  and could finally get approval from the state. “The government has approved it in principle and we will soon start work to build the centre,” the VC said. “A number of indigenous plants found in this region are getting rarer day by day. The centre will help us protect the biodiversity and preserve the genes of these plant species so that those can be nurtured to regenerate and cultivate fresh saplings,” he added. The centre, varsity sources said, will be named as Biswa Bangla Genome Centre, and its construction work is likely to commence from next month. Mamata, who was here in September this year, had stressed the need for such a centre and had also asked the vice-chancellor and other NBU officials to work on it. A senior faculty member of the botany department at the varsity said a genome centre of plants could largely help researchers in north Bengal. The sub-Himalayan region that covers high-altitude areas such as Sandakphu to pristine forests of the Dooars, is known to be a storehouse of biodiversity. “There are several ethno-medicinal species, most of which grow in the wild. It is necessary to preserve samples of these species, along with samples of rare floral species. The centre will also provide scope to researchers to work on different species,” he said. Dilip Sarkar, the registrar of NBU, said they planned to set up the centre near the department of bioinformatics on the campus. “Detailed plans will be chalked out to make a state-of-the-art facility as it will be one of its kind in the region,” said Sarkar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-297
27-11-2020||West Bengal||Fourteen ‘Rohingya’ held from Rajdhani at New Jalpaiguri||Acting on a tip-off, Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel at New Jalpaiguri station arrested 14 foreign nationals, suspected to be Rohingya, on Tuesday night while they were on their way to Delhi from the Northeast on a special Rajdhani Express. Interrogation revealed they have fled from a refugee camp in Cox’s Bazar, Bangladesh. Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) sources said none had any identity proof of Indian citizenship. They had also booked tickets under false names. S. Chanda, the chief public relations officer of NFR, said a passenger’s call from the Agartala-New Delhi Special Rajdhani Express to RPF security control helpline in Alipurduar first alerted them. RPF officers passed the message to their counterparts in New Jalpaiguri. As the train reached NJP, RPF and GRP teams got on board and found the passengers. “The 14 who had boarded the train from Badarpur did not have identity cards to prove their Indian citizenship, and details of their tickets revealed they were travelling under fake names, that is, with tickets generated in the names of others,” the CPRO added. All of them were asked to get down and were taken to the GRP station in NJP. “They are suspected to be Rohingya and a case has been registered against them under Section 14A of the Foreigners (Amendment) Act,” Chanda added. On Wednesday, they were produced at a court and sent to judicial custody, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-297
27-11-2020||West Bengal||Bengal BJP leader’s death now murder case||South Dinajpur police on Thursday filed a murder case in the death of Swadhin Roy, a booth committee president of the BJP in the district’s Gangarampur, after his wife formally complained that he was murdered. The police have detained two persons for interrogation. On Wednesday morning, Roy was found dead in a deserted field, his bike nearby. Police sent the body for autopsy. Senior policemen said prima facie Roy was drunk and could have died from falling off his bike. His last rites were held on Wednesday evening in the presence of the police. BJP leaders, including Balurghat MP Sukanta Majumdar, called it murder by strangulation and blamed Trinamul. On Thursday, state BJP leader Sayantan Bose and district leaders reached Roy’s house. Roy’s wife Beli and party leaders then went to Gangarampur police station, where Beli filed the murder charge and said her husband wasn’t in the habit of drinking. BJP leader Bose echoed the Balurghat MP to say that Roy had been strangled to death. “This is a new killing technique that Trinamul-backed goons have adopted to conceal their crime. The post-mortem and last rites were conducted in a hurry and we suspect that a section of police officers have done it in connivance with Trinamul,” he said. Asked to comment, Gangarampur’s inspector in charge was brief in his reaction. “We have filed a case based on a complaint by the deceased’s wife.  Two persons have been detained for interrogation. Our officers are probing the case,” said Purnendu Kundu, the inspector-in-charge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-297
27-11-2020||West Bengal||Cashless health cover for all in Bengal||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday announced the state government’s decision to bring all residents of Bengal under the fold of Swasthya Sathi, a cashless health insurance scheme launched by the state government in December 2016. “Already 7.5 crore people have either been enrolled in the scheme or are under process for inclusion. We have decided to bring another 2.5 crore people under the scheme. With this, all people in the state will be covered under the scheme,” said the chief minister at Nabanna on Thursday. The decision will be applicable from December 1, 2020. For this, the state government will have to shoulder an extra Rs 2,000 crore annually. So far, the state government had to spend nearly Rs 4,000 crore annually on the health scheme that gives each family insurance cover of Rs 5 lakh a year. The chief minister said those yet to be included under the scheme can apply from December 1 when government officials visit from door to door to know about people’s grievances under the “Duare Duare Sarkar (government at each doorstep)” programme. Mamata compared her government’s scheme with the Centre’s Ayushman Bharat and explained why Bengal did not implement the latter. “We shoulder the entire cost in our scheme. In the Centre's scheme, the Centre gives only 60 per cent cost (of the premium). Who will give the remaining part? The beneficiary?” she asked. The scheme has around 1,500 empanelled hospitals including AIIMS, Delhi and CMC, Vellore, said sources. The chief minister said that under the scheme, a smart card would be issued in the name of the woman who heads the family and details of all family members would be inserted in the card. Only those enrolled in any other government health scheme can’t be enrolled under this scheme. “The card is being issued in the name of the woman who heads the family as a part of the state government’s initiative of empowerment of women. Details of all other members would be inserted in the card and all family members can avail the benefits of the card,” said the chief minister. A senior government official said that the scheme was already very popular among the masses in the state. “About 70 lakh people have secured benefit of the scheme since it was introduced. It is expected that more people would utilise the benefit of the card in coming days,” said the official. Trinamul insiders said that the initiative could be considered a masterstroke by the chief minister ahead of polls. “It will help us counter the BJP’s campaign that the state did not join the central scheme (Ayushman Bharat) which left people of the state in trouble,” a Trinamul MLA said. “(We can tell people) we have a better scheme for the people of the state.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-297
27-11-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul wants case against Bengal governor||The Trinamul Congress on Thursday accused Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar of trying to shield alleged criminals through his tweets, demanding his removal from the post and asking Calcutta police to initiate criminal proceedings against the Raj Bhavan occupant. At a news conference at Trinamul Bhavan, Kalyan Banerjee, the party’s Serampore MP and a lawyer, lambasted Dhankhar over some of his tweets on November 22 and 25. “The honourable governor expressed his dissatisfaction by tweeting on November 22 regarding the arrest of Govind Agarwal and some chartered accountants,” Banerjee said. Agarwal, who offers accounting services, was arrested by the city police in connection with a corruption case against an income-tax officer, soon after which Dhankhar tweeted about “alarming worrisome inputs from CA fraternity” and a “politically inspired operation”. The governor’s tweets, however, made no mention of Agarwal who is not a CA. “The governor is speaking on behalf of the accused and obstructing the investigation. Everyone knows he tweeted again on November 25…,” Banerjee said, naming another person who was arrested in a case involving fake Enforcement Directorate papers. “Why is the governor speaking on behalf of these main accused? He is obstructing the work of the police, using his influence to save them,” added the MP. The MP alleged Dhankhar was targeting chief minister Mamata Banerjee  and trying to prevent the investigations. “Those who obstruct criminal investigations can be prosecuted under Sections 186 and 189 of the Indian Penal Code. So, I will request Calcutta police to file a case against him for the way he is tweeting to intimidate the public servants and under these two Sections,” Kalyan Banerjee said. “… no permission is required for this, against anyone who is doing illegal work in a government position,” he added. Justice (retired) Chittatosh Mookerjee, a former Chief Justice of the Calcutta and Bombay high courts, said such proceedings cannot be initiated against Dhankhar while he is in office and cited Article 361(2) of the Constitution. The Article states: “No criminal proceedings whatsoever shall be instituted or continued against the President, or the Governor of a State, in any court during his term of office.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-297
27-11-2020||West Bengal||Bengal off list of top 5 active-case states||Bengal on Thursday achieved its goal of taking its Covid-19 recovery rate past 93 within November, riding the 31-day wave of a steady drop in total active cases since Vijaya Dashami on October 26. Bengal’s total active cases fell from 37,190 on Dashami to 24,670 on Thursday, almost back to the level of September 19, 68 days ago. With this, Bengal has managed to drop out of the list of top five states with the most active cases. “Our key goals at the start of this month were to get the total active cases to less than 25,000 and the recovery rate to over 93 per cent by November 30. We achieved the first on Tuesday and the second today (Thursday),” said a minister. “We have finally been able to fall out of the top five in the list of states with the most active cases. On Tuesday, we were fifth. Today, we have managed to come down to the eighth place. Soon, we will get out of the top 10,” he added. In the 31 days since the end of Durga Puja, the state recorded over 1.27 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 1.16 lakh cases found. On Thursday, the state reported 3,537 recoveries, 3,507 new infections and 52 deaths. The state’s recovery rate has been on an unbroken spell of rise for 35 consecutive days, reaching 93.01 per cent on Thursday, inching closer to the national rate of 93.64 per cent. Bengal’s total of Covid-19 cases is over 4.7 lakh now, including over 4.37 lakh recoveries and 8,224 deaths. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja. The numbers of infections from Puja showed that the intervention was effective. The high court issued a similar set of instructions for Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. The minister said it could now be assumed that the state has seen off the Kali Puja-Diwali spell of festivities without considerable worsening of the outbreak. “Thursday was Day 10 for someone who got infected on November 17, the day after Bhai Phonta. These statistics we are getting now from the Kali Puja-Diwali weekend and later indicate that Durga Puja’s discipline was maintained,” said the minister. It is between Day Six and 10 of the infection that most cases get detected. With 44,713 tests on Thursday, the state’s total test count went past 56.99 lakh, at 63,325 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.26 per cent. Of the 52 deaths reported on Thursday, 12 each were from Calcutta and North 24-Parganas. The total toll has 6,877 or 83.6 per cent comorbid deaths.The state’s mortality rate is now 1.74, compared to the national 1.45 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-297
27-11-2020||West Bengal||Cooch Behar Trinamul  MLA to quit||Mihir Goswami, the Trinamul MLA of Cooch Behar (South), said on Thursday that he had decided to sever ties with the party. Goswami, who has been vocal against Trinamul and its leaders for the past one-and-half months, said: “I feel that the party with which I have remained associated for 22 years no longer needs me. That is why I have decided to sever all my ties with the party.” He did not specify his future plans. His social media post on Thursday said: “The party that I had joined 22 years back is not today’s Trinamul. I don’t have any place in the party. If the party supremo instructs me, I can also resign from the MLA’s post.” Since October, Goswami has been critical of Trinamul. Last week, he put up a post on social media, saying the party was “no longer in the hands of Mamata Banerjee”. The veteran, however, did not clarify whether he had sent his resignation to party leaders. Asked if he was contemplating to join another party, Goswami dodged a direct reply. “I have made up my mind to leave Trinamul. If I have to serve people, I should work in a democratic manner and be in a democratic party. I will soon make a decision on it,” he said. On Tuesday, Trinamul stalwart in Cooch Behar and minister Rabindranath Ghosh had visited Goswami’s residence to try and placate him. After Thursday’s development, Trinamul leaders were guarded. “I don’t want to comment on his remarks or posts. All I can say is that he is still an MLA of our party,” said Partha Pratim Roy, district Trinamul president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-297
27-11-2020||West Bengal||Suvendu’s post goes to his critic Kalyan||The Bengal government on Thursday appointed Serampore MP Kalyan Banerjee as the chairman of the Hooghly River Bridge Commission (HRBC) in place of state transport minister Suvendu Adhikari who is apparently sulking with the Trinamul Congress leadership Sources in the government said Adhikari had submitted his resignation from the top position of the HRBC, which is a wing under the transport department. The appointment of Kalyan, who has been a bitter critic of Suvendu, in his place shows the leadership is not interested in placating the minister. “It remains to be seen when and how his association with the Trinamul government ends,” said a source. The change of guard at the helm of HRBC drew attention in the political and administrative circles amid murmurs that Adhikari has started snapping his remaining ties with the government. Over the last few months, he has not been attending ruling party programmes and cabinet meetings. He has also been making cryptic statements signalling that he is all set to chart a different political path for himself.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-297
27-11-2020||West Bengal||Response lukewarm in Bengal tea gardens||The strike called by the Left trade unions on Thursday against “anti-people” policies of the Narendra Modi government had little impact in the brew belt, raising questions on the effectiveness of a shutdown call amid a pandemic that has plunged the working class deeper into poverty. Reports from the tea gardens suggested most workers in tea estates of Terai and the Dooars went to work and operations were normal in over 80 per cent tea gardens. A senior trade union leader in the Dooars admitted they were caught by surprise as most workers walked up to the factories and plantations in tea gardens in defiance of the bandh call. “This despite Joint Forum, the largest apex body of tea trade unions, supporting the strike,” said the trade union leader. “What we witnessed today (Thursday) is unprecedented... The Left and the Congress backed tea trade unions claim that their trade unions enjoy a considerable support of the tea population. That claim came under question today,” said Soumen Nag, a social researcher in Siliguri. Tea workers and managers pointed out loss in workers’ earnings during the prolonged lockdown, and that many did not want disruption in regular activities as the current tea season would end in less than a month. A political analyst pointed out that the BJP and Trinamul were not actively involved in this bandh, which might be another reason for the lukewarm response. “In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and 2016 Assembly polls, a large section of the tea population had backed the BJP. “It is because of their support that BJP could win parliamentary seats Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar. Also, in recent times, the Trinamul government has come up with social welfare schemes and a housing scheme for tea workers. None of these parties supported the strike. That might have also made tea workers join their work,” he said. Bidyut Gun, the district secretary of Alipurduar in Citu (CPM’s workers’ front), asserted that they were perturbed as a large number of workers defied the strike call. “It is clear that we could not reach out to each worker and convince him or her why they should support the strike. We have to find out whether there has been a change in the support base of trade unions or there is any other reason for it,” said Gun. In Jalpaiguri, district Trinamul chief K.K. Kalyani hit the streets of Jalpaiguri town to oppose the strike as workers of Saraswatipur tea estate in Rajganj block of the district that Kalyani owns did not join work. “They did not support the strike but enjoyed the day as a holiday,” clarified Kalyani. Additional reporting by our Alipurduar correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-298
27-11-2020||West Bengal||Trade union bandh hits industrial belts of of Durgapur, Asansol ||The Left in Bengal claimed workers in the industrial belts of Durgapur and Asansol and jute mills in North 24-Parganas and Hooghly “spontaneously” backed the bandh called by trade unions against the Narendra Modi government’s “anti-people” policies. “Bank employees, workers in the PSUs and officers of both central and state governments protested against the anti-people policies of the Union government. We haven’t seen this kind of a positive response from people in the past few years,” CPM politburo member Mohammed Salim said on Thursday evening. From early Thursday, leaders and supporters of Left and Congress trade unions — which had called the nationwide bandh — hit the streets to ensure shutdown. Though the impact was minimal in Calcutta, industrial belts of Nadia and North 24-Parganas saw near-complete shutdown. The Kalyani industrial belt also wore a deserted look. The Left trade union leaders claimed the strike was a major success in the jute mill belt in North 24-Parganas with only one — the Meghna Mill — operating among 22 mills between Bijpur and Baranagar. According to Bengal Chatkal Mazdoor Forum’s state panel president Nabendu Dasgupta, “spontaneous participation” of 70,000 jute mill workers in North 24-Parganas proved workers were “refusing to be wooed by the BJP and Trinamul”. The Left produced similar examples from industrial belts in Hooghly, West Burdwan to claim an “anti-BJP and anti-Trinamul mood”. Though top Left and Congress leaders equated the BJP and its policies with that of Mamata Banerjee’s government, some of their leaders in the lower rungs admitted that Trinamul’s tacit support by way of endorsing the issues played a positive role. The fact that Trinamul was not actively opposed to the strike was clear from the chief minister’s comments at the state secretariat: “I believe today workers are in a movement…though we don’t support strikes in principle. The Union government is selling off everything from Coal India to railways to civil aviation.” The trade unions had given the bandh call to press for its demands such as cash transfer of Rs 7,500 per month for all non-income tax-paying families, hike in minimum wages, withdrawal of “anti-farmer laws” and “anti-worker labour codes”, and to protest privatisation of public sector entities. The strike however bared a pragmatic loophole. A senior Left leader said: “The biggest sufferers of the Centre’s policies are workers in the unorganised sector without a voice... Opposition to anti-people policies of the Centre can create an effective resistance only if these marginalised sections can also be made a part of the movement.” Additional inputs from Abhijeet Chatterjee, Snehamoy Chakraborty and Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-298
27-11-2020||West Bengal||Bengal panel on Netaji’s 125th birth anniversary||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday announced the formation of a committee to oversee the yearlong celebrations of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s 125th birth anniversary and launched a scathing attack on the saffron camp over alleged attempts to rewrite history. The Bengal chief minister said the committee, which she would chair and would include Nobel laureate economists Amartya Sen and Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee among others, would begin work immediately for the celebrations. Netaji was born on January 23, 1897. His quasquicentennial birth anniversary celebrations are likely to begin from January 23 next year and continue till that date in 2022. “The core idea is to once again, spread far and wide the ideas of Netaji and everything he stood for…. A national, global icon, who rose from Bengal,” Mamata said while announcing the committee’s launch at Nabanna on Thursday. “Nowadays, I see a propensity to change history. History being rewritten on a whim…. Those who actually were in the Independence movement being left out, while those who opposed it — some who betrayed it — some of them are being brought forward, being portrayed as pioneering leaders, with political colours and intent,” she said in what sources in her party said was a direct attack on the saffron camp. A minister said Mamata was referring to attempts to deify figures that the saffron ecosystem considers iconic, such as Vinayak Damodar Savarkar, Syama Prasad Mookerjee and Deendayal Upadhyaya. One of the Sangh parivar’s pet peeves is that most universities in the country teach a “Leftist” version of Indian history that, among other things, glorifies Mughal rule. It wants Indian history rewritten to project the whole of Islamic rule as retrogressive, lionise Hindu kings like Prithviraj Chauhan and Rana Pratap who fought Muslim invaders or rulers, and extol ancient Indian (Hindu) knowledge and wisdom. “This is one area that she will increasingly attack the saffron camp on, with the help of Netaji’s legacy. Netaji, as it is widely known, was an uncompromisingly secular socialist who intensely detested the Hindi-Hindu-Hindustan vision of the Sangh parivar,” said a senior Trinamul Congress MP. Mamata said the committee included the likes of Nobel laureate economists Amartya Sen and Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee, poet Shankha Ghosh, scholars and Netaji kin Sugata Bose and Sumantra Bose, finance minister and Netaji relative Amit Mitra, authors Shirshendu Mukhopadhyay and Abul Bashar, thespians Rudraprasad Sengupta and Manoj Mitra, artists Jogen Chowdhury and Suvaprasanna, poet Subodh Sarkar, danseuse and actor Mamata Shankar, and author and activist Manoranjan Byapari. The committee also includes seniors in the government and the administration, besides several vice-chancellors. The chief minister said surviving members of Netaji’s Indian National Army were also being reached out to, for inclusion in the committee. On Thursday, she rued Netaji’s legacy “being neglected” even now. “It is time everything is brought to light, in this special year. We declassified everything we had, the Centre did not, despite all the promises. The truth about his disappearance remains hidden.” In 2015, her government declassified documents it had on Netaji. Taking a cue from the Bengal government, the Centre had declassified a clutch of files related to Netaji in 2016, but the information failed to shed more light on his disappearance.On Thursday, asked if she thought Netaji was neglected because he was a Bengali, Mamata said: “Some things that come to mind cannot be said.” “They need not be said though. Speech is silver, silence is golden…. We never made any difference between Bengali and non-Bengali icons. But they (the BJP) do. They keep claiming they will turn Bengal into Gujarat, into Uttar Pradesh… why? Everyone knows what has been going on in Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh. Why must Bengal be subjected to that?” she asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-298
27-11-2020||North East||Multi-faith message at Tarun Gogoi’s funeral||Places of worship of several religions were chosen as pit stops during former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi’s last journey on Thursday, in keeping with the Congress veteran’s last wish, to send a message of harmony amid “polarisation”. Before Gogoi’s last rites were performed with full state honours at the Navagraha cremation ground in Guwahati in the afternoon, the procession with his body stopped at a church, a naamghar (community prayer hall), a mosque and a temple during the 17km last journey, said state Congress president Ripun Bora. Gogoi, 86, passed away on Monday evening due to post-Covid complications. He was chief minister for three terms from 2001 to 2016. “The stoppages, as desired by our departed leader, were to send a message of communal harmony in these polarised times,” said Assam Congress general secretary Diganta Choudhury, referring to perceived attempts by the ruling BJP to divide the society along religious lines in the run-up to next year’s Assembly elections. The BJP maintains that such allegations are false and claims that it remains committed to the promise, made before the 2016 polls, to protect Assam’s jati (identity), mati (land) and bheti (base). However, BJP leaders have been referring to Bangladeshi Muslim migrants, an emotive issue in Assam, as “Mughals” and “miyas”. Assam Minority Development Board chairman M. Aowal had said in February that the state had a population of 1.3 crore Muslims, of whom around 90 lakh were of Bangladeshi origin. Assam’s total population is around 3.2 crore. Satyen Sarma, former state senior additional advocate-general, said Gogoi’s life was a message and his last journey was no different. “He had once said in a TV interview that ‘I will always be there for the Hindus, will always be there for the Muslims, will always be there for the Sikhs. I will stand for whosoever is an Indian.’ This was proved in his death as his last wish. There was a message for the people of Assam to preserve its composite and secular culture,” Sarma told The Telegraph, referring to the prevailing political atmosphere. His views were shared by Allen Brooks, former member of the Assam Minority Commission. “He (Gogoi) was everyone’s leader, represented every community and section. He wanted the blessings of everybody even on his last journey. There is a message to everyone: that we need to accept, respect and live in harmony with India’s diversity, Assam’s diversity, more so in this polarised environment.” The funeral procession was reminiscent of the farewell accorded to legendary singer Bhupen Hazarika in November 2011. “There were not as many people but it evoked memories of Bhupenda’s last journey. There were hundreds lining up the streets with folded hands as the procession passed. He (Gogoi) got a farewell befitting of a mass leader,” said Aroop Baruah of Jorhat, who attended the procession on Thursday. Senior Congress leaders and workers also joined the funeral procession. Chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal, health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and state BJP president Ranjeet Kumar Dass attended the cremation at Navagraha along with several ministers and senior officials. The state government had made elaborate arrangements for the funeral. Gogoi’s son Gaurav lit the pyre. Gogoi was a six-time MP and five-time MLA, besides being a Union minister of state in the early nineties. He has been credited with ushering in peace in Assam as chief minister after years of insurgency. On Wednesday, the All Assam Students’ Union (Aasu), an influential outfit and a bitter critic of Gogoi, had in its tributes lauded his “democratic and humane” approach towards resolving complex problems, appearing to send a message to the ruling BJP for crushing protests and dissent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-34
27-11-2020||Opinion||Word war: AIMIM choose 'Bharat' over 'Hindustan'||The choice of words can mirror the times, but not necessarily their own histories. The wisdom of this inference was brought to light, once again, in the course of a fractious exchange in the Bihar assembly. The elected members of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen refused to utter the word, ‘Hindustan’, voicing their preference for ‘Bharat’, while taking their oaths as legislators. The Bharatiya Janata Party, characteristically, responded to the AIMIM’s demand by thundering that any Indian allergic to the term, ‘Hindustan’, should leave the country and seek shelter in Pakistan. The banter between the AIMIM and the BJP would have been comic had it not been for the fact that the exchange, sadly, exposes the extent of the distortion that history has undergone with the ascendancy of a shrill religious ethic in the Indian polity. Their sparring notwithstanding, the AIMIM and the BJP legislators exhibited a common, dangerous strain; the lack of erudition. The AIMIM, which seldom shies away from claiming to represent the interests of India’s Muslim community, was expressing its reservations against a word with a distinct root in Persian and Urdu, languages that are synonymous with the Islamic world. The BJP, arguably, turned up its nose at ‘Bharat’, a word rooted in Sanskrit, the prized vocabulary of ancient India. It rooted, instead, for ‘Hindustan’, oblivious to its Islamic lineage. Erudite politicians are a rarity in India. But that is the lesser of the two evils in this context. What is chilling is how commonplace the spectre of sectarian ethic is in New India. States — is it a coincidence that the BJP is in power in each of these? — are blatantly undermining their constitutional imperatives by framing legislations that seek to demonize inter-faith union and harmony. The frightening consequences of this sustained poisoning of India’s collective fraternity are now glaringly evident; public representatives think nothing of pandering to such divisiveness, lowering the dignity of an august House and its proceedings. The taint was mitigated somewhat when a Congress legislator, a Muslim, chose to take his oath in Sanskrit. This kind of intervention is a stark reminder of the urgent need to replenish the spirit of syncretism and plurality. But such a sensibility, even though it is courageous, is now rare — as rare as politicians committed to protecting India’s secular edifice from calculated bigotry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-111
27-11-2020||Opinion||Act fast: How can corrupt politicians run for office?||Sir — The newly sworn-in education minister of Bihar, Mewalal Choudhary, was forced to resign only hours after his appointment, owing to severe criticism regarding the pending cases against him. This raises the question: why are allegedly corrupt politicians — some of whom face charges for serious crimes — allowed to run for office or be appointed as ministers in the first place? The chief minister, Nitish Kumar, surely cannot claim that he is oblivious to the charges against his colleagues. Suravi Ghoshal,North 24 Parganas Sir — Mewalal Choudhary resigned within three hours of assuming charge as Bihar’s newly appointed education minister, earning the dubious distinction of being the shortest-serving minister in the state. He is an accused in a recruitment scandal during his tenure as vice-chancellor of a university. According to records, eight of the 14 new ministers in Bihar have declared criminal cases against them and six of them are accused of non-bailable offences. Indian law dictates that no person is guilty till proven so. An accused can hold an office until convicted. The chief minister, Nitish Kumar, claims to be committed to maintaining a corruption-free government. Kumar had previously snapped ties with his political allies over alleged corruption charges. Taking a stronger stand, Kumar should also remove the other ministers who are accused of serious crimes. Opposition parties that won over a hundred seats in the 243-member Bihar assembly should monitor the cases as they did for the education minister’s removal. Khokan Das,Calcutta Stop now Sir — It seems that no number of deaths on account of the coronavirus crisis can deter the people of India from celebrating weddings and other occasions with great pomp. Why do people not realize that each such congregation undermines the efforts made by all our front-line workers? Nandini Pal,New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-111
27-11-2020||Opinion||Love in law: Allahabad HC negates love jihad||It is puzzling when courts and state governments go in opposite directions. The Allahabad High Court has reportedly asserted that no individual, family or State can interfere in the decision of two consenting adults, irrespective of their religion, to marry or live together. This opposes the Uttar Pradesh chief minister’s decision to formulate a law against interfaith marriages. The law would prevent love jihad, in which a woman from the majority community changes her faith to marry a man from the largest minority community as part of the latter’s conspiracy to increase the minority population. No proof of this has been found in UP or in any of the Bharatiya Janata Party-led states planning to follow UP’s lead. The UP chief minister had set store by two earlier single-bench rulings of the Allahabad High Court — the second last September — stating that conversion solely for marriage was unacceptable. Establishing the primacy of the right to life and personal liberty of two mature individuals, the latest two-judge bench of the high court pronounced the earlier judgments “bad in law”. The court found the first information report filed by the father of a woman who had converted and married a Muslim prompted by malice and mischief, describing such moves as a serious encroachment on the right to personal liberty. The Delhi High Court, too, responding to a habeas corpus petition by a 20-year-old woman’s family, said that an adult woman was free to live wherever she wished with whoever she wished. The Allahabad High Court made an outstandingly important point at a time when the dominant regime is encouraging a divisive approach to religion. The court does not see the man and woman in the interfaith union as Hindu and Muslim, but as two grown-up individuals who had married of their own free will. Interference in such a relationship was not only a violation of rights but also a threat to the concept of unity in diversity. Without mentioning the myth of love jihad, the Allahabad High Court struck at its root from every angle, underlining its lawlessness — as did the Delhi High Court’s insistence on freedom of personal choice — and pointing directly to the Constitutional ethos of secularism and equality of all religions. This is deeply reassuring for all those fighting discrimination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-111
27-11-2020||Opinion||Crowd versus mob in socio-political history||This year, Durga Puja was under judicial scrutiny perhaps because the Calcutta High Court was mindful of the excellent treatise by Charles Mackay titled Extraordinary Popular Delusions and the Madness of Crowds: “Men, it has been well said, think in herds; it will be seen that they go mad in herds, while they only recover their senses slowly, and one by one.” Hujoog, manifest in our collective behaviour during a pandemic, borders on madness. Mackay’s book is a testimony to the fascination with the idea of the madness of crowds. “The destinies of nations are elaborated at present in the heart of the masses, and no longer in the councils of princes”, wrote Gustave Le Bon in The Crowd: A Study of the Popular Mind. Democracy is mob rule that degenerates into tyranny, if we go by Plato’s account in the Republic. Images of the crowd have corresponded with the notion of the barbaric. They range from the crowd hounding Christ to death, bawling for blood in the Roman circus, lustily cheering public executions. But the crowd can signify change as well: the peasants rising in revolt in 1381, causing disturbances in London; the crowd storming the Bastille in 1789. One of the goals of the French Revolution was to achieve social and political change on a monumental scale. The Bolshevik Revolution in Russia strove to replace the capitalist grip with communist dictatorship. The echoes of the past resonate in the calls to ‘drain the swamp’ of political elites in Washington, to ‘Occupy Wall Street’ — demanding accountability from banks — to re-empower the middle class as evident in the ‘Yellow Vests’ protests in France, revealing an enduring undercurrent of distrust of the financial and political elites. Opposed to the vignettes of the crowd as an agent of change are the images of the mob killing people or destroying cultural artefacts and religious symbols. Kar sevaks destroying the Babri Masjid or faceless rioters killing and looting in 1984 (anti-Sikh riots), 1992-93 (Bombay riots), 2002 (Gujarat riots) and 2020 (Delhi riots), to name only a few transgressions. Not that crowd behaviour is accepted when it marches against ruling juntas. The Chinese government used troops and tanks to crush the Tiananmen Square movement. The Narendra Modi government vilified Muslim women and men protesting against a controversial citizenship law at Shaheen Bagh. But all the crowd images listed by J.S. McClelland in The Crowd and the Mob: From Plato to Canetti pale in terms of numerical scale when it comes to the gatherings at the Kumbh Mela or the haj in Mecca. Epidemiologists, however, fear that these spectacles are a public health hazard: a cholera outbreak took place during the Kumbh Mela of 1783. Little wonder then that the prime minister has warned against complacency in the fight against Covid-19 during the festive season. But he forgot to warn against election fever: in an election rally in Ramgarh, Bihar, the crowd made light work of the Election Commission’s guidelines on social distancing. Governments are known to have gone the extra mile to harness the power of the collective. Pakistan and, now, China are baits dangled by the current government to mobilize public opinion. If these fail, there is the time-tested fault line of caste. When all else fails, majoritarianism can always be trusted to turn a crowd into a mob.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-111
27-11-2020||Opinion||The match that changes the ISL||During the first week of the Indian Super League, TV commentators alerted us about an impending ‘Monster Match’. It was billed as the biggest derby in Indian — Asian — football, which is true. A first-time ISL watcher encountering such relentless promotion could well imagine that East Bengal vs Mohun Bagan was what the League had been yearning for from day one but had somehow been blindsided when an outfit called Atlético de Kolkata turned up and magically fitted into the ISL’s one-city, one-team franchise model. And any chatter about Mohun Bagan and East Bengal playing ISL from Siliguri and Durgapur was just slanderous gossip. Okay, no need to be churlish now. Bygones. When SC East Bengal and ATK Mohun Bagan face off at the Tilak Maidan, Vasco today, it is going to be a monster match. Not from what transpires on the field — it could be a nil-nil skirmish — but what lies beneath and ahead. The ATK and SC that prefix the two Calcutta giants belong to their ISL fund managers, for which their fans are grateful. It is their resources that have got the clubs into the league attracting the biggest money and names in Indian football. What the suffixes to ATK and SC could do for the ISL cannot be quantified. Despite its initial euphoria, the ISL had struggled with its cellophane wrapping and plastic container. This is not to deride everyone working on the ground around ISL. It is just what the ISL represented, even after the meaningless ‘marquee’ names were done away with and the status of being India’s highest football league obtained from the Asian Football Confederation. On the current season’s first Monday, Odisha played Hyderabad: two years ago, the ISL had featured Delhi Dynamos and FC Pune City, except FC Pune City disbanded and Delhi became Odisha. Into this spotty roster over a six-year lifespan come Mohun Bagan (est. 1889) and East Bengal (est. 1920) bringing with them history, folklore, blood and tears. The ISL’s owners, Football Sport Development Limited (est. 2014), will deny that their league needed validation, but the Calcutta derby’s hardsell on TV speaks another language. On the flipside, the two ‘legacy’ clubs should have their medieval management put under the examination and overhaul as their fans have always wanted. Matching the ISL’s basic shade of professionalism is the least they could be made to do. The induction of Mohun Bagan and East Bengal into the ISL becomes a worry for India’s other, older, non-fabricated community clubs and their leagues; but that is another topic for deeper analysis. Neither the owners nor the financiers of the Calcutta giants will give the ISL its much-needed oxygen: the fans will. In the tradition of football clubs worldwide, Mohun Bagan and East Bengal fans will bring the street and its mood into the ISL. The first sign of influence? The takedown of a cringeworthy advertisement featuring the ATK and Mohun Bagan colours being fused together via a washing machine soak. Angry fans were having none of that nonsense. Fans from other ISL teams are delighted. Among them, Kerala Blasters’ Manjappada (Yellow Army) are the most visible. Their 2018-19 boycott in protest against management and team was visible on TV with reduced crowd numbers. The Mohun Bagan and East Bengal fans will bring a dimension of public participation in the ISL where opinion can’t be whitewashed, muted or silenced. Where management of either club or league can be challenged, questioned, even hectored. The ISL has never had anything like it. Finally, the plastic wrapping could come off. With fans attending matches hopefully in the 2021-22 season, as airline safety instructions say, brace for impact. When the first ISL season was kicking off in October 2014, Naomi Klein released her book on capitalism and climate change with its powerful, resonant title, This Changes Everything. When the Calcutta derby begins in Goa, that title will loom in the imagination. Indian football’s fledgling free market will be shaking hands with its oldest, passionately-followed, chaotically-run community enterprises. This had better change everything.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-111
27-11-2020||Opinion||Network problem||This article is about educational deprivation owing to the digital divide. It is emphatically not an attack on digital instruction as such. The digital medium is an invaluable pedagogic asset. It can endlessly store and convey knowledge material, present it in innovative ways, transform the world of learning for student and teacher alike. It has been the readiest recourse for remote learning during the Covid lockdown. Hence students deprived of it have taken their own lives: most recently, an undergraduate at an elite Delhi college. Earlier victims include young schoolchildren. Digital access might be impaired by many factors, such as lack of connectivity; but the most basic reason is sheer lack of a device. Only 8 per cent of India’s students have a laptop with internet connection. The rest cannot look beyond a smartphone — a clumsy means of accessing study material, let alone writing exam answers. In the state government schools attended by the mass of students, even this support is enjoyed by only 56 per cent, according to the Annual Status of Education Report. The supply of all learning material, online or offline, during lockdown has been inadequate and irregular, more so in some states than in others. Nearly two-thirds of rural schoolchildren received no material whatsoever. Many even lacked textbooks: 65 per cent in Andhra Pradesh, 40 per cent in Rajasthan. As adult incomes plummet, more and more children are leaving school to earn a living. (At least in some states, nearly half did not even receive midday meal rations.) One estimate pegs likely permanent dropouts at 20 per cent of enrolment, reverting to the level of 2004. Juvenile girls are being married off or even trafficked. The gap in fresh enrolments in rural primary schools has increased threefold. States like Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh have launched programmes to tackle dropouts. The silence of the Union government is deafening. Yet this is an India-sized challenge calling for federal funding and execution, perhaps on the lines of Bengal’s Unicef-acclaimed Kanyashree programme. The school sector has at least seen some action during the pandemic. The NCERT has published an excellent survey-cum-manual. Many states are running continuity programmes, Karnataka’s Vidyagama scheme perhaps the most elaborate. These efforts utilize printed material like study sheets, even controlled physical meetings. But electronic instruction remains the default mode, effectively ignoring the yawning digital divide. It is silently assumed that unequipped students will fall by the wayside. A study by the Azim Premji University found their proportion to be over 60 per cent in state schools. The assumption is pervasive in higher education. Unlike the NCERT, the UGC has conducted no survey, issued no pedagogic guidelines. It has merely publicized the learning material already available on its websites, without suggesting how students of limited means or at remote locations might access it. Digital instruction is showcased in a vacuum, with no concession to ground realities. An influential vice-chancellor assumes that India’s 500 million smartphones necessarily cover each of our 34 million students. Every student suicide cruelly refutes this claim. At the University of Hyderabad, over 10 per cent of students were found to lack smartphones, and 18 per cent proper connectivity. A handful of colleges have ensured online access for every student. Within my imperfect knowledge, only one university, Jadavpur, has done so. We thus have a conflicting scenario. On the one hand, digital education is advocated more stridently than ever. By a naïve fascination with technology, it is seen as an absolute advance over “age-old classroom teaching”, to quote the same vice-chancellor. I began by stressing the real benefits of digital learning. But this total and uncritical immersion in the mode, rather than a nuanced use of digital resources by the human teacher, makes for a reductive and mechanistic programme of learning. Yet it is touted as the strategy of choice for the future, beyond the short-term imperatives of the pandemic. This reductive policy will save the authorities money. Online courses on shared platforms would cost a small fraction of teachers’ salaries. (It would also ensure mental regimentation of the academic community.) However, costs would rise if course production is outsourced to the corporate online-learning lobby for whom the pandemic has been a bonanza. And the individual student would spend substantially more on devices and connectivity, given our policy-makers’ assumption that education, especially higher education, is a private not a public good. Poorer students may thus be excluded from even high-school education, or confined to its deprived levels. Such stratification has long been entrenched at the school level and is fast pervading higher education. It need not be so. It is abundantly possible to bridge the digital divide. In its intrinsic technology, the digital platform is socially neutral. Artificial intelligence even allows a measure of personalized learning, though never by eliminating the human teacher. It is an exciting prospect of immense promise, provided it is not implemented in a vacuum, ignoring the profound disparities of access. Some hard facts must be admitted. A productive and equitable model of digital learning for the entire nation would involve more expenditure, not less. It would not materially reduce the human workforce. These non-negotiable needs clash with the syndrome behind our current educational planning. The planners’ dream seems confined to a spruce, secure, formalized network with impressive buildings and gleaming infrastructure — a desirable but inadequate scenario, producing amenable students and faculty, customized workers for an approved economic and social order. True intellectual endeavour prompts questions and breaches barriers: it progresses by probing, unsettling, redefining. Instead, this limited pre-ordered goal will foster an undemanding management-friendly system, its curricular structure bounded by the current job market, shunning the disruptive innovations of an active knowledge economy. However brilliant its students and faculty — indeed, the more so — such a system cannot harvest their full creative potential. At the same time, it is expensive to set up and run. India can afford only a limited network, even by intensively deploying private capital. A restricted, formalized order simultaneously creates informal, intractable growth in the excluded territory beyond it. The showpiece high-rise and the neglected slum have always been the twin coordinates of the Indian polity. Our current rulers seem bent on maximizing this wasteful, underproductive, binary model: bullet trains and a parliamentary complex before an adequate public distribution and nutritional system to tackle suppressed hunger, a packaged insurance deal rather than hands-on engagement with the messy issues of public health. Our desired economic order would be structured, corporatized, and intensively digitized. The unorganized sector must fend for itself, its fit symbol the plight of migrant labourers during the pandemic. So too the new National Education Policy seems to include the excluded sector, so to speak, by relegating it to subaltern status. The initial draft NEP was of wide and multiple scope. It has been scaled down to the above template, insidiously reducing funds and lowering benefits for the unprivileged. Higher education will be split into three tiers (besides the ever-widening gaps between public and private, Central and state-run institutions), the lowest confined to bare-bones teaching without any leavening research environment. Most crucially, schoolchildren from the social margins, explicitly including tribal forest communities, will be fobbed off with ‘less emphasis on input and greater emphasis on output’ — to translate, limited underfunded facilities, not excluding the Open School system devised for child labourers and dropouts. In a word, the growing inequality of our economic life will be perpetuated by human resource management for the future. In a recent article, the Union education minister talks of “several pathways”, including “non-formal education modes” with minimal “[r]egulations on inputs”, invoking the “Right to Education” but not the Right to Education Act, with which such provisions are incompatible. Far from being integrated, the ‘several pathways’ will serve as division markers. The digital divide will inevitably widen. It will be the most visible symptom of a fundamentally divisive educational order that squanders and undersells the greater part of India’s human resources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-111
27-11-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren visits native village on grandfather’s death anniversary||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-223
27-11-2020||Jharkhand||Crackdown on illegal sand mining in Dhanbad||Dhanbad district administration in an association of district police conducted a raid at an illegal sand mining den at Gol building chowk of Dhanbad and seized altogether six sand laden vehicles. The district administration conducted the raid with an attempt to control the increasing prices of sand in the district and also to prevent illegal sand mining and trade. The raid conducted during the morning hours at around 7 am also led to the recovery of a huge amount of smuggled sand from an illegal sand depot. The team led by Surendra Prasad, Sub Divisional officer of Dhanbad and comprising of district mining officer PK Singh conducted the raid during which the operators of the illegal sand depot fled away but the vehicle and sand consignment was seized. Prasad then instructed the district mining officer to lodge cases against the illegal sand depot operators and also the vehicle owners whose vehicle were engaged in the illegal sand transport. Talking to the media after the raid, Prasad said, “We conducted the raid on Friday on the basis of complaints of the high price of sand caused to illegal mining and sand smuggling.” “Though there is no restriction of legal sand trade but we will not allow the illegal sand mining and sand trade, without valid documents,” further said Prasad. Notably, this is second raid in the district within a month as a team of Dhanbad police led by City SP, R Ramkumar raided at the same spot on November 4 this year during which six sand-laden vehicles were seized and a sand smuggler, Lav Bharti and the driver of truck engaged in the transport of an illegal sand consignment, Shaktipad Mandal was arrested by the police. Dhanbad district administration in an association of district police conducted a raid at an illegal sand mining den at Gol building chowk of Dhanbad and seized altogether six sand laden vehicles. The district administration conducted the raid with an attempt to control the increasing prices of sand in the district and also to prevent illegal sand mining and trade. The raid conducted during the morning hours at around 7 am also led to the recovery of a huge amount of smuggled sand from an illegal sand depot. The team led by Surendra Prasad, Sub Divisional officer of Dhanbad and comprising of district mining officer PK Singh conducted the raid during which the operators of the illegal sand depot fled away but the vehicle and sand consignment was seized. Prasad then instructed the district mining officer to lodge cases against the illegal sand depot operators and also the vehicle owners whose vehicle were engaged in the illegal sand transport. Talking to the media after the raid, Prasad said, “We conducted the raid on Friday on the basis of complaints of the high price of sand caused to illegal mining and sand smuggling.” “Though there is no restriction of legal sand trade but we will not allow the illegal sand mining and sand trade, without valid documents,” further said Prasad. Notably, this is second raid in the district within a month as a team of Dhanbad police led by City SP, R Ramkumar raided at the same spot on November 4 this year during which six sand-laden vehicles were seized and a sand smuggler, Lav Bharti and the driver of truck engaged in the transport of an illegal sand consignment, Shaktipad Mandal was arrested by the police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-223
27-11-2020||Jharkhand||Adityapur households get ready to cook with piped gas ||At the behest of Adityapur municipal corporation (AMC), Gail India held a session on gas pipeline project at a meeting of the civic body at Auto Cluster auditorium in Adityapur on Friday. This is a process of putting the township into the map of the piped cooking gas supply system to the households. Revealing about the step, AMC's mayor Vinod Srivastava said they are bringing the facility of cooking gas to the households in Adityapur and the presentation made by Gail India about the proposed project was a part of its preparations. “The management from Gail India made a presentation of the cooking gas pipeline-laying system among the authorities of AMC and its corporator on Friday. They also made all those who attended the meeting talk about the benefit of piped gas in place of the conventional supply of the LPG cylinders during the presentation,” said Srivastava while talking to The Telegraph Online. He said that the facility of piped gas supply will be provided to all the households in Adityapur and parts of the adjoining Gamharia, which also comes under the AMC. “As per 2011 census the population of the Adityapur and parts of Gamharia was 1.73 lakh.  In 10 years, the population must have doubled that figure, making over 40,000 households. We will provide piped gas to all the households," he pointed out. The mayor said that they had submitted an application for launching the gas pipeline project in Adityapur to the AMC commissioner, Girija Nandan Prasad in October and the Friday's meeting with Gail India management was in the sequel to getting a nod to the application. “On Friday, the meeting was held between all the 33 corporators and representatives of Gail India.  Within the next few weeks, a board meeting of the AMC will be held over the gas pipeline project.  Subsequently, we will hold a meeting of all the stakeholders, including the Adityapur Housing Board, Jharkhand Industrial Area Development Authority regional office - Adityapur and Adityapur Small Industries Association. Then only we will give a final shape to the gas pipeline project here,” Srivastava stated. AMC has already put two major projects concerning drinking water supply and upgrading the sewage system in Adityapur and parts of Gamharia, work of which is in progress at a snail's pace. Significantly, Om Prakash, president of a local NGO, Jan Kalyan Morcha (JKM) said that it is a pleasant thing to know that the residents of Adityapur will be able to use the piped gas at their homes, but they will have to bear a lot in the event of the third project involving digging work. “The roads and lanes have been dug extensively as water and sewage pipeline works are being carried out by government agencies. If the gas pipeline laying work begins, then the residents are bound to face greater problems while coming out of their homes, though the project of the gas pipeline is a pleasant thing to happen in Adityapur,” said Om Prakash while talking to this website.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-223
27-11-2020||Jharkhand||BSNL to boost high-speed air fibre internet in steel city||Bharat Sanchar Nigam (BSNL) has decided to provide 5,000 new high-speed air fibre internet connections across Jamshedpur in the next four months. General manager of BSNL's Jamshedpur secondary switching area (SSA) Sanjeev Verma said, "The work from home culture is becoming popular in the prevailing pandemic like online classes and meetings. BSNL's Bharat Air Fibre Service which provides high-speed broadband connectivity of the order of 100 Mbps is acting as a true enabler in synergising this culture along with seamlessly providing e-education across the country.” He went on to say that Bharat Air Fibre Service, known as FTTH: fibre-to-the-home, is handy in areas where laying cables is difficult and time-consuming. Figures available from BSNL office suggest that every month, 2000 FTTH connections are being added in the Jharkhand circle. In Jamshedpur, where the Bharat Air Fibre service was launched in August, 900 connections are being added per month. The telecom major offers several promotional plans in the FTTH service, both in entry-level and high-speed plans. Verma said BSNL will hold melas in housing societies in Jamshedpur as a part of BSNL's Aap Ke Dwaar (BSNL At Your Doorstep) initiative. "This is a special drive which will be carried out in December wherein BSNL teams along with its empanelled partner will conduct focused melas in housing societies for booking new FTTH connections," he said. Among the areas where such melas will be held are Kadma (Prakriti Vihar, Professional Flat, Green Enclave, Dindli Enclave), Sonari (Ashiana Garden, Sangam Vihar, Golden Town, Kharkai Enclave), Telco (Apna Angan, Alok Vihar, River View Enclave, Vijaya Garden). In addition, shop-to-shop visits in Sakchi and Bistupur market area would also be initiated to promote FTTH services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-223
27-11-2020||Jharkhand||Coalfield Express to resume service from Dec 1||Indian Railways plan to resume the operations of Coalfield Express from December 1. Coal town residents, who were facing a lot of problems in visiting their nearest metropolitan city Calcutta, rejoiced as the Coalfield Express is one of the most popular train travelling between Dhanbad and Calcutta (12339). The happiest lot among all are small-time traders, daily passengers, florists, street hawkers, etc. who are dependent on the products of Calcutta. Their earnings were greatly affected due to the suspension of the train operations to Calcutta. Coalfield Express leaves Dhanbad daily at 5.55 am and reaches Howrah at 10.30 am and during the return journey it leaves Howrah at 5.20 pm to reach Dhanbad at 9.40 pm. Notably, the train will resume operation from Howrah on December 1 on its scheduled time and again continue operation from Dhanbad from December 2. Talking to The Telegraph, Akhilesh Kumar Pandey, senior divisional commercial manager of Dhanbad said, “Everything is ready at our end. The train service will resume its operation on December 1 from Howrah at 5.20 pm as the rake at present is at Howrah.” Md Sohrab, president of Purana Bazar Chamber of Commerce, while expressing joy over the news of the train service resumption, said, “A large number of readymade sellers, footwear traders, cosmetic sellers were facing the most difficult time of their life for the last eight months of lockdown due to the suspension of train operations. Their entire trade was dependent on the products purchased from Dharmatala and Bara Bazar in Calcutta.” “We are thankful to the railway administration. The timing of the service resumption is most appropriate because of the ongoing lagan (marriage) season and will help to ensure the return of much activity in the local retail market of Dhanbad as marriage-related cosmetics, puja articles, readymade garments, etc. are available at a much cheaper rate in Calcutta,” added Sohrab. “Though all seats will be reserved and travellers will have to book the ticket in advance but even that will be much cheaper and convenient in comparison to the lockdown period difficulties when shopkeepers had to pay more than triple the train fair in buses to reach Calcutta through which they could bring only limited products due to limited space in buses,” said Malakar. Echoing sentiments, Lallan Malakar, a florist of Dhanbad while welcoming the railways' decision for the resumption of Coalfield Express, said, “The biggest sufferer of the train operations suspension during lockdown were coal town florist as the entire coal town flower requirements are met through the Calcutta products.” “We had to hire mini trucks or pick up vans as pool vehicle to bring flowers from Calcutta but the huge transport cost of these vehicles at Rs 14,000 to Rs 9,000 per trip was too heavy and adversely affected our profits,” explained Malakar. Notably, besides the Coalfield Express, Dhanbad residents are also happy over the railway announcement of the resumption of Howrah Mumbai Mail (via Gaya) from December 1, as a large number of patients travelling to Tata Memorial Centre in Mumbai for cancer-related treatment was also facing difficulties due to the suspension of train operations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-223
27-11-2020||Jharkhand||Unemployed protesters hold dharna in front of BSL head office||Over a hundred protesters of a displaced group on Friday carried out a demonstration in front of the Bokaro Steel Management (BSL) headquarters, as they clashed with the security who tried to stop them from entering the building. Later, the demonstrators staged a dharna, sitting in the middle of the roads in front of the Ispat Bhawan gate for several hours. As a result, traffic flow in the area got disrupted. The protesters, under the banner of the displaced Apprentice Association, shouted slogans against the BSL management, demanding employment. Arvind Kumar, a member of the union, said all of the agitators had pursued apprentice training at BSL, a unit of the Steel Authority of India (SAIL). He claimed that the BSL authorities had earlier said that they could not be directly employed by the company and had to become an apprentice to get the job. Following this, they had also done their apprenticeship. “It has been a long time since we have done apprenticeships but we have not been provided employment by the BSL. Also, no initiative is being taken by the management to give us employment. This forced us to demonstrate even in the times of the Covid-19 pandemic to catch the attention of the authorities,” Kumar said. “We are going to intensify our agitation if our demands are met,” he added. Chief of Communication, BSL, Manikant Dhan, said they are looking into the matter. Of late, the BSL’s headquarter has become a site to hold agitation despite the area being declared as prohibited by the administration. Over the past month, about half a dozen small and big demonstrations took place in front of the headquarter creating hurdles for commuters and employees. In the past four days this was the fourth demonstration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-223
27-11-2020||Jharkhand||Lalu’s bail hearing deferred till December 11||Hearing on a bail plea by incarcerated RJD chief Lalu Prasad in a fodder scam case was deferred until December 11 by the Jharkhand High Court on Friday. Lalu’s advocate Prabhat Kumar said bail was sought on the grounds that the RJD chief had already served half of the imprisonment term awarded to him by the court in connection with illegal withdrawal of Rs 3.13 crore from Dumka treasury. “The bail plea was opposed by the CBI counsel, therefore both the parties have been asked to get the claims verified by a lower court,” said Kumar, adding that according to their calculation, Lalu had already served 42 months and 28 days in prison, which is half of the total imprisonment term of seven years. However, the CBI said in court that Lalu had served only 34 months and a few days of imprisonment and eight months were left for him to complete half the term. The former Bihar chief minister has so far been convicted in four out of five fodder scam cases involving the illegal withdrawal of several cores. These include two cases related to withdrawal of money from Chaibasa treasury, one related to Deoghar treasury, one to Dumka treasury and one to Doranda treasury in Ranchi. Barring the Doranda treasury case, he has been convicted in all the remaining cases. A special CBI court, in 2018, had sentenced Lalu to 14 years of imprisonment – seven-under IPC sections and seven more under Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act – in the Dumka treasury case. The court had said that both the terms would run consecutively. However, Lalu’s lawyers are hoping that the court would strike down the former order and allow Lalu to serve both the terms of seven years each, simultaneously. On Friday, supporters of the RJD chief formed a beeline outside the paying ward of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) anticipating a decision in favour of Lalu’s bail petition. However, they turned away disappointed after the court deferred the hearing till December 11. On Thursday, a BJP leader had moved a PIL against Lalu in Jharkhand High Court over a purported audio clip of his alleged telephonic conversation with a BJP MLA in Bihar going viral on social media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-223
27-11-2020||Jharkhand||Prohibitory orders imposed at East Singhbhum collectorate||The East Singhbhum district administration imposed prohibitory orders under Section 144 of CrPC at the district collectorate in Sakchi on Friday to discourage demonstrations in violation of Covid norms. With this order in place, no social or political organisations can hold dharnas, demonstration and processions near the district collectorate which, apart from the deputy commissioner's office, also hosts several government departments. Restrictions have been imposed on the assembly of five or more persons in the 50-metre radius of the district collectorate located along the Subernarekha Link Road. Entry at the district collectorate without a mask had already been prohibited in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Dhalbhum SDO Nitish Kumar Singh, who issued the order as an executive magistrate, said, "Of late, we have been observing that members of several political and social outfits have been staging dharna and demonstrations at the district collectorate without paying heed to Covid protocols. We were, therefore, prompted to impose prohibitory orders which will help prevent crowd. Necessary action as per law would be taken against those violating the order,” he said. The prohibitory orders will continue till a further notification issued by the office of Dhalbhum SDO. A drop box has been provided near the entrance gate of the collectorate so that people can submit their complaints/ grievances. Even though Covid positive cases are under control in East Singhbhum, the district health department is getting ready to start a massive testing drive from next week as a precautionary measure. It plans to conduct as many as 10,000 tests per day from next week targeting those who have come back from their Bihar and elsewhere after Chhath.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-223
27-11-2020||Jharkhand|| 1 million winter garments to be distributed among poor in Ranchi||Ranchi district administration along with other civil society groups have joined hands to offer warmth to hundreds of underprivileged and homeless across the district this winter by rolling out a unique campaign titled — #RanchiCares - Mission One Million Smiles — an initiative under which 10 lakh warm clothes will be distributed among the needy. Although such distribution drives are usually held by individual social organizations every year during winter and by the administration as well, this move becomes more significant this year amid the raging pandemic because of its sheer size of the distribution target by bringing different groups on a single platform to crowd-source relief materials, said officials. Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan on Thursday night formally kicked off the drive at a low-ceremony from his office appealing citizens to donate discarded/unused winter wears, blankets, and the likes at earmarked donation points to be part of the mission. “The troubled times are also an opportunity for everyone, cutting across caste and creed to join hands to tide over the crisis. While the world is battling the Covid-19 pandemic, it has also led to lots of sufferings globally. Ranchi district administration is working on various ways to act as facilitators for those who need a helping hand. This initiative is an addition in that direction,” said Ranjan. Additional collector Sanjay Kumar said that several points have been set up across the district to collect donations (winter utilities) from the public. “We have already started receiving collections from the public through our partner organisations. From Friday, distribution will begin,” he said. Atul Agarwal, Convenor of Doranda Old Xaverians (alumni of St Xavier’s school), a partner outfit for this mission, told reporters that around two dozen collection points have been established across retail and business establishments in the city. Some of the collection points included outlets of Spykar (Sujata chowk), Spring City Mall (Hinoo), Firstcry (Kanke and Lalpur), Firayalal Next (Argora), Hill View Hospital (Bariatu) among others. Agarwal also said that the initial response has been encouraging as even before the formal kick-start of the distribution drive, they had received around 3,000 collections of winter wears from individuals and groups. “Every item received are being duly cleaned and sanitised keeping the Covid-19 protocols in mind before distributing,” he said, adding that the distribution drives will be held through block offices in the district. “Rather than holding random distribution camps, the plan is to set up camps at block offices in Ranchi or at points determined by the block development officers (BDOs) as they happen to be the first contact for the public at block levels and are aware of the needy. Both collection and distribution will continue simultaneously,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-224
27-11-2020||Jharkhand||Archery association to introduce sports science||Archery Association of India (AAI) which got back the Union sports ministry recognition on Wednesday, after almost eight years, for failure to conduct elections in accordance with National Sports Development Code has made plans to involve sports science for enhancing performance of archers ahead of the 2021 Tokyo Olympics. Jharkhand MP from Khunti and former state chief minister, Arjun Munda, who took over as president of AAI in January this year, told The Telegraph that the federation will be soon be attaching sports psychologists, bio mechanist, video analyst and data analyst for the archery teams at the national camps. “We will be going all out to win the elusive Olympic medal in archery in 2021 and after consultations with experts we will be involving sports science in a big way to enhance performance of our archers for the Olympics. We will be taking help of sports psychologist, bio mechanist, video analyst and data analyst for archers selected in the ongoing national camp for Olympics at Pune,” said Munda. Sources in the Sports Authority of India (SAI) high performance unit for archery informed that the decision was taken after studying the shortcomings of the archers in the last few Olympics. “We have seen that our archers have performed well in the world championship and even in Asian championship against even Korean and Chinese archers. However, in Olympics psychological pressure get the better of the archers at crucial junctures leading to their failure and this is where sports psychologist and sports science would be playing a role to help the archers maintain their form during the Olympics,” said a veteran international archer of repute who is currently associated with SAI high performance unit. The AAI has also decided to keep the archer selected in the national camp for Olympics get away from competition fear. “In Korean countries top ranked archers selected for Olympics take part in at least 10-12 major competitions annually and are not affected by competition fears. Keeping this in mind, we will be arranging a senior national competition in mid-March, 2021, which would be held in Jamshedpur. We will also be bidding for maiden Asia Cup in Archery tentatively scheduled in end-March-April and plan to hold it in Jamshedpur. This apart, our teams will compete in the three World Cups between April and June to be held in Guatemela, China and France respectively,” said Munda. Meanwhile at the end of the three-day national selection trial for the ongoing preparatory camps for Tokyo Olympics scheduled for July 2021, Sangeeta (Haryana), Komalika Bari (Jharkhand), Ishita (Petroleum Sports Control Board) and Prachi Singh (Rajasthan) were selected in the women section while Yashdeep Bhoge (Maharashtra), Sukhchain Singh (Services), Amit Kumar (Madhya Pradesh) and Atul Verma (Services) in the men section. These archers would join the core group of eight men and eight women archers who were selected before the postponement of the Tokyo Olympics and undergoing preparation at ASI Pune.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-224
27-11-2020||Jharkhand||BJP leader seeks probe into Lalu Yadav jail amenities||A BJP leader in Ranchi has moved Jharkhand High Court seeking a probe into facilities being allegedly offered illegally to Lalu Prasad in judicial custody, a day after the RJD chief was accused of getting access to a cellphone to try to influence the Speaker’s election in neighbouring Bihar. In his PIL, former BJP Kisan Morcha vice-president Anuranjan Ashok Singh alleged that although Lalu is a jailed convict, he had flouted the prison manual to use a cellphone, that too for the purpose of attempting to topple a democratically elected government. Lalu, in jail since 2017 in fodder scam cases, is receiving treatment in custody at Rajendra Prasad Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Jharkhand, ruled by the JMM that is part of the UPA. The Jharkhand government has ordered a probe into the allegation that Lalu had called up Bihar BJP legislator Lalan Paswan asking him to abstain from voting during the Speaker’s election. An audio clip of the purported phone conversation has been widely shared. The jail manual does not allow the use of phones by those in judicial custody. If the charge is proved, the accused can be sent back to jail. Lalu was on Thursday moved back to the RIMS paying ward from the director’s bungalow, known as Kelly’s Bungalow. Lalu, who had been incarcerated in Ranchi’s Birsa Munda Central Jail in December 2017, was shifted to the hospital in 2018. He had been moved to Kelly’s Bungalow in August this year after some guards at the paying ward had tested positive for the coronavirus. In Patna, Paswan filed an FIR against Lalu accusing him of trying to lure him to abstain from voting and suggesting that he falsely claim that he had Covid-19. Singh’s PIL has also alleged that Lalu is receiving other facilities such as the services of an attendant, who the BJP leader feared could have given the former chief minister access to the cellphone. The PIL has cited high court rulings in connection with the grant of facilities to political prisoners at RIMS in violation of the jail manual. Jharkhand IG (prison) Virendra Bhusan on Wednesday constituted a committee comprising Ranchi deputy commissioner Chavi Ranjan, Ranchi senior superintendent of police Surendra Jha and Birsa Munda Central Jail superintendent Hamid Akhtar to probe the allegation that Lalu had used a cellphone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-224
