28-11-2020||Calcutta||Online 'practice tests’ at state board schools||Several state board schools will have self-evaluation tests for students of Classes X and XII, who will take the Madhyamik and Higher Secondary exams next year, to assess themselves in the absence of selection tests. Some schools have decided to hold online “practice tests” of three hours, while some will have tests of shorter duration. A few schools, including those where students have limited access to the internet, have planned to distribute sealed question papers to students through their parents. Parents are being counselled to keep a watch on their children while they write the answers. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had recently announced that Class X and XII students would be allowed to write the Madhyamik and HS exams next year without appearing in selection tests. It is important to have some sort of an evaluation for students even if their selection for board exams is not dependent on that, several school heads The Telegraph spoke to said. Schools have planned to hold these practice tests in the first week of December. “It is not a question of allowing or not allowing students… if they write a three-hour paper even at home, they won’t be scared of exams and it will build their confidence, too,” Parimal Bhattacharyya, the headmaster of Jadavpur Vidyapith, said. The school will post questions on WhatsApp groups and students will be asked to write answers and scan the sheets and upload them. Those who cannot scan can send their answer scripts to the school. Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya, Narendrapur, has decided to conduct “pre-tests” online for Class X students. “We have been conducting classes online since May and it is important for students to know where they stand,” Brahmachari Turiyachaitanya, the headmaster, said. “The reason for evaluation is not to grade them but to tell them their weaknesses and the areas they need to work on,” Sunita Sen, the principal of the BSS School, said. At Shyambazar AV School, parents will be asked to collect sealed sets of question papers and answer scripts will have to be returned to the school. “We are counselling parents to monitor the exams at home,” said Manoranjan Raptan, the headmaster of the school.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-223
28-11-2020||Calcutta||Ex-SC judge calls out judiciary for ‘insensitivity’||Former Supreme Court judge Madan B. Lokur has called out the judiciary for allowing 20 days to an investigative agency to respond to an 83-year-old ailing inmate’s plea for a straw and a sipper to drink water in jail. “You will recall very recently the case of one super senior citizen, an 83-year-old person who has been arrested. All that he wanted was — he suffers from Parkinson’s disease — a straw and a sipper because his hand movement is such that he is unable to hold a glass of water. All that he wanted was a straw and a sipper so that he could drink water,” Justice Madan B. Lokur said at a virtual programme on Friday. “And what does the investigating agency say? They say that ‘we need 20 days’ time to file a reply to this request’. What does the judiciary do? The judiciary says ‘all right, we will give you 20 days’ time to file the reply’. Now that is insensitivity,” said Justice Lokur. He was delivering the keynote address to mark the release of a report on the condition of transgender persons in Indian prisons, prepared by the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative. Justice Lokur did not take any name. Tribal rights activist Stan Swamy, 83, who was arrested last month for his alleged involvement in the Elgar Parishad case, had on November 6 applied to a special NIA (National Investigation Agency) court in Mumbai seeking a straw and a sipper cup in Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai, where he is lodged. “I cannot hold a glass as my hands are unsteady due to Parkinson’s,” his plea said, referring to a debilitating disorder of the central nervous system. The court, whose permission is required for materials to be sent in from outside jail premises, set the next hearing for November 26. When the date came (on Thursday), the NIA told the Mumbai court that it had not taken the straw and the sipper from the activist during his arrest, as claimed by Swamy. The special court then rejected his application, following which Swamy moved a fresh application. He sought permission to use a straw and sipper as well as winter clothes inside the prison. Adjourning the matter till December 4, the court demanded reply from the jail authorities. On Friday, Justice Lokur was stressing the need to sensitise lawyers assisting the district and state legal services authorities when he broached Swamy’s case, without naming the activist. “A minister in the state cabinet said ‘give him the straw, give him the sipper’. But does something like this have to go to a minister of a cabinet? For a straw or for a sipper? These are issues where legal aid lawyers can make a difference. “I would request all the secretaries and members of the district legal services authorities and the state legal services authorities that you have to sensitise your lawyers as well. That this is something which could have been taken care of in the case of the super senior citizen on day one, rather than 20 days or for a national investigating agency to file a reply and investigate this,” said Justice Lokur. Satej D. Patil, minister of state for home in Maharashtra, had tweeted on November 7 that “necessary care has been taken regarding providing of straw and proper medical attention has also been provided as per prison rules”. At a webinar on Freedom of Speech and Judiciary in September, Justice Lokur had said free speech, including by youngsters and students, is being met with an “iron hand” by the State and thousands are being jailed for voicing their opinion against the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-223
28-11-2020||Calcutta||Biker dies, runaway bus erupts in flames near Kestopur||A bus rammed into a motorcycle and caught fire on the Ultadanga-bound flank of VIP Road, near Kestopur, on Friday morning, leaving the two-wheeler rider fatally injured. Ashok Sarkar, 38, who was headed to Ultadanga, was flung off the two-wheeler under the impact of the crash. The resident of Kestopur was taken to a nursing home, where he died in the evening, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. “The victim suffered head injuries and lost a lot of blood,” said a doctor who treated Sarkar. The private bus on the Dankuni-Garia route was headed towards Ultadanga at a high speed when it rammed into Sarkar’s Bajaj Pulsar 150. “The impact was such that Sarkar was flung into the air before he landed on the road head first. He was wearing a helmet. The bike got stuck in the bus’s undercarriage,” the officer said. “The driver of the bus tried to speed off and the bike was dragged for at least 50 feet.” The driver allegedly refused to stop despite pleas from passengers, who got scared seeing sparks emanating from underneath the bus. The bus, along with the two-wheeler, caught fire as soon as it reached the base of the Kestopur flyover. “It was only when the smoke started entering the driver’s cabin that he pressed the brakes. We all ran for our lives,” said Ranjan Samanta, who was headed to Patuli. The bus had more than a dozen passengers and everyone got off safely. The driver ran away. A couple of passing motorists alerted traffic policemen at a nearby signal outpost about the accident. An officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate's traffic wing said they had formed a cordon around the bus and tried in vain to douse the fire by pouring bucketfuls of water on it. “By the time we reached the spot, the flames had engulfed the bus and there was dense black smoke everywhere,” said the officer. The officer said the bus had stopped at Kestopur to pick up passengers when the driver spotted another bus on a similar route behind it. “It seems the buses were racing. We are trying to get CCTV footage of the incident. A case has been started against the driver,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-223
28-11-2020||Calcutta||Art gallery on a tram from December||An art gallery on a tram will be available to artists — budding and professionals — to display their works from December. The tram will be parked at Shyambazar, Esplanade and Gariahat for a few hours for visitors, who will have to pay Rs 6 to enter. “The idea is to make art exhibitions accessible, especially to students who will be offered concessions,” said Rajanvir Singh Kapur, the managing director of the West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC). “Instead of people visiting an art gallery in one corner of the city, the tram will take art exhibitions to all parts of the city.” Officials said a tram car had been readied for this purpose by the in-house team of engineers at the Nonapukur workshop. One can book the tram for Rs 3,600 a day or Rs 6,000 for two days. Artists from schools, colleges or charitable organisations will be offered concessions — up to 50 per cent — if they hold exhibitions for a social cause. Officials said the gallery-on-wheels was a tribute to the city that has always celebrated art. “We want to present trams in different forms to the people of Calcutta,” said an WBTC official. Members of the Calcutta Tram Users Association have often held that while many cities were busy developing their heritage and culture by preserving and restoring the transport system, Calcutta seemed to be walking away from it. “Popular routes are being done away with. Why?” asked Debasish Bhattacharyya, of the association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-223
28-11-2020||Calcutta||Partha to meet VCs over December campus unlock||Education minister Partha Chatterjee will hold a videoconference with vice-chancellors on Saturday to discuss the prospect of reopening colleges and universities in December, a higher education department official said on Friday. Chatterjee had said on September 27 that undergraduate classes in Bengal’s government-run colleges and government-aided universities were unlikely to start before the first week of December. An official said the minister would consult the heads of state universities to find out about the possibility of reopening the campuses in December, considering that the pandemic is still raging and several states are taking a relook at the decision to reopen schools and colleges. “The Union education ministry had wanted colleges and universities to reopen in November. We pushed back the reopening to December and informed the UGC about this. Now we have to take a call on whether classes can resume in December,’’ said the official. The Tamil Nadu government had earlier announced that colleges and universities would reopen from December 2 only for research scholars and final-year postgraduate students of science and technology, revising its earlier schedule to start the reopening from November 16. The Mizoram government has decided to shut down the schools that reopened for students of Classes X and XII following a rise in the number of locally transmitted Covid-19 cases and a number of pupils testing positive for the disease. A senior official in the Bengal education department said: “We will keep all these developments in mind before taking a decision. There is a strong demand for resumption of in-person classes because classes on digital platforms are not very successful for want of access to devices or connectivity among a section of students. We have to strike a balance.” After education minister Chatterjee had said in September that classes would be held on digital platforms for some more time because of the pandemic, Raiganj University in North Dinajpur sought Rs 57.05 lakh from the education department to create e-resources and buy smartphones for students who could not afford them so they could attend online classes and access study materials digitally. Jadavpur University had to raise Rs 25 lakh to buy 200 students smartphones and recharge the smartphones of a substantial number of students for three months to enable them to attend the classes on digital platforms. The vice-chancellor of a state university said they were receiving petitions from students in the science streams for reopening campuses at the earliest as their studies were getting seriously affected in the absence of access to laboratories. “Students of both BSc and MSc courses want on-campus sessions to resume at the earliest,” the VC said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-223
28-11-2020||Calcutta||Fishing cat beaten to death in Howrah village||A fishing cat, Bengal’s state animal, was allegedly beaten to death by some residents of a village in Howrah’s Shyampur block on Thursday. A snare was laid at Aima village, around 70km from the heart of Calcutta, apparently after some chickens reared by villagers went missing. “A fishing cat was trapped in the snare late on Thursday. Some villagers beat the animal to death on Thursday and threw the carcass into a pond,” said Subhradip Ghosh, an animal rights activist in Howrah who is associated with multiple wildlife NGOs. Ghosh said he was alerted by some residents who sent him pictures of the dead animal. “The carcass had been disposed of by the time I reached the spot,” Ghosh said. Raju Sarkar, the divisional forest officer of Howrah, said a team was sent to the village on Thursday afternoon. “We got information from reliable sources about the killing. But we did not find the carcass or it’s remains at the village. We have started an inquiry and lodged a complaint with Shyampur police station,” he told Metro. With the latest casualty, at least eight fishing cats have been allegedly killed in different parts of the state since May. Only one arrest has been made so far, according to the forest department. Conservationists have raised the alarm over the spike in deaths. Fishing cat, baghrol in Bengali and Bengal’s state animal, is included in Schedule I of the Indian Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. It is supposed to get the highest conservation priority — akin to tigers and elephants, said animal rights activists. Killing a fishing cat can invite a jail term of three to seven years and/or a fine up to Rs 30,000. The nocturnal animal thrives in wetlands and feeds mostly on fish. Their numbers have dwindled as wetlands have shrunk and they are forced to enter human settlements and prey on fish farmed in ponds and livestock. Activists and foresters cited the Covid-19 curbs for the rise in the number of deaths and lack of arrests. “We used to conduct regular awareness campaigns on fishing cats in several areas. But the pandemic has halted everything. The lack of awareness is the primary reason behind the human-animal conflict,” said a member of the Human Environment and Alliance League (HEAL), an NGO. The size — a full-grown fishing cat is twice the size of a house cat, weighing over 15kg — and blotches and stripes on its body make many people mistake it for a leopard or a tiger cub. The fear gets stronger if livestock is lifted and people try to kill the animal. Fishing cat’s meat was sold in some parts of the state — including pockets of Howrah — till a decade ago. “A sustained campaign by foresters and wildlife enthusiasts stopped that. However, with the pandemic and an absence of strict vigilance, fishing cats are again being killed and their meat eaten,” said Tiasa Adhya, the founder of the Fishing Cat Project, a campaign for research on and conservation of the animal. On the basis of information compiled from local volunteers and residents, Adhya and her colleagues have traced alleged killings of seven fishing cats since May this year. The deaths were reported from West Midnapore, Howrah, Nadia, Murshidabad and North 24-Parganas. A wildlife official said FIRs had been lodged in most cases. “The pandemic has not only affected our work. It has also posed a problem for other agencies we coordinate with,” said V.K. Yadav, the chief wildlife warden of the state. “With things gradually opening up, we will scale up awareness campaigns.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-223
28-11-2020||Calcutta||Airport power outage affects 40 outgoing flights||The city airport’s terminal remained without regular power supply for more than 24 hours since Thursday evening and at least 40 outgoing flights were delayed, 30 of those on Friday morning. A 33kV power supply line of CESC got snapped during construction work for Metro Rail. Diesel generators were used as back up, but those were tripping frequently, which led to conveyor belts stopping, said officials. Airlines said many baggage could not be sent because of malfunctioning of conveyor belts. Water supply was affected, too, and large parts of the building were dimly lit. Airport officials said this was the longest period the terminal did not have regular power supply. The problem had started around 6pm on Thursday, when the 33kV line got damaged, and continued till late on Friday. Airport and CESC officials said it would take till Saturday morning to repair the cable and restore power supply. The airport, CESC sources said, has two points of supply from the utility, both 33kV. One of them powers the air traffic control, runways and allied infrastructure. The other powers the terminal lights, passenger facilities, escalators, elevators, conveyor belts, etc. The first point was unaffected. The second point — comprising a main feeder, an alternate feeder, a communication cable — was damaged on Thursday night. “The alert came immediately. A Metro project is underway there…. Work began on a war-footing… and has been on all night, even through the day,” said a source in CESC. He said the condition of the site was such that a drain had been overflowing and inundating the lines with water, which had been delaying work. “The cables have been lifted at the site and they have been damaged. There are marks left by an earth-mover. The second point of supply, considering its importance, has to be restored flawlessly as soon as possible,” he said. According to him, the terminal has been running on a series of generators since last night. “It is a very meticulous and delicate operation, which takes six-seven hours,” he said. A Metro official said a CESC team had temporarily shifted the underground cables from the area to facilitate Metro work had not removed all the cables. “Prima facie, it seems some cables that had not been shifted were damaged by heavy machinery during Metro work,” the official said. The Telegraph lists some of the major inconveniences faced by passengers: Airport officials said 10 diesel generator sets were being used to provide power supply to the terminal, of which six were used at a time. “Till Friday morning, the diesel generator sets were getting stalled several times, causing the conveyor belts to stop. Each time the generator sets were stopping for five minutes on an average and power supply was getting snapped, it was taking 15 minutes for the conveyor belts to start again,” said Kaushik Bhattacharya, the airport director. This led to slow movement of baggage and flights were delayed. “Also, the inline baggage scanning system was not functioning when the generator sets were getting stalled. Baggage cannot be scanned manually now and so we had to wait for the system to restart, causing delays in departure,” said Bhattacharya. On Friday morning, 30-odd flights were delayed between 8am and 9.30am for 30 minutes on an average, said officials. However, officials of some airlines said their flights were delayed by more than an hour. Airport sources said Air-Asia flights to Delhi and Bangalore were delayed by an hour each. Frequent malfunctioning of the conveyor belts led to mishandling of baggage, said airport and airline sources. Many flights took off leaving behind baggage to avoid further delays. One flight took off without 38 pieces of baggage, said sources. “Baggage of passengers of several arriving flights had to be manually brought from the aircraft to the carousels on trolleys. Passengers had to wait for even more than an hour to get their baggage,” said an official. “Passengers at times complained that they were not getting water. This was because the generator sets were malfunctioning and so the pumps were not functioning,” said an official. The AC system was also not working because the power supply was provided by generator sets. “Only the air circulation system is working,” said airport director Bhattacharya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-223
28-11-2020||Calcutta||New Town survey to encourage walking||The New Town authorities have started a survey to find out whether residents feel safe to walk on the township’s roads and what their concerns are while they take a walk. The survey is being carried out because Hidco, which builds infrastructure in New Town, wants real-time feedback from pedestrians and wants to encourage walking as well as cycling among residents, a Hidco official said. At least two roads have been earmarked in New Town that will be converted into pedestrian zones. One of the zones will be set up in front of Eco Urban Village and the other in front of the New Town clock tower, the official said. The residents will be sent forms that will have a variety of questions on the challenges they face while walking down a road in New Town, as well as other parts of the city. The questions range from broken pavements to the fear of teasing and snatching. Debashis Sen, the chairman and managing director of Hidco, said they wanted to know from the residents what needed to be done — such as building sidewalks and setting up road infrastructure — to encourage them to walk more frequently to run errands or to their workplaces and back home. “New Town has wide sidewalks along every road in all three action areas. We want to encourage people to walk or cycle to their destinations if it is within a reasonable distance. This means a lot less pollution and a fitter populace as well,” said Sen. According to him, Hidco will also hold a design contest where residents will be asked to submit their designs of pavements as well as roads that are pedestrian friendly. The designs will then be reviewed by a committee before the best or a combination of factors from the various entries are incorporated into the planning of new sidewalks and roads. New Town has barrier-free, wheelchair-friendly sidewalks that have ramps at regular intervals. There are also bicycle-friendly pavements that have clearly demarcated tracks for cyclists. The township has 11km of cycle tracks and another 20km are being planned. In addition, another 20km stretch has been identified that will be converted into bicycle tracks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-224
28-11-2020||Calcutta||Elderly couples opting for 24-hour domestic help deals||A number of elderly couples who hire domestic help from help centres are opting for 24-hour deals to minimise the employees’ exposure to other people, a precautionary measure against Covid-19. Most of these couples, whose lives revolve around domestic help, would earlier hire help for 12 hours to manage household chores and get odd jobs done. With a rise in the number of Covid cases in Calcutta and North 24-Parganas after Diwali, most are opting for a monthly contract. While an 11-hour package costs around Rs 360 a day, a 24-hour deal costs around Rs 13,000 a month. A 24-hour contract will ensure that the help does not have to leave at the end of the day’s work and expose herself to Covid carriers. “We used to hire help for half a day. She (the help) would come around 8am, do all the household work and leave by 8pm,” said Tridib Narayan Bose of Bhowanipore. “The woman stays in Joynagar, South 24-Parganas. She has been visiting us again since the resumption of suburban trains. We have asked the agency through which we hired her for a full-time engagement and have got her tested for Covid-19.” Domestic help comprise a considerable chunk of the people who arrive in the city daily by suburban trains. Over the last few weeks, more than 800 people have been testing positive for Covid-19 daily in Calcutta, the highest among all districts in the state. North 24-Parganas follows close behind. While the arrival of domestic help from districts following the resumption of suburban trains has made life easier for elderly couples and others who depend on them, it has brought fresh challenges. A few days back, a couple in Lake Town tested positive for the coronavirus within four days of hiring a help. “All my clients are now opting for the 24-hour package,” said Narayan Maity of Bijoli Seba Centre. “They do not want to risk their lives by allowing the staff to return home at night.” Several “centres” have started screening their staff before sending them to clients. “We check the body temperature and oxygen saturation levels every day of those who are pre-booked,” said Ranjit Naskar of Sova Aya Centre of Ballygunge. A few others, however, said it was up to the clients to screen the help.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-224
28-11-2020||Calcutta||Online training for ICSE teachers||Teachers of Classes I to VIII in ICSE schools will have to undergo online training to foster “critical thinking in students” and build their “competencies”, the ICSE council has said in a circular addressed to the heads of all affiliated schools. Some of the courses include inclusive education, art integration, health and wellbeing in schools and pre-school education. The training is part of the National Initiative for School Heads’ and Teachers’ Holistic Advancement (Nishtha), an integrated teacher training programme under a centrally sponsored scheme. “It aims to build competencies among all the teachers and school principals at the elementary stage. The basic objective of this massive training programme is to motivate and equip teachers to encourage and foster critical thinking in students,” the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) had said in an earlier circular. The training comprising 18 courses started on November 23 and will continue till the end of February. A batch of three courses will be launched every 15 days. Each set of courses will be available for 15 days. On Friday, the CISCE shared the details of three courses that will start on December 1. They are on integrating gender in the teaching-learning process, integration of information and communications technology in teaching-learning and assessment, and art integrated learning. Each course requires a minimum of three to four hours’ engagement and the teachers will have the flexibility to complete the course in a “self paced manner,” according to the CISCE. The CISCE in an earlier circular had said the programme was launched in August 2019. “In view of the Covid-19 pandemic situation, Nishtha has now been customised to be conducted in an online mode… for providing training to all elementary school teachers (Classes I to VIII)...” the earlier circular by the council to the school heads had said. The school heads said the programme would benefit the teachers. “It is a good proposition because it will train teachers to transact the curriculum better and give individualised attention to the students,” said Seema Sapru, the principal of The Heritage School. Referring to courses such as the one on art integrated learning, Sapru said “interdisciplinary learning is important and it is a progressive thought”. Another school head said: “Not all schools have the option or the facility to train teachers, who are more used to traditional forms of education. Training by the council would help teachers ‘open their minds’ to new things.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-224
28-11-2020||Calcutta||ICSE schools consider deferring pre-board exams||Several ICSE schools in the city are planning to defer their pre-board exams for Classes X and XII following a hint from the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) that the board exams could be deferred to end-May or June. The ICSE (Class X) and ISC exams (Class XII) usually begin in February. In many schools, the pre-boards are held over December and January, and in most they are over by the third week of January. The ICSE and ISC board exams are not likely to take place “before the end of May or in June”, the chief executive and secretary of the CISCE, Gerry Arathoon, said. St James’ School will have its pre-board exams after January 15. Usually, they start in December and are over by the third week of January. “There is a possibility of the board exams being postponed and hence we have also decided to defer the pre-boards. We are yet to announce the dates,” said Terence Ireland, the principal of St James’ School. Calcutta Girls’ High School is “contemplating” to push the pre-boards to February. They are usually held in January. St Xavier’s Collegiate School is planning to hold its pre-board exams towards the end of January or in the first week of February. “We are contemplating pushing the pre-board exams to February if the board exam is postponed,” said Basanti Biswas, the principal of Calcutta Girls’ High School “It will give students more time. This is an unusual year because of online classes. Also, teachers will have more time to gauge and understand how much the children have followed. If the situation improves and the students are allowed to come to school, they will be able to perform the practicals before the exam,” said Biswas. The practicals, she said, are important not just for the board exams but also for gaining knowledge even after Class XII. Arathoon had said that the council as well as the schools would want students to go to the campuses for the practical classes and exams. “Students need time to prepare for the exams and the pre-boards are important exams for the students to prepare themselves for the finals. Teachers will have time to discuss with the students their weak areas,” said Father M. Thamacin Arulappan, the principal at St Xavier’s Collegiate School. Usually, there is a gap of four to six weeks between the pre-boards and the board exams. Modern High School for Girls have not yet decided on the dates but said they would give “adequate preparation time” to the students between the pre-boards and the board exams. The school normally announces the dates of the pre-board exams after the timetable for the board exams is published. “We will give adequate preparation time to the students between the pre-boards and the boards like every year. We will also protect the dates of some of the competitive exams, like that of engineering, in the interest of the students who would want to appear for those,” said Damayanti Mukherjee, the principal of the school. Some of the schools like Loreto House and Sri Sri Academy, who have their pre-boards scheduled for January, said they would wait for an official communication from the council. “We scheduled the exams for January hoping the students might be able to come back to the campus. Now, with the recent development of the possibility of the board exams being deferred, we might defer the pre-boards, too. We are waiting to hear from the council and would also have a meeting with the teacher coordinators,” said Aruna Gomes, the principal of Loreto House. Ram Mohan Mission High School, too, is waiting for a communication from the council. “We plan to hold the pre-boards in the end of January or the beginning of February, instead of finishing off all the papers by the second week of January that we do in other years,” principal Sujoy Biswas said. The postponement might help schools conduct on-campus exams, instead of online ones, if the situation improves, a school head said. “We would prefer them to come to school if the situation permits. Students then can sit through a three-hour paper and be prepared for a board exam,” said Suvina Shunglu, the principal of Sri Sri Academy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-224
28-11-2020||Business||How to Read A ULIP Benefits Illustration||The coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic has proved to be a watershed moment in the history of humanity, which has significantly changed the way our world works. Approximately 51 million people across the globe have been infected with over ~1.27 million deaths [1]. In India alone, there have been 8.5 million cases with 1.27 lakh deaths, making it the second-worst affected country after the US [1]. Moreover, with tens of thousands of new cases being diagnosed every day, no one knows how long we are going to be safe. With this uncertainty looming large, it is critical that you must do everything possible in your power to ensure no matter what happens tomorrow, your future, and that of your family, is secure. When it comes to securing your family’s financial future, life insurance is necessary for everyone, especially in times like these. However, a simple life insurance plan only provides risk cover with no returns. Therefore, there would be a payout only for the nominees of the policy if something unfortunate/untimely happens to the policyholder. For the insured persons themselves, there is only the peace of mind that their families would be taken care of even in their absence. However, what if were to tell you that there is yet another way to secure your family’s future and achieve your personal financial goals? Yes, this is true and investing in Unit Linked Insurance Plans (ULIPs) may help you achieve just that! A ULIP is a hybrid investment product that serves both the investment and insurance needs of an investor. It is a long-term financial planning instrument. And, on top of that, ULIPs provide tax-benefits under Section 80C of the Income Tax Act, 1961 subject to the provisions stated therein. Therefore, a ULIP is also an investment policy, which is market-linked and provides the policyholder with the triple advantages of tax benefits, insurance protection and wealth generation. When you opt for a ULIP, your premium gets invested in the market in either equity, debt or a combination of equity & amp debt funds. The allocation of funds is completely dependent on the risk appetite of the investor. Moreover, some of these investment plans also provide users with the advantage of switching between funds free of cost in order to maximize their returns. There are numerous reasons why an individual can invest their savings in a ULIP policy. While the topmost among them are the triple benefits of investment, insurance and tax savings, there are many others. These include: As per the guidelines issued by the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI), it is mandatory for all life insurance companies to provide a ‘benefit illustration’ to new seekers of their ULIP plans. This illustration is a useful tool to understand the returns, charges and maturity as well as surrender value at various timelines and in various scenarios. Here is how to understand a ULIP benefits illustration: Policy year - It refers to your policy term, or the number of years you stay invested. Annualized premium - It is the premium that you need to pay each year. You may pay it monthly, quarterly, half yearly or annually depending on the product terms and conditions. Premium allocation charges - This is a percentage of the premium you pay i.e. the upfront charge which is deducted and remaining amount is invested in funds of choice. Mortality charges - It is the cost levied for providing risk cover during the policy term. It is charged by the insurer by way of cancellation of units under the policy. The mortality charge depends on your age, sum assured and the policy term. Policy administration charges - These charges represent the expenses other than those covered under premium allocation charges and the fund management charges and may be expressed as a percentage of sum assured or even a fixed amount. Fund management charges - These charges are levied as a percentage of the value of assets and are appropriated by adjusting the Net Asset Value and is usually done on daily basis. Fund before FMC - This term refers to the underlying value of the fund before fund management charges are deducted. Fund at the end - This term refers to the value of the fund at the end of the year, after all the charges have been deducted and growth has been accounted for. Net yield - This refers to the net returns you earn from your ULIP after considering the overall impact of all the ULIP charges. The Unit Linked Insurance Plans helps us to achieve our life goals. One gets the dual benefits of life protection and wealth creation by investing their money in the ULIP policies. To make most of your investment, you could consider ULIP plans by Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance. You may choose products that offer higher premium allocation. What this means is that by investing the same amount, you could get higher returns on your money, as most of the money that you pay as premium is invested in the market to grow with time. Moreover, some ULIP plans by Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance offer return of the entire mortality charges or life cover charges deducted during the policy term at the time of maturity*. This means you get more bang for your buck. One thing to consider while opting for a ULIP plan is the flexibility in terms of how easily and how often you can make a switch between different funds. Bajaj Allianz Life Goal Assure # ULIP offers unlimited free switches. By optimally using them depending on different market conditions, you could make the most of your returns. Because of the multi-dimensional benefits that ULIPs offer, you may consider adding them to your investment portfolio to strike a balance between your insurance and investment needs. It could serve as a one-stop solution for your family’s financial security and your long-term financial goals with added tax benefits on investment as well as maturity serving as a cherry on the top. Source: 1 https://www.worldometers.info/coronavirus/ Disclaimer: # Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Company Limited and Bajaj Allianz Life Goal Assure are the names of the company and the product respectively and do not in any way indicate the quality of the product and its future prospects or returns. Unlike traditional products, Bajaj Allianz Life Goal Assure is a Unit Linked Insurance Plan (ULIP). Investment in ULIPs is subject to risks associated with the capital markets. The policy holder is solely responsible for his/her decisions while investing in ULIPs. For more details on risk factors, terms and conditions please read sales brochure & policy document (available on www.bajajallianzlife.com) carefully before concluding a sale *Return of life cover charges = return of mortality charges (ROMC) which is payable on maturity, provided all due premiums have been paid.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-220
28-11-2020||Business||Indian Banks’ Association wants to tag bad loans||The Indian Banks’ Association on Friday urged the Supreme Court to vacate its stay on declaring the assets of loan defaulting companies as NPAs even as the Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association (Credai) sought protection on the ground that 98 per cent of its members would become NPAs if the government did not come out with any relief package for the sector. A three-judge bench of justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah after briefly hearing the arguments from stakeholders adjourned the matter to next Wednesday saying it would consider all issues raised before it. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal appearing for Credai told the bench “as of September 1, 98 per cent of the industry will become NPA. These are government figures. If your Lordships’ don't protect us we will not be entitled to any relief”. Sibal made the submission while urging the court to direct the government to provide special reliefs to the real estate sector which is also badly affected on account of the pandemic. However, senior advocate Harish Salve appearing for the Indian Banks’ Association urged the bench to vacate the stay imposed by it on declaration of NPAs by banks “as banks are rendered helpless against the borrowers”. The Supreme Court had on September 4 directed that all accounts which were not declared as non-performing assets (NPA) till August 31 this year shall not be declared NPA till further orders, offering a temporary relief to stressed borrowers facing hardships because of the pandemic. Salve was of the view that if the stay is not vacated it would only make the position of banks even more precarious. “Restraining order on banks qua classifying accounts as NPA should be vacated. Banks are rendered helpless against defaulting borrowers…everyday banks are incurring losses,” Salve submitted. According to the senior counsel the various relief packages announced by the RBI and Centre had taken care of all affected sectors as such the stay should be vacated on declaration of NPAs. Senior advocate Ravindra Srivastava appearing for one of the petitioner submitted that the court is not informed about any national plan for disaster management by the Centre along with guidelines for minimum standard of relief. SolicitorGeneral Tushar Meht a urged the court to deal with the sector wise relief sought. He said the government has already placed a mechanism in place for dealing with the contingency. “Asking something to be tailor made for a certain sector may not be feasible,” Mehta said. Sibal however, pointed out that earlier Centre, RBI and the bankers’  association had said everything needs to be worked out in accordance of the contract. “This means disaster or no disaster contractual provisions will prevail…” which he said would adversely affect various sectors. As such he pleaded that the court must step in to provide reliefs to different sectors. An intervener also supported Sibal’s arguments and submitted that loan moratorium be extended upto December 31, 2020, and that common people should not be harassed by phone calls or abusive language to make payments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-220
28-11-2020||Business||Stakes rise in Birla-Lodha will war||A division bench comprising the Chief Justice of Calcutta High Court has scheduled day-long hearings on January 6-7 on a bunch of applications and petitions filed by the Birlas and the Lodhas. The bench will hear the matters throughout the day for two consecutive days to decide the pleas on merit. While Harsh Vardhan Lodha is challenging his removal from the boards of five investment companies, the Birlas have filed contempt petitions against Lodha on his continuation on the boards of listed companies such as Birla Corporation Ltd. The Birlas have also filed seven cross appeals against the single bench judgment which restrained Lodha from holding any positions within the MP Birla Group. Chief Justice Thottathil B. Radhakrishnan and Justice Shampa Sarkar had previously heard appeals filed by the Lodhas against the single bench judgment of September 18. While the division bench declined an ad interim stay on the judgment of Justice Shahidulla Munshi, it had clarified on the order. The division bench said Lodha should not hold any office in the group “on the strength of the shares referable to the estate of Priyamvada Birla”, prompting the Lodha camp to argue that it paved the way for Harsh V Lodha to continue on the boards. Thereafter, he chaired the boards of all four listed companies of the group. However, the committee of administrator pendente lite (APL Committee) did not allow Lodha to participate in the board meetings of the top-tier investment companies of the MP Birla Group. Subsequently, Lodha was also removed from the boards of these companies and his name was struck off as director by the ministry of corporate affairs, the regulator. Headed by retired Justice Mohit Shah, the APL Committee is custodian to the estate of late Priyamvada Devi Birla, who by a contentious will, bequeathed the reins of the group to late Rajendra Singh Lodha, father of Harsh, ensuing a decade-and-half long legal battle between the Lodhas and the Birlas. Shah is the chairman of all investment companies. While the single bench judgment noted that the estate is in complete control of the trusts, societies and companies of the MP Birla group, it also said that these entities are not parties before the court which is hearing the probate of the will. Birlas cited 21 reasons why the probate court erred by deciding these entities are not within its jurisdiction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-220
28-11-2020||Business||Ashok Leyland's UK arm renamed Switch Mobility Ltd ||Hinduja Group flagship company Ashok Leyland on Friday announced that Optare Group Ltd, its majority owned UK subsidiary, has been renamed Switch Mobility Ltd as part of its drive towards electrification and new mobility services. Unveiling the new logo and name,  Dheeraj Hinduja, chairman of Ashok Leyland Ltd, said: “Optare is adopting a new identity and logo as ‘Switch’, which signals our strategic ambitions in electric and green mobility. Ashok Leyland is examining various options to bring the entire EV initiatives of the company under Switch Mobility Ltd.” The global electric LCV and bus market is projected to grow at a compounded annual growth rate of more than 25 per cent and will be worth $50 billion by 2030. To capture part of that market, Ashok Leyland is considering EV initiatives through Switch that could include financial participation and strategic tie-ups. Switch will build on the success of Optare in the UK, where it is a leading player in electric buses with more than 150 of them operating in its home market. After delivering 30 electric double-decker buses to Metroline in London, the company is fulfilling orders of operators such as Tower Transit, London and First York. This will create a foundation for the expansion of Switch’s operations in Europe and growth in India and other parts of the world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-220
28-11-2020||Business||PNGRB sets uniform gas pipeline tariff structure||Oil regulator PNGRB has simplified the country’s gas pipeline tariff structure to make the fuel more affordable to  distant users and attract investment for building gas infrastructure. The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (PNGRB) has notified regulations for a “unified” tariff structure for over a dozen pipelines that form the National Gas Grid which will lead to a 20-30 per cent rise in transportation charges paid by users near the source but a reduction for consumers in the hinterland. “The unified tariff shall be determined by the board in respect of the national gas grid system for each financial year before the start of such financial year,” it said. At present, the tariff is levied in proportion to the distance transported — the longer the distance, the higher is the charge. This resulted in consumers away from the coast paying higher charges compared with those near it. The PNGRB has now notified a two-zone tariff structure — Zone-1 will be 300km from the source of gas (gas field or LNG import terminal) and Zone-II will be beyond that.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-221
28-11-2020||Business||BPCL clients will continue to get subsidy post-privatisation||LPG customers of Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL) will continue to get cooking gas subsidy post-privatisation of the nation’s second-biggest fuel retailers, oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan said on Friday. “Subsidy on LPG is paid to consumers directly and not to any company. So, the ownership of the company that sells LPG is not of any material consequence. LPG subsidy will continue as before to BPCL consumers even after disinvestment,” Pradhan said. The government gives 12 cooking gas (LPG) cylinders of 14.2-kg each to households in a year at a subsidised rate. This subsidy is directly paid into the bank accounts of the users. The subsidy is paid in advance and consumers use this to buy LPG refills that are available only at market price from dealers of oil marketing companies — Indian Oil Corporation, BPCL and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL). The government is selling its entire 53 per cent stake along with management control in BPCL. The new owner will get 15.33 per cent of India’s oil refining capacity and 22 per cent of the fuel marketing share.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-221
28-11-2020||Business||FM asks CPSEs to exceed capex target for 2020-21||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday exhorted large central public sector enterprises (CPSEs) to exceed their planned capital expenditure (capex) target for 2020-21 by March to accelerate economic growth hit by Covid-19. She held a virtual meeting with secretaries of power, mines and atomic energy along with the chairman and managing directors (CMDs) of 10 CPSEs, belonging to these ministries, an official statement said. This was the fifth in the ongoing series of meetings that the finance minister is having with various stakeholders to boost economic growth amid the pandemic. While reviewing the performance of the CPSEs, Sitharaman said the capex by CPSEs is a critical driver of economic growth and needs to be scaled up in financial years 2020-21 and 2021-22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-221
28-11-2020||Business||End of the road for Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB)||Tamil Nadu-based Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) on Friday lost its identity after its merger with the Indian subsidiary of Singapore’s DBS Bank. The debt-ridden 94-year old bank’s fate was sealed with the cabinet approving the scheme of amalgamation on Wednesday. The RBI had announced November 27 as the effective date for the merger. All the branches of LVB will function as branches of DBIL with effect from November 27. LVB was asked to write off Rs 318-crore Tier-II Basel III bonds ahead of its merger with DBS Bank by the RBI on Thursday citing Section 45 of the Banking Regulation Act, resulting in losses to the investors of these bonds. “The RBI has set a precedence with the proposed write-off as it’s the first time a tier-II bond is being written off,” ratings agency Icra said in a report on Friday. The agency added that investors should factor in the risk in Basel-III instruments, as these instruments can be completely written off in case the bank gets into trouble.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-221
28-11-2020||Business||Fiscal deficit widens to Rs 9.53 lakh crore||The fiscal deficit widened to Rs 9.53 lakh crore, which is 119.7 per cent of the Rs 7.96-lakh-crore budgeted target, at the end of October of the current financial year. The deficit widened mainly on account of poor revenue realisation. The lockdown imposed to curb the spreading of coronavirus had significantly impacted business activities and in turn contributed to sluggish revenue realisation, according to official data released on Friday. The fiscal deficit at the end of September was about 114.8 per cent of the annual budget estimate. In the first seven months of 2019-20, the deficit was 102.4 per cent of the annual target. The fiscal defict or gap between the expenditure and revenue had breached the annual target in July this year. “The fiscal deficit is at Rs 9.53 lakh crore which would be roughly 4.8-5 per cent of GDP if it holds for the full year. We believe the deficit based on the expenditure allocations announced by the FM will double this amount taking the ratio of close to 9-9.25 per cent for the year. Hence, while tax collections can increase in proportion to growth in the next four months, it may not be possible to recoup the losses in the first 7-8 months,” said Madan Sabnavis, chief economist at Care Ratings. The government received Rs 7,08,300 crore — which is 31.54 per cent of the 2020-21 budget estimate of the total receipts — up to October. It comprised Rs 5,75,697 crore of tax revenue (net to the Centre), Rs 1,16,206 crore of non-tax revenue and Rs 16,397 crore of non-debt capital receipts. Non-debt capital receipts consist of recovery of loans of Rs 10,218 crore and disinvestment proceeds of Rs 6,179 crore. Aditi Nayar, principal economist at Icra, said, “The overall fiscal picture for the April-October 2020 period remains grim, although the expansion in gross tax revenues as well as capital spending in the month of October 2020 are encouraging. We expect the fiscal deficit to widen to Rs 14.5 trillion or 7.7 per cent of GDP in 2020-21 from the budgeted level of Rs 8 trillion and Rs 9.4 trillion in 2019-20 (provisional).” Total receipts in the April-October period of 2019-20 was nearly 45 per cent of the annual target. In the current financial year, Rs 2,97,174 crore was transferred to state governments as part of devolution of share of taxes by the Union government till the end of October. The amount under devolution was Rs 69,697 crore lower compared to the year-ago period. Till October of the current fiscal, total expenditure incurred by the Centre was Rs 16,61,454 crore -- which is 54.61 per cent of 2020-21 budget estimate. Out of the total amount, Rs 14,64,099 crore was on revenue account and Rs 1,97,355 crore on capital account, as per the data. Out of the total revenue expenditure, Rs 3,33,456 crore was from interest payments and Rs 1,85,400 crore on account of major subsidies. For this financial year, the government had pegged the fiscal deficit at Rs 7.96 lakh crore or 3.5 per cent of the GDP in the budget which was presented by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in February 2020. These figures, however, may have to be revised significantly in view of the economic disruptions created by the outbreak of the coronavirus. Fiscal deficit had soared to a seven-year high of 4.6 per cent of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in 2019-20, mainly due to poor revenue realisation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-221
28-11-2020||Business||Core infrastructure sector contracts for eight straight month||The core infrastructure sector contracted for the eight straight month —with output falling 2.5 per cent in October —because of a slump in the production of crude oil, natural gas, refinery products and steel. Production in the eight core sectors had contracted 5.5 per cent in October 2019, the commerce and industry ministry said. During April to October 2020-21, the core sector contracted by 13 per cent. “Industrial recovery is still weak and the traction seen in IIP growth lately is triggered largely by the festival demand,” said Sunil Kumar Sinha, principal economist, India Ratings and Research. The core sector has a weight of 40.27 per cent in the industry index. “The non-core portion of the IIP may perform better than the core sectors in October 2020, led by the building up of stocks ahead of the festive season. Based on this, we expect the IIP to record a growth of 4-7 per cent in October 2020. “Growth in many sectors may moderate in November 2020,” said Aditi Nayar, principal economist of Icra. “The combined index of eight core industries stood at 124.2 in October 2020, which declined by 2.5 (provisional) per cent compared with the index of October 2019,” the ministry said. Its cumulative growth during April to October, 2020-21, has been (-13 per cent Barring coal, electricity and cement, all sectors -- crude oil, natural gas, refinery products, fertiliser and steel-- recorded negative growth in September 2020. The output of crude oil, natural gas, refinery products and steel fell by 6.2 per cent, 8.6 per cent, 17 per cent and 2.7 per cent, respectively. In contrast, the coal production grew by 11.6 per cent during the month under review compared to the same period last year. The output of fertilizers, cement and electricity grew by 6.3 per cent, 2.8 per cent and 10.5 per cent, respectively, compared to October 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-221
28-11-2020||Business||Indian economy officially plunges into recession||The Indian economy has officially plunged into recession but the contraction in the economy at 7.5 per cent in the second quarter has been less than feared, generating expectations of a quick revival with manufacturing offering hope after reporting a small positive growth in the quarter. The gross domestic product (GDP) had contracted a record 23.9 per cent in the first quarter of 2020-21 as the coronavirus lockdown pummelled economic activity. In contrast, China’s economy grew 4.9 per cent in the July-September quarter against 3.2 per cent growth in April-June. Even as manufacturing provided some succour, its  performance stretched over the first half of the fiscal from April to September remained a concern having reported a 19.4 per cent contraction in the first half. The figures of six months for the services sector especially the key construction and trade, hotels and transportation segments show the grind ahead particularly if the infections rise and states resort to lockdowns. The construction and trade segments shrank a massive 30.2 and 31.5 per cent, respectively, in the first half though the dip in the second quarter only was much lower, with construction shrinking 8.6 per cent and trade 15.6 per cent. On the demand side, government final consumption expenditure plunged 22 per cent in the second quarter, while gross fixed capital formation, which is a proxy for investment, contracted 7.35 per cent. Imports, which is another major demand indicator, have contracted 17.1 per cent in the reporting quarter. “We should be cautiously optimistic and the caution is warranted because economic impact is primarily due to the pandemic. It is difficult to predict if positive territory can be hit in the third or fourth quarter of this fiscal,” chief economic adviser K.V. Subramanian told reporters. Sreejith Balasubramanian, economist — fund management, IDFC AMC, said manufacturing growth was strong along with agriculture but services and construction growth was still negative. “Nominal core GVA (GVA excluding agriculture and public administration) is more reflective of private sector activity and it contracted 5.7 per cent on an annual basis.” Icra principal economist Aditi Nayar said she expects a stronger rebound in the second half of the fiscal. “At present, it appears GDP contraction in 2020-21 is likely to be 7-9 per cent  milder than our previous forecasts, unless rising Covid-19 infections force fresh restrictions.” Two straight quarters of GDP contraction mean India has fallen into technical recession — the first since the Centre began releasing quarterly estimates of GDP in 1996-97.  Annual GDP has contracted on four previous occasions, the last in 1980-81. Manufacturing clocked a surprise 0.6 per cent growth in July-September after it had shrunk a massive 39 per cent in the preceding quarter. Continuing its good showing, the agriculture sector grew 3.4 per cent, while the trade and services sector showed lower-than-expected contraction at 15.6 per cent. Dharmakirti Joshi, chief economist, Crisil said “the second-quarter (Q2) GDP data has lent a positive bias to our full-year call of 9 per cent contraction. However, there are some signs of flattening of economic activity in the third quarter. “ “Hence, that and further spread of Covid-19 will remain the key monitorables. The services sector will be more vulnerable in the second half, particularly contract-based services,” the Crisil chief economist said. The mining sector contracted 9.1% in Q2 compared to a contraction of 23.3% in the last quarter. Electricity and other public utilities grew 4.4% against a contraction of 7% in Q1. Construction contracted 8.6% in Q2 compared to a drop of 50.3% in Q1. Trade, hotel, transport, communication fell15.6% compared to a contraction of 47% in the previous quarter. The financial services sector contracted 8.1% compared to a contraction of 5.3% in the previous quarter. The public administration segment, supported by government spending, contracted 12.2% in Q2 versus a fall of 10.3% in Q1. Dharmakirti Joshi, chief economist, Crisil said “the second-quarter (Q2) GDP data has lent a positive bias to our full-year call of 9 per cent contraction. However, there are some signs of flattening of economic activity in the third quarter. Hence, that and further spread of Covid-19 will remain the key monitorables. The services sector will be more vulnerable in the second half, particularly contract-based services.” Private consumption, reflected in private final consumption expenditure, contracted 11.3% in Q2 compared to a drop of 26.7% in Q1. Investments, as reflected by gross fixed capital formation, contracted 7.3% compared to a fall of 47.1% in Q1. Government final consumption expenditure contracted 22.2% in Q2 after growing 16.4% in Q1. “The government consumption expenditure has shrunk to an unprecedented level of (-)22.2%, indicating weak fiscal stimulus. Clearly, most of the enhanced government borrowing has gone to make up for the shortfall in tax and non-tax revenues leading to a contraction of (-)1.9% in centre’s capital expenditure and a small positive growth at 0.4% in its total expenditure upto the first seven months into the fiscal year. Growth momentum is expected to pick up in 3QFY21, turning strongly positive in 4QFY21,” D K Srivastava, Chief Policy Advisor, EY India said. Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Governor Shaktikanta Das had stated that the recovery from the lockdown has been stronger than expected and the economy could show growth in the fourth quarter. The improvement in the economy came ahead of next week's interest rate decision by the RBI and coincides with a drop in India's daily virus cases, which have tapered off to half of its peak of more than 97,000 infections a day in mid-September.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-221
28-11-2020||India||Oommen Chandy ‘framed’ in 2013 solar bribery case||A former party colleague of a Kerala MLA has disclosed that then Congress chief minister Oommen Chandy had been wrongly accused of sexual abuse in a letter written by the complainant seven years ago. C. Manoj Kumar, estranged colleague and relative of lawmaker K.B. Ganesh Kumar, made the disclosure at a Congress campaign for the upcoming local body polls in Kollam on Friday. “I am revealing now that it was Ganesh Kumar and his PA (personal assistant) who made Sarita (Nair) change her statement,” Manoj told the UDF election meeting. Manoj was the state general secretary of the Kerala Congress (B), headed by Ganesh Kumar’s father Balakrishna Pillai. Ganesh Kumar is the lone MLA of the party that switched sides to the LDF in 2018. Manoj joined the Congress recently. Manoj confessed to have intervened in the matter after Ganesh Kumar sought his help to save himself from getting implicated in the 2013 solar bribery scam in which Sarita, director of a fraudulent company, was the key accused. “A sexual abuse allegation had cropped up against then chief minister Oommen Chandy. I am someone who believes that it (Chandy’s name) was added later,” Manoj said, adding that Ganesh Kumar tarnished Chandy after being ignored for a cabinet berth. After being arrested, Sarita had written a 25-page letter from jail accusing several Congress leaders, including Chandy, of sexually abusing her, taking undue advantage of her position. But the Congress had then claimed that four pages, including the allegations against Chandy, were added as part of a conspiracy. According to Manoj, it was Ganesh Kumar who forced Sarita to add Chandy’s name in the letter. “If I don’t reveal all this now I will face God’s wrath,” Manoj said. The solar scam had singed the UDF government, as Chandy and several of his ministers were accused of going out of the way to help Team Solar — a company floated by Sarita — get investments and orders for solar panels. The political uproar against his government had forced Chandy to appoint a judicial commission under retired Justice G. Sivarajan in 2013. In its findings submitted before the LDF government in 2017, the commission had established that bribes totaling Rs 2.16 crore had been paid to several leaders. “Oommen Chandy knew everything but remained silent,” Manoj said. Ganesh Kumar could not be reached for comment. Neither did he issue any statement. But Chandy told reporters that everyone already knew what Manoj had revealed on Saturday. “The truth will always come out. I am a believer (in God). How long can you hide the truth? It will come out one day,” said the 77-year-old former chief minister. “I was neither excessively sad when I was accused, nor am I happy when the truth has started coming out. I knew it (the allegation) will be proved wrong one day,” Chandy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-527
28-11-2020||India||Will not answer Khattar’s calls unless he apologises: Amarinder||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said on Saturday that he will not speak to his counterpart in Haryana Manohar Lal Khattar if he does not apologise to farmers for "inflicting brutality" during their march to Delhi. According to a statement, the Punjab chief minister also denied allegations that he did not speak to Khattar over the issue despite the Haryana chief minister’s repeated attempts. “Khattar is lying that he tried calling me earlier and I did not respond. But now, after what he has done to my farmers, I will not speak to him even if he calls me 10 times. Unless he apologises and admits that he did wrong with Punjab's farmers, I will not forgive him, said Singh, while wanting him to apologise to the farmers. His reaction came after Khattar on Saturday alleged that his counterpart did not respond to his repeated attempts to speak with him over the phone for three days, despite him wanting to talk to Singh regarding the farmers issue. Khattar also alleged a conspiracy about the Punjab Chief Minister’s Office giving directions to the farmers to protest against the farm laws. Amarinder Singh said there is no way he would talk to Khattar again-- neighbour or no neighbour --after Haryana's use of water cannons and teargas shells against farmers. Singh said if he could talk to the prime minister and the Union home minister so many times on the farmers' issue, why would he have not taken calls from a neighbouring chief minister if he had truly called earlier. “Who's Khattar to come in between? What business does he have interfering in this whole affair,” Singh asked, questioning his decision of not allowing the farmers to go to Delhi. He also slammed the Haryana CM about his allegations regarding the Punjab PMO. “I am a nationalist to the core. I run a border state and will never do anything to create a law and order problem of any kind, he asserted, the Punjab CM said. For 60 days, the farmers were blocking Punjab's railway tracks, causing more than Rs 43,000 crore in losses to the state, without any problem. I will not take this nonsense from Khattar. Don't I have better things to do than to incite farmers, he asked. Sometimes they say it's Khalistanis who're managing the protests and sometimes they accuse me of doing it. Let them make up their minds,” said Amarinder Singh. “The CM declared that no political party was involved in the farmers' protests, which were a spontaneous reaction of farmers who were fighting for their future,” the statement says. Condemning Khattar’s allegations of farmers not abiding law and order, Singh said that Punjabis are law-abiding citizens and it is Haryana which is damaging public property and blocking the highways to stop farmers. Terming as ludicrous Khattar's claim that Haryana farmers are not part of the Delhi Chalo agitation, Amarider Singh said Punjab's intelligence showed that as many as 40,000-50,000 farmers from the neighbouring state have joined the march to the national capital, which even the Centre's intelligence reports would have borne out. “He (Khattar) doesn't know what's happening in his own state and he's telling me what to do in my state”, said Amarinder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-528
28-11-2020||India||Protesting farmers set sights on Parliament House||Farmers, who had gathered at the Singhu border between Delhi and Haryana on Saturday, indicated they would not relent till they reached central Delhi, the seat of power, and protest peacefully at Jantar Mantar near Parliament House so that their grievances are heard by lawmakers. The farmers, aggrieved over the three agriculture bills enacted by the government recently, iterated that they would not accept Delhi Police's offer to hold their protest at the Sant Nirankari ground at Burari in north Delhi. The numbers of demonstrators swelled at the Singhu border as farmers camping there for their “Dilli Chalo” protest march were joined by more farmers from Punjab and Haryana, all of them refusing to move towards the Sant Nirankari Ground, one of the largest in the national capital. "We have come all the way to protest against the Centre's new farm laws. What will we do at the Nirankari Ground in Burari, satsang? The government took votes from farmers by sitting in central Delhi. We want to go to Janpath and gherao Parliament House. We will not go back from here," said Manish Kadian, 38, a resident of a village in Haryana's Jhajjar district. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and other Opposition leaders criticised the government’s handling of the farmers’ protests and said talks with them was the only way out. The Congress leader tweeted a picture of a soldier showing a baton to an old farmer. “This is a very sad photo. Our slogan was 'Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan', but today a soldier is standing against the farmer due to PM Modi's arrogance. This is very dangerous," he wrote in Hindi. The Congress party said it would have been better if the Prime Minister talked to the protesting farmers instead of getting "himself photographed in corporate offices". As many as eight Opposition parties likened the attempts by police to stop the farmers' march towards Delhi by using tear gas, water cannons and by digging up roads to "repression" and "waging a war". Their leaders, including NCP chief Sharad Pawar, DMK's T. R. Baalu, CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury, extended their support to the farmers and issued a statement. "Braving severe repression, tear gassing, heavy water cannons, roadblocks, police barricades and digging up the national highways surrounding Delhi akin to waging a 'war' on our farmers, tens of thousands of farmers have successfully reached the National Capital of Delhi. "We salute their determination and courage in this massive protest demanding the withdrawal of the retrograde anti-Kisan agri laws," they said in the statement. Among the other signatories to the statement were CPI General Secretary D. Raja, RJD MP Manoj Jha, CPI(ML) General Secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya, AIFB's Debabrata Biswas and RSP General Secretary Manoj Bhattacharya. Gurmej Singh, 62, from Punjab, said the farmers would not give up unless they were able to reach Jantar Mantar or Ramlila Ground in the heart of the national capital and hold their "peaceful" protest there. “We will not go to Nirankari ground. We will either go to Jantar Mantar or Ramlila ground or we will sit here. We have enough ration for six months and will not leave the highway," he said. Singh, flanked by other protesting farmers, alleged that the Central government was anti-farmer and that its new agriculture laws would take away their livelihoods. "I am a farmer and all my life I have only done farming. We are ready to even sacrifice our lives but will not move back from here. This government is not for farmers. They are not concerned about farmers' issues," Singh said. Many of these farmers continued to hold their protest peacefully at the Singhu border where they have been holding meetings to decide on their next course of action and have also made arrangements for a longer stay at the Delhi-Haryana border. Many farmers cleaned roads, cooked their lunch and collected garbage, keeping in mind the importance of hygiene amid the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Tezveer, 49, a resident of Jhajjar and pradhan of Beri Anaj Mandi, said they welcomed the farmers of Punjab and extended full support to them. "The government should either take this law back or give MSP to the farmers. We come daily from Jhajjar to Singhu border and bring raw ration and other necessary things, including milk, for the protesters," he said. Most farmers gathered at the Tikri border between Delhi and Haryana have also refused the Delhi Police's offer to go to the north Delhi protest site. Sukhwinder Singh, who has been camping at the Tikri border since Friday evening, said, "We will continue to protest here. We will not move from here. Several other farmers are yet to join us from Haryana." Asked why, Singh said, "We don't want to go to any ground provided by them in Burari. We want to go to Jantar Mantar and hold a peaceful demonstration there. Meetings are being held, and until the next course of action is decided, we will continue to protest here at the border peacefully," he added. The farmers at the Tikri border looked prepared for a long haul with enough rations and utensils to cook food. They have been charging their phones in their vehicles. Jagtar Singh Bhagiwander, another farmer camping at Tikri, also maintained that they would not move ahead, but continue to fight for their rights from the national highway. “We won't proceed towards Burari. Yesterday, soon after we were granted permission to enter Delhi, we were told to move ahead in groups of 50 people one after the other. We refused to move in groups. "This is an attempt to separate us. If we have come together all the way crossing different borders, we will continue to stay united. As of now, we have decided to stay here at Tikri. We will continue our fight from here until further course of action is decided," he said. Farmers have expressed apprehension that the new farm laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporates. The Centre has invited several Punjab farmer organisations for another round of talks in Delhi on December 3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-528
28-11-2020||India||PM visits Hyderabad, Ahmedabad, Pune to review vaccine development||Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited  Hyderabad, Ahmedabad and Pune on Saturday to take the stock of Covid-19 vaccine development in the cities. The Prime Minister’s Office  (PMO) said that his visit was aimed at receiving first-hand perspective of the preparations, challenges and roadmap in India’s mission to vaccinate its citizens. Modi started his tour by visiting the Zydus Cadila's manufacturing facility near Ahmedabad. Wearing a PPE kit, Modi reviewed the vaccine development process at the Zydus Cadila research centre in Changodar industrial area, over 20 km from Ahmedabad. Modi was extensively briefed about the vaccine development work at the plant by the company officials. He was briefed about the vaccine production procedure. He interacted with scientists and vaccine developers, an official said. "Visited the Zydus Biotech Park in Ahmedabad to know more about the indigenous DNA based vaccine being developed by Zydus Cadila. I compliment the team behind this effort for their work. The Government of India is actively working with them to support them in this journey," the prime minister tweeted later. Zydus Cadila chairman Pankaj Patel recently said the company is aiming to complete the vaccine trial by March 2021 and could produce up to 100 million doses a year. Modi spent over an hour at the plant, before leaving for the airport, from where he left for Hyderabad at 11.40 am. Modi landed at the Hakimpet Air Force Station in the southern city where he was received by Telangana Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, Director General of Police and other officials. Thereafter, proceeded to Bharat Biotech's facility located at Genome valley, located around 20 kilometers from the air force station. At the Bharat Biotech facility, the prime minister reviewed the development works of Covaxin, which is being made by the company to fight against Covid-19. He also interacted with Bharat Biotech Chairman and Managing Director Krishna Ella, scientists and senior management. "At the Bharat Biotech facility in Hyderabad, was briefed about their indigenous COVID-19 vaccine. Congratulated the scientists for their progress in the trials so far. Their team is closely working with ICMR to facilitate speedy progress,"  he tweeted after the hour-long visit at the facility. The Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, being developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with Indian Council of Medical Research and National Institute of Virology is now undergoing phase-3 trials. Modi landed at Pune at 4:20 pm on Friday, after starting off from Hyderabad at 3:30 pm. He proceeded towards the Serum Institute of India (SII) at Manjari in a helicopter. At the facility, the prime minister interacted with scientists and took stock of the vaccine development work being carried out at the institute. Following that, he left for the Pune airport at 6 pm on his way back to Delhi. Modi's visit to SII was aimed at reviewing the progress of the vaccine candidate for coronavirus and to know about its launch, production and distribution mechanism, an official said. Serum Institute of India has partnered with pharma giant AstraZeneca and Oxford University for the vaccine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-528
28-11-2020||India||Chargesheet coming soon in case against Arnab Goswami||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Saturday said a charge sheet would be filed soon in the suicide case of architect-interior designer Anvay Naik, in which Arnab Goswami is an accused. The journalist, along with two others, is accused of abetting Naik and his mother’s suicide in 2018. "It is only after getting permission from the court, investigation into the Anvay Naik suicide case, in which Arnab Goswami is an accused, is currently going on. Very soon a charge sheet will be filed in this case," Deshmukh told reporters in Mumbai. The minister’s statement comes following the Supreme Court’s decision to extend Goswami’s interim bail, with the others, till four weeks. It stated that the judiciary should ensure that criminal law does not become a weapon for selective harassment. The bench also ruled that the prima facie evaluation against Goswami and the others do not establish the ingredients of the offence of abetment to suicide. The Alibaug Police arrested Goswami, Neetish Sarda and Feroz Mohammad Shaikh in Maharashtra’s Raigad district on November 4 with links to the case. The journalist walked out of the Taloja prison on November 11 following the Supreme Court’s decision to grant him an interim bail. Deshmukh further said, "The decision of the court regarding the Kangana Ranaut case is related to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and not to the state government. Hence, there is no need for the CM or the home minister to tender an apology.” The Bombay High Court on Friday said the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation's (BMC) action of demolishing a part of Kangana Ranaut's bungalow here smacks of malafide and was done to cause substantial loss to the actor and quashed the demolition order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-528
28-11-2020||India||UP governor nod to ordinance against forcible religious conversions||Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel on Saturday gave assent to an ordinance against forcible or fraudulent religious conversions, which provides for imprisonment of up to 10 years and a fine of up to Rs 50,000 under different categories. The promulgation of the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020 comes four days after the Yogi Adityanath government had approved a draft of the ordinance which also curbs religious conversions only for the sake of marriage. According to the ordinance, a marriage will be declared "null and void" if the conversion of a woman is solely for that purpose and those wishing to change their religion after marriage need to apply to the district magistrate. It also has a provision under which if someone returns to their original religion, it shall not be deemed a conversion. While the onus to prove that the conversion has not been done forcibly will lie on the person accused of the act and the convert, it said. In case of contravention of the law, the ordinance says that the court shall grant appropriate compensation payable by the accused to the victim of conversion which may extend to a maximum of Rs 5 lakh in addition to the fine. The ordinance says no person shall convert, either directly or indirectly from one religion to another by use or practice of misrepresentation, force, undue influence, coercion, allurement or by any fraudulent means or by marriage nor shall any person abet, convince or conspire such conversion. An aggrieved person, his/her parents, brother, sister, or any other person who is related to him/her by blood, marriage or adoption may lodge an FIR about such conversion, according to the ordinance. In cases of mass religious conversion, the registration of the social organisations will be cancelled, and strong action will be initiated against them. If those previously convicted under the ordinance are caught again for the same offence, they shall be subjected to double punishment, it said. Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, all the offences under this ordinance shall be cognisable and non bailable and triable by the sessions court, the ordinance said. In recent weeks, BJP-run states like Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh have revealed plans to enact laws to counter alleged attempts to convert Hindu women to Islam in the guise of marriage, which Hindu activists refer to as "love jihad". The Uttar Pradesh cabinet's approval to the ordinance followed the announcement by Adityanath that his government would come out with a law to deal with "love jihad". Addressing bypoll rallies in Jaunpur and Deoria last month, Adityanath had used the Hindu funeral chant of 'Ram Naam Satya Hai' to threaten those who do not respect their daughters and sisters. The Uttar Pradesh State Law Commission had submitted a report last year suggesting a new law to check the forcible religious conversions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-528
28-11-2020||India||AAP govt did not build a single hospital in 5 years, alleges Congress||In an attempt to corner the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government over health services in Delhi amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the Congress on Saturday alleged that the party thrives on just publicity and has failed to carry out public work. Citing data, Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera in a press conference claimed that over the last five years, the state government has failed to open even one new hospital in the city. "This is a government which thrives on publicity and advertisement. But the ground reality is exposed at the time of a crisis like the Corona pandemic faced by us," Khera said. The AAP government did not immediately react to the statement. Khera also slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to three cities to review vaccine development works and claimed that everything has been turned into “event management”. "The government of India should have a clear policy over how and when it will allocate the vaccine among different categories as Rahul Gandhi has sought to know. Work should be done first, publicity can wait," he said. Furthering his attack at the AAp government, Khera said it had added just 776 beds in government hospitals during its ruling period in spite of promising 30,000 beds in the election manifesto. "This year, when Covid-19 pandemic is being faced by the people, the Delhi government has managed to spend only 25 per cent of its allocation on health services. It has also reduced the expenditure on the health sector that was 0.84 per cent of the GSDP," he alleged, citing data. He also claimed that currently just over 200 Mohalla Clinics were functioning despite the AAP government promising the construction of 1,000 of them. "The Delhi government has failed to do ground level work, and Delhi people are facing the consequences of its mistakes," Khera said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-528
28-11-2020||India||Delhi march: farmers booked with attempt to murder charges||The Haryana Police has registered FIRs against state Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni along with several other farmers for attempt to murder, rioting, creating obstruction in government duty and other violations during their ‘Dilli Chalo’ march, said officials on Saturday. On November 26, a case was registered under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 147 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 186 (obstructing any public servant in discharge of public functions) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) among others at the Parao police station after Head Constable Pardeep Kumar filed a complaint, when hundreds of farmers gathered on the GT road near Ambala Cantt to proceed towards Delhi. Churani and many other unknown farmers have been named in the FIR, which adds that the BKU chief had assembled with several others near Mohra village in Ambala. It adds that Charuni refused to follow Deputy Superintendent of Police Ram Kumar’s order to not proceed further, and broke barricades with their tractors. It further says that the BKU chief had violated norms related to Covid-19, as did the others. A case against some farmers from BKU (Charuni) and others from Punjab was also registered at Panipat for violations relating to breaking police barriers and other charges. "A case has been registered under the provisions of section 188 IPC (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), Disaster Management Act, 2005 and under other provisions of the IPC," Inspector Rajvir Singh, SHO of Panipat's Police Station (Industrial) in Sector 29, told PTI. Haryana Director General of Police Manoj Yadava had said on Thursday that the police had retaliated with "great restraint" when farmers broke barricades during their march. He had also informed that the farmers took the path of violence and pelted stones at many places thereby disturbing law and order. “Some police personnel sustained injuries, and police and private vehicles were damaged,” Yadava had said. "Agitating farmers not only damaged police barricades, but also proceeded by removing all the blockades and obstructions in an unlawful manner. Acting with restraint, police did not use force on the agitating farmers," he had added. On November 26, prohibitory orders under section 144 of the CrPC had been imposed to prevent people from gathering. Farmers from Punjab and Haryana are marching towards Delhi as part of a protest to demand a repeal of the Centre's new farm laws, which deregulate the sale of agriculture produce. They say the laws will lead to the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-528
28-11-2020||India||Farmers continue agitation against farm laws on Singhu, Tikri borders||Thousands of farmers protesting the Centre's new Agricultural laws stayed put at the Singhu and Tikri border points for the third consecutive day on Saturday amid heavy police presence even after being offered a north Delhi ground to hold peaceful demonstrations. Numbers swelled at the Singhu border point as farmers gathered there were joined by more counterparts from Punjab and Haryana and they refused to move towards the Sant Nirankari Ground, one of the biggest in the national capital. Joint Commissioner of Police (Northern range) Surender Singh Yadav, who took stock of security arrangements at the Singhu border, told reporters that around 600 to 700 farmers have so far reached the north Delhi ground. Yadav said police and administration have made sufficient arrangements for the farmers at the designated protest site, adding that he hoped more would go there. On Saturday morning, protesting farmers from Punjab and Haryana gathered at the Singhu border, one of the main routes used to access the city from Punjab, held a meeting to decide their next course of action. After the meeting, a farmer leader said they would continue their protest there at the border. "We will not move from here (Singhu Border) and continue our fight. We will not return home. Thousands of farmers have come from Punjab and Haryana to join the protest," he told PTI. Another farmer said they would sit at the border and not move to the Nirankari Ground. "We will not go to the new protest site, and we will continue our protest at the national highway," he said. On Friday, hundreds of farmers entered the national capital to hold a peaceful protest at the Sant Nirankari Ground after facing teargas and water cannons and clashing with security personnel while thousands remained at border points, undecided whether to go to the demonstration site identified by police. The day witnessed police using teargas shells, water cannons and multi-layer barriers to block the protesters and the farmers pelting stones and breaking barricades in some places in their determination to push through as part of their 'Delhi Chalo' march against the Centre's new farm laws. Sukhwinder Singh, who has been camping at the Tikri border since Friday evening, said, "We will continue to protest here. We will not move from here. Several other farmers are yet to join us from Haryana. They are on their way. We won't move from here and will continue our fight from here." Asked why they don't want to enter the national capital despite being permitted by the Delhi Police, Singh said, "We don't want to go to any ground provided by them in Burari. "We want to go to Jantar Mantar and hold a peaceful demonstration there. Meetings are being held, and until the next course of decision is taken, we will continue to protest here at the border peacefully," he added. The farmers at the Tikri border seem to have come prepared for a long haul. They have brought utensils to cook food and are charging their phones in their vehicles. Jagtar Singh Bhagiwander, another farmer who is at Tikri, maintained that they won't move ahead and would continue to fight for their rights from the national highway. "We won't proceed towards Burari. Yesterday, soon after we were granted permission to enter Delhi, we were told to move ahead in groups of 50 people one after the other. We refused to move in groups. "This is an attempt to separate us. If we have come together all the way crossing different borders, we will continue to stay united. As of now, we have decided to stay here at Tikri. We will continue our fight from here until the further course of action is decided," he said. Meanwhile, more farmers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) will enter Haryana on Saturday for their march towards the national capital. "Our group of farmers on tractor-trolleys will soon enter Haryana through the Shambhu interstate border," said KMSC general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher. They had begun their march from Amritsar on Friday. Farmers protesting against the Centre's three farm laws have expressed apprehension that the laws would pave a way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporates. The Centre has invited several Punjab farmer organisations for another round of talks in Delhi on December 3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-528
28-11-2020||India||NPRD to send Father Swamy, a Parkinson’s patient, a sipper in jail||Father Stan Swamy’s painful wait for a staw and a sipper cannot be tolerated anymore, a prominent disability rights outfit that is planning to send the drinking aid to the jailed Parkinson’s patient, said. The National Platform for the Rights of the Disabled's (NPRD) statement came after a special court in Mumbai on Thursday rejected the Elgar Parishad case undertrial’s request for the same. "The painful wait that Swamy will have to endure for a sipper cannot be tolerated any longer. December 4, when the very same court decides again, is seven days away. Stan cannot be refused fluids for such a long period. The NPRD and its affiliating units have therefore decided to send sippers to the jailor of Taloja Jail, Maharashtra, to be given to Stan Swamy," the NPRD said in a statement. The 83-year-old was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on October 8 from his Ranchi residence and is currently lodged in the Taloja prison. Being a Parkinson’s patient, he pleaded with the NIA to hand him a straw and a sipper, following which the court denied his request and sought the central agency’s response on his request. The court will further hear the matter on December 4. The NPRD also appealed  to all disability rights organisations, activists and all those who seek justice for the activist and stand in defence of his rights to join this campaign and send sippers to Swamy. "It took 20 long days for the NIA to come up with a claim that they did not seize these items from Stan's possession. Even if we accept the NIA's contention, the special court should have taken a humanitarian view and ordered that he be provided with an utensil that would assist him in intake of fluids including water. The refusal to do so is atrocious to say the least," the NPRD said. Father Swamy is an individual living with Parkinson’s disease, which is a condition recognised as disabling as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, and expressed resentment at the persistent denial of the drinking aids to the tribal rights activist. The NPRD further said in its statement, “As per various laws and international conventions to which India is a signatory, it is obligatory that Stan Swamy be provided with requisite age and disability appropriate requirements, assistive aids including straws and sippers as also human care assistance". "Denial of the same constitutes a violation of his basic rights," it added. Swamy was arrested for his alleged role in inciting violence in the Bhima Koregaon case near Pune on January 1, 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-528
28-11-2020||India||Modi in Hyderabad to oversee Bharat Biotech's Covid vaccine development||Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrived at Hyderabad on Saturday as part of his three-city tour to take the stock of Cpvid-19 vaccine development. After landing at Hakimpet Air Force station here, he was received by Telangana Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, Director General of Police and other officials. Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrived at Hyderabad on Saturday as part of his three-city tour to take the stock of COVID-19 vaccine development. After landing at Hakimpet Air Force station here, he was received by Telangana Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, Director General of Police and other officials. He then proceeded to Bharat Biotech's facility located at Genome valley, a life sciences cluster about 20 km from the AF base, officials said. The Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, being developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with Indian Council of Medical Research and National Institute of Virology is now undergoing phase-3 trials. The vaccine is being developed and will be manufactured at Bharat Biotech's BSL-3 (Bio-Safety Level 3) facility in Genome Valley in Hyderabad. Modi will be interacting with scientists and senior management of the city-based vaccine maker on the status of Covaxin, officials said. After his hour-long visit to the facility, the PM will proceed to Pune, where he will visit the Serum Institute of India (SII), which has partnered with global pharma giant AstraZeneca and the Oxford University for the vaccine. Earlier this morning, Modi visited pharma major Zydus Cadila's manufacturing facility near Ahmedabad. Wearing a PPE kit, Modi reviewed the vaccine development process at the Zydus Cadila research centre in Changodar industrial area, over 20 km from Ahmedabad. After his arrival at Ahmedabad airport from Delhi shortly after 9 am, Modi flew to the Zydus Cadila plant and held discussions with the promoters and executives of the company, an official said. Zydus Cadila has announced that the phase-I clinical trial of its vaccine candidate ZyCoV-D is over and it has commenced phase-II clinical trials from August. Modi was extensively briefed about the vaccine development work at the plant by the company officials. He was briefed about the vaccine production procedure. He interacted with scientists and vaccine developers, an official said. Zydus Cadila chairman Pankaj Patel recently said the company is aiming to complete the vaccine trial by March 2021 and could produce up to 100 million doses a year. Modi spent over an hour at the plant, before leaving for the airport, from where he left for Hyderabad at 11.40 am. The PM will be flying back to the national capital after the stopover in Pune.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-528
28-11-2020||India||India's Covid caseload goes past 93.5 lakh ||India's Covid-19 tally of cases climbed to 93.51 lakh with 41,322 new infections being reported in a day, while 87,59,969 people have recovered so far pushing the national recovery rate to 93.68 per cent, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Saturday. The total coronavirus cases increased to 93,51,109 and the death toll climbed to 1,36,200 with the virus claiming 485 more lives, the data updated at 8 am showed. After showing an upward trend for three days in a row, the active COVID-19 caseload decreased to 4,54,940, remaining below 5 lakh for the 18th consecutive day. It comprises 4.87 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. The COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.46 per cent. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, and surpassed 90 lakh on November 20. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), more than 13.82 crore samples have been tested till November 27 with 11,57,605 samples being tested on Friday. The 485 new fatalities include 98 from Delhi, 85 from Maharashtra 46 from West Bengal, 29 from Haryana, 27 from Punjab, and 23 each from Uttar Pradesh and Kerala among others. Of the total 1,36,200 deaths reported so far in the country, 46,898 were from Maharashtra followed by 11,738 from Karnataka, 11,681 from Tamil Nadu, 8,909 from Delhi, 8,270 from West Bengal, 7,697 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,976 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,737 from Punjab, 3,938 from Gujarat and 3,224 from Madhya Pradesh among others. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that the state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-529
28-11-2020||India||Delhi's air quality slips back into 'poor' category||Delhi's air quality slipped back into the "poor" category on Saturday, a day after it had improved significantly due to favourable wind speed. The city's air quality index (AQI) was 209 at 9 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 137 on Friday, 302 on Thursday and 413 on Wednesday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". Stronger winds and a drastic reduction in the contribution of stubble burning were two major reasons for cleaner skies over Delhi on Friday. The winds slowed down at night allowing the pollutants to accumulate. The maximum wind speed was 18 kmph on Friday. It is likely to be 15 kmph on Saturday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The share of stubble burning in Delhi's pollution has also reduced significantly as the harvesting season has ended. The contribution of stubble burning in neighbouring states to Delhi's PM2.5 levels was just two per cent on Friday and one per cent on Thursday, according to the Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR. The weather department said the maximum temperature was likely to settle around 26 degrees Celsius on Saturday. Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-529
28-11-2020||India||Farmer suicide bid in front of Odisha House ||Two farmers from the Athagarh area of Cuttack district attempted self-immolation near the Odisha Assembly on Friday protesting against the alleged loan irregularities by the cooperative banks in their area. Though six farmers had reached Bhubaneswar from Athagarh with the intention of attempting self-immolation to highlight the issue but only two managed to come close to the Odisha Legislative Assembly gate. As soon as the two tried to set themselves on fire by dousing themselves with kerosene on Friday afternoon, the security personnel deployed in front of the Assembly whisked them away within minutes. As they were being carried away they shouted that they had been cheated by the cooperative banks. “People have taken loans in our names and we are being asked to pay. How can I pay the Rs 3 lakh that was taken against my name,” asked one of the farmers. Farmer leader Seshadev Nanda said: “Brother of Food Supplies and Consumer Welfare Co-operation Ranendra Pratap Swain was earlier the president of the Cuttack Central Cooperative Bank. During his tenure huge loans were sanctioned to people through cooperative societies. Even loans were given in the name of farmers, who are illiterates. Even some time they put the signatures only without knowing that money was taken against their name. But the real beneficiaries were others. We demand the cooperative banks to display the names of the people who have taken loans.” Police said: “As the road passing by the Assembly is open for public commutation, people suddenly get down from auto-rickshaws and start pouring kerosene on themselves to draw attention to the issues they want to raise. But we have prevented mishaps every time.” Earlier on Tuesday, parents of a five-year-old girl had tried to commit suicide in front of the Assembly demanding justice for their daughter who was murdered in July.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-529
28-11-2020||India||Cry to sack minister over Odisha girl death||Pressure is mounting on Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik to sack higher education minister Arun Sahoo, who has been accused by the Opposition of shielding the culprits involved in the kidnapping and murder of a five-year-old girl in Nayagarh, the home district of the minister. Though the chief minister on Friday announced a probe by a special investigation team (SIT) into the incident, the move has failed to satisfy the BJP and the Congress, the two major Opposition parties. The issue continues to generate heat both inside and outside the Assembly. While the Assembly witnessed pandemonium with both the Congress and the BJP demanding resignation of Sahoo, workers of both parties continued to organise demonstrations against the government in different parts of the state. Naveen, who had earlier announced a crime branch probe into the incident, said on Thursday, “If an SIT investigation is what is required, the state government will take steps in this regard and do it immediately. My government is committed to a free and fair investigation and we always want justice to be done.” However, it is yet to be clear whether the probe will be conducted under the supervision of the judge of the high court or by the police itself. Though the chief minister appealed to all parties to cooperate, his appeal failed to evoke a desired response from the Opposition. Senior BJP legislator Jaynarayan Mishra said, “There is ambiguity in the chief minister’s announcement. He has not clearly spelt out that there will be an SIT inquiry. He is trying to divert attention from the issue. We want the minister to immediately step down. Unless and until he resigns, justice cannot be done to the family of the five-year-old girl. The case should be referred to the CBI.” Outside, BJP and Congress activists tried to gherao the Assembly on the issue. A group of Youth Congress workers, led by its state president Smruti Ranjan Lenka, tried to sneak past the security corridor surrounding the House. They jostled with the police in their bid to march towards the Assembly demanding justice for Pari, whose parents had attempted self-immolation outside the House a few days ago. The Congress workers were taken into preventive custody. “The minister should immediately step down,” said senior Congress legislator Tara Prasad Bahinipati. On July 14, Pari was kidnapped while playing near her house in her native village in Nayagarh district. A fortnight later her skeletal remains were found in a decomposed state from the backyard of the house. Her parents have alleged that since the people involved in the crime are close to minister Sahoo, the police are not taking any action in the matter. Problems mounted for Sahoo after the sarpanch of Laxmiprasad panchayat in Nayagarh, Soumyaranjan Pradhan, alleged that the minister was protecting the main accused Babuli Nayak, who is considered close to Sahoo. Pradhan alleged that the local police was also trying to suppress the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-529
28-11-2020||India||Bipin Rawat under fire for attending China-owned MG Motor event||The perils of papering over border mismanagement with economic nationalism have hit home in an unlikely but telling manner. Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat has come under fire for attending an event organised by MG Motor here on Wednesday. The cause was noble: “Putting more electric vehicles on the road.” But the catch lay in the guardianship of the automotive company. MG Motor is headquartered in the UK but its overall ownership trail leads to China. MG Motor is a subsidiary of SAIC Motor UK, which is owned by SAIC Motor, a Shanghai-based, Chinese state-owned automotive design and manufacturing company. SAIC stands for Shanghai Automotive Industry Corporation. A day before the clean-energy event in Delhi on Wednesday, the Narendra Modi government had banned 43 Chinese mobile apps. Earlier, another 59 and 118 such apps had been banned in two tranches in measures tom-tommed by admirers of the Modi government as a stunning retaliation for Chinese aggression in eastern Ladakh. Rawat was not alone. BJP parliamentarian Meenakshi Lekhi and Union minister of state for steel Faggan Singh Kulaste too were at the MG Motor event, which apparently was part of a central government-promoted programme on electric vehicles. Photos tweeted by MG Motor showed Rawat in full uniform, posing with Lekhi at India Gate while flagging off a trial run by the company’s latest electric vehicle. Lekhi heads the joint parliamentary committee on the personal data protection bill, which had taken up the issue of Ladakh being geo-tagged as part of China by Twitter. A call and a text message to Lekhi remained unanswered. Contacted by The Telegraph, spokespersons for the defence ministry, the army and the BJP declined comment. But some defence ministry officials expressed shock in private. “It’s shocking. The presence of the CDS at the event in uniform is completely inappropriate and has raised many eyebrows in the defence ministry,” a ministry official said, requesting anonymity. An army officer said: “We are very curious — why did he attend the event?” A retired lieutenant general was furious. “What kind of message is he (Rawat) conveying to the armed forces amid one of the worst flare-ups on the China frontier?” he said. “BJP MPs too attended the event just a day after the government banned more Chinese apps. This is ridiculous at a time the government has been asserting there cannot be business as usual in the face of Chinese attempts to unilaterally change the facts on the ground along the border.” A Twitter user, Abhishek, wrote: “Hope Shri Bipin Rawat and Ms Lekhi know that this is a Chinese car company. While our soldiers are dying at the border our general is flagging off Chinese cars? Jai Hind.” A tweet from MG Motor had on Wednesday said: “We are proud to participate in the first-ever tech trial run from Delhi to Agra with the MG ZS EV.” It said the trial run “was flagged off by @M_Lekhi and General Shri Bipin Singh Rawat at India Gate today”. A media statement from the company said the event was “part of the Government of India’s mission to put more EVs on the road by 2020”. Congress leader Manish Tewari expressed surprise in a tweet on Friday. “Why would the CDS Gen Bipin Rawat flag off the trial run of a car produced by a Chinese-owned company... in the middle of the worst border standoff with China? Was he unaware or not briefed or it did not matter???” he wrote. A Twitter user, Shankar Rathore, said: “Barely five months ago 20 Indian soldiers made supreme sacrifice at the Galwan Valley when Chinese troops attacked them with stone-age weapons. It is so shameful.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-529
28-11-2020||India||First recession in 24 years but signs of turnaround emerge||The Indian economy is in recession for the first time in 24 years but the latest available figures also suggest the pandemic-induced contraction is easing off, marked by a pick-up in manufacturing. The economy reported a year-on-year contraction of 7.5 per cent in the three months to September or the second quarter of 2020-21, which on the back of a whopping 23.9 per cent contraction in the first quarter meant two consecutive quarters of contraction. An economy gets into a recession if it reports a contraction in two consecutive quarters. This is the first time India is doing so since 1996, when the Centre started releasing quarterly GDP (gross domestic product) figures. The figures for the second quarter were an improvement on a consensus estimate of an 8-9 per cent contraction, a sign of the economy being on the mend after the disastrous first quarter. Manufacturing surprised analysts by reporting positive growth on an annual basis in the second quarter at 0.6 per cent against a severe 39.3 per cent contraction in the first quarter. Construction and trade, including hotels and transport, reported contractions of 8.6 per cent and 15.6 per cent, respectively, though these were an improvement from the previous quarter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-529
28-11-2020||India||Centre allows marching farmers to enter Delhi||The Narendra Modi government has allowed the protesting farmers passage into Delhi after moving heaven and earth for two days to block them by digging up a national highway, using water cannons and firing tear-smoke canisters. Around 3pm on Friday, the Centre agreed to let the farmers enter Delhi and proceed to the Nirankari Samagam Ground in Burari where they will be allowed to camp. With the Modi government still sticking to its earlier date for talks — December 3 — the farmers’ organisations are gearing up for the long haul. Although the offer of talks is to farmers from Punjab, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) has demanded that all peasants’ organisations be involved in the discussions. The AIKSCC is among the prime movers of the agitation. In a statement, the AIKSCC stressed that the farmers had very specific demands — repeal of three new farm laws and withdrawal of the proposed Electricity Bill, 2020, besides a legally guaranteed minimum support price. The bill envisions a pruning of the power subsidy and more privatisation. The government, sources said, had wanted to avoid a prolonged agitation in the capital, wary of having to deal with another Shaheen Bagh-like situation. The State machinery’s use of its full force to stop the farmers, however, has proved counter-productive for now. Not only did the farmers dig their heels in, the government’s iron fist generated sympathy for them. Attempts on social media to draw on Lal Bahadur Shastri’s “Jai jawan, jai kisan” slogan and accuse the government of turning the “jawan” against the “kisan” would also have influenced the government’s tactical switch, given the importance the current disposition attaches to slogans. While the government has yielded on one count, parallel efforts are on by the Right-wing ecosystem to run down the farmers’ protest. Apart from amplifying complaints about traffic snarls, the government’s supporters are also highlighting stray incidents of violence by the farmers and comments by some of the motor-mouths among them, besides alleging Khalistani links. The excessive use of force by the government has caught international attention. British Labour MP and shadow international development secretary Preet Kaur Gill on Friday commented on a photograph of farmers being water-cannoned. She tweeted: “This is no way to treat citizens who are peacefully protesting over the controversial Farmers Bill in India.” The Dalai Lama tweeted and then deleted the following message: “A farmer takes care of his land not out of some sentimental affection for the soil, but because his livelihood depends on it. We, likewise, have to look after the community we live in. Having a sense of universal responsibility is not only relevant, it brings satisfaction.” The AIKSCC said it was for the government to lay its cards on the table for the negotiations to start. The AIKSCC is a constituent of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, which has been set up to coordinate the “Dilli chalo” protest that has brought farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh to Delhi. Now that the Centre has allowed the farmers entry to Delhi and given them a designated spot to protest, the AIKSCC is anticipating an inflow into the city over the next couple of days and will decide its course of action accordingly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-529
28-11-2020||India||AAP government rejects Delhi Police request for sub-jails to imprison farmers||Delhi’s Aam Aadmi Party government rejected the police’s request on Friday to declare nine stadiums in the capital as sub-jails to imprison farmers protesting the new agricultural laws. After Delhi police, which reports to the central government, sought permission for taking over the stadiums in the morning, several top AAP leaders, including MP Sanjay Singh and MLAs Raghav Chadha, Saurabh Bharadwaj and Jarnail Singh spoke out against the move that would amount to criminalising what they called a peaceful protest. The AAP said the farmers, mainly from Punjab, had reached Delhi after “much struggle”, facing tear-gas shells, water cannons and lathicharge by the police at various border points along their way to the national capital. Following the remarks, Delhi home minister Satyendar Jain replied to the police through the state’s principal secretary (home) Bhupinder Singh Bhalla. Jain’s letter to Delhi police said: “The demands of the farmers are well justified and the central government should immediately accede to their genuine demands. Throwing them into jails is no solution to the issue. The farmers’ protest was peaceful and non-violent. It is the constitutional right of every law-abiding Indian citizen of the country. The farmers who were leading a peaceful protest should not be locked in prisons, therefore, I have rejected the proposal of the Delhi police immediately.” Although AAP is known for militant activism like the Arvind Kejriwal-led sit-ins outside Parliament in 2014 and inside the lieutenant governor’s residence Raj Niwas in 2018, the party had distanced itself from the protests against the Centre’s new citizenship regime from December to March. The Delhi government has also sanctioned the prosecution of several students, suspended AAP municipal councillor Tahir Hussain and former Congress councillor Ishrat Jahan on terrorism charges for organising the protests that the police have linked to the communal riots in February in which 53 people were killed. Later on Friday, eight AAP MLAs from Punjab, as well as Jarnail Singh — who is also the party’s state in-charge, courted arrest while trying to protest outside the Prime Minister’s residence on Lok Kalyan Marg. Jarnail Singh said: “Till these three dark laws are not rolled back, the farmers will continue their protest, and the AAP stands in support with them.” MLA Chadha said: “The right to protest is the hallmark of a free and democratic society, and the Arvind Kejriwal government will take every possible step to uphold this right.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-529
28-11-2020||India||ICU fire in Gujarat kills 5 Covid patients||Five coronavirus patients died after a fire broke out in the ICU of a designated Covid-19 hospital at Rajkot in Gujarat early on Friday. This was the seventh outbreak of fire at a Covid hospital in the past six months in Gujarat, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state. The Supreme Court, which took suo motu cognisance of the incident, chastised the Gujarat government for multiple incidents of fire at Covid hospitals, expressing shock at the lack of will to prevent such tragedies. Gujarat deputy chief minister Nitin Patel said 26 patients at the hospital had been rescued and shifted to other facilities. The fire broke out around 12.30am in the ICU on the first floor of the four-storey Uday Shivanand Hospital at Anand Bungalow Chowk. Around 31 patients were admitted at the time, Patel said. Chief minister Vijay Rupani expressed grief over the incident and ordered a probe into the fire. He announced a compensation of Rs 4 lakh to the kin of each of the deceased. Rajkot police commissioner Manoj Agarwal said: “Of the 11 coronavirus patients admitted in the ICU ward, five lost their lives in the fire.” The preliminary probe has revealed that the fire was caused by a short circuit in a ventilator, Patel said. The Supreme Court noted that incidents of fire at Covid hospitals had been taking place frequently in Gujarat. “This is shocking! And let me say this is not the first incident. We are taking suo motu cognisance of this incident…. There are SOPs, there are guidelines but there is no will. This is not a solitary incident. Some measures need to be taken to prevent fires in hospitals,” a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta appearing for the Centre. The bench made the remarks when Mehta sought to argue that the Centre had already issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) to states and Union Territories on dealing with the pandemic. The court asked the Gujarat government to file an affidavit to explain the steps taken to prevent the recurrence of such incidents. “The incident is shocking and not the first of its kind. Those responsible must be brought to book,” Justice Shah, who hails from Gujarat, observed. When Mehta said he would ask the Gujarat government to constitute a committee to deal with the rising incidents of fire, Justice Bhushan, heading the bench, replied: “We do not want a committee, we want proper steps to be taken.” Justice Reddy, who had earlier been the Chief Justice of Gujarat High Court, asked: “The Union of India issues guidelines but what is the implementation of it in this state? No development of vaccines, everything is in trial stage! Look at the gatherings in states! A second wave of the crisis has already begun.” “You need to go to the root cause of it (pandemic-related lapses)…” Justice Shah weighed in. In a written order, the court said: “These incidents are being repeated from state to state and from hospital to hospital. “We notice that neither concrete steps have been taken by the states in this regard nor any mechanism to prevent or ameliorate the situation is in place….” Mehta assured the court that the government would take preventive measures to deal with the situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-529
28-11-2020||India||Campaign to send sippers to Stan Swamy in jail||A disability rights body on Friday launched a campaign to send sippers to the Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai a day after a court rejected Parkinson’s Disease patient Stan Swamy’s plea for the return of his straw and sipper. The CPM-backed National Platform for the Rights of the Disabled (NPRD) urged disability rights groups and activists to mail the sippers to the jail where Swamy, an 83-year-old Jesuit and tribal rights activist, is awaiting trial in the alleged Elgaar Parishad Maoist plot. Swamy, who cannot drink liquids without sippers, had on November 6 petitioned a court requesting the National Investigation Agency to return his straw and sipper. He said it had been seized when he was brought to the jail on October 9, a day after his arrest in Ranchi. NIA spokesperson Sonia Narang told The Telegraph last week: “It is false, wrong and mischievous to say that NIA has (in its possession) accused Stan Swamy’s straw and sipper. The matter is between the accused and jail authorities as the accused is in judicial custody.” On Thursday, PTI reported that the special NIA court had rejected Swamy’s plea after the agency denied having seized Swamy’s straw and sipper. “It took 20 long days for the (NIA) to come up with a claim that they did not seize these items from Stan’s possession,” NPRD general secretary Muralidharan said in a statement. “Even if we accept the NIA’s contention, the special court should have taken a humanitarian view and ordered that he be provided with a utensil that would assist him in taking fluids, including water. The refusal to do so is atrocious.” Swamy has “moved a fresh application seeking permission to use a straw and a sipper and winter clothes”, PTI reported. It said the court had sought the jail’s reply and adjourned the matter till December 4. Junior Maharashtra home minister Satej D. Patil had tweeted on November 7 that a straw had been given to Swamy. However, in a letter received by a friend of Swamy on November 18, the priest wrote that since his “sipper-tumbler” had been “disallowed at the prison gate”, he was using “a baby-sipper mug, which I purchased through the prison hospital”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-529
28-11-2020||India||Nitish loses cool over Tejashwi charges||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar exploded in anger at leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav in the Assembly on Friday following his stinging attack over criminal cases, including a three-decade-old murder case. “He is talking nonsense. He is lying. He is the son of a friend who is like a brother to me so I keep tolerating him. I do not say anything. Who made his father (Lalu Prasad) the leader of Lok Dal legislature party? Does he know?” a furious Nitish asked. The chief minister, who was screaming at the top of his voice, took everybody by surprise by his sudden rage. Legislators belonging to the Opposition Grand Alliance, especially the Rashtriya Janata Dal, sprang up from their seats and created a din, but he did not stop at this and continued in the same vein. By this time MLAs of the ruling NDA also stood up, shouting in support of Nitish. In no time, the members of the Opposition and the treasury benches trooped into the well, shouting and gesturing menacingly at each other. They almost came to blows before marshals intervened. This forced Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha to adjourn the session for half-an-hour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-530
28-11-2020||India||MiG operating from INS Vikramaditya crashes near Goa ||A MiG-29K fighter jet of the Indian Navy operating from the aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya crashed off Goa over the Arabian Sea on Thursday night. A search is still on for one of the two pilots who had ejected on time. “One pilot recovered and search by air and surface units is in progress for the second pilot. An inquiry has been ordered to investigate the incident,” the Indian Navy said in a statement on Friday. “The mishap occurred on Thursday after the twin engine origin jet had taken off from aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya,” said a navy official. This is the third mishap of a MiG-29K aircraft over the past year. In November last year, a MiG-29K trainer aircraft had crashed outside Verna village in Goa. Both the pilots had ejected safely. In February this year, another MiG-29K that was on routine training sorties had crashed after being hit by birds over Goa. However, both the pilots had ejected safely before steering the jet away from habitation. The INS Vikramaditya was part of the recent Malabar exercise involving navies from the US, Japan and Australia in the northern Arabian Sea. The exercises were centred around the Vikramaditya Carrier Battle Group of the Indian Navy and Nimitz Carrier Strike Group of the US Navy. The two carriers, along with other ships, submarines and aircraft of the participating navies, had engaged in high intensity naval operations over four days from November 17 onwards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-530
28-11-2020||West Bengal||Bengal to construct 'Apur Sansar Park' as tribute to Soumitra Chatterjee||The Bengal government has decided to construct a park themed on legendary actor Soumitra Chatterjee's debut film 'Apur Sansar' in New Town area on the northeastern fringes of Kolkata, a senior official said on Saturday. The Bengal Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd (HIDCO) has invited an expression of interest (EOI) from bidders for deciding on how to execute the theme by retaining the flavour of the film, its Chairman cum Managing Director Debashis Sen said. Chatterjee had essayed the role of 'Apu' in the 1959 film which is part of the Apu trilogy directed by legendary filmmaker Satyajit Ray. "The bidders have been asked to decide on ways to project the theme -- whether there will be 3D installations or other things. Once they submit the ideas along with the details, our panel will decide which concept will be taken up, and the commissioning of the project will take place," Sen told PTI. He said while commissioning can begin within months of awarding the project to a bidder, it is not possible to say at the moment when it will be completed. The proposed park will come up near Snehodiya Housing in New Town. As part of HIDCO's initiative to set up theme parks to pay tributes to the rich heritage of the state, 'Sonar Kella Park' has already been set up in New Town and work on 'Professor Shonku Park' themed on Ray's fictional scientist- adventurer character along with models of his 'inventions' is underway, he said. The 'Sonar Kella Park' has images from Ray's 1974 children's classic movie and models recreating the desert scenes and sequences in Rajasthan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-295
28-11-2020||West Bengal||Land to fence India-Bangladesh border in Malda||The district administration in Malda is acquiring land along the India-Bangladesh border to enable the Centre install barbed-wire fences to fortify vacant stretches. The move, said sources in the administration, comes after the Mamata Banerjee government was repeatedly nudged by the Centre on the need for fencing to prevent infiltration and smuggling in Malda. Some 172km-long stretch of the India-Bangla border falls in Malda, of which 34km has no fencing, BSF sources said. Border areas minus fences are mostly in Kaliachak-III, Habibpur and Bamangola blocks. In the first phase, around 1.75 acres have been acquired in Pardeonapur-Sovapur area of Kaliachak– III block and another nine acres in Sabdalpur area of the same block, said sources. For the first stretch, a 300-metre-long stretch would be fenced. In Sabdalpur, fences will be put up along 1.25km. “In all, around 330 families have been compensated for this purpose,” an official said. In Malda, smuggling of cattle, fake Indian currency notes (FICN), narcotics and firearms and ammunition is often reported from border areas. During the past few months, the Union home ministry took serious note of such activities at the border and made it clear to the state that land should be immediately acquired and handed over to the Centre for installation of fences. “The state responded and the acquisition has started at the borders. The acquisition of another 17 acres (for putting fences along a 2.25 kilometre long stretch) in Milik-Sultanpur of Kaliachak–III block is awaiting approval of the state cabinet,” said an official at the district land and land reforms department in Malda. In Habibpur block, around 250 acres would be acquired for fences. “For this too, we are also waiting for the state’s approval. This is a major stretch (29km of 34km) where there are no fences at the border. Land will be acquired in areas like Tilashan and Pannapur,” the official added. Sources in BSF said that though the state started the acquisition process, there are some stretches along the borders where no initiative has been taken so far. “At Aiho in Habibpur block, there is a 1km-long border without fence. But no move has been made by the administration as yet. No one has an idea when this entire process will end and when the fences can be installed,” a source said. In Malda,some areas of the India-Bangladesh border are riverine and used to smuggle cattle to Bangladesh, particularly during monsoon months. “Here, there are proposals to raise fences along the banks of rivers and streams and put up rope bridges to check smuggling and for constant vigil,” the source added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-295
28-11-2020||West Bengal||Suvendu Adhikari quits Mamata cabinet||Suvendu Adhikari on Friday resigned from the Mamata Banerjee cabinet, gave up his Z-category security and vacated his government accommodation, signalling a phased termination of ties with the Trinamul Congress. The 49-year-old Nandigram MLA, who had played a key role in the anti-land-acquisition movement, has been distancing himself from the party and the government for the past few months. His resignation from the ministry has been accepted. He was the minister in charge of the departments of transport; irrigation and waterways; and water resources investigation and development. Adhikari remained silent on his next course of action although some of his aides claimed that an arrangement with the BJP was just a matter of time. A source close to the chief minister said the party had decided to “ignore” the Adhikari issue. “Didi will first hold a virtual rally for party workers on December 4.… Then a series of programmes will start from December 7 as she has decided to hit the streets,” the source said. Although Adhikari has not resigned from the party or from the Assembly and some Trinamul leaders said efforts were still on to mend ties, several party insiders said that a rapprochement was impossible. “Didi has factored it in that he is no longer with us. On paper, there will be some efforts to retain him, but that’s not going to change the situation,” a source said. That the ruling party is charting a course without Adhikari became clear with Mamata meeting trusted lieutenants like Subrata Bakshi, Firhad Hakim and Partha Chatterjee at her home on Friday evening. Party sources said the Trinamul leadership would seek to send out a message that a few desertions cannot cripple the party. Some Adhikari loyalists said he would have an impact in 60 to 70 Assembly seats. But sources close to Mamata said the impact would not extend beyond 20 to 25 seats. With Trinamul appearing to be on the back foot, at least for the time being, the glee in the saffron camp could not be missed. Senior state BJP leaders wasted no time inviting Adhikari to join the party. But speculation is rife whether Adhikari might instead float his own political platform. On whether his desertion would trigger an exodus, the majority view till Friday evening was that several Trinamul leaders were likely to follow Adhikari. “A lot will depend on how Didi handles the situation in the next few days,” a source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-295
28-11-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul MLA hops on plane to join BJP||Mihir Goswami, Trinamul MLA of Cooch Behar (South), flew to Delhi on Friday and joined the BJP at its national headquarters, a day after he said he was severing ties with the party he was part of since its inception in 1998. On Friday morning, the MLA and Nisith Pramanik, the BJP MP of Cooch Behar, reached Bagdogra for a flight to Delhi. In the afternoon, Goswami posted on social media that he was resigning from Trinamul’s primary membership. “The leader (Mamata Banerjee) is no longer in the driving seat of Trinamul…. as is indicative from her silence...that is why I am resigning from the primary membership of the party today (Friday),” the MLA said in his post. “I am ready to resign from the MLA’s post. But I have seen some other MLAs who joined Trinamul from other parties have not resigned....” In the evening, Goswami was inducted into the BJP by Kailash Vijayvargiya, its Bengal minder, in the presence of Pramanik and party MP from Barrackpore Arjun Singh. Goswami said he was with Trinamul for the past 22 years but saw how north Bengal “has been deprived” and did not approve of the way “Trinamul was functioning these days”. State BJP leader Sayantan Bose said many others would “soon desert Trinamul”. “They are in touch with us and whatever has happened on Friday is just the beginning,” said Bose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-295
28-11-2020||West Bengal||Sudden rain spells woe for pricey potato in West Midnapore ||Untimely rainfall in parts of West Midnapore last weekend has delayed potato sowing. Delay in the sowing of potatoes spells bad news, especially when potato is retailing anywhere around Rs 45 a kilo. Delayed sowing usually delays harvesting, and often reduces production, which leaves an impact on the market. “If farmers harvest the produce early, they get a good price. In case of delayed sowing, farmers also face trouble as it hits production,” said a senior agriculture department official. According to officials, the delay in sowing in a large part of West Midnapore is likely to affect the potato trade in Bengal even though sowing of the crop in major potato belts such as Hooghly and East Burdwan is on according to schedule. “This year, less than 25,000 of the district's 72,000 hectares of potato fields in West Midnapore district have been sowed till now owing to delays in rainfall. It appears that the harvest of the produce will be delayed from the usual mid-January to early February,” said Dulal Das Adhikari, the district agriculture officer (information). Last weekend, parts of the district were inundated by sudden showers, bringing a halt to the November planting season. “It was particularly bad in West Midnapore’s Ghatal, where many low-lying areas are still waterlogged. Farmers have either had to put their activities on hold or search for inferior but drier patches, because potatoes need dry soil to grow,” said district zila parishad coordinator Tapan Datta. Farmers also said that the delay would pose several troubles for them. “If potatoes are harvested within January, we get a good price, for instance we got Rs 12 a kilo last year in January. Once produce is delayed, the price comes down to about Rs 8 to Rs 9 a kilo,” said a farmer. Prasenjit Samanta, who deals in potatoes in West Midnapore’s Ghatal, said: “The retail price of a kilo of potato hovers between Rs 45 and Rs 50. We expected the price to drop with the arrival of the new crop by January-end, but untimely rain will delay the process by at least three weeks.” A senior agriculture official added: “Potato price in December comes down in Bengal as soon as the early variety of potato from Punjab reaches markets. This year, potatoes from Punjab have not arrived yet, another reason why the price is abnormally high.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-295
28-11-2020||West Bengal||Bus safari in Mahananda Wildlife Sanctuary ||The Bengal forest department launched a bus safari for tourists in the Mahananda Wildlife Sanctuary near here on Friday. V.K. Yadav, the principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife), flagged off a 28-seater bus that would take visitors through the sanctuary for one hour. “Visitors can enjoy the hour-long bus ride inside the jungle. There will be five trips every day from 6.15am to 4.30pm. Each visitor will have to pay Rs 300 to avail himself/herself of the safari,” said Rajendra Jakhar, chief conservator of forests (north Bengal). The Mahananda sanctuary extends from Sukna, located 10km from here, and covers the hilly tracts of Sevoke and Latpanchar. The forest is a storehouse of varied floral species. It is also known to be a habitat of elephants, bison, leopard, deer and different species of birds. The safari, foresters said, will provide an additional opportunity to tourists to get to know wildlife in north Bengal. As of now, vehicle safaris are available in the Gorumara National Park in Jalpaiguri district and the Jaldapara National Park, Chilapata Forest and Buxa Tiger Reserve in Alipurduar district. Besides, the Bengal Safari Park on the outskirts of Siliguri also offers car rides for visitors. “We hope the bus safari will be popular among tourists and people of north Bengal, particularly because of its proximity to Siliguri,” said a senior forest officer. The tickets for the safari, he said, will be available at the nature interpretation centre in Sukna or online at www.wbsfda.org. During the launch of the bus safari at Sukna, Yadav released five kalij pheasants, an endangered bird species, and 10 red jungle fowls into the sanctuary. He said the department would organise a bird festival in Mahananda, preferably at Latpanchar, a hamlet located beyond Sevoke, before the end of this year. “Over 850 species of birds are found in Bengal and around 600 of them species can be seen in the forests of north Bengal. The Mahananda forest is a paradise for birdwatchers and considering its rich avian population, we have decided to host a bird festival here once a year,” Yadav said. In north Bengal, this will be the second-of-its- kind festival for birdwatchers and ornithologists. Every year, a similar fest is organised by the forest department in the Buxa Tiger Reserve from January 6 to 9.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-296
28-11-2020||West Bengal||After 3-year gap, Roshan Giri to address public rally||Roshan Giri, general secretary of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Bimal Gurung faction), will resurface in the Darjeeling hills after three years on Sunday to address a public rally at Kurseong. Giri is second-in-command of the party’s faction after Bimal Gurung. Giri’s public appearance in Kurseong will be one of the most significant political developments after October when Gurung resurfaced in Calcutta to support Mamata Banerjee and Trinamul. Roshan Giri said: “I will be addressing a public meeting t Kurseong on November 29.” Despite Gurung’s TMC support announcement, he and his senior leaders are still in Calcutta. Gurung’s supporters from the region are visiting him in Calcutta but none of Gurung faction leaders have climbed the hills till date. That’s why Giri’s statement assumes significance. Anit Thapa, chairman of board of administrator of Gorkhaland Territorial Administration and general secretary of Morcha camp (Binay Tamang faction) comes from Kurseong. Both Morcha factions now support Trinamul but are bitter rivals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-296
28-11-2020||West Bengal||Beginning of Trinamul’s end, says gleeful Bengal BJP||The Bengal BJP camp couldn’t hide its glee with Suvendu Adhikari’s resignation from the state cabinet and several party leaders rolled out red carpet for him to join the saffron camp. “This was bound to happen,”Dilip Ghosh, the party’s state president, said about Adhikari’s resignation on Friday. “This is the beginning of Trinamul’s end,” he added. Asked if there were chances of Adhikari joining the BJP,  Ghosh made it clear that the doors of the BJP were open for him. “He is a fighter. A mass leader. If he wants to come to BJP, he is welcome,” the Midnapore MP said. BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya went a step further while discussing the likely impact if Suvendu finally joins the saffron camp. “It will benefit us and our coming to power in Bengal will become a certainty,” he told reporters. A section of BJP leaders said he might take the flag from party president J.P. Nadda during his visit to Calcutta on December 8 and 9. Some others feel he might make it official in Delhi in the first week of December. “When he joins us, we will make inroads even into Muslim-dominated districts like Malda, Murshidabad and North Dinajpur along with the two Midnapores,” a source said. A section of the party did not seem happy with the prospect of Suvendu joining the BJP. “We were told to work together to win the polls in 2021 and we have been doing so. But if leaders like Adhikari join us, there will be no place for us anymore,” a party old guard said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-296
28-11-2020||West Bengal||Nandigram upset, fears pause in projects||Suvendu Adhikari’s resignation on Friday as minister and Haldia Development Authority chairman has cast a shadow of uncertainty over development projects in East Midnapore’s Nandigram. Adhikari is known as the man behind Mamata Banerjee’s Nandigram movement that had propelled Trinamul’s rise in Bengal politics. With Adhikari’s departure from the roles of transport, irrigation and water resource minister, residents of Nandigram fear development would take a back seat. Nandigram is a one-crop place owing to high salinity in water. “A surface water-drawing project to improve farming prospects is yet to be taken up. An 8km canal was to be dug up but now that project comes under a cloud,” said a source, adding Adhikari’s efforts had earlier brought an irrigation canal to the area. The Haldia Development Authority, which Adhikari chaired, wanted to convert 25 rural roads in Nandigram to concrete and install LED lights. No one knows if that would happen. A Trinamul source said during Adhikari’s tenure as minister, 100 rural roads in Nandigram were metalled. The other projects that become uncertain are the transport department’s plan to build a new central depot in Nandigram and a Nandigram-Khejuri government bus route. There’s more. “Many projects started by then railway minister Mamata Banerjee in 2009 were carried forward by Suvendu in 2011. Now we can safely say we will never see them complete,” said a TMC leader. A resident said Mamata as Union railway minister between 2009 and 2011 had laid the groundwork for the Nandigram railway line and station, but both are incomplete. A shipyard in Jellingham on the banks of the Hooghly inaugurated and abandoned during the Left era, was to be revived, but nothing concrete emerged. Some Nandigram residents are feeling betrayed. Hoimoboti Halder, 75, who had been shot at in the stomach on March 14, 2007, by the police during the anti-land-acquisition protests, said: “We saw both Mamata and Suvendu’s verve in the agitations, where is all of that now?” She is not the only one. Congress leader Milan Pradhan said he was upset by Adhikari’s decision to quit as minister. “We may have had our political differences but we had once fought for a brighter future for Nandigram. Nandigram will suffer in the absence of someone like Suvendu.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-296
28-11-2020||West Bengal||Mamata for outreach but to party ranks||Mamata Banerjee on Friday decided to address Trinamul Congress workers virtually on December 4 and start visiting various districts from December 7 as the chief minister purportedly chose not to attach much importance to Suvendu Adhikari’s moves. The decision was taken at a meeting Mamata had with some of her most trusted lieutenants at her residence here. Trinamul Congress state president Subrata Bakshi, the party’s secretary general Partha Chatterjee, general-secretaries Firhad Hakim and Aroop Biswas, and youth wing chief and her nephew Abhishek Banerjee were present at the meeting . “It is a question of intent now. Either she (Mamata) has to yield to Suvendu’s conditions to keep him — which will be a very bitter pill to swallow — or let him go, which could mean a major impact in the Assembly polls,” said a Trinamul Rajya Sabha member. “She could sort this out in a span of hours, but whichever option she picks will have a far-reaching impact on the party and its future, going into the make-or-break elections…. It seems very unlikely that she will upend the major structures for the sake of keeping him. He cannot be allowed to become bigger than the party,” he added. Trinamul vice-president Saugata Roy, who had been deputed by the leadership to pacify Adhikari,  was still optimistic. “I still think there is scope for optimism. He is still in the party. He has some concerns, which have been communicated to the chief minister. We were to meet again, which is still on the cards. So, I am unwilling to believe that this is over,” said Roy. Adhikari, a former two-term MP, has been one of the tallest leaders of the ruling party and is part of its seven-member apex steering committee as a general-secretary. He had played a pivotal role in the anti-land acquisition movement in Nandigram, one of the two issues that propelled Mamata to power in 2011. His father Sisir Adhikari is the Contai MP and the East Midnapore Trinamul chief, besides being a vice-president of the party. One of his brothers Dibyendu Adhikari is the Tamluk MP, and another brother Soumyendu Adhikari is Contai’s civic chairman. The Adhikari family says it can influence verdict in close to 60 Assembly seats whereas the official camp says the sway is limited to 20-25 constituencies. Sources in the ruling party said the immediate trigger for the slew of resignations from Adhikari was the apparent endorsement of Serampore MP Kalyan Banerjee by Trinamul’s “supreme” leadership. MP Banerjee, with whom Adhikari has had testy ties, has been issuing statements in public attacking him and his family personally, sometimes in language deemed “unparliamentary”. “Suvendu had hoped Kalyan would be reprimanded, or at least cautioned,” said a senior Trinamul MP. Instead, he pointed out, it was seen that the Serampore MP was taken along by the chief minister for the Bankura tour, given prominence on the dais at the events, and asked to hold a key news conference from the party headquarters on Thursday against the governor. “Besides, she (Mamata) herself issued a very stern statement, apparently against Suvendu, on Wednesday…. Seeing all that, Suvendu resigned from the HRBC on Thursday evening,” he said. “But instead of any placatory gesture, Kalyan was immediately named as his successor to the post. That made matters worse. It prompted the chain of events today (Friday). Kalyan kept daring Suvendu to quit all posts before making rebellious statements. That is what he did.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-296
28-11-2020||West Bengal||Covid: Active cases drop for 32nd day on the trot in Bengal||Bengal on Friday reported a drop in its total active Covid-19 cases for the 32nd consecutive day since the end of Durga Puja, with over 1.31 lakh recoveries in this period outweighing the 1.2 lakh new infections detected. Bengal had 24,617 active cases as of Friday 9am, compared to 37,190 on Vijaya Dashami on October 26. On Friday, the state reported 3,496 recoveries, 3,489 new infections and 46 deaths, 16 from Calcutta. “The gap between daily recoveries and new cases has been narrowing over seven days. There could be a break in this unprecedented 32-day fall in total active cases. But there has been enough of a turnaround already (from the rise in infections in the run-up to Durga Puja), given the stage of the pandemic,” said a minister. Bengal’s total of Covid-19 cases is nearly 4.8 lakh now, including over 4.41 lakh recoveries and 8,270 deaths. Of the toll, the state government dubbed 6,916 or 83.6 per cent deaths as comorbid. The state’s recovery rate has risen for 36 consecutive days, reaching 93.06 per cent on Friday, inching closer to the national rate of 93.65 per cent. “Since October 22 (when the recovery rate started to rise), recovery rate has risen by nearly 6 per cent. We will soon exceed the national rate,” said the minister. Bengal’s mortality rate is now 1.74 per cent, compared to the national rate of 1.45. Calcutta High Court intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja from crowding, and Covid data from Puja showed this was effective. The high court issued similar instructions for Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath, and figures over the past few days suggest that the judicial intervention was, once again, helpful. With 45,127 tests on Friday, the state’s total test count went past 57.44 lakh, at 63,826 tests per million people. Bengal’s positive confirmation rate is 8.25 per cent now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-296
28-11-2020||West Bengal||BJP forms new poll-focus panel||Central and state BJP leaders formed a 80-member committee comprising their party colleagues in different tiers in the districts of north Bengal on Friday to carry out various functions related to the state elections. Named “Bidhan Sabha Sangjojok” (Assembly level facilitators), its members will be assigned with specific responsibilities, which include arrangements for rallies and meetings, legal and administrative issues ahead of the elections and social media campaigns. According to party insiders, the committee will independently function across the region, in consonance with the district committees and the state committee. Each sangjojok or facilitator will have some responsibility or other, depending on their abilities. “While some will be engaged to make arrangements for rallies and meetings, others will have the responsibility of obtaining permission from the police and administration for such political activities and take up legal matters. There will be some others who will keep a tab on social networking sites and will make pertinent posts on a series of issues,” said an insider. On Friday, central leaders like Shiv Prakash, Arvind Menon and Ratnakar, along with state leaders like Sayantan Bose and party MPs Raju Bista and Sukanta Majumdar, spoke on the need of this new 80-member committee and its functions. A BJP leader in Siliguri said the party was regularly organising party meetings for north Bengal which has 54 Assembly seats for past few weeks andworking on a comprehensive plan ahead of the polls, which include creation of multiple committees with different responsibilities. “Also, there are indications that central leaders and prominent leaders from other states would be brought in, one such leader for each constituency,” said a source. Recently, it was decided that MPs would be roped in micro-level campaigns and bistaraks or special observers for each Assembly constituency would keep tabs on whether work was being done properly and send feedback to the state leadership. BJP has been focussing in north Bengal in a steadfast manner, particularly because it won seven out of eight parliamentary seats last year. After Lok Sabha elections, it was found that the BJP was ahead in 38 out of 54 Assembly segments, which was much better than its performance in the 2016 Assembly elections. In the last Assembly polls, BJP had won only two seats (Baishnabnagar in Malda and Madarihat in Alipurduar) from the region. A political observer pointed out that another reason for the BJP’s north Bengal impetus was Morcha leader Bimal Gurung’s decision to sever ties with the party and extend support to Mamata Banerjee and Trinamul. “There are around six Assembly seats where votes of the Gorkha population decide the results. Since 2009, BJP has enjoyed Gurung’s support but now both factions of the Morcha (Gurung and Binay Tamang) are with Trinamul. This seems to be another reason why BJP is seeking to assess the situation on the ground and explore options to retain their support in these seats,” the observer added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-296
28-11-2020||West Bengal||Bengal offers transporters ease for paperwork ||The state transport department in a notification on Friday increased the timeframe to renew documents of commercial vehicles and driving licences till June 2021. The notification, which came on the day the department’s minister Suvendu Adhikari submitted his resignation as minister, also waived penalties and extra charges  for delayed renewal of documents such as certificate of fitness, permits and driving licences of drivers of commercial permits, provided those documents are renewed by June 30, 2021. The decision has come as a major relief for transporters of the state, including those in north Bengal, who had sought relief from penalty and other charges that need to be paid to renew such documents, citing lack of or reduced income during the prolonged lockdown and many vehicular movement curbs in the pandemic situation. “The waiver is for commercial vehicles and is applicable only in case the validity of such documents has expired on or after February 1 this year. The decision was made by the state Cabinet at a meeting on November 11 and accordingly, the notification has been issued on Friday,” said an official of the department. In north Bengal, particularly in districts such as Siliguri, Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar, transporters associated with the tourism sector had time and again said that their earnings had sharply declined with the drop in the flow of tourists. “Even now (during Unlock), only a handful of tourists are visiting the hills. It is good that the state government has realised the (gravity of) situation and extended the last date for renewal of documents. Also, if this exemption was not allowed, each transporter would have had to bear a huge financial burden,” said Jayanta Majumdar, a transporter based in Siliguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-296
28-11-2020||West Bengal||Crowdfunding to meet kidney transplant cost in Suri||College graduate Amit Saha has dedicated his life to books even though the 25-year-old resident of Suri is no bookworm. Now, his friends and wel--wishers are into a crowdfunding to raise Rs 10 lakh to pay for his kidney transplant. After graduating with a Bachelor of Arts degree from Birbhum Mahavidyalaya in 2017, he put himself into the local community by founding the Sishumon platform to help school-going children with books and clothes, alongside preparing hard for entrance examinations himself. Known as an ardent and vigorous youth immersed in social work, Amit and his family received an unexpected shock in October when he collapsed one day during his daily exercise regimen at the local field. “I thought it was a regular injury. I was doing exercises to practise for the state police entrance examination,” said Amit, whose father works at a sweetmeats store in the town. “However, doctors diagnosed me with a kidney condition and before I knew it, I was on a train to Vellore for further tests,” added the youth who was at home recently. Although Amit finds himself in the midst of turmoil, his existing goodwill and friendships in the local society have stood firm by him. A crowdfunding effort aimed at raising Rs 10 lakh to pay for the kidney transplant Amit will need to recover, is already underway. When Amit visited the Christian Medical College in Vellore, he was told that he would require kidney transplant and the procedure would cost Rs 10 lakh. Helpless in the face of the huge financial cost involved, his family turned to the local community. “I have pledged one of my kidneys to my son. There is not much more that we as a family can do,” said Rina, Amit’s mother. “We are from a hand-to-mouth family and are immensely grateful that his friends are standing up in this way. We have spent all our savings of Rs 50,000 in Vellore, and we don’t make more than Rs 9,000 a month as a family,” she added and referred to the vigorous efforts undertaken by Amit’s friends to raise the required fund. The efforts have so far reportedly helped raise Rs 2 lakh from the local community through campaigning and flex banners. During the Durga Puja, Amit’s friends had placed donation boxes at local pandals expecting people to contribute. “Amit is the last person we expected to find in such a situation. He was always bubbling with life and activity. It is our duty to help,” said Animesh Das, one of Amit’s friends, adding that they were trying “every possible source” in the area to meet the Rs 8 lakh deficit. “It is a faraway goal. Perhaps, we will not make it,” Das said. Nonetheless, Amit remained hopeful and deeply grateful for their efforts. “Their effort towards my recovery is enough for me; it is a great blessing. We don’t know what will happen financially but their goodwill will help me live long,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-296
28-11-2020||North East||Mizoram Opposition leader disqualified under anti-defection law||Lalduhoma, leader of the Opposition in the Mizoram Assembly, has been disqualified under the antidefection law, a ruling that makes him the first MLA from the state to face such a penalty. Mizoram Assembly Speaker Lalrinliana Sailo, passed a 12page order to this effect on Friday, acting on petitions filed by 12 ruling Mizo National Front MLAs seeking his disqualification on the ground he had contested the 2018 Assembly polls as an Independent but subsequently defected to the Zoram People’s Movement (ZPM) which was registered as a political party in July 2019. This is the second time former IPS officer Lalduhoma, 71, had fallen to the antidefection law. First, he was disqualified  as an MP in 1988. He was elected to the Lok Sabha on a Congress ticket  but left to form his own party — the Mizo National Union — a decision he said he was “very proud” of. An official release said, “ In his decision, the Speaker noted Lalduhoma, who was elected independently was not a candidate fielded by any political party but he had admitted and declared himself that he joined the Zoram People’s Movement Party on 19/8/2019 and for his subsequent conduct and activities.” This act of his, the release said, “attracted the disqualification in terms of Para 2(2) of the Tenth Schedule to the Constitution of India. Before announcing his decision the Speaker elaborated on length regarding the steps taken on the landmark case.” Mizoram Assembly is a 40member House. The 12 petitioners had alleged that Lalduhoma, 71, breached Para 2 (2) of the Tenth Schedule by defecting to the ZPM but also participating in the activities of the party, something which established his defection. Para 2(2) of the Tenth Schedule says an elected member of a House “who has been elected as such otherwise than as a candidate set up by any political party shall be disqualified for being a member of the House if he joins any political party after such election.” The official release also said Lalduhoma has thus become the first MLA to be disqualified on grounds of antidefection in the legislative history of Mizoram. The Assembly had first showcaused Lalduhoma on September 24  on why he should not be disqualified. In his response, he maintained he had not defected to any party but owed his allegiance to the ZPM since its formation in 2017. When contacted, Lalduhoma told The Telegraph that he had contested as Independent because the ZPM was not registered by then, that he and 37 other candidates were nominated by the ZPM, that he was the chief ministerial candidate and that he had won two seats but retained Serchhip where he had defeated in the incumbent chief minister Lal Thanhawla. He vacated the Aizwal East One seat. “I contested as independent because the registration of my party ZPM was not complete. The Speaker has treated me as a real Independent and that I was actively active in the ZPM. The law is to punish defectors who join another party but I have remained failthful to the ZPM. Legally and constitutionally the provision under para 2 (2) is for a purely independent candidate. My case is unprecedented in India,” he said. Lalduhoma said the order is nothing but a personal vendetta against him for exposing the MNFled state government in the last assembly session.” Once we get a copy of the order my party will peruse it and take a call. But we have two options: either to challenge the order in a court of law or contest bypolls, he said. When asked about him creating history by getting disqualified twice, the former IPS officer, 1977 batch, and a former DCP, Delhi, in charge of VVIP security that included the then prime minister Indira Gandhi, said, “ Last time I defected from the Congress.... for the cause of peace in my state, because the peace process was getting delayed. I was the chairman of the peace committee (1984 to 1986) that comprised all political parties and NGOs which helped resolve Mizo insurgency.  I am proud of my first defection, of  that decision.” When asked what will happen to the other six ZPM MLAs who also won as Independents, “So far they have targeted me because I was the leader of the Opposition,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-33
28-11-2020||North East||Gauhati HC stays Nagaland ban on import and sale of dog meat||The Kohima bench of Gauhati High Court has stayed the Nagaland government’s decision on July 3 to impose a ban on the import and sale of dogs and dog meat. Justice S. Hukato Swu temporarily suspended the ban “until the next returnable date” in an interim order passed on November 25 after hearing a petition by licensed dog meat traders challenging the ban. The next hearing will be after the winter vacation. The Nagaland cabinet on July 3 banned the “commercial import and trading of dogs, dog markets and also the sale of dog meat, both cooked and uncooked” in the state, triggering widespread criticism with leading organisations calling it an “invasion” of the unique Naga culture and food habits. Dog slaughter is illegal under Section 429 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 11 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960. The Food Safety and Standards Regulations, 2011, also prohibits the slaughter of dogs or cats for food. Many in the state consider dog meat a delicacy with high nutritional and medicinal content. Dog trade is well entrenched in Nagaland, a Christian-dominated state. The Opposition Naga People’s Front legislator Chotisuh Sazo welcomed the court order. “Rearing of dog as a domestic animal and more like a man’s best friend amongst the Nagas is common in our culture. Moreover, we treat dog meat as a delicacy and the most priced ones, we treat its meat as medicine. Hence, to me it is a welcome step,” Sazo told The Telegraph. “If you closely watch the geographical or animal TV channels — God has designed in such a way that some animals have been created as food for others. And those non-carnivorous animals are more in number. For example, the number of lions and tigers are less as they are carnivorous but the number of deer, cattle, etc, are much more in number,” he said. The ban came a day after the Federation of Indian Animal Protection Organisations (FIAPO) reiterated its appeal to the Nagaland government to immediately ban the sale, smuggling and consumption of dog meat. The FIAPO has a presence in 70 cities. Before that, Maneka Gandhi, founder and chairperson of People for Animals (PFA), had issued an appeal on June 30 urging the Nagaland government to stop the sale and consumption of dog meat after receiving picture of dogs in gunny bags from a local animal protection group. The appeal said killing and eating dog was “illegal” and “cannot be allowed under the guise of culture”. The appeal led to more than 1.24 lakh people writing to the government to ban dog trade, sources said. “A dog caught in Assam for Rs 50 is sold for Rs 1,000 in Nagaland’s wholesale market. Dog meat sells for Rs 200 per kg on the streets of Nagaland, which is about Rs 2,000 per dog,” the FIAPO said in a statement. Over 30,000 stray and stolen dogs, mostly smuggled in from neighbouring Assam, are slaughtered every year in Nagaland.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-34
28-11-2020||Opinion||2020: A year against women||One slot on the ‘BBC 100 Women 2020’ list has been left blank. This is not because there are not enough women in the world who have made a positive difference in one way or another. On the contrary, it is because the 100th place has been reserved as a tribute to the countless, nameless women who have made selfless sacrifices to help others during the past year. This is but one of many testaments to the idea that the experience of a year — especially 2020 that has tested mankind in unprecedented ways — can be starkly different for women and men. Indeed, the year, 2020, has shown why a separate list for women, such as this one, is warranted. Defined as it was by Covid-19, 2020 amplified pre-existing inequalities — from the economy and the healthcare sector to personal safety and social security — and witnessed women bearing the maximum brunt of challenges within and outside their homes. Some of the adversities are new; but others are persistent ills that have been aggravated by the lockdowns and the resultant isolation necessitated by the contagion. An example of the former would be the entrapment of women at home with abusive family members: the United Nations was forced to describe the exponential rise in cases of domestic violence as a “shadow pandemic” alongside Covid-19. Older, ugly issues raised their heads too. The already-precarious nature of employment for women in India’s informal sector has been rendered even more uncertain; trafficking networks have thrived, profiting off vulnerable girls and women. Mercifully, the list brings some cheer, enumerating the courage and the spirit of women who have fought to overcome such odds. Four Indian women have found themselves in this shining fraternity; each of them has broken barriers and effected change. The oldest among these women is the octogenarian, Bilkis Bano, who earned respect and recognition as an enduring presence in the peaceful, democratic protest against the divisive Citizenship (Amendment) Act at Shaheen Bagh. Ms Bano dismantled a number of stereotypes associated with age and gender. What was also demolished was the myth of the domestic space being ideal for women. When women like Ms Bano cross the threshold of home to protest against a regressive legislation or other forms of more personal discrimination, it exposes the wickedness of the patriarchal design that idealizes domestic responsibilities and the home as a means of silencing women who are exploited in a myriad ways. It is not enough to celebrate this list of experiences that has been curated by the BBC. Care must be taken to ‘liberate’ this archive of women’s battles against entrenched discrimination from the trap of benign recognition; the list should be a signal for action to alleviate suffering that is primitive and enduring. The unequal lives of women need to be examined, disseminated in the public discourse and taken into account for emancipatory policy interventions. This would not only throw light on the long road that lies ahead before gender equality can be achieved, but also inspire innumerable, struggling women who have not had the opportunity to share their woes with the world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-110
28-11-2020||Opinion||Game changer: Tarun Gogoi no more||Sir — It was saddening to read about the demise of the former chief minister of Assam, Tarun Gogoi (“CM who made Assam ‘breathe’ after militancy”, Nov 24). Gogoi held office for three consecutive terms and changed the face and reputation of Assam. Under him, the state went from being a hotbed of insurgency to a land of opportunities. A six-time member of parliament from Assam and twice a Union minister, Gogoi returned from Delhi to politics in his home state in 2001 when he was charged with leading the Congress in the assembly polls against the powerful Asom Gana Parishad-led government under Prafulla Kumar Mahanta. At the time, no one really believed in Gogoi’s abilities. But he led the Congress to a victory. Gogoi made significant changes during the 15 years he was in power, crushing insurgency and putting the wheels of the economy back on track. There were occasional spots of trouble during his tenure, such as the ethnic clashes in Kokrajhar between the Bodo people and the Bengali-speaking Muslim community in 2012. But Gogoi dealt firmly with the situations. With his demise, the Congress has lost a loyal and valuable soldier. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — Tarun Gogoi died recently in Guwahati at the age of 86, and the Congress lost a senior leader at a crucial time. As the head of the Congress unit in Assam for over 50 years, Gogoi was first elected joint secretary of the All India Congress Committee in 1976 under the then prime minister, Indira Gandhi. He later served as general-secretary of the AICC from 1985 to 1990 under Rajiv Gandhi, who was prime minister at that time. Gogoi served six terms as a Lok Sabha MP from Assam. He first represented Jorhat for three terms between 1971 and 1985. He was later elected from Kaliabor in 1991-96 and then 1998-2002. The Kaliabor seat is currently held by his son, Gaur. Gogoi’s demise came at a time when the party is facing an internal crisis; the presence of the stalwart could have done a world of good for the resurgence of the Congress. This is why it is not unreasonable to say that the Grand Old Party has lost a tall leader. Gundu K. Maniam,CalcuttaMen down Sir — Indian cricket has reeled under the burden of injury problems in the past, and the trend seems set to continue in the series Down Under. Team India are down from the word ‘go’; both Ishant Sharma and Rohit Sharma are injured and, therefore, are unable to play till the end of the year. Their replacements are nowhere near as good as they are. By playing in the Indian Premier League, these talented cricketers sustain injuries. With the skipper, Virat Kohli, bowing out of three of the four scheduled Test matches on account of a paternity leave, the men’s team looks rather weak in both batting and bowling. Ishant Sharma’s rich experience in bowling with the new ball has been an advantage for Team India over the years. Moreover, Rohit Sharma’s new-found form in opening the batting has been giving the Indian squad a head start. His absence in New Zealand was felt very strongly; India lost the Test series 0-2 to the Kiwis in the latter’s backyard. The fitness of Indian players during overseas tours has often been found wanting; this has cost us many Test match victories in the past. Is it possible for Team India’s fortunes to be reversed this time? C.K. Ramanath,Ghaziabad No contact Sir — Given that nations around the world are facing new waves of Covid-19 infections, any kind of contact between human beings is becoming riskier by the day. In the light of this, it was heartening to read that an inventor in Egypt, Mahmoud el-Komy, is testing a remote-controlled robot that can test patients for Covid-19, take their temperature and warn them to wear masks. The fact that the robot has a human-like face might even put patients at ease, given that the presence of machines in hospital environments can be unnerving for many people. This is a great way to conduct testing without healthcare workers having to come into direct contact with patients. Priyanka Surka,Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-111
28-11-2020||Opinion||Rare friendships: Lord Desai's autobiography||Reading Lord Meghnad Desai’s just published autobiography, I laughed out loud as though I was reading a PG Wodehouse novel when he described his “fruitful collaboration and lifelong friendship” with fellow economist, Dipak Mazumdar: “He was a rare specimen of a Bengali economist who was not left-wing.” Meghnad, my near neighbour in London, had taken me into confidence before formally announcing he was leaving the “anti-Semitic” Labour Party at the age of 80 after being a member for 49 years. We also talked about Rebellious Lord, in which he writes about his first meeting with Amartya Sen in 1964 : “One friendship I made at Berkeley which has been a great joy to me was with Amartya Sen. Amartya was visiting Berkeley in my second year. I was thrilled when I heard him speak at a seminar. We met up afterwards and then many times during the year he was there. I was 24, he was 31.We got on very well and have done so ever since.” Meghnad tells me: “Amartya is a great person. He is my longest acquaintance among Indian economists. Very nice man. I think he’s slightly cross with me because I’m much softer on Modi than he is. But then you know, I’m me. And he is him. But I don’t think those things are serious for either.” Amartya’s Nobel Prize in 1998 did not surprise him. “No, not at all.” Meghnad’s own lectures have taken him to 50 countries. “There are three countries I consider my own — the US, UK and India. I belong to all three in some form or another. In America, I could have earned much more money, but being at the LSE was much more fun. Because I’m interested in many things I can talk to people about what they are interested in. I have had a lovely life.” Skeletons in the closet The knives are out for the BBC’s religion editor, Martin Bashir, aged 57, who was born in London to Christian parents from Pakistan. He secured an exclusive interview with Diana, Princess of Wales, in 1995, but it is now alleged he used forged documents to get around her brother, Charles, the ninth Earl of Spencer. The latter is leading the charge against Bashir, who is off sick after heart surgery and post-Covid complications. Charles has been accused of “hypocrisy” because he refused to provide shelter to Diana in 1996 when the distressed princess sought his help. Timeless tonic Talking of PG Wodehouse, a friend drew my attention to “A Plum & Tonic”, a session on the author at the Mumbai Litfest. Thanks to Zoom four people from the UK could participate — the BBC journalist, James Naughtie, who presents Bookclub on BBC radio; Hal Cazalet, Wodehouse’s step great grandson; the actor, Robert Goodale; and the comedian, Sindhu Vee. All this was before the Tata sponsored festival became embroiled in controversy after withdrawing its invitations to Noam Chomsky and the journalist, Vijay Prashad. Naughtie referred to familiar characters — Bertie Wooster and Jeeves, obviously, plus Madeline Bassett, Gussie Fink-Nottle and his beloved newts, Lady Florence Craye, Lord Emsworth and his prize pig, the Empress of Blandings, and assorted aunts. Naughtie invited his audience to “cast reality aside as gently as you can, shelve all the cares of the world as we take you on an escape to the sunlit haven of that great writer”. After an hour he concluded: “There’s an obvious way to end which is to quote the immortal words of another great comic novelist, Evelyn Waugh, who summed up the credo of PG Wodehouse as an admirer with great affection and hitting the spot. 'Mr Wodehouse’s world,’ he said, ‘can never stale. He will continue to release future generations from captivity that may be more irksome than our own. He has made a world for us to live in and delight in’ — and so say all of us.” Being human The journalist, Farrukh Dhondy, has passed to me an email he has received from the fellow Parsi, Cyrus Poonawalla, after mentioning the founder of the Serum Institute of India in a newspaper. The two were “schoolmates” in Poona. “It could be a scoop for you,” was Farrukh’s helpful tip. Cyrus told Farrukh that he had read his article with interest, “especially the last para about your association with me”. He added: “I just wanted to share with you that, apart from partnering with US Codagenix (which will take time to develop and launch a vaccine) we are the front-runners for the Oxford vaccine, i.e. the so-called Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, and have already manufactured 100 million doses as a humanitarian gesture in advance of licencing, at risk. We hope to get a pre-licensure for the product as an Epidemiological Emergency Use; the good news should follow in maximum two months. Don’t be surprised if our vaccine will be licenced in emergency use in the UK in case they run short of the product.” All this is useful intelligence from the vaccine oracle. The president of the Confederation of British Industry, Karan Bilimoria, who is proud to be the first Parsi in the House of Lords, has said Cyrus deserves the Nobel Peace Prize because his vaccines have helped poor people across the world. Footnote Anoushka Shankar admits that being Ravi Shankar’s daughter has certainly helped her career as a sitar player. But she now intends to promote other women as inaugural president of the “F-List”, a website directory of female artists. “The F-List is the first initiative of its kind to give female artists and musicians a platform where they can be discovered,” she said. I thought she stepped out of her father’s shadow when I heard her play live music at the screening of the silent film, Shiraz: A Romance of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-111
28-11-2020||Opinion||Freedom fighter||The discussion around the new US president’s policy towards human rights concerns in India has been marked by two extreme poles. One is the woozily idealistic idea of an activist Biden administration actively meddling in Indian political affairs. The other is the coldly realist idea that the new administration in the United States of America, guided by material interests, would be as blithely unconcerned with the growing authoritarianism in India as the Trump administration. In reality, the Biden administration possesses a range of options to gently nudge India towards democracy without risking a diplomatic fall out. A carefully calibrated policy in this regard is not just realistically possible, it would be in America’s own long-term interest. On the campaign trail, Joe Biden had promised to put strengthening global democracy back at the core of American foreign policy agenda. In an article for Foreign Affairs, Biden vowed to organize a Global Summit for Democracy during his first year in office. He stated that the summit would aim to “bring together the world’s democracies to strengthen our democratic institutions” and “honestly confront nations that are backsliding”. No democracy is backsliding as rapidly, and with as grave consequences, as the world’s largest one. The latest Freedom House report revealed that India had registered the steepest yearly fall in its Freedom Index among 25 large democracies. If India’s democratic institutions keep declining at the present rate, by the end of Biden’s first term, India’s liberal democratic fate may well be sealed. Ultimately, the burden of protecting India’s democratic institutions lies with Indian Opposition leaders and Indian citizens. They could, however, do with a helpful external environment. In the current form, Indian institutions pose little substantial check to Narendra Modi: a Parliament that has been reduced to a rubber stamp, a media that has been largely muzzled or co-opted, and a Supreme Court that was recently described by the eminent intellectual, Pratap Bhanu Mehta, as “slipping into judicial barbarism”. A well-thought-out US strategy can help meaningfully constrain Modi’s room for authoritarian manoeuvre without provoking any fractious clashes in public. It would also make Biden’s democratic promotion talk more credible, and not just a convenient cudgel against rivals such as China and Russia. Soft power, after all, depends on credibility. To understand how, one must try to comprehend Modi’s Jekyll and Hyde persona on the global and domestic stage, respectively, and how that fits into his political calculations. Unlike Hungary’s Viktor Orbán, Modi does not embrace the label of ‘illiberal democracy’. Neither does he clash with Western nations to accentuate his nationalist image, unlike Philippines’ Rodrigo Duterte or Turkey’s Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Modi, in contrast, presents himself on the international stage as a responsible global statesman. He never tires of quoting Mahatma Gandhi and evangelizing India’s liberal and secular values. In other words, Modi seamlessly presents himself as the embodiment of India’s democracy on the global stage while constantly threatening it at home. This well-respected global statesman image is crucial to Modi’s domestic appeal. Unlike many other global strongmen, Modi’s craves international and, in particular, Western acceptance and acclaim. This is the reason why he holds enormously hyped and personalized events with Western leaders such as Donald Trump and David Cameron. He invariably refers to global leaders as his friends — “my friend Donald” or “my friend Barack” — and ostentatiously hugs them in public to highlight their mutual affection and admiration. These moves are meant to pique the nationalistic pride of Indians and increase Modi’s domestic stature. On the flip side, this makes Modi particularly vulnerable to official statements of disapproval from Western governments. For Modi’s well-crafted illusion to work, Western leaders must go with it. It is likely that Modi gamed the silence of an apathetic Trump administration before carrying out certain contentious moves, such as curtailing the autonomy of Kashmir or passing the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Biden specifically criticized both these actions in a campaign document along with the implementation of the National Register of Citizens in Assam. In fact, the line expressing “disappointment” at the “restrictions on dissent” and “preventing peaceful protests” in Kashmir follows the line condemning “atrocities against Burma’s Rohingya Muslims”. It is thus likely that Modi will closely observe Biden in the first year of his presidency and gauge whether Biden’s concern for human rights and democracy was just uplifting campaign rhetoric or part of a serious agenda. Modi’s judgment of Biden’s credibility on this front will probably be part of the calculations that decide whether he goes ahead with his next high profile moves that erode India’s democracy. Therefore, it is not necessary for Biden to take an activist stance to act as a moderating influence on Modi. He just needs to show that, unlike Trump, he is serious about human rights protection. No one expects a high-pitched condemnation from a president who would vitally need the support of Modi on a variety of foreign-policy fronts — from containing China, to combating climate change, to strengthening global institutions. Moreover, the need to deepen ties with India on defence and trade would likely be prioritized over human rights, as has been the case with every previous president. Yet, given Modi’s sensitivity over his international image, all Biden needs to do is impress upon Modi that he would be willing to, whether subtly or bluntly, call him out. Biden possesses many points of leverage. He can follow Obama’s lead in “privately” urging Modi that India should not be divided along religious lines. His addresses to Indian delegations must underline the importance of protecting minorities, and how that forms an important part of the “shared values between the two countries”. The state department, whose human rights reports have catalogued serious human rights abuses by the Indian government in recent years, must not shy away from expressing its concern or disappointment at key moments. Biden can even depute his progressive vice-president, Kamala Harris, to occasionally deliver some honest chastisement to the country from where she traces her roots. The US Congress, which, to its credit, held hearings on the human rights situation in Kashmir last year, must also continue to closely monitor the situation of minorities in India. It can be pushed in this endeavour by the Progressive House Caucus — leaders such as Pramila Jayapal, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Ilhan Omar and Rashida Tlaib — who hold advancement of human rights as central to their politics. For decades, US presidents have claimed that the growth of American power is inextricably linked to the global advancement of democracy and liberal values. The reign of Trump, the only notable exception, is over. The sincerity of this conviction, often compromised in practice, will again be put to the test as the democracy representing a sixth of humanity drifts steadily into the grip of authoritarianism. In the coming decades, India will either be seen as a poster boy for ‘illiberal democracy’ or for the survival of liberal democracy in a challenging terrain. It is in America’s own self-interest that the latter vision prevails. Much will depend on whether Biden turns a blind eye as India slips off the democratic guardrails, or prods and coaxes India back towards them. The author is a political columnist and research associate with the Centre for Policy Research, Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-111
28-11-2020||Jharkhand||Encounter with rebels in West Singhbhum, arms recovered||Huge cache of arms and ammunition were recovered by security forces during an encounter with rebels in the deep forest under Bandgaon police station in West Singhbhum. The encounter in which security forces were led by West Singhbhum police and Jharkhand Jaguar against People Liberation Front of India (PLFI) took place on Friday evening following which the recoveries were made. Acting on a tip-off that PLFI leaders Dinesh Gope and Jidan Gudiya were hiding in Manmaru forest the security forces launched an attack. Later, a few rounds of firing took place as well between the security forces and the rebels which lasted for about an hour. DIG (Kolhan) Rajiv Ranjan Singh said that encounter took place between security forces and PLFI ultras in Manmaru forest under the jurisdiction of Bandgaon police station late on Friday evening. He said that after several rounds of firing, the rebels fled deep inside the forest. “After the search operation, we found traces of bloodstains at the spot of the encounter. We suspect that during the encounter some of the rebels who were trying to flee might have sustained injuries,” said the DIG. The security forces recovered an SLR, a light machine gun, an assault rifle, six country-made pistols, 169 cartridges, knives, walkie talkies, blankets, thermal scanners, mats, PLFI literature besides other things. West Singhbhum SP Ajay Linda said the rebels fled taking advantage of the darkness. According to him, the recoveries were made during a search operation carried out after the operation. Sources informed that the police team was led by the assistant superintendent of police cum sub-divisional police officer of Chakradharpur Nathu Singh Meena. Additional security forces were rushed to the site of the encounter. They are camping at the spot. Meanwhile, the West Singhbhum district administration has intensified police patrolling on the bordering areas. Para-military forces began combing operation in the deep forest cover since the wee hours of Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-222
28-11-2020||Jharkhand||30-year-old youth killed in road accident on NH-33||A 30-year-old youth was killed when the bike he was riding was hit by an unknown vehicle on NH-33 early on Saturday. The accident happened at Saharbera under Chandil thana area of the adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district, about 25 km away from Jamshedpur. The victim, identified as Gunjan Kumar, was killed within one minute of his conversation with his father, PK Lal over the phone. Chandil thana OC, Uday Prasad Gupta confirmed that an unidentified vehicle had caused the mishap, resulting in the death of the youth. “Several heavy vehicles pass through the NH-33 every minute, but some local villagers had heard a sound resembling a mishap. On reaching the spot, one of the villagers found the youth was lying in a pool of blood. The villager had first informed the Chandil police and subsequently made a call on the number the victim had made his last call to. Incidentally, the call was received by the victim's father,” said Gupta while talking to The Telegraph Online. A resident of Baradwari locality of the city, Gunjan had come out of his house at around 4 am without informing his parents about his visit to Chandil for some work. At about 6 am, his father called asking him about his whereabouts when Gunjan said he was on his way to Chandil and presently he was at Saharbera. The victim also begged pardon of his father for not informing anyone in the family as all were in deep slumber then. But within two minutes, Lal's phone rang again and on receiving the call, which was from his son's number but the voice was that of a stranger. The stranger made some queries and finally informed Lal that his son was killed in a road mishap. On getting the information, Lal rushed to the spot, about a half-an-hour drive from Baradwari to find his son's body lying in a pool of blood and his bike lying beside. The helmet was found tucked on the rear side of the vehicle's rod, suggesting that the victim was without a helmet. By the time a police party from the Chandil thana had also reached the spot and seized the body. The OC said the youth might have been knocked down by some heavy vehicle soon after he started his bike following his conversation with his father over the phone. He said the victim had not put on his helmet and said had he done so might have survived the mishap. Gupta also said they are trying to identify the vehicle that caused the mishap taking the CCTV footage, but it is unlikely that they would get any positive result from this angle as there was no such electronic gadget near the mishap spot. "But we will still try to detect the vehicle that caused the mishap by putting our resources and trying to find out any eyewitnesses of the incident," said OC, adding that they have recovered the body and sent it to the Seraikela Sadar Hospital for autopsy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-222
28-11-2020||Jharkhand||Mayor mulls law tweak to punish traders for Covid violations||Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) is thinking of amending trade licence and other rules pertaining to commercial establishments to allow punitive provisions for violation of Covid safety norms, mayor Asha Lakra announced after holding a marathon meeting with trade organisations on Saturday. The civic body has decided to roll out an aggressive week-long awareness drive to reinforce Covid safety norms among traders and shoppers from Sunday. Lakra said she would hold another meeting early in December to chalk out modalities of including punitive provisions in the Jharkhand Municipal Trade License Regulations-2017 and other rules for shops and markets. “Saturday’s meeting was aimed at seeking traders’ cooperation to enforce Covid safety norms with shops and business establishments. We have asked them to follow the principle of ‘no goods without mask’ and display this message prominently at their establishments. We are also going to launch a week-long sensitisation drive across the capital through banners, posters and public announcements,” she said. Lakra said the RMC would hold another meeting in the first week of December to devise ways to introduce punitive provisions in the municipal act. “These may include fines, cancellation of trade licence, among others,” she said. While the district administration has launched a mask checking drive since Wednesday, the civic body is also gearing up to step up the vigilance in markets under its command areas to curb the spread of coronavirus amid fears of another wave of infection. “The situation in some markets is such that widespread violations are taking place. It is time for tough action. If awareness and appeals don’t help, then one has to instil fear to enforce rules,” she opined. Police and the district administration have so far slapped 1,000 people with fines for not wearing masks, collecting close to Rs 5 lakh since Wednesday, according to an official communiqué. Close to two dozen shops were sealed and seven were served notices for violation of Covid norms. Out of 2,162 active cases in Jharkhand now, Ranchi accounts for 769, the highest in the state. Since the outbreak, Ranchi recorded 27,720 cases of which 26,757 were cured and 194 died. The district has 2017 active containment zones as of now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-222
28-11-2020||Jharkhand||Rapid test conducted on 5,000 in East Singhbhum through the day||The East Singhbhum health department carried out 5,000 rapid antigen tests on men, women and children at markets and various other places to combat the spread of Covid-19. The health department, which has set a target of conducting 10,000 on-the-spot tests on Sunday, carried out the testing drive at Golmuri, Sakchi, Mango and Bistupur. "The drive was also carried out in different rural blocks of the district," said R. N. Jha, the district civil surgeon. According to Jha, they have set a target to carry out 15,000 tests in two days - Saturday and Sunday. He said they had intensified rapid antigen tests as a precautionary measure to prevent a possible second surge of infections after the festive season. During Saturday’s drive, all visitors to Bistupur market had to undergo rapid antigen tests. Commuters and those without face masks were also stopped at Golmuri, Sakchi and Mango, and asked to undergo rapid antigen tests. The drive which began at 10 am continued for about nine hours till 7 pm. It was supervised by Dhalbhum SDO Nitish Kumar Singh and special officer of Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) Krishna Kumar. As many as 300 medical personnel were engaged for the drive. A rapid antigen test detects the presence of viral proteins (antigens) expressed by the Covid-19 virus in a sample taken from the respiratory tract of a person. The result of the test is made available within 15 minutes. But a confirmatory RT-PCR test is recommended for those who test positive. The East Singhbhum district recorded 24 Covid positive cases and one death on Friday. The count of Covid fatalities in the district is now 351. East Singhbhum has accounted for the highest Covid casualties among all the 24 districts of the state so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-222
28-11-2020||Jharkhand||Tata Main Hospital to charge for Covid-19 treatment from Dec 1||Tata Main Hospital (TMH) has declared that Covid-19 treatment will be a paid service from December 1. The charges will range from Rs 8,000 to Rs 12,000 per day depending on the condition of the patient. Tata Main Hospital, which is a Covid-19 hospital run by Tata Steel has provided treatment to 3,986 patients free of cost. During an online conference call in the city on Friday, Dr. Rajan Chaudhry, advisor, Medical Services, Tata Steel, said, “Patients admitted to the hospital till November 30 can avail free treatment. But, from December 1 Covid-19 patients will have to pay for the treatment cost. This is as per the government guidelines.” Chief of Corporate Communications of Tata Steel, Kulvin Suri informed that Tata Steel has spent Rs 100 crore for the treatment of Covid-19 patients and controlling the pandemic in Jharkhand. He also stated that apart from the treatment cost of Covid-19 patients, the company has also spent on awareness drives to control the transmission of the virus. Dr. Chaudhry also informed that the recovery rate of Covid-19 patients at Tata Main Hospital has improved from 89.20 percent to 89.3 percent, which is almost 90 percent. Till date, 3,986 Covid-19 positive patients have been admitted to TMH. Chaudhry said the next 10 days was crucial. “Though the impact of the virus has reduced we need to be careful. The next 10 days are going to be crucial as it will indicate whether a second surge will come or not. People should continue to take all precautionary measures for their safety. Avoid going to crowded places, wear masks and maintain social distance,” he said. TMH, a leading heal hub in steel city has a total of 1028 beds. Of this 413 beds have been dedicated to Covid-19 positive patients. The private hospital is equipped with 83 ventilators for critical patients. TMH has recently started an on-demand RT-PCR, antigen and antibody tests. The idea is to give more flexibility and facilitate enhanced ease of testing. The charge for RT-PCR test is Rs 1,000; antigen is Rs 500 and the antibody test is Rs 250.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-222
28-11-2020||Jharkhand||State police release cyber security awareness handbook||In a first of its kind, the Jharkhand Police have released a cybersecurity awareness handbook on Friday, sources have said. It was released by the DG headquarters Ranchi Ajay Kr Singh in the state capital. The Telegraph Online managed to access a copy of the 35-page handbook, written in two languages. A senior police officer, who wished to remain anonymous, said it took a month to prepare the handbook. According to sources, around 500 cases of cyber crime are registered annually in Jharkhand, an act that prompted DGP MV Rao to instruct the police to prepare the handbook. The Telegraph Online spoke to a victim of cyber crime who lost a huge amount of money following a fraud call.  He said that such criminals speak a lot at one go and do not give the listeners a chance to even breathe, let alone analyse the situation. While the handbook has illustrations to drive the point home, apart from separate notes for men, women and children, it does not have any story of the duped man and his trauma. Likewise, it has no story of any person who has outwitted and defeated a cyber criminal’s  game plan. Sources said this juxtaposition of the two the victim and the one who took the cyber criminals for a ride in the police handbook would have made it far more worth reading. The handbook is available on the website of the Jharkhand Police, sources in the department said. The police are also working on plans to carry out related programmes in boys and girls’ schools, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-222
28-11-2020||Jharkhand||The north wind is back, mercury set to witness a plunge||Dry and crisp north-westerly winds made a comeback on Saturday after two days of gloomy weather with most parts of the state witnessing a drop in temperature. Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Bokaro, Dhanbad and several other parts of the state woke up to clear and bright weather. Most places also experienced winds blowing at speeds between 15kmph and 20kmph. "The flow of dry north wind has been restored and this was preventing moisture incursion into the atmosphere. The chill is here to stay for another two to three days, with most places witnessing plummeting night readings,” said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of IMD’s Ranchi Met Centre. According to Met forecasts, the minimum temperature is expected to witness a fall of two to three degrees the next 48 hours. "Clear skies mean low humidity and lower minimum temperature. Readings will plunge depending on the intensity of the winds. We are expecting a fall of minimum readings by at least three degrees in the next 48 hours,” said Anand. The Met department also issued an alert of shallow to moderate fog in the next two days, hampering visibility just after sunrise. Ranchi recorded a minimum temperature of 13.7 °C on Saturday. As per Met forecasts, a sub-0 chill is expected to prevail in the capital after the next 48 hours. The minimum temperature also witnessed a drop in Jamshedpur which recorded 15.8 °C on Saturday. Daltonganj, the Palamau headquarters, Bokaro and Ramgarh, recorded around 14°C. Chaibasa in West Singhbhum saw a minimum temperature of 12.6 °C. Minimum readings in Hazaribagh, Dhanbad, Deoghar, Dumka, Simdega, Gumla, Khunti, Seraikela-Kharsawan and several places in Santhal Pargana witnessed a downward trend too. Anjan Choudhary, a resident of Bistupur in Jamshedpur, said he ended up wearing woollens for the first time this season on Saturday morning. “It felt as though the chill had intensified when I went out for a morning walk today (Saturday),” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-223
28-11-2020||Jharkhand||Less than 1 per cent of tested samples found Covid positive in Jharkhand||Less than 1 per cent of the 19,000-odd people tested for Covid-19 in Jharkhand on Friday were found infected, while nearly 200 patients recovered from the infection on the day, causing a marginal rise in the Covid recovery rate in the state and a fall in the number of active cases, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As many as 189 people, including 71 from Ranchi and 24 from East Singhbhum, were found to be Covid positive on Friday, stated a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM). Of the 195 people who overcame the viral infection in Jharkhand on the day, at least 65 were from Ranchi and 27 from East Singhbhum. These two districts account for around 50 per cent of active Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand. Meanwhile, one more person from East Singhbhum died of Covid-19 infection, taking the count of Covid fatalities in the state to 962 and that in East Singhbhum alone to 351. The district has accounted for highest Covid casualties among all the 24 districts in Jharkhand so far. While Chatra, Khunti and Koderma did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection on the day, at least 17 districts reported a single-digit-spike in Covid cases, the NHM bulletin stated. Dhanbad reported three fresh cases against 16 recoveries, while Latehar reported 14 fresh cases and no recoveries in the past 24 hours. As per government data, of the 2,162 active cases of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand, at least 774 were from Ranchi and 314 were from East Singhbhum. Barring Ranchi, East Singhbhum, Dhanbad and Bokaro, all the remaining 20 districts had fewer active cases than 100. The government on Friday tested swab samples of 18,966 people, but over 16,000 swab samples were still pending for Covid tests, government data revealed. Health workers have so far collected swab samples of 40.21 lakh people and tested around 40.04 lakh of them. Of the over 40 lakh people tested, as many as 1,08,577 were found infected and 1,05,453 of them have recovered. The Covid-19 recovery rate in Jharkhand was 97.12 per cent against the national average of 93.60 per cent. The growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.16 per cent against the national average of 0.40 per cent, while the doubling rate of the infection in Jharkhand was 420.71 days against the national average of 172.42 days. The Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 0.88 per cent against the national Covid mortality rate of 1.50 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-223
