29-11-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta airport power restored ||Regular power supply was restored to the city’s airport terminal around 3am on Saturday. The terminal remained without regular power for 33 hours after a 33kV power supply line of CESC got snapped during construction work for Metro Rail around 6pm on Thursday. At least 40 outgoing flights were delayed because of the snag. “The repair work was completed around 2.30am on Saturday. Regular power supply was restored around 3am,” said an airport official. “We had a meeting with CESC and Metro Railway to discuss ways to secure the supply line. A team of engineers is working out the modalities to prevent a similar incident in future,” said Kaushik Bhattacharya, the airport director. After Friday morning, there were no delays in flights, the official said. Passengers said conveyor belts moved slowly for most of Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-222
29-11-2020||Calcutta||Majerhat bridge likely to open on December 3||The Majerhat bridge will be thrown open to traffic within the first few days of December, senior officials in Nabanna said. Though a formal announcement is awaited, several state government officials and police said the inauguration was likely to take place at 4pm on December 3. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee will inaugurate the bridge. The railways and the PWD, the implementing agency for the Rs 200-crore project, have submitted a joint “safety certificate” on the bridge’s structure to the state government. A copy of the certificate was also sent to the commissioner of railway safety in keeping with the protocol. In the next few days, final touches will be given to the paint and the layer of mastic asphalt on the deck along with the lights. A final round of inspection will be carried out by senior engineers and police will be asked to draw up a traffic plan for the bridge and the four service roads around it. “The remaining work would be wrapped up within the next few days so that once the bridge is inaugurated, there are no loose ends,” a senior PWD official said. The state government’s decision to inaugurate the Majerhat bridge comes within eight days of the engineers from the PWD completing the crucial “load test” of the bridge and the Taiwanese design consultant clearing the “deflection” that were recorded because of the stress. The chief minister had on Thursday said the bridge, a portion of which had collapsed on September 4, 2018, would have been completed nine months earlier had the railways not delayed clearances. The railways submitted its clearance the next day and within the next 24-hours the government took the decision on opening the bridge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-222
29-11-2020||Calcutta||December classes in medical colleges||Physical classes will resume in Bengal’s medical colleges in December. The colleges will have to decide how to space out the classes and take other protective measures. “The government has informed the colleges about the National Health Commission’s recommendation that they may open from December 1. But all college authorities have to take all protective measures necessary to prevent the spread of Covid-19,” said Bengal health secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam. “We do not want the education of medical students to suffer. At the same time the colleges have to be careful about the health and safety of students, teachers and others involved.” “I think colleges will open gradually and by December 15 most places will begin classes,” he said. Metro had reported on Thursday that the Union health secretary had written to states advising that medical colleges resume classes “on or before 1st December, 2020”. Rajendra Pandey, the vice-chancellor of West Bengal University of Health Sciences, to which all medical colleges in the state are affiliated, said on Saturday that the colleges may open on different dates. “The hostels have to be sanitised. Students who live in faraway places cannot travel every day. They have to stay in hostels. Besides, the college authorities will decide which class will be held on which day. The classes have to be scheduled in a way that there is no crowding,” he said. Pandey, also a member of the National Medical Commission, said that the commission would issue guidelines or standard operating procedures that medical colleges could follow. “The SOPs are expected by December 1 or December 2,” he said. A Calcutta Medical College and Hospital student said that they had been informed by their college administration that “clinical postings” will begin from December 1. “Clinical postings are visits to wards in the presence of senior doctors and professors. As they examine patients in the wards, they also teach us. We learn while seeing them in work,” said Sutirtha Bhattacharyya, a final-year student at the college. “We will be going to the college only for clinical postings. The theory part of the syllabus  has been completed through online classes,” he said. Indranil Biswas, the vice principal of Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, said the authorities will meet next week to decide how to ask students to come to the college. Bengal recorded 3,489 Covid-19 cases on Saturday and Calcutta accounted for 893 of them. Forty-six people died of the disease in the state on Wednesday, 16 of them in Calcutta. Rajendra Pandey, the vice-chancellor of West Bengal University of Health Sciences, to which all medical colleges in the state are affiliated, said on Saturday that the colleges may open on different dates. “The hostels have to be sanitised. Students who live in faraway places cannot travel every day. They have to stay in hostels. Besides, the college authorities will decide which class will be held on which day. The classes have to be scheduled in a way that there is no crowding,” he said. Pandey, also a member of the National Medical Commission, said that the commission would issue guidelines or standard operating procedures that medical colleges could follow. “The SOPs are expected by December 1 or December 2,” Pandey said. A Calcutta Medical College and Hospital student said that they had been informed by their college administration that “clinical postings” will begin from December 1. “Clinical postings are visits to wards in the presence of senior doctors and professors. As they examine patients in the wards, they also teach us. We learn while seeing them in work,” said Sutirtha Bhattacharyya, a final-year student at the college. “We will be going to the college only for clinical postings. The theory part of the syllabus  has been completed through online classes,” he said. Indranil Biswas, the vice principal of Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, said the authorities will meet next week to decide how to ask students to come to the college. Bengal recorded 3,489 Covid-19 cases on Saturday and Calcutta accounted for 893 of them. Forty-six people died of the disease in the state on Wednesday, 16 of them in Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-222
29-11-2020||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur arms itself with clean chit||A research scholar at IIT Kharagpur prior to his/her return to the campus has to sign an undertaking that says among other things: “That in case of emergency, the non–availability/inadequacy of medical facilities may lead to serious consequences for which Institute and/or its authorities will not be responsible in any form”. The institute has prepared a list of 50 research scholars who will be recalled from December 1 if they sign the undertaking. The clauses in the undertaking state that the research scholar has to be mindful of the fact that the BC Roy Technology Hospital, IIT Kharagpur, provides only primary healthcare and there is no advanced medical treatment facility on the campus or in Kharagpur township. The scholars will also have to agree that they are aware of the “difficulties in availing advanced medical facility at Calcutta hospitals”. The research scholars who had vacated the campus in September following a spike in Covid-19 cases are being recalled. Out of the 4,000-odd research scholars, 50 “senior most research scholars” from the 2011-13 batches are being recalled in the first phase from December 1 to 5. An IIT official said the clauses were included to make the research scholars aware of the risks involved in rejoining the institute. One of the clauses makes a research scholar say that: “I am consciously using my discretion to travel to the IIT Kharagpur campus to urgently complete my research at my own risk”. A research scholar said the institute was seeking to wash its hands of in case of any medical emergency amid the pandemic. “We are on our own…. But as completing the research that I had to abandon is a must, I had to sign the undertaking,” he said. Somesh Kumar, the dean of students’ affairs, is overseeing the recall process. Contacted by this newspaper, he declined comment. Another official said: “The Kharagpur Sub-divisional Hospital near the campus and Midnapore Medical College and Hospital, about 17km away, have reached a saturation point, dealing with a rising number of Covid cases. Those who study at IIT also rely on hospitals in Calcutta for critical treatment. But distance is a matter of concern.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-222
29-11-2020||Calcutta||CMC halts water supply to fix leak||Several hospitals in the city had requisitioned water tanks and residents of apartments and standalone buildings ensured there was adequate water for a day in their reservoirs as the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) stopped water supply on Saturday morning to fix a breach in a pipe from the Tallah tank to Auckland Square booster pumping station. Civic engineers said the water supply had to be stopped to empty an underground pit where engineers and technicians had to enter to repair the leak, which occurred in a portion of the pipe located 25 ft below the surface. By late on Saturday, the leak in the transmission line had been fixed. Engineers of the CMC said water supply would resume from Sunday. “The breach occurred in a water pipe from the Tallah tank to Auckland Square booster pumping station near Park Street. We had to empty the line between the two places to ensure that water did not flow back into the pit from either ends,” said a civic engineer. He said the pipe was located 25 ft below surface at the point of the breach, while the same pipe had moved upwards and ran about 5 ft below the ground on its two sides. “If we did not empty the line, water would have flown back into the pit and repairs would not have been possible,” said one engineer. Civic sources said they had received multiple requests to supply water tankers to hospitals and residential apartments. Pradip Tondon, the chief executive officer of Belle Vue Clinic, said they had sent requisitions for 50 water tankers, each with a capacity of 3,000 litre. “We have requested for 50 tankers to meet our requirements,” Tondon said. A resident of a housing complex in Paikpara with 174 families said they had booked for six tankers for Sunday morning. “...This was done to pre-empt any delay in the repairs,” said the resident. A CMC engineer said, “We had to ensure there was no water in the line for a 5km stretch between Tallah and Auckland Square booster pumping station. The location of the breach is a road next to the railway tracks near Tallah railway station.” Water supply to the entire north and central Calcutta, portions of south Calcutta and Salt Lake had been cut off for the rest of Saturday after 9.30am to repair the leak. CMC engineers said it took about one-and-a-half hours to empty the line between Tallah and Auckland Square after water supply water stopped, before engineers could go down into the pit and inspect the breach. A senior engineer said the leak had been observed many months before but they could not spot the exact location of the leak. “We noticed wet roads. We could assume there was leak but was not sure of its location till the time water gushed out on the road from below,” said an engineer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-223
29-11-2020||Calcutta||Airlines again seek daily Calcutta flights from six cities||Airlines have again prodded the state government to allow daily Calcutta flights from six cities. At a meeting on Thursday, the airline operators’ committee requested the director of Calcutta airport to take up the issue with the state government once again. Flights to Calcutta from Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur Chennai and Ahmedabad — the cities that have high Covid prevalence — have remained suspended since July 6 following a request from the state government. From September 1, the state government allowed flights to arrive from these cities thrice a week. Now, the flights are arriving from these cities on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. “The airlines requested me to take up the issue with the state government. I had earlier raised it with the state officials and will do it once again now,” airport director Kaushik Bhattacharya said on Saturday. However, a senior state government official said there was no plan to resume daily flights from these cities now. “There are fresh spikes in number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi, Maharashtra and Gujarat. So, we have to be careful,” said the official. Civil aviation ministry officials said some airports had restrictions like Chennai was not allowing more than a particular number of flights to operate and Mumbai had asked all passengers arriving from some cities to get RT-PCR tests for Covid done before boarding the flight. “But there are no restrictions on flights from any particular city,” said officials. An official of a private airline said they were continuing to lose revenue because of the state government decision and also facing operational problems. Airport officials said they were also facing problems because on the days when flights arrive from the six cities there was huge overcrowding causing chaos. “If the traffic was spread through the week, this chaos would not happen,” said an airport official. Now, many airlines are bringing passenger flights from these six cities with cargo on the seats and returning with passengers. “But that is not profitable. Also, these are not regular operations. When there is enough cargo we can operate a flight,” said an official of a private airline. Travel agents said the state government should find a way to allow daily flights from the six cities. “The Bengal government can make a norm that all domestic passengers arriving should have a Covid-19 negative report before boarding the flight or there should be a system of getting the test on arrival,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India. The association had earlier written to the state government requesting to lift the ban.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-223
29-11-2020||Calcutta||Joynagar Moa earns branding mojo  ||Joynagar Moa has managed to get for itself a logo that signifies its unique local identity and a recipe that defines what moa is supposed to be all about. Six years back, in November 2014, the delicate sweet made of khoi (popped rice) had bagged a geographical indication tag for its uniqueness that would be only found across two blocks of Joynagar in South 24-Parganas. Over the last few years a section of moa manufacturers have managed to do what rasogolla manufacturers are still struggling with the “Banglar Rasogolla” GI tag — create a product adhering to the original recipe that would offer a distinctive aroma and mouthfeel. With these manufacturers finally ready with their produce, a unique brand of Joy-nagar’s Moa would sell this winter. Over 20 such manufacturers from different parts of Joynagar — who have bagged the “authorised user certificate” — have come together and tied up with almost all the best selling mishti shops across Calcutta to sell Joynagar Moa, the authentic one. “Anyone can challenge the manufacturer for the authenticity of the moa that will be sold in packs of six, 10 and 12 pieces,” said Ashok Kumar Kayal of Joynagar Moa Nirmankari Society, the one that had pitched for the GI tag with the Union ministry of commerce and industry. “It’s not easy producing this moa abiding by all the norms that have been laid down by the GI council. It’s a strict mix of human skill and hygiene while following the prescribed flow-chart.” A moa to be truly of Joynagar has to be between 50 and 75 gram in dry weight and must be made from Kanakchur khoi and should have at least seven ingredients including nolen gur , ghee, cardamom, khoya kheer, sugar, dry grape and cashew nut. “Anything else that sells as Joynagar Moa is not the one that has been certified by the GI council,” said Dhiman Das, director of KC Das Private Limited. “Some sweet-shop owners have come together to save this product in its original form and hence, this initiative to sell original moa.” Dhiman was among the many who had fought for the “Banglar Rasogolla” GI tag certification that came in 2017 and has now created a platform of sweet sellers known as Mishti Udyog, who would sell the branded moa from their outlets in Calcutta and beyond. Just like the uniqueness of “Banglar Rasogolla” lies in being spongy, fluffy and its smooth texture “with less chewiness”, the speciality of Joynagar Moa is the Kanakchur khoi. Kanakchur variety has a slender grain and is scented, short and bold, everything that makes it particularly suited for the uniqueness of Joynagar Moa. The origin of Joynagar Moa dates back more than a century. The year 2004 was the centennial year of ‘Moa of Joynagar’. Ashutosh Das, a resident of Das Para of Sreepur village in Joynagar had first started the moa industry in the Bengali in 1904. His son, Jawaharlal Das, used to visit the house of Rani Rashmoni at Janbazar carrying moa. Over the years, moa found acceptance as a delicate sweet and gained popularity across the globe. But the moa that would be sold across Calcutta or Bengal would not rarely meet the standards that were set down some six years back. Why? Primarily because of the detailed process that would be involved in preparing an original moa was missing. Here is how the process goes. Ten litres of nolen gur, for instance, would have to be boiled to get a litre of pure gur. Then comes preparing the khoi. There are male and female khoi. Female khoi, which are bigger in size, is not preferred for moa. They are separated out. Good male khoi are only mixed with hot nolen gur in a big iron pan. Next the khoi has to be immersed in nolen gur. The stirring has to be done with a wooden ladle. It’s a long and tedious process. Artisans would allow the mix to cool before using their cleaned hands to give the shape after smearing their palms with pure ghee. Finally, flavouring agents are added. That would in-clude sugar, cashew nuts, cardamom, ghee and dry grapes. Average weight of each moa would be between 50 and 75 gram. Area: The area of production of Joynagar Moa lies between Joynagar Block I and Joynagar Block II of the Joynagar-Mazilpur municipal area, which is around 53km south of Calcutta in South 24-Parganas Raw materials required: Khoi of Kanakchur paddy, nolen gur, ghee, cardamom, khoya kheer, sugar, dry grapes and cashew nuts. Colour: Light yellowish. Weight: Average weight of each Moa is between 50 and 75 gram.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-223
29-11-2020||Business||Deadline extended to submit life certificate by pensioners||Retirement fund body EPFO has extended the deadline for submission of life certificates by pensioners till February 28, a move which would benefit over 35 lakh persons who could not submit the document by November because of the coronavirus pandemic. The pensioners who could not submit their life certificates within the November 30 deadline would get pension every month till February. “In view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and the vulnerability of elderly population to the virus, the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has extended the time limit up to February 28, 2021 for submission of Jeevan Pramaan Patra in respect of pensioners drawing pension under EPS 1995 (Employees’ Pension Scheme-1995) and whose life certificate is due in any month till February 28, 2021,” a labour ministry statement said. At present, a pensioner can submit his life certificate anytime during the year up to November 30, which is valid for a period of one year from the date of issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-220
29-11-2020||Business||HSBC may exit retail banking in US||HSBC Holdings Plc is considering a complete exit from retail banking in the United States after narrowing the options for how to improve performance at its struggling North America business, the Financial Times reported on Saturday. The bank’s senior management aim to present the plan to the board in the coming weeks, the FT reported, citing people familiar with the situation. HSBC declined to comment on the report. HSBC said last month it planned to reduce annual costs to below $31 billion by 2022, a more ambitious target than it set out in February and well below the operating expenses of $42.3 billion it reported in 2019. In February, it had outlined $4.5 billion in cost savings and 35,000 job cuts. The bank also said it would accelerate the transformation of its US business, where it has long struggled to compete with much bigger players.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-220
29-11-2020||Business||Punjab accepts Centre's GST borrowing offer||The Punjab government has dropped its opposition to the Centre’s borrowing option to bridge the gap in the Goods and Services Tax revenue receipts and has opted for the first of the two proposals. “The number of states who have chosen this option has gone up to 26. All the three Union Territories with legislative assembly (that is, Delhi, Jammu & Kashmir and Puducherry) have also decided in favour of option 1,” the ministry of finance said in an official release. Now Punjab will also receive funds raised through this window starting from the next round of borrowing. Under the window which has been operationalised since October 23, 2020, the Centre has already borrowed Rs 24,000 crore on behalf of the states in four instalments and passed it on to the latter. Recently, Kerala and Bengal have also opted for the first option to meet the GST revenue shortfall. Punjab will get Rs 8,359 crore through a special borrowing window and permission to raise an additional Rs 3,033 crore through borrowings. Under the terms of the first option, besides the facility of a special window for borrowings, the states are also entitled to get unconditional permission to borrow the final instalment of 0.50 per cent of the gross state domestic product (GSDP) out of the 2 per cent additional borrowing  under the Atmanirbhar Abhiyaan. Now there are only two states —  Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh — that are yet to accept either of the proposal. Under the borrowing plan (option 1), the Centre would borrow from the market Rs 1.10 lakh crore which is the revenue shortfall on account of GST implementation. The remaining Rs 73,000 crore shortfall is estimated to be the revenue impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. The second option given by the Centre was for the states to borrow the entire Rs 1.83 lakh crore collection shortfall.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-220
29-11-2020||Business||Economy: note of caution in rebound hope||The surprise resilience shown by the manufacturing sector that restricted GDP contraction to only 7.5 per cent in the September quarter could be a result of massive purge in costs such as employee cost by corporate houses and businesses, which could turn a potential headwind in the future, economists at SBI wrote on Saturday. India’s July-September (Q2 of 2020-21 fiscal) GDP growth showed surprising resilience with a contraction of only 7.5 per cent in real terms, while the market consensus was higher, Soumya Kanti Ghosh, group chief economic adviser, State Bank of India, wrote in Ecowrap. With the improvement in manufacturing because of the lifting of lockdown measures, GDP contraction has slowed down significantly. The agriculture sector continued to perform well with growth at 3.4 per cent. Services remained in the negative territory, although the decline was contained as trade, hotels, transport, communication and services related to broadcasting showed recovery. “The most astonishing number is the positive growth in manufacturing in Q2. Despite being the worst affected sector in Q1 (due to lockdown), it is quite puzzling how manufacturing turned itself around,” he wrote in the Ecowrap issue. “We believe one possible reason for this could be stellar corporate GVA numbers in Q2 on the back of a massive purge in costs. Further, small companies, with a turnover of up to Rs 500 crore, are more aggressive in cutting cost, displaying reduction in employee cost by 10-12 per cent,” Ecowrap said. This, it said, could turn a potential headwind in future in terms of a drag on consumption.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-220
29-11-2020||India||Serum Institute rejects charges levelled by vaccine trial participant||Vaccine major Serum Institute of India on Sunday rejected charges that AstraZeneca-Oxford's COVID-19 vaccine candidate has serious side effects and said it will seek damages in excess of Rs 100 crore for "malicious" allegations. A 40-year-old Chennai-based business consultant, who was a volunteer for the third phase of the vaccine trial conducted by Serum Institute of India (SII), has alleged serious side effects, including a virtual neurological breakdown and impairment of cognitive functions and has sought Rs 5 crore compensation in a legal notice to SII and others, besides seeking a halt to the trial. He was administered the shot at Chennai's Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research (SRIHER), one of the trial sites. "The allegations in the notice are malicious and misconceived. While the Serum Institute of India is sympathetic with the volunteer's medical condition, there is absolutely no correlation between the vaccine trial and the medical condition of the volunteer," Serum Institute of India said in a statement. The volunteer is falsely laying the blame for his medical problems on the COVID vaccine trial, it added. "The claim is malicious because the volunteer was specifically informed by the medical team that the complications he suffered were independent of the vaccine trial he underwent. In spite of specifically being made aware of the same, he still chose to go public and malign the reputation of the company," Serum Institute said. It is evident that the intention behind the spreading of such malicious information is an oblique pecuniary motive, it added. "The Serum Institute of India will seek damages in excess of (Rs) 100 crore for the same and will defend such malicious claims," the statement said. The Drugs Controller General of India and the institutional ethics committee at the implementation site are investigating if the adverse event as claimed to have been suffered by an Oxford COVID-19 vaccine trial participant in Chennai is related to the shot administered to him. A law firm on his behalf has sent a legal notice to Director General, ICMR, Drugs Controller General of India, Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, CEO AstraZeneca UK, CEO Serum Institute of India, Professor Andrew Pollard, Chief Investigator, Oxford Vaccine Trial and Vice-Chancellor of Sri Ramachandra Higher Education and Research. Dr Samiran Panda, who heads the Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases (ECD) division of the ICMR, said the causal link, if any, of the serious adverse events with the investigational product is objectively assessed in any clinical trial following a pre-defined scientific pathway and within a stipulated period. "Any hurried inquiry or inference is prone to be wrong. Both the institutional ethics committee and the DCGI are investigating the causal links, if any, between the adverse events and investigational product, which is an anti-coronavirus vaccine," Panda said. The notice given on November 21 by the law firm said, "Our client states that he must be compensated, in the least, for all the sufferings that he and his family have undergone and are likely to undergo in future." "He further states that he is still far from being all right and has to be under medical care for a long time to come. Therefore, for all the trauma he is undergoing and with an uncertain future in his health, he should be given a financial compensation of Rs. 5 crore within two weeks from the receipt of this notice," it added. The notice also said that testing, manufacturing and the distribution of the vaccine should also be stopped immediately, "failing which he has no other option except to take appropriate legal action against all the concerned parties, who would be made responsible for all the costs and consequences".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-526
29-11-2020||India||UP opposition parties flay Centre, ask it to reconsider three farm laws||With farmers of at least three states laying siege on Delhi borders in protest against the three central farm laws, the Uttar Pradesh opposition parties on Sunday hit out at the Centre, asking it to reconsider these laws. "The farmers of the country are angry and agitated over the three farm laws enacted recently by the Centre. It would be better if the Centre reconsiders these laws enacted without forging any consensus with farmers," said Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati in a tweet in Hindi on Sunday. Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav too flayed the Centre, accusing it of seeking to mortgage the country to the rich. "Insulting farmers by calling them terrorists is the worst face of the BJP. The BJP, which favours the rich, is conspiring to mortgage farms, farming, small business, trading, roads, transportation and everything else to the rich," he too said in a Hindi tweet. "If farmers are terrorists for the BJP, the BJP leaders and workers should pledge not to consume the food grown by them," he added. Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee chief Ajay Kumar Lallu said that the party will continue its fight till the laws are withdrawn. Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (Lohia) president Shivpal Yadav too urged the Centre to consider its farm laws, while criticising the use of force on farmers heading to Delhi from Punjab and Haryana. He said the Centre must reconsider the farm laws. "Those caning the 'anndatas' (grain providers) are not t to stay in power. Major problems can be resolved through talks. There is no place in a democracy for repression of public aspiration, said Shivpal Yadav. Rashtriya Kisan Manch president too accused the Centre of repressing farmers and urged it to reconsider the farm laws. For the past two days, thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh have been laying siege at different borders of the national capital in protest against the central farm laws. Farmers protesting against the Centre's three farm laws have been expressing fears that these laws would lead to the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporates. Seeking to allay farmers' fears, the Centre has been insisting these newly enacted laws would give farmers greater market access across the country and increase their income.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-526
29-11-2020||India||Vaccine: DCGI, ethics committee probing claim of ill-effect in trial||The Drugs Controller General of India and the institutional ethics committee at the implementation site are inspecting if the negative event as claimed to have been suffered by a Covid-19 vaccine volunteer in Chennai are linked with the shot administered to him. A 40-year-old business consultant from Chennai, who received a trial shot of the vaccine administered to him by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India, has sought for Rs 5 crore as compensation for allegedly developing serious psychological and neurological symptoms after taking the dose. He was administered the shot at Chennai's Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research (SRIHER), one of the trial sites on October 1. A law firm on his behalf has now sent a legal notice to Director General, ICMR, Drugs Controller General of India, Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, CEO, AstraZeneca UK, Professor Andrew Pollard, Chief Investigator, Oxford Vaccine Trial and Vice Chancellor of Sri Ramachandra Higher Education and Research. Besides the compensation of Rs 5 crore, the man has also demanded that the testing, manufacturing and distribution of the vaccine be stopped immediately. Dr Samiran Panda, who heads the Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases (ECD) division of the ICMR, said, “Any hurried inquiry or inference is prone to be wrong. Both the institutional ethics committee and the DCGI are investigating the causal links, if any, between the adverse events and investigational product, which is an anti-coronavirus vaccine.” The DCGI had on September 11 directed the SII not to sign up any new volunteers in phase II and III trials of the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine candidate till further orders. This comes in view of the pharma giant stopping the vaccine trials abroad due to an ''an unexplained illness'' of a volunteer. However, on September 15 it permitted the Serum Institute of India to recommence the trial. "Our client states that he must be compensated, in the least, for all the sufferings that he and his family have undergone and are likely to undergo in future,” the November 21 notice of the law firm states. "He further states that he is still far from being all right and has to be under medical care for a long time to come. Therefore, for all the trauma he is undergoing and with an uncertain future in his health, he should be given a financial compensation of Rs. 5 crores within two weeks from the receipt of this notice," it adds. The notice also states that the testing, manufacturing and the distribution of the vaccine should also be stopped immediately, "failing which he has no other option except to take appropriate legal action against all the concerned parties, who would be made responsible for all the costs and consequences".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-526
29-11-2020||India||Farmers spurn Shah offer, calls for unconditional talks||Farmers protesting against the Centre's three farm laws decided on Sunday not to shift to the Burari ground in the national capital and stay put at the Delhi borders. Union Home Minister Amit Shah had on Saturday appealed to the farmers to shift to the Sant Nirankari ground in Burari that was offered to them for peaceful protests and said the Centre was ready to hold discussions with them as soon as they move to the designated place. But thousands of farmers continued to protest at the Singhu and Tikri borders on the fourth consecutive day on Sunday. “We have decided that we will stay put at the Delhi borders. We will not go to Burari,” Bharatiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda) president Buta Singh Burjgill said over the phone. The decision was taken by representatives of several farmers organisations, he said. Farmer leader Harmeet Singh Kadian, who is the president of BKU (Kadian), too said that the protesters would not shift to the Burari ground. Reacting to the Union home minister's appeal, Kadian told reporters near the Singhu border that the Centre should not impose any condition for holding talks with the farmers. “We do not want any pre-condition. We want a meeting TO be held without any condition. We are ready for talks,” Kadian said. More farmers were likely to join the protesters at the Delhi borders soon, a farmer leader said. The All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh and various factions of Bharatiya Kisan Union had given the call for the “Dilli Chalo” march. Farmers protesting against the Centre's three farm laws have expressed apprehension that these will pave a way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporates. The Centre has invited several Punjab farmer organisations for another round of talks in Delhi on December 3 amid efforts by various sections of the ruling establishment to label the agitation as “Khalistani” and “Congress-sponsored”. “Haryana chief minister M.L. Khattar should make up his mind first. One moment he says Khalistani elements are involved. The next moment he says Amarinder Singh is behind it. Is Amarinder a Khalistani?” Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh asked on Saturday. He referred to a video clip in which an angry farmer is heard saying that if Indira Gandhi could be targeted, who was Modi. The same clip, which seemed to represent the personal rant of an anguished individual, was cited by the BJP’s IT cell chief, Amit Malviya, too. While police in Haryana and Delhi, which both report to BJP governments, have moved heaven and earth to stop the farmers from marching to Delhi — digging up highways, firing tear gas shells, putting up barbed wire fences, blocking roads with trucks and firing water cannons at the protesters, a large number of whom are elderly — the party’s leaders have attempted to malign the farmers by linking them with “Khalistanis”. On Saturday, hundreds of farmers from BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh arrived at the state’s Ghazipur border with Delhi to join the agitation for the repeal of the farm laws, forced through Parliament by the Modi government. Farmers came from Madhya Pradesh too, another BJP-ruled state, besides Congress-ruled Rajasthan. In Haryana, BJP ally JJP gave the lie to Khattar’s statement that only Punjab’s farmers were protesting when it issued a statement saying: “During the past two days, farmers, especially those from Haryana and Punjab, are marching to Delhi in support of their demands. Thousands of farmers are on roads to keep their views before the government….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-526
29-11-2020||India||UP lodges its first case under the new anti-conversion law||Uttar Pradesh has lodged its first case under the new anti-conversion law at Bareilly district on the basis of a complaint filed by the father of a young woman. According to officials, the case was registered in the district's Devarniyan police station on Saturday. Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Awasthi issued a statement on Sunday saying that a case was registered by Tikaram, a resident of Sharif Nagar village under Devarniyan police station (in Bareilly). He accused that a man named Uvaish Ahmed, also a resident of the same village, had tried to convert his daughter through "allurement" (bahla-phuslaakar). The case was filed under the new law against Ahmed. On Saturday, Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel gave assent to an ordinance against forcible or fraudulent religious conversions that provides for imprisonment up to 10 years and a maximum fine of Rs 50,000 under different categories. The promulgation of the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, came four days after the Yogi Adityanath government approved the draft of the legislation which also curbs religious conversions only for the sake of marriage. Under the law which deals with different categories of offences, a marriage will be declared "null and void" if the conversion of a woman is solely for that purpose, and those wishing to change their religion after marriage need to apply to the district magistrate. The ordinance mainly envisages that no person shall convert, either directly or indirectly from one religion to another by use or practice of misrepresentation, force, undue influence, coercion, allurement or by any fraudulent means or by marriage nor shall any person abet, convince or conspire such conversion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-526
29-11-2020||India||New farm laws have reduced farmers’ issues: Modi||As farmers carried out their protest braving the chilly winters in Delhi against the Central farm laws, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday asserted that they have not only unchained farmers from several shackles but have also given them new rights and opportunities. Addressing his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat, the prime minister said that the recent amendments have started to reduce the problems of farmers in a short span of time, citing the example of  a Maharashtra farmer who used the provisions of the new laws to get the money guaranteed to him by a trader. "Since ages, these demands of farmers which at one point of time or the other all political parties had promised to them, have now been fulfilled. After deep deliberations, Parliament recently passed farm reform laws," Modi said. "These reforms have not only freed the farmers from various shackles, but have also given them new rights and opportunities. In such a short span of time, these rights have started reducing the problems of farmers," he added. The comments from the prime minister comes at the backdrop of thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, have crossed several hurdles to march to Delhi, gathering at the borders of the national capital as well as the Burari ground, determined to voice against the laws. They have gone through several adversities, including facing water cannons, teargas and batons from the police at Delhi and Haryana. During his address, Modi touched upon various other topics ranging from the idol of goddess Annapurna, stolen in 1913 from Varanasi, being brought back to India from Canada, to emphasising that educational institutions should harness the strengths and talents of their alumni. He also hailed the opening of the Kartarpur Sahib corridor in November last year as historic. The culture of India is gaining popularity all over the world, he noted. "One such effort is by Jonas Masetti, who is based in Brazil and popularises Vedanta as well as the Gita among people there. He uses technology effectively to popularise our culture and ethos," Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-526
29-11-2020||India||Delhi to record its coldest November in 10 years||Delhi is set to record its coldest November in at least 10 years, the Meteorological Department said, adding that the mean minimum temperature of the month hovered around 10 degrees Celsius this year. The national capital has an average minimum temperature of 12.9 degrees Celsius during November. From November 1 to November 29, the city has recorded a mean minimum temperature of 10.3 degrees Celsius, which is the lowest in at least a decade, India Meteorological Department data shows. The mean minimum temperature was 15 degrees Celsius last year, 13.4 degrees Celsius in 2018 and 12.8 degrees Celsius in 2017 and 2016. With the minimum temperature remaining less than 10 degrees Celsius for the seventh consecutive day this month, Delhi’s lowest temperature today was recorded at 7 degrees Celsius. “On November 23, Delhi recorded a minimum of 6.3 degrees Celsius -- its lowest minimum temperature in the month since November 2003, when the city recorded a minimum of 6.1 degrees Celsius,” Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said. The minimum temperature this month, barring on November 16, has remained 2-3 degrees Celsius below normal in the absence of a cloud cover on most days, according to IMD officials. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground. The month of October was the coldest in 58 years in the national capital. The mean minimum temperature in October this year was 17.2 degrees Celsius, the lowest since 1962, when it was 16.9 degrees Celsius.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-527
29-11-2020||India||Delhi’s air quality remains poor, likely to worsen further||Delhi’s air quality remained in the ‘poor’ category on Sunday and is expected to deteriorate further due to a fall in temperatures and calmer winds. The Air Quality Index of the national capital stood at 245 at 9 am. The 24-hour average was 231 on Saturday, 137 on Friday, 302 on Thursday and 413 on Wednesday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". The Meteorological Department said while the maximum wind speed was 15 kmph on Saturday, it might reduce to 8 to 12 kmph on Sunday and Monday. “Winds are predicted to slow down on Sunday. Therefore, Delhi's air quality is likely to deteriorate further and remain in the "poor" to "very poor" category over the next two days,” the Met department said. The minimum temperature was recorded at 7 degrees Celsius on Sunday, while the maximum is predicted to settle around 26 degrees Celsius, it added. Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion. The share of stubble burning in Delhi's pollution has also reduced significantly as the harvesting season has ended. The contribution of stubble burning in neighbouring states to Delhi's PM2.5 levels was 4 percent on Saturday, 2 per cent on Friday and just 1 per cent on Thursday, according to the Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-527
29-11-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally inches 94-lakh mark||India’s Covid-19 tally has surged to 93.93 lakh with 41,810 cases over the past 24 hours, while 88,02,267 people have recovered from the infection, pushing the recovery rate to 93.71 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry’s data on Sunday. The total number of coronavirus cases climbed up to 92,92,919 while the death toll mounted to 1,36,696, as 496 new deaths were reported in the last 24 hours in the country, data updated at 8 am on Sunday showed. The Covid-19 fatality rate stands at 1.46 per cent. There are 4,53,956 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 4.83 per cent of the total caseload, the data mentioned. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 13,95,03,803 samples have been tested up to November 28 with 12,83,449 samples being tested on Saturday. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, and surpassed 90 lakh on November 20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-527
29-11-2020||India||CoBRA officer killed, 9 commandos injured in blast at Chhattisgarh||An officer of the Central Police Reserve Force’s (CRPF) forest warfare unit, Commando Battalion for Resolute Action (CoBRA), was killed and nine others were injured when Maoists caused an IED blast at the Sukma district of Chhattisgarh, officials said on Sunday. Assistant Commandant Nitin Bhalerao, 33, was injured in the attack and succumbed to them in the wee hours of Sunday. The improvised explosive device blast occurred around 9 pm on Saturday in the Chintalnar forest area of Sukma district, which is 400 kilometers from Raipur. The injured personnel were evacuated by a Mi-17 V5 helicopter of the IAF around midnight, after which Bhalerao passed away. Seven commandos are being treated at a hospital in Raipur while two are being given medical care at a unit hospital at Chintalnar, located in the south Bastar area of the state, the officials said. The injured troops are part of the 206th battalion of the CoBRA. The blast took place when a joint force of the local police and the CoBRA were out on a domination exercise. The team was scouting the area for the induction of five new battalions of the Central Reserve Police Force and establishment of their new camps in this area and that is when the IED went off, official sources said. Bhalerao, a resident of Nashik in Maharashtra, was a decorated commando and had been adjudged the best in various combat competitions, a senior officer of the force said. He joined the CRPF in 2010 and came to CoBRA in 2019. The CoBRA was raised by the CRPF in 2009 as a special guerrilla combat wing for undertaking anti-Naxal operations as well as combating insurgents in the northeast.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-527
29-11-2020||India||Shanties make way for Modi in Varanasi||When the police arrived on Tuesday to demolish their shanties, the 200-odd residents of Varanasi’s Sujabad slum knew that Prime Minister Narendra Modi would be visiting the neighbourhood again. The homes of these 70 families had been demolished also on February 12, four days before Modi’s previous trip to his constituency. Modi will now reach Varanasi on November 30. The Prime Minister is scheduled to watch a festive Kartik Purnima spectacle on the Ganga’s ghats and a light-and-sound show in nearby Sarnath. “Last time, bulldozers razed our huts of mud, plastic sheets and hay because Modiji was to unveil a statue of Deendayal Upadhyaya in the nearby Padav locality. Sujabad lay on his route,” Ram Das, 70, told The Telegraph over the phone on Friday. “We are getting used to such things. There is no denying that we are a blemish on the face of the constituency of PM Sir,” Das said. Jeera Devi, 50, said: “I wonder if PM Sir would ask his officers to provide an annual schedule of his programmes so that we could ourselves demolish our homes and shift four days before his visits and return after a few weeks.” After the February expulsion, “some of us went outside the city for a few months while others shifted to the lanes and alleyways near Sujabad along the Ganga”, Das said. The families — Dalits from the Dharkar or Bansfor caste who have lived in Sujabad for decades, making and selling bamboo products like baskets, mats and hand fans — survived somehow with help from local NGOs. “We gradually began returning at the end of October after some social workers got the authorities to give the go-ahead. Now, a month on, the ordeal has begun again,” Das said. He said the slum dwellers had this time built makeshift shanties of bamboo and plastic alone, and the police and civic workers were able to demolish them using their bare hands and sticks. Varanasi sub-divisional magistrate Pramod Kumar Pandey said: “Certain steps are taken for the security of the Prime Minister. However, we will look into the problems of these people.” State law and justice minister Neelkanth Tiwari, who is managing Modi’s programme in Varanasi, didn’t answer calls. This time the displaced families haven’t left the area. They have been living in the open on the lanes, making sure they cannot be seen from Modi’s route. However, officials have asked them to leave. Modi’s helicopter is to land in the afternoon in the Dumri locality, barely 150 metres from Sujabad. The Prime Minister will address a meeting of about 5,000 invitees in adjoining Mirzamurad, then catch a boat from nearby Rajghat to Dashaswamedh Ghat. There he will watch the celebration of Dev Deepavali, a local festival held every Kartik Purnima that marks the killing of demons by the gods. All the 80 ghats of the Ganga in Varanasi are decorated with earthen lamps on the occasion. Cultural programmes are held at the Dashaswamedh and Rajendra Prasad ghats. Later in the evening, the Prime Minister will visit Sarnath, 15km from Varanasi city, to watch a newly started light-and-sound show on the life of the Buddha. Saurabh Singh and Athira Murli, two social workers who have been helping the Sujabad slum dwellers, have handed the local administration a memorandum asking them to make alternative arrangements for these families before displacing them. Athira, who has been working with the United Nations secretary-general’s panel on digital cooperation to achieve universal connectivity by 2030, contrasted the bustle of the beautification drive on Modi’s route with the despondency of the displaced slum dwellers. “...500 municipality staff are working their way through Sujabad/ Padav this morning. There are over 200 cleaning workers (sweepers) tidying the road from Padav to Sujabad/ Dumri helipad,” he wrote in an email on Friday. He said a 1.5km stretch was “clouded” with the dust raised by JCB machines, amid “beaconing lights emerging from official vehicles pacing frantically to and fro”. “In between Padav and Dumri helipad road, along the inlet side, over 200 people — infants, children, disabled elders, women, and men — can be seen sitting with distress and disappointment evident across their faces,” Athira said, referring to the displaced families. Saurabh, who runs the Inner-voice Foundation, said he and his colleagues were trying to ensure rehabilitation for these families. “We are working on multiple efforts to get the government’s attention. Unfortunately, we’ve only had disappointments so far,” he said. Saurabh underlined that one of the displaced families’ biggest worries was the safety of their women, especially in a state that has reported a series of atrocities on young women in recent years. “With the increasing crimes against women, the mothers have the added worry of the safety of their adolescent daughters as well as other women,” he said. “Jeera (Devi) married her daughter off hurriedly in September as she had no other option to ensure her safety.” Saurabh added: “The administration has issued voter identity cards to these families against their Sujabad address. Also, the higher courts have said that any displacement should be preceded by a rehabilitation plan, but it’s never followed here.” Banarsi Lal, village panchayat chief of Sujabad where the slum is located, said: “These families had been living here for decades, but the administration refuses to recognise them as humans.” A local BJP politician, seeking anonymity, said: “We have been requesting senior government officials for a long time to make some arrangements for these people on a vacant plot of government land along the Varanasi-Chandauli road so that they are not displaced repeatedly.” He did not explain how, if the ruling party indeed wanted such a step, government officials could keep stalling it. “This time, we will take it up with the office of the Prime Minister that was opened in Varanasi in 2014 to solve the problems of the local people,” he said. The office, popularly called “mini-PMO”, witnesses regular visits by central ministers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-527
29-11-2020||India||Varanasi teachers told to light diyas for PM Modi||Nearly 1,500 schoolteachers have been given the assignment of lighting earthen lamps along the Ganga’s banks in Varanasi on Monday when Prime Minister Narendra Modi visits his constituency to attend Dev Deepavali celebrations. Academics have opposed the decision, saying teachers cannot be made to act like party cadres. This year, the Varanasi administration has decided to light five lakh diyas on the 7km stretch on the other side of the river between Raj Ghat and Assi Ghat. Chief development officer Madhusudan Hulgu has issued a direction seeking the participation of teachers in Varanasi in lighting the diyas, a programme that will last 20 minutes. The stretch has been divided into 20 sectors of 350 metres each and officials have been entrusted specific sectors. Each sector has 20 sub-sectors and each sub-sector has been assigned to a lead teacher. Each lead teacher will have a team of 15 teachers to assist in lighting the diyas. The district administration will provide the diyas, oil and cotton. The rehearsal for the event started on Thursday. Around six teachers this newspaper spoke to said they had not been provided any transport allowance. The teachers come to the ghats and take boats to reach the other side of the river for the rehearsals. Each teacher is having to spend Rs 40 to cross the river on a shared boat. Nearly 1,500 teachers, including women, have been involved. “Tomorrow will be our last rehearsal. For the past three days, we have not been able to take online classes. We travel to the other side of the Ganga and practise lighting the diyas. The administration has given the order, every teacher has to follow it,” said a teacher, preferring anonymity. Basic education officer Rakesh Singh has issued the chief development officer’s circular about lighting five lakh diyas to block education officers who have circulated it among the schoolteachers. Educationists and the Uttar Pradesh Prathamik Siksha Mitra Sangh (UPPSMS), an association of para-teachers, have criticised the move. “This is wrong. Teachers are supposed to teach. Under the Right To Education (RTE) Act, they cannot be engaged in any non-academic work except elections, census or disaster management. Lighting diyas is certainly not a teacher’s job. Such work will demotivate and demoralise teachers,” said Tribhuvan Singh, UPPSMS vice-president. Prof Madhu Prasad, a retired Delhi University teacher and member of the All India Forum for RTE, said lighting diyas at the Prime Minister’s event was party work for which teachers could not be engaged. “Party workers should do this job. Teachers cannot be replacements for party workers,” she said. Prasad said teachers deserved respect. “Treating them as cannon fodder for a spectacle meant for the Prime Minister is disrespecting them,” she said. Prasad pointed out that the Prime Minister had time to attend Dev Deepavali celebrations but not for meeting agitating farmers in Delhi. She said teachers should not be engaged in jobs related to elections, census and disaster management, too. “Most government schools do not have one teacher per class. Engaging them in non-teaching activities means the government does not bother about teaching in schools,” Prasad said. District magistrate Kasuahal Raj Sharma did not respond to calls from this newspaper. Rakesh Singh, the basis education officer, did not wish to comment. “I am in a meeting. I cannot talk,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-527
29-11-2020||India||Khattar hurls charge, awaits ‘some solid evidence’||Farmers from BJP-ruled Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh joined their comrades from Punjab at Delhi’s borders on Saturday, pushing back against the ruling party’s attempts to discredit the agitation against the Narendra Modi government’s farm laws by labelling it variously as “Khalistani” and “Congress-sponsored”. “Haryana chief minister M.L. Khattar should make up his mind first. One moment he says Khalistani elements are involved. The next moment he says Amarinder Singh is behind it. Is Amarinder a Khalistani?” Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh asked. Singh added: “What information does he have that our intelligence doesn’t have?… Instead of making funny statements on TV, why not ask the central intelligence agency to state the facts?” Khattar, whose claim that no farmers from his state were part of the agitation was answered by protesters who displayed Aadhaar cards before television cameras to show they were residents of Haryana, had declared on Friday evening that “Khalistani” separatists were part of the protests. Asked for specifics, the senior BJP leader appeared to admit he had made the dangerous allegation without verified proof, saying: “We have reports on some unwanted elements in the crowd. We will disclose the details once we get some solid evidence.” He referred to a video clip in which an angry farmer is heard saying that if Indira Gandhi could be targeted, who was Modi. The same clip, which seemed to represent the personal rant of an anguished individual, was cited by the BJP’s IT cell chief, Amit Malviya, too. While police in Haryana and Delhi, which both report to BJP governments, have moved heaven and earth to stop the farmers from marching to Delhi — digging up highways, firing tear gas shells, putting up barbed wire fences, blocking roads with trucks and firing water cannons at the protesters, a large number of whom are elderly — the party’s leaders have attempted to malign the farmers by linking them with “Khalistanis”. Malviya tweeted on Friday: “What kind of farmer agitation is this? Is Captain Amarinder Singh playing with fire? When will Congress realise that politics of aligning with radical elements has reached its sell-by date?” All television channels perceived to be close to the government have run debates in the past two days on alleged Khalistani involvement, again with no proof. The BJP’s official Twitter handle doesn’t mention the “Khalistani” angle but accuses political parties of misleading and instigating the farmers. On Saturday, hundreds of farmers from BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh arrived at the state’s Ghazipur border with Delhi to join the agitation for the repeal of the farm laws, forced through Parliament by the Modi government. Farmers came from Madhya Pradesh too, another BJP-ruled state, besides Congress-ruled Rajasthan. In Haryana, BJP ally JJP gave the lie to Khattar’s statement that only Punjab’s farmers were protesting when it issued a statement saying: “During the past two days, farmers, especially those from Haryana and Punjab, are marching to Delhi in support of their demands. Thousands of farmers are on roads to keep their views before the government….” The party urged the Centre to hold an early meeting with the farmers. The Congress, which has opposed the farm laws from the start and fully supports the protests, is moving cautiously to deny the BJP a chance to turn the government-versus-farmer issue into a Congress-BJP battle. A senior Congress leader told The Telegraph: “It is unfortunate that concerns about the future of farming, particularly the system of minimum support price, are being maligned in this manner. But we don’t want to join issue with the BJP on such baseless allegations as they are looking for diversions and are itching to discredit the movement.” Rahul Gandhi too has been restrained. Referring to the FIRs lodged against farmers by the Haryana government, he tweeted on Saturday: “To raise voice against injustice is not crime but duty. The fake FIRs filed by Modi government can’t deter the farmers. This battle will continue till the black laws are withdrawn. We believe in ‘Jai Kisan’ and will continue doing so.” He described as “dangerous” a photograph showing a BSF jawan hitting an old farmer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-527
29-11-2020||India||Doubts hang on J&K District Development Council polls||Mohammad Sultan Shah of Theed village, a Srinagar suburb, was deeply agitated when Jammu and Kashmir’s special status was scrapped last year. But the shopkeeper is unwilling to trust the seven-party alliance that wants Article 370 restored and has asked Kashmiris to vote for it and turn the District Development Council elections into a referendum on the issue. So, as the eight-phase election got under way on Saturday, Shah chose to stay away despite a trickle of voters heading towards a booth opposite his shop. “All these parties (in the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration) have been in power at one time or the other in our state, but look at the drain adjoining my shop. All these years they could not repair it,” Shah, sporting a salt-and-pepper beard, said. “How do you expect them to fight for our larger goals? I put my trust only in God.” Many others have a deeper objection to the major partners in the alliance, such as the National Conference, People’s Democratic Party and the People’s Conference. They see these parties as having helped consolidate the Indian State’s grip over Kashmir in the past. Their reluctance to vote may explain why the first phase clocked a modest 40.65 per cent turnout in the Valley. In contrast, polling was 64 per cent in Jammu division, whose Hindu majority had hailed the scrapping of the erstwhile state’s special status. The overall participation in Jammu and Kashmir stood at 52 per cent. One of the alliance’s biggest problems, therefore, is the scepticism of many ordinary Kashmiris who otherwise support its key planks: restoration of Article 370 and revocation of the new laws that allow outsiders to buy land in Jammu and Kashmir. A friend of Shah who is a mason by profession said the fault of the parties that make up the alliance is that they strengthened the “roots of the Indian State in Kashmir” over the decades. For many, National Conference founder Sheikh Abdullah’s support for Jammu and Kashmir’s accession to India is behind their current plight. Many others accuse the PDP of bringing the RSS into Jammu and Kashmir. The PDP was part of a ruling coalition with the BJP until the ally withdrew its support in 2018. “A candidate came to me asking for votes but I candidly told him that I wouldn’t vote. Are they not the same people who sold us to Delhi?” Shah’s friend said, asking not to be named. “Obviously, we are for azadi -- only that can alleviate our pain.” Apart from the perception handicap, the seven-party alliance is allegedly up against dirty tricks being played by the BJP-led central government. It claims that many of its candidates were locked up to prevent them campaigning. However, alliance leaders say they are confident of victory. “There may be people who are boycotting (the election) but there are many others who trust us and are coming out to vote for us,” Ali Mohammad, alliance candidate from the Harwan area of Srinagar, said. “But (the government machinery) is being used against us. Look at these (dozen-odd) voters: all of them have come to vote for me but are being told their names are missing.” While many Valley booths saw voters turning up in ones and twos, many others witnessed long queues despite the cold weather. State election commissioner K.K. Sharma said the voting was by and large peaceful in the 43 constituencies that voted on Saturday. The district council has 280 seats in all. Sharma said that Reasi district had recorded the highest turnout of 74.62 per cent, followed by Rajouri at 70.52 and Poonch at 68.69. All three are in Jammu. In the Kashmir division, Budgam district recorded the highest polling percentage at 56.96, while Pulwama was bottom at 6.7.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-527
29-11-2020||India||Amit Shah offers early talks to farmers||Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday evening tried to reach out to the agitating farmers, saying the government was ready to hold early talks on all their demands before the scheduled date of December 3. But for that the farmers would have to move from the highways at Delhi’s borders to the Nirankari Samagam Ground in Burari, designated for them by Delhi police. “If all the farmers’ unions want the government of India to talk soon, before December 3, then I want to assure you all that as soon as you shift your protest to a structured place, then the very next day the government is ready to hold talks over all your concerns and demands,” Shah told news agency ANI. “At many places farmers are staying with their tractors and trollies on highways in this cold. I appeal to them hat Delhi police are ready toshift you to a bigger ground. Please go there,” the BJP leader and home minister said. He assured the farmers that they would be allowed to hold their protest at the designated ground. Members of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, one of the main collectives mobilising the farmers, said the various organisations representing farmers and farm workers would meet on Sunday to decide on the course of action. Despite the apparent defiance, the intensity of the farmers’ agitation has caused concern in the government and underlined the need for handling the situation with care. Shah’s appeal seemed to bare the worry as he tried to defuse the situation by offering early talks. The government had initially sought to dismiss the agitation, feeling that it would remain confined to Congress-ruled Punjab and eventually fizzle out. However, farmers from BJP-ruled Haryana joined the marchers. On Saturday afternoon, farmers from BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh also joined the protest. Yogendra Yadav of Swaraj Abhiyan said the farmers’ resolve had forced the government to climb down. He criticised Haryana chief minister M.L. Khattar for trying to communalise the farmers’ agitation by alleging Khalistani links, calling it a sign of desperation. On how long the protests would continue, Yadav said in a video message: “It is for the government to decide how long. Meet our demands and we will go away, or else we have a lot of patience to continue with our agitation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-527
29-11-2020||West Bengal||No plans to begin classes in colleges, varsities immediately: State education minister||West Bengal education minister Partha Chatterjee on Sunday said there was no plan to start classes in colleges and universities across the state immediately. After a virtual meeting with vice-chancellors of state universities, the minister said, at present campuses cannot be opened for students due to the pandemic. "Classes will continue to be held online. The higher education department is of the view, after eliciting the opinion of VCs, that classes cannot take place on the campuses in the present situation as the pandemic is still continuing," Chatterjee said. Higher educational institutions can also extend the admission process by another 15 days at both Undergraduate and Postgraduate levels, the minister said. The UG and PG curriculum will be curtailed in consultation with the respective university authorities, he said. To a question, Chatterjee said, the first semester may also be conducted online if the situation warrants. The government had earlier said in October that it was mulling to start on-campus activities in various state-run higher educational institutions from December 1 depending on the pandemic situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-294
29-11-2020||West Bengal||Daughter held for Habra couple murder||Police on Saturday arrested the married daughter of a Habra-based elderly couple in connection with their murder at their home on September 16. The police said accused Nivedita Sandhu, 26, was arrested from the residence of her in-laws early on Saturday morning for allegedly conspiring in the murder of her parents Ramkrishna Mandal, 58, and Lila Mandal, 51, over property. Nivedita’s parents were shot by contract killer Ajoy Das, who had been engaged by her husband Bunty Sandhu after the elderly couple had refused to shell out Rs 8 lakh to clear his debts. Police had on September 24 arrested Bunty, a grocer, and Ajoy for allegedly executing the murder. Police sources said Nivedita’s role became clear while scanning the mobile phone of Ajoy.  The cops found an audio file, a recorded conversation between Nivedita and Ajoy, that amply indicated how she had hatched the murder conspiracy. Nivedita was produced before the ACJM court in Barasat that remanded her in police custody for one week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-294
29-11-2020||West Bengal||Malda police ban winter picnics||Picnics seem to be the latest casualty in this pandemic year. Malda police have banned picnics this winter in a bid to check overcrowding, and are putting up notices across the district to this effect. Alok Rajoria, the superintendent of police of Malda, said picnics would not be allowed anywhere in the district for now. “Not only popular spots, picnics won’t be allowed anywhere in the district. Police stations have been asked to put up banners and festoons to inform people about the ban,” SP Rajoria said. In Malda, thousands of picnickers — from Malda and neighbouring districts and states — gather in places like Gour, Kajigram and Sagardighi of Englishbazar, Adina and Pandua in Gazole, Chatra Lake in Old Malda and Panchanandapur in Kaliachak-II block every year, especially during winter. “Keeping in view Covid-19 safety protocols, we cannot allow such gatherings at popular picnic spots. If picnickers are allowed, it means unchecked overcrowding and may lead to a surge in Covid cases,” Rajoria added. Senior police officers have instructed all police stations to keep an eye on popular spots and ensure no group of picnickers is allowed during the next two-three months. On Saturday, such notices were found at Gour and Sagardighi. Police sources said each police station will form a team to patrol in and around popular picnic spots daily. “If a group reaches the spot unwittingly, the team will ensure they are sent back. Local clubs have also been asked to keep an eye,” a police officer said. The decision evoked a mixed reaction among residents. While most welcomed the move to keep a check on Covid infections, some said a blanket ban was “excessive”. “Instead of imposing a complete ban, the police could have kept a cap on the number of picnic parties at each spot, and issue permission to groups on a first-come, first-serve basis,” said Atanu Bose, a young healthcare professional.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-294
29-11-2020||West Bengal||Giri to address Kurseong rally ||Roshan Giri, general secretary and the second-in-command of the Bimal Gurung faction of the Morcha, reached Siliguri on Saturday. The return of Giri, who has been on the run for over three years, signalled that Gurung is also about to return and resume his political activities. On Sunday, Giri will address a public meeting at the local motor stand in Kurseong, the first public meeting of the Gurung faction since 2017. “We have got permission to hold a public meeting at Baghajatin Park in Siliguri on December 6 where Bimalji will be present. But if we perceive that the turnout of our supporters will be high, the venue can be shifted to some other larger area,” Giri told reporters at the airport. Binita Roka, a spokesperson of the Gurung camp, said, “Our party president (Gurung) will start from Calcutta on December 5 to reach Siliguri early next morning to address a public meeting there.” She also said that it is unlikely that Giri, who will ascend to Kurseong on Sunday, and Gurung, will head for Darjeeling immediately. There were indications that Gurung would first visit Dooars and Terai and only then come to Darjeeling. At the airport, hundreds of Morcha supporters of the Gurung faction had assembled since afternoon. As Giri came out of the terminal building, the elated supporters greeted him and shouted slogans. Giri, when asked about their decision to sever ties with the BJP, was critical of the party. “We did everything for the BJP during the previous elections. We had trusted them. But despite repeated assurances from leaders like Modiji (Narendra Modi) and Amit Shah on issues like permanent political solution for the hills and conferment of Scheduled Tribes status to 11 hill communities, the BJP did nothing and virtually cheated the hill residents. This is why we decided to join hands with the Trinamul and support Mamata Banerjee in the ensuing Assembly polls,” the Morcha leader said. His arrival in the region and the proclamation by the party that Gurung will be back in the region soon, has led to repercussions among other political parties of the hills, including the Binay Tamang faction of Morcha. Anit Thapa, general secretary of the Tamang faction, who is also the chairman of the board of administrators of the GTA, appealed for peace. “For three years, we have maintained peace across the hills. I would appeal to the public of Kurseong not to fear. Kurseong was peaceful even during the agitation days. I also appeal to those coming to attend the meeting (of Giri) not to come with the intention to destabilise peace in Kurseong,” said Thapa. In democracy, all political parties have the right to hold public meetings, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-294
29-11-2020||West Bengal||Suvendu skips TMC meet citing mother's ill health||Nandigram MLA Suvendu Adhikari, who stepped down from the state cabinet on Friday, gave Calcutta and a meeting with an emissary of Trinamul leadership a miss on Saturday, citing his mother’s ill health. Adhikari is, however, likely to attend and address an “apolitical” event in Mahishadal, Haldia, on Sunday. His Calcutta no-show didn’t create much of a concern within Trinamul as sources said most in the party and its chief Mamata Banerjee were prepared to carry on without him. “I have spoken to the Contai MP (Adhikari’s father Sisir). Suvendu’s mother is ill. So he cannot come to the city today (Saturday), or till she gets better,” said Trinamul vice-president Saugata Roy. Two meetings between Adhikari and Roy earlier had failed to effect a rapprochement. However, Roy said on Saturday: “He (Adhikari) is still in the party. There is still hope.” Despite Roy’s assertions, most in Trinamul feel Adhikari would quit Trinamul and so it was wise to prioritise on damage control. “Suvendu is yet to get an assurance of whatever it is he wants from the BJP. That is why he is yet to take the final leap (quitting Trinamul). She (Mamata) is not in favour of making a martyr out of him by throwing him out, so the party will cautiously wait and watch for a few more days,” said a minister. Mamata on Saturday sent Trinamul state president Subrata Bakshi for a meeting to Midnapore, after which it was decided that she would conduct a “major” rally there on December 7. That rally, in the Adhikari clan’s backyard, will be the first of a series of similar events across the state in the coming days. “She (Mamata) seems ready to move on. She seems to have no doubt about what Suvendu would do, although speculation on several possibilities remain,” said a Trinamul MP. As part of a bid to reorganise the party, on Saturday, Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee and poll strategist Prashant Kishor met senior leaders of Malda, a district handled by Adhikari. Eight leaders were asked to attend the meeting at Abhishek’s Camac Street office, but three  — district Trinamul president and Rajya Sabha member Mausam Benazir Noor, former minister Sabitri Mitra and district INTTUC chief Manab Banerjee — did not turn up. Sources said Noor took a Covid-19 test on Saturday, Mitra recently lost a relative and is in mourning and Banerjee’s mother underwent a surgery. Mihir speaks to Shah Cooch Behar South MLA Mihir Goswami, who left the TMC for the BJP in Delhi on Friday, met home minister Amit Shah on Saturday and spoke on the “neglect of north Bengal”, urging Shah to grant special status to the region. BJP sources said that the joining of Goswami would help the party as he has always had a clean image. Besides, he has always been vocal about the development needs of north Bengal. Cooch Behar MP Nisith Pramanik, instrumental in Goswami’s switch, said more prominent TMC leaders from the region would join the BJP soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-295
29-11-2020||West Bengal||TMC starts survey in districts to prevent poaching attempts||Trinamul on Saturday started a survey within the party’s district units across Bengal to identify those who owe allegiance to the 49-year-old political heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari, the exercise part of an attempt to ring-fence the party against possible poaching attempts. Adhikari cut his teeth as a politician in his home district, East Midnapore, but over the years developed his own support base across Bengal. He had, till July 23, been the party’s in-charge in six key districts — Bankura, West Midnapore, Jhargram, Murshidabad, Malda and North Dinajpur. “Senior party leaders have started the process confidentially. It is no secret that if Suvendu leaves, our organisation will face challenges in several areas if his acolytes follow him,” said a source in the ruling party. Adhikari has not resigned from Trinamul or announced his next political move, but Trinamul is not taking any chances. “Right now, only he knows what he will do. But we need to get our own house in order and be ready for possibilities (of his loyalists defecting from the party). We don’t want to lose a single party worker or leader before state polls. But we cannot tolerate saboteurs. That is why we are figuring out who they might be and keeping tabs on them,” said a senior Trinamul leader. The meetings to single out Adhikari’s followers, mainly those with organisational posts in the party, began in East Midnapore on Friday night. “At least eight of 13 MLAs from the district may follow Adhikari. Of 52 zilla parishad members, 30-odd could leave with him. There are some block-level leaders as well. We are keeping an eye on them and readying alternatives in such places,” said a senior leader in Tamluk. “In Hooghly, we have information that three MLAs, two chiefs of panchayat samitis and a dozen block-level leaders are connected with Suvendu. We will wait till they take their final decision, but we are preparing an alternative set-up,” said a party leader. On Saturday, Trinamul’s Serampore MP Kalyan Banerjee — whose testy ties with Adhikari have been in public eye for some time — was in Hooghly’s Khanakul to address a party rally, where he gave an indication of Trinamul’s mindset. Seniors in the party said “Kalighat” — Mamata and her nephew Abhishek’s residential area — was in no mood to go easy on the rebels that follow Adhikari, should he leave the party. Additional reporting by Alamgir Hossain||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-295
29-11-2020||West Bengal||Tragedy during CBI interrogation||A 45-year-old security officer of Eastern Coalfields Ltd (ECL) collapsed while being questioned by the CBI at his home and died at a hospital on Saturday in Raniganj, Bengal. The death, suspected to have been caused by a heart attack although no post-mortem was done because it occurred after hospital admission, comes in the middle of a controversy over central and state agencies stepping up alleged tit-for-tat operations to squeeze funding sources of political rivals. Around 10.30am, a CBI team went to Dhananjay Roy’s quarters at Jamuria in Raniganj, West Burdwan, in connection with a probe into illegal coal trade. The visit was said to be part of coordinated searches at over 40 locations across four states — Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh. Roy, who hails from Uttar Pradesh, was then at his office in the Kunostoria mining area of ECL in Raniganj. He was in charge of security at the mining area. Officials said Roy was asked to return to his quarters and did so immediately. At the quarters, the team of six CBI officers interrogated him from 11am. Around 25 minutes into the questioning, Roy collapsed, sources said. Roy was taken to ECL’s main hospital in Kalla, near Asansol, where doctors said he had suffered a heart attack. “Minutes after the doctors had started treating Roy at the hospital, he passed away. He didn’t have any previous heart ailment,” said Hareram Singh, the Trinamul trade union president at ECL. As Roy had died during treatment and had not been declared “brought dead”, neither was an unnatural death case drawn up nor was his body sent for a post-mortem, police said. “We have not received any complaint from his family members regarding his death. The death certificate says death due to cardiac failure,” said an officer from Asansol North police station. The CBI recently registered a case against several officials, including some from ECL, in connection with the illegal coal trade, agency officers said. The case mentions a security-in-charge, the officials said but did not reveal the person’s name. A case has also been registered against alleged coal pilferer Anup Majhi a.k.a. Lala and other unidentified people, the officials said. Anup, who the CBI says is absconding, is allegedly involved in illegal mining and coal theft from leasehold mines of ECL in Kunustoria and Kajora areas. The CBI’s search operations in Bengal came within six days of Calcutta police arresting Govind Agarwal in connection with a corruption case against an income-tax officer. Agarwal had been named a co-conspirator in the two-year-old corruption case against Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officer Neeraj Singh, who was additional director of the income-tax department in Calcutta a few years ago. Singh is under suspension now. Soon after Agarwal’s arrest, governor Jagdeep Dhankhar had tweeted about “alarming worrisome inputs from CA fraternity” and a “politically inspired operation”. Some sources felt the CBI operation on Saturday was intended at sending a message to the Bengal government. In Bengal, separate teams from the CBI’s anti-corruption branch searched locations in Calcutta, Salt Lake, South 24-Parganas, Purulia, Asansol and Raniganj. A CBI team visited Anup’s home in Salt Lake as well as his offices in Calcutta and sealed them. A few days ago, income-tax officers had searched Anup’s offices in Calcutta and Asansol following allegations that he had evaded GST payments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-295
29-11-2020||West Bengal||Bengal records drop in active Covid cases for 33rd day||Bengal on Saturday reported 3,487 Covid-19 recoveries, 3,459 new infections and 52 deaths, including 14 from Calcutta.  The state saw a drop in total active cases for the 33rd consecutive day since Dashami on October 26. Since Dashami, the state logged over 1.34 lakh recoveries, outweighing 1.23 lakh new infections detected. From 37,190 on October 26, there are 24,527 active cases in Bengal now. The state’s recovery rate reached 93.12 on Saturday, close to the national rate of 93.68 per cent. The state’s mortality rate is now 1.74, compared to the 1.45 per cent nationally. “Our aim now is to get the total of active cases to below 20,000 and the recovery rate past 97 by the end of December. We are on track for both,” said a minister. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja-Diwali and Chhath, and the number of infections from festive days suggest that the intervention was effective. “The court will probably issue instructions for the Christmas-New Year spell as well, although there are is no pandal-hopping or fireworks involved in that phase,” added the minister. Bengal’s total of Covid-19 cases is over 4.77 lakh now, including over 4.44 lakh recoveries and 8,322 deaths. With 45,183 tests on Saturday, the state’s total test count went past 57.89 lakh, at 64,328 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.25 per cent. Of the total toll, 6,963 or 83.7 per cent are comorbid deaths. “Lowering the mortality rate is an area where the improvement has been very slow for us, despite several measures, for many months now. This is an area that will get more intervention, over the next couple of months,” said the minister. The state reported 28.06 per cent occupancy in the 13,538 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 102 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 4.9 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-295
29-11-2020||West Bengal||BJP workers ransack Trinamul party offices on Suvendu’s turf||At least 100 alleged BJP workers came on bikes to “ransack and capture” at least six Trinamul party offices in East Midnapore’s Khejuri, known as a stronghold of former transport minister Suvendu Adhikari, late on Friday, hours after he resigned from the state cabinet. “Late on Friday night, some hundred people stormed the area on bikes, raised pro-BJP slogans before vandalising the offices and setting furniture on fire. They threw Trinamul flags and hoisted those of the BJP at six party offices in the area,” said a Khejuri resident, who lives near the “captured” party office in Alichowk. “BJP supporters” captured Trinamul party offices at Birbandar, Patna and Conthibari in Khejuri-I and three in Khejuri-II’s Bansgora area, he added. The scenes were reminiscent of Trinamul capturing 151 Left party offices in Nandigram and Khejuri stamping its dominance in the region with Adhikari defeating CPM’s Lakshman Seth to bag the Tamluk Lok Sabha seat in the 2009 Lok Sabha polls, pointed out many villagers. Trinamul leaders, who did not wish to be named, linked Friday’s incident to Adhikari’s resignation from Mamata Banerjee’s cabinet. Though the local BJP leadership tried to distance themselves from it, CPM leaders, including Khejuri’s Himanshu Das, called it “payback time” for TMC. CPM veteran Sujan Chakraborty said the “culture of capturing (rival) party offices was started by Mamata Banerjee’s party”. BJP’s mandal chief in Khejuri, Suman Das, said the capture of Trinamul offices was “not organised” and an “outburst” of people’s anger. On Saturday, Trinamul workers blocked the Heria-Boga state highway in Khejuri from 8am for two hours and demanded the arrest of those responsible for capturing party offices. Later, Trinamul workers threw away BJP flags and hoisted their own at one captured party office. “BJP goons have been sent to disturb peace in Khejuri. They need to be punished,” said Birbandar gram panchayat chief and Trinamul leader Sheikh Nowsher Ali. Adhikari, who resigned from the ministry, is yet to resign from Trinamul or announce plans of joining the BJP, as is widely speculated. TMC block president Biman Nayak played down the incident and said Adhikari was “still with Trinamul”. But local Trinamul leaders are worried about Nandigram and Khejuri in case Adhikari, who has a strong mass appeal here, resigns from the party. “Trinamul is in shock mode now. We are waking up to the reality that the BJP is emerging as a force in the region,” said a Trinamul leader preferring to be anonymous. Beyond East Midnapore, ripples of Adhikari’s resignation from the ministry were felt in Hooghly’s Kanaipur, where Trinamul supporters tore down several flex banners put up by Adhikari’s supporters, and set them on fire. They chanted there was “only one leader in Trinamul, and it was Mamata Banerjee and no one else”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-295
29-11-2020||Opinion||Bolega to bologe ki boltaa hai||Learn not to say things as they are. It does not do to call a spade a spade. That might, as a matter of fact, mean your undoing. It isn’t an easy or simple proposition any longer, calling things what they are, but that is how it seems things will be. Don’t call a darkened sky a darkened sky, the clouds may scream, “Racist!” Come winter and it begins to feel cold. Whereas in summer it feels hot. Winters are cold. Summers are hot. That is why one is called that and the other this. You call winters, winter. You call summers, summer. Like you call a liar, a liar. And a fool a fool. Or a thief a thief and a charlatan a charlatan. They are words, they fit descriptions. Like a flower is called a flower, and a thorn a thorn and one cannot or should not be called the other. Some flowers are fragrant. Some flowers are foul. A cauliflower, for instance, especially when stuffed into a paratha. A foul thing is a foul thing. And the thing about a cauliflower grated into flour and served — baked, roasted, pan fried, deep fried, drizzled in oil or butter or in ghee, whatever — leads to fouler things. Try it out if you wouldn’t believe me. The season now is winter, there will be occasion to partake of cauliflower, and there will be occasion to slip under a quilt. Tell me about it sometime. You don’t have to take offence. Although you very well may, seeing which way the drift of things is; you may take more than offence. You may take umbrage, cabbage, all manner of things. All of it over a cauliflower being called a cauliflower that smells foul, or quite unlike a narcissus or a lily drenched in the effusive intoxications of monsoon rain. But a lily may not be called a lily, who knows, and narcissus no longer a narcissus. Trouble these days is, you call a thing a thing, and nothing but the right thing, and you are likely to get blamed, even punished, for calling a thing a thing that it is. What do you call something or someone short? Short. But folks don’t understand. Understanding is no longer the thing to do; misunderstanding is the preferred thing. You call a place to get drunk a bar, and the eminences of the bar take exception. You calling a bar a bar? How dare you? Tomorrow you’ll insist on calling a dog a dog and an ass an ass. An ass might take offence, and a dog might turn to say, well mind you, Sir, but do you mind calling me by my name? It’s Marmaduke, sired by Montmorency. And the one that you call a bitch, well, she’s not a bitch, excuse me, she goes by the name Gwendolyn, begotten by Gerda. Understood? Women won’t be called female, well, isn’t that just a derivative of male? And men might someday turn up their noses at being labelled male — isn’t that just a truncated form of female? Leh! Learn not to call a thing because it is just that. A rascal may not be called a rascal, or a goon, a goon. Black is not a colour to be identified as black or called that, nor white, white. That won’t do any longer. The rules have changed. Rules are actually not rules, and the law, well, well, the law is a work in progress and may temporarily be masquerading in high places under the alias of flaw. A court is liable to be called a court. And a kangaroo, a kangaroo. Now you could blame me for calling a kangaroo, a kangaroo, or a court, a court, but enlighten me what else may they be called. It’s even been said, on good authority, to no more call a joke, a joke. That’s not funny, and certainly no laughing matter. Call a joke, a joke and see what happens. Blame me not, beware you My patience do not tempt You’ll be rubbed under my shoe For all you’ve just said is contempt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-110
29-11-2020||Opinion||Unparalleled high: The ever-illusive Kanchenjunga||Sir — The article, “Magic mountain” (Nov 25), by Uddalak Mukherjee evoked a wonderful personal memory in connection with the Kanchenjunga. On my first visit to Darjeeling as a school student I clearly remember, we went to one of the several view-points in the hill station early in the morning to get a glimpse of the Kanchenjunga at sunrise. We were really lucky that day, since not only did we get a mesmerizing view of the Kanchenjunga without any cloud cover, but we also got to see it in the company of the legendary Bengali actor, Rabi Ghosh, who, too, had come to see the sun rise on the mountain. Although decades have passed since then, this incident is still clearly etched in my mind. Sourish Misra, Calcutta Sir — The name Darjeeling has become synonymous with that of the Kanchenjunga. My first visit to Darjeeling and Sikkim in the same year had been with just one aim in mind, seeing the third-highest peak in the world. Incidentally, it was perhaps at the same eatery that Uddalak Mukherjee mentions in his piece that I had first seen that majestic snow covered mountain peak. I saw it again from Gangtok — the Kanchenjunga makes one feel as if it is travelling with you. Even then, it appeared to me as no less than a vanilla ice cream. Bengalis are after all mad when it comes to the Kanchenjunga. The hujuge Bengali will do anything to get a glimpse of the Kanchenjunga, some even rush to Darjeeling when they hear of snowfall there. Although I spent my childhood in Kashmir, the so-called paradise on earth, where I have seen the snow covered peaks of Pir Panjal and Karakoram, none of these I feel can match the beauty and the majesty of the Kanchenjunga. Watching the peak in the month of April or May from Tonglu, en route the rhododendron filled Singalila National Park is simply incomparable. Alok Ganguly, Kalyani Sir — The ever-illusive Kanchenjunga seems almost like a grim reminder of how tiny and insignificant we are in the greater scope of the universe. Seeing the peak reveal itself, bit by bit, changing colour from grey to pink, orange and then glistening silver in the freezing air of dawn can be a deeply spiritual experience. Generations of Bengalis, monkey-capped and muffler-ed, have gone in the dead of night to Tiger Hill near Darjeeling in the hope of seeing the sun rise over that peak. In Satyajit Ray’s film, Kanchenjungha, the Roy Chaudhuri family spends its whole vacation denied a glimpse of the peak. When the mist finally lifts, they are too preoccupied to notice the dazzling sight. We have all grown up hearing Kanchenjunga-miss stories all our lives. “The day after we left, we heard it was completely clear,” is the most common refrain. That frustration is part of the allure of the peak. There is some strange pleasure in being repeatedly thwarted in that endeavour, a peculiarly Bengali pleasure in disappointment, like that of a rebuffed lover returning repeatedly in plaintive courtship. A.K. Sen, Calcutta Sir — Uddalak Mukherjee’s parallel between the reel and real lives of the Kanchenjunga repeats a well-known tale. These facts are known to all who are conversant with Satyajit Ray’s oeuvre. Besides, he has named the heroine of the film, Kanchenjungha, played so memorably by Alokananda Ray, as Monica when her name was Monisha. Haimanti Dutta Ray, Calcutta Hell in a handbag Sir — An Italian designer brand has launched the world’s most expensive bag priced at six million euros (more than 52 crore rupees). The diamond-encrusted bag is meant to raise awareness about the damage caused to oceans by non-biodegradable plastic with 800,000 euros per bag being donated to this cause. It is ironic then that the bag is made from alligator skin and has diamonds, sapphires and other precious stones which have been mined at great ecological and socio-economic cost to the planet. Will those buying such a product care about what is happening to the ocean?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-110
29-11-2020||Opinion||A quack-quack here. A quack-quack there||“I WON THIS ELECTION, BY A LOT! (sic)” tweeted Donald Trump on November 7. No one can blame the Twitter handle @realDonaldTrump of maintaining presidential gravitas the last four years. But ever since the vote counting for the United States presidential polls got underway, it has shivered away into one neurotic chatter. For someone who foregrounded an all-cap-victory, the Republican continued to protest too much.  November 8. “Bad things happened which our observers were not allowed to see.” November 9. He shifts to blaming the media for calling out the elections in Joe Biden’s favour. November 10 tweets constitute updates from Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, Georgia, Nevada, with a fair bit of name-calling. Then suddenly, there is talk of vaccines. Ouch! It turns out that a vaccine for Covid-19 is peg to hang more accusations from. Potus blames vaccine makers for lacking the “courage” to announce vaccines before the elections. He warns citizens of the United States of Twitter, “If Joe Biden were President, you wouldn’t have the vaccine for another four years…” And to think some people in India were cringing at the BJP’s very conditional promise of free vaccines in Bihar post an NDA win. In any case, Trump’s all-caps tweets keep coming at intervals. Sample this one: “WE ARE MAKING BIG PROGRESS… MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN! WE WILL WIN!” November 11 to 14. Continuing talk of rigged elections. He says, “This election was rigged, from Dominion all the way up and down!”  And on November 15, he first concedes --- albeit tangentially --- that Biden has won. He tweets, “He won because the election was rigged.” Goo Goo Gaga November 16. He is still eddying in contradictions. He is crying himself hoarse saying the elections were “most fraudulent” and “dead people voted”. He is also saying in a loop “We will win”. One tweet that is sure to have got Hillary Clinton’s goat is this: “…The only thing secure about our 2020 Election was that it was virtually impenetrable by foreign powers.” By this time, what with the bawling and blabber --- “Vaccines are coming fast” and “Joe Biden was a total disaster in handling the H1N1 Swine Flu…” --- one can no longer tell if this is the handle of the 45th President of United States or an infant scorned. Out of somewhere, the hashtag DiaperDon starts to trend and almost every other tweet now comes pinned with a Twitter disclaimer about veracity, etc. But Earth hath no fury like a presidential crybaby and when his favourite rattle cannot produce the desired effect, he will junk it, of course. After a couple of messages about Twitter sending out “totally false trends”, @realDonaldTrump tweets on Thanksgiving Day, “For purposes of National Security, Section 230 must be immediately terminated!!!” Suffice to say, Section 230 protects social media companies from liability for content posted by users. Now, now, babies will be babies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-110
29-11-2020||Opinion||Ram Madhav let's it rip while rivals go gaga over Gogoi||Ram Madhav’s apparent anger over being sidelined seems to be oozing out. Possibly because he has sensed that there is no hope of rehabilitation, at least in the near future. For the second time since he was dropped as party general-secretary, the well-networked leader has written an article that has raised eyebrows both within the party and in the corridors of the government. The articles have been viewed as an oblique attack on the current regime. Since both the articles have appeared in a prominent Delhi newspaper, they have been widely noticed. “India’s democracy, as envisaged by the makers of its Constitution, thrived essentially because of the respect of the leaders for ethical constitutionalism and moral activism of the grassroots activists,” Madhav wrote in his latest article. “Neither should see the other as an enemy and try to bring them down,” he added. The article sought to highlight the importance of “public morality and unelected institutions” as necessary checks on an elected government. The Narendra Modi government has been widely accused of weakening unelected institutions and seeking to crush grass-roots activists. Many party leaders are wondering what is driving the leader, committed to the saffron ideology, to go this far. Glowing tributes can often leave one surprised. Take, for instance, the tributes offered to the veteran Congressman and Assam’s longest-serving chief minister, Tarun Gogoi, who passed away on November 23. Some of it would have surprised even the astute, blunt and ever-smiling politician, who never sought or claimed greatness and was sporting enough to laugh even if the joke was on him. This is because the best tributes came from people or organizations who were bitter critics of his government. The ones which stood out included that from his close aide-turned-political adversary, Himanta Biswa Sarma. The Bharatiya Janata Party’s pointsman in the Northeast who left the Congress after falling out with Gogoi and is often credited with single-handedly ending Gogoi’s 15-year-reign, hailed him as a mahanayak, a visionary and a people’s man who rescued the state from years of darkness and pushed for new development initiatives or the NRC to weed out illegal migrants. The top brass of the All Assam Students’ Union hailed him as a leader of a national party with a regional outlook for his democratic and humane approach to resolving complex situations. AASU was one of Gogoi’s most bitter and vocal critics. This is not all. Even the All India United Democratic Front chief, Badruddin Ajmal, whose decision to float his party after falling out with Gogoi led to the erosion of the Congress’s Muslim vote bank, sobbed at the death of the “dynamic leader’ who knew how to “maintain a respectful relationship” even with those opposing him. He has left a legacy which will always be remembered, said Ajmal. The rousing and united send-off Gogoi received during his last journey despite Covid-19 protocols further established his popularity and standing; this is a void the Congress and Assam will find difficult to fill. Such was Tarun Gogoi’s charisma that the BJP-led Assam government had even declared three days mourning following the death of former chief minister. The ruling BJP and the Opposition party, the Congress, were in mourning together. But the day after the mourning ended, BJP leaders changed gear, resuming their campaign for the Bodoland Territorial Council polls, releasing the manifesto and launching a blistering attack on rival Bodoland People’s Front. It was hard to believe that the BJP was in mourning a day earlier. The BJP is going all out to unseat the BPF as success here would help it get momentum for the assembly polls early next year. There is no time to lose for a party which treats each and every election with utmost seriousness. The sudden demise of Ahmed Patel has triggered speculation about who could become the permanent treasurer of the Congress. (The party announced Pawan Bansal’s name as ‘interim treasurer’.) The entire discourse is based on the misconception that the treasurer is supposed to raise funds for the party. Funding, corporate donations or other contributions mostly happen on the strength of the party and the contacts of individual leaders, not the stature of the treasurer. The most important qualification of the treasurer is having the trust of the supreme leader. Two famous Congress treasurers — Sitaram Kesri and Motilal Vora — were not known to be fund-raisers. Their virtue was their honesty: they kept the money safe for the party. Party presidents trusted them and these two also knew their leader’s mind. While Kesri didn’t even help his family — his son survives on petty businesses — Vora’s credentials too are said to be impeccable. Ahmed Patel was two-in-one, a fund-raiser and a trusted custodian of resources. Such finished products aren’t ready to order. There are leaders like Kamal Nath, Digvijaya Singh, P Chidambaram, Ashok Gehlot and DK Shivakumar who are capable of raising funds but it is unlikely they will be appointed treasurer. Although it is too early to guess names, Rahul’s aide, Kanishka Singh, who enjoys complete trust of the family, could be given the job. One wonders what Bansal has to say about these whispers. The Kerala state Congress president, M Ramachandran, has a challenging task at hand: steering his party and the United Democratic Front to victory in the upcoming local body polls. But within days of announcing the ‘A vote against corruption’ as the campaign slogan came the arrest of reportedly two UDF lawmakers in multi-crore corruption and cheating cases. Soon after, an old bribery case allegedly involving leader of the Opposition, Ramesh Chennithala, came back to haunt the Congress. With young guns in the party gunning for him, all that Ramachandran wants is to take control of the local bodies ahead of the state polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-110
29-11-2020||Opinion||Paradox day||The Union government proclaims its devotion to the Constitution. In 2015, B.R. Ambedkar’s 125th birth anniversary, it marked November 26 as Constitution Day to promote constitutional values among citizens. This Samvidhan Divas, the prime minister emphasized the importance of duties in the Constitution, which Mahatma Gandhi was keen on, perceiving a close link between duties and rights. Invocations to Gandhi and Ambedkar infused with righteousness Narendra Modi’s message to citizens that rights were safeguarded when duties were performed. Maybe the meaning of that was being demonstrated that very day by the barring of farmers from entering Haryana on their way to Delhi to ask for changes to the new farm laws, such as the inclusion of a minimum support price. Were they failing in their duty of compliance? The new farm and labour laws were rammed through Parliament in September amid the Opposition’s protests, suspensions and subsequent boycott. The government ignored the Opposition request for review of the agriculture bills. That procedure was ignored at every level is not novel. Parliament, where the legislature checks and balances the power of the executive and on whose steps Mr Modi touched his forehead — as holy as the Ram Mandir? — when entering it as prime minister designate in May 2014, is becoming irrelevant. In its first stint, for example, the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government, among many actions, got electoral bonds — making election funding opaque — passed through a money bill to avoid the Rajya Sabha’s scrutiny. Having returned in 2019 with the advantages reaped by its step-by-step dismantling of constitutional requirements, the government could scrap Article 370 for Jammu and Kashmir, say, or kill question hour in Parliament. The approach is multi-pronged. Depriving institutions such as the Central Information Commission of their independence or silencing dissent with violence — sometimes lethal — and imprisonment accompanies the turning of secularism into a bad joke by means ranging from murders by cow vigilantes and threats against interfaith marriages to citizenship laws that corner a minority community. The Supreme Court’s reluctance to countenance cases under Article 32, which Ambedkar believed to be the ‘soul’ of the Constitution, is unnerving in this situation. Is it coincidental that the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh and the Hindu Mahasabha found nothing ‘Bharatiya’ in the democratic, secular Constitution and demanded instead the Manusmriti’s laws — by which ‘Shudras’ served meekly as did women? The first president of the Hindu Mahasabha met Mussolini and realized that militarizing Hindu society on the lines of youth organizations in Germany and Italy was most desirable. He liked the RSS for beginning the job. That is the meaning of ‘Bharatiya’. So when Mr Modi called for ‘one nation, one election’ in his discourse on the Constitution, he was probably talking of one unfamiliar to its makers. Consequently, his desire for harmony among the executive, legislature and judiciary would carry new meaning. To retrieve the Constitutional edifice, people must act — now. It is getting late.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-110
29-11-2020||Opinion||Right not rabid||In these majoritarian times, some conservative pundits, embarrassed by the feral Right and keen to seem ideologically respectable, have found an all-purpose rhetorical manoeuvre which goes like this. Progressives are to blame for the enthronement of racist, communalist and majoritarian political parties because it is the left’s ‘wokeness’, its elitist disdain for the anxieties of ordinary people and their common sense, its infatuation with minority politics that prepared the ground for the rise of the ‘hard’ right. This was the burden of Chetan Bhagat’s arguments in the course of a long interview with Karan Thapar. In country after country, fastidious, hem-raising conservatives are making the same case. Bhagat’s American counterparts argue that the reason majorities of white men and women in America voted for Donald Trump in two successive presidential elections had more to do with the smugness of liberals than the sense of white grievance that the Republican Party has cultivated since Richard Nixon inaugurated its southern strategy in 1968. By harping on racism and minorities and police brutality, progressives had driven a politically orphaned rust belt into the arms of a racist president. Had Democrats and progressives mobilized in an inclusive way, had they attended to the material needs of an alienated white working class, had they been nicer to them, Trump might never have carried the day in 2016 or have come so close to winning again. It is notable how writers (righters?) embarrassed by brazen bigotry become materialists, reproaching progressives for being culture warriors, obsessed with race and identity politics instead of constructing a broad colour-blind liberalism focused on economic well-being and social welfare. This is, in fact, exactly what Barack Obama tried when he adapted for federal purposes a scheme for medical insurance first pioneered by a Republican governor, Mitt Romney, to extend healthcare to those Americans who couldn’t afford it. Much good it did him. All the familiar right-wing bogeys, from imminent socialism to lawless federal overreach in the service of the undeserving poor (read blacks), were invoked to stymie the Affordable Care Act, a modest measure that would have been unexceptionable in most first world democracies. Conservative American writers who have supported dog-whistling Republican leaders from Nixon through Reagan to George W. Bush, who have ridden every culture-war hobby horse — from the right to bear arms, to abortion, to Christianity in the public square, to the right of religious people to discriminate against homosexuals — are now even-handedly appalled by the wokeness of progressives and Trump’s brutish ascendancy. Take, by way of example, George Will, the best of the Never Trumpers. Will is a formidable conservative columnist, who, to his credit, was implacably hostile to Trump before Trump won the 2016 election. A long-standing Republican, Will enthusiastically supported Ronald Reagan’s candidacy and famously helped him with his debate preparation against Jimmy Carter. The real difference between Reagan and Trump in the matter of racism was that Reagan slagged off black people privately or by implication while Trump is franker. Reagan’s stump speech about welfare queens was a long dog-whistle about dishonest black women gaming the welfare system. Trump, in contrast, has never made a secret of his bigotry. His long racist résumé, ranging from his campaign to execute the so-called Central Park Five (a group of black men falsely accused by Trump of assaulting and raping a white jogger) to his anti-Obama ‘birtherism’, to his enthusiasm for white militias, embarrassed sections of a right-wing commentariat, historically comfortable with discreet — therefore deniable — prejudice. This is not to trivialize the difference between dog-whistling and open racism. Hypocrisy is the tribute that vice pays to virtue: when the Right casts off the need to dissemble and lets its bigotry show, you know a nation’s politics is in trouble. The difference between glowering men in mofussil shakhas muttering about ‘love jihad’ and the chief ministers of five states declaring their intention to pass a law against conversion and marriage is the difference between casual communalism and institutionalized bigotry. Reagan kept his racism under wraps so admirers like Will didn’t have to distance themselves. But racism will out. In 2019, the US National Archives revealed that in 1971, when Reagan was the governor of California, he told Nixon over the phone how angry he had been to see Tanzanian delegates to the United Nations celebrating China’s admission to that institution: “Last night, I tell you, to watch that thing on television as I did... to see those, those monkeys from those African countries — damn them, they’re still uncomfortable wearing shoes!” Even without such revelations, it is hard for Never Trumpers with buyer’s remorse to reckon with their past. It would mean acknowledging that their complicity in dog-whistling, voter suppression, gerrymandering and the covert racism of the modern Republican Party prepared the ground for Trumpism. That would be intellectual suicide; easier options beckon. One is to say that they held their nose in a higher cause: anti-Communism or economic growth or some other handy mantra. But even this compromises them. Much better to deflect the blame and argue that enthronement of the radical right was down to the perversity of the radical left. In the American version, it wasn’t the drip feed of Republican bigotry that encouraged majorities of America’s white citizens to vote for a racist in plain sight. No, it was the nagging shrillness of the Left and Obama’s patronizing remoteness that forced working class whites to vote for Trump. Will has a cutting counter to the argument that it was racism that drove Trump’s coalition to vote for him. He writes sardonically that “... sooner rather than later, even Democrats will come to suspect that denigrating people until they vote for you lacks a certain strategic plausibility.” This is the same conclusion that many anti-BJP politicians have arrived at in India. To bluntly argue that a vote for Narendra Modi is a vote for communalism might be to lose the chance of persuading some of his supporters to change their minds. But the fact that politicians are constrained from calling a spade a spade shouldn’t keep a writer from calling out bigotry by its name. Racism and communalism in politics is a choice, not a permanent condition. When people stop making racist choices, they stop being racist. The writer’s task is to clarify not fudge the nature of the choice voters made when they chose Trump or Modi. When commentators who cheered Modi on in 2014 now wring their hands about lynching and love jihad and claim that they gave Modi the benefit of the doubt only because he was an economic reformer, progressives should, without rolling their eyes, nod politely and move on. At best, these pundits were the feral Right’s useful idiots; at worst they knowingly boarded a dangerous bandwagon because they liked the buzz of being in the vanguard of the Hindu Turn. That they see the light now is welcome. But when they claim that it wasn’t fellow travellers like them who helped deliver us into evil but bleeding heart liberals who warned against the predictable disaster of endorsing Modi, it is time to stop listening. At that point, it becomes evident that for some angsty conservatives, it was about the optics. They were put off by the full frontal barbarism of the feral Right. Had Trump or Modi walked sideways into Amerika or Hindu rashtra, they would have done the soft-shoe shuffle right alongside them. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-110
29-11-2020||Jharkhand||Adityapur households to get proper sewage system by March 2021||Adityapur residents are likely to get a proper sewage system in their households from March next year, something which was a long-cherished dream of the people of this township. As the ongoing work of a mega sewage system is nearing its completion, over two lakh residents of Adityapur and parts of adjoining Gamharia that fall under Adityapur Municipal Corporation (AMC) will get rid of the septic tank in their houses. But this ambitious project will provide the service to only 75 percent of the households as work in one of the four proposed sewage treatment plants (STPs) remains yet to begin due to the encroachment hurdle. Revealing about the Rs 255 crore worth sewage project, AMC's city manager Ajay Kumar pointed out that over 90 percent of the project work has been completed and that by the end of March 2021, a proper sewage system will be in place in over 50,000 households herein Adityapur and parts of Gamharia. "Under the sewage project, the executing agency Shapoorji Pallonji was to set up four STPs and lay a sewage pipeline across the AMC area. The construction of the STP near the railway station in Gamharia, Surya Mandir and Sapra both in Adityapur are almost complete, but the work of another STP proposed to be set up at Saldih Bustee, also in Adityapur, has not begun yet due to encroachment problem," said Kumar while talking to The Telegraph Online. The city manager said the plot of land at Saldih Bustee where an STP was to be set up has encroached. He pointed out that 17 houses have been built on the government land without permission and the encroachers are resisting the administration's step to remove the encroachment for setting up the STP there. "The AMC has, therefore, decided that the STPs whose work is almost complete may be made functional by the end of March, providing the sewage facility to over 75 percent of households. The work at the Saldih Bustee site will begin only after the place is made free from the encroachment," said the city manager. He informed that the executing agency has already been given a one-year extension for completing the STP construction at Saldih Bustee. Significantly, sources revealed that the work for the STP at the Saldih site is unlikely to begin in the near future. "The issue of setting up STP at Saldih Bustee site has become politically entangled. Earlier when BJP-led government was in the state, the former chief minister Raghubar Das did not permit the local administration to use force against the encroachers, given the assembly elections in 2019, but after the Hemant Soren-led coalition government came to power, the encroachers got further emboldened as they are JMM supporters and Adityapur being represented by senior JMM leader Champai Soren. Under the present circumstances, the local administration is reluctant to even think about dislodging those who have encroached upon the government land at Saldih Bustee," said a source in the AMC. The commencement of a sewage system in Adityapur is certain to give a face-lift to the township which is considered stinky and shabby in absence of a proper sewage system. "We had never thought of a toilet at our house with a proper sewage system like the one set up in the adjoining steel city. But now our Adityapur will become a cleaner town," said Ram Gyani Sahee, a resident of Adityapur while talking to this website.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-221
29-11-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi police lapses led to Lalu getting a phone, says jail probe report||Birsa Munda Central Jail authorities have blamed policemen deployed RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s security at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) for violating the jail manual, which eventually led to Lalu gaining access to a mobile phone while in judicial custody. However, the jail authorities did not specify if the voice in the viral audio clip released by BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi was that of Lalu. Birsa jail superintendent Hamid Akhter submitted a report to Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan on Sunday, basically saying that Lalu may have got access to a mobile phone due to lapses in his security – a responsibility of Ranchi police. None of the jail officials was willing to speak to the media about the issue on Sunday, claiming the matter was “sensitive” and under investigation. However, a senior jail official, requesting anonymity, said the mobile phone reached Lalu exactly the way mobile phones reach jail inmates across India. “It is mostly due to poor checking by security guards that mobile phones reach jails in India. The same thing happened in Lalu’s case as well,” he said. The Ranchi deputy commissioner had on Friday sought a report from the jail superintendent within 24 hours on the circumstances under which Lalu got access to a mobile phone. As per the jail manual, a prisoner is not allowed to use mobile phones while he or she is in judicial custody. The jail superintendent’s report states that the policemen deployed for Lalu’s security should have frisked all visitors properly. Cops deployed at the gate of Kelly’s Bungalow, where the former Bihar CM was staying, should have also kept an eye on the activities of those visiting Lalu, the report further states. A controversy over alleged phone calls by incarcerated Lalu Prasad to BJP MLAs in Bihar was triggered after former Bihar deputy chief minister Sushil Modi released a purported audio clip alleging that one of the voices in it was that of Lalu. In the audio clip, one person is heard making assurances of a ministerial berth to BJP MLA Lalan Paswan in return for support to the RJD during voting for the Bihar Assembly Speaker. “Be absent from the Assembly on the day the Speaker is chosen. Tell people that you have Corona,” the voice in the audio clip says. “If the speaker is on our side, then we will topple the government,” it further states. A PIL was also filed against Lalu in Jharkhand High Court over the audio clip. The next day, the high court deferred the hearing for Lalu’s bail plea to December 11. A CBI court on December 23, 2017, convicted Lalu in a fodder scam case related to fraudulent withdrawal of Rs 89 lakh from the Deoghar treasury between 1991 and 1994 and sent him to jail. A month later, he was convicted in another fodder scam case and sentenced to five years of imprisonment. Lalu was admitted in the cardiology wing of RIMS the next year after he complained of discomfort while serving imprisonment in the Birsa Munda Central Jail in Ranchi. Since then, he has been undergoing treatment at the hospital. In 2018, he was referred to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi from where he was later discharged and sent back to Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-221
29-11-2020||Jharkhand|| Eviction drive in coal capital to remove vendor kiosks ||The district administration in Dhanbad on Sunday, along with the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation and the police conducted a massive anti-encroachment drive on a 2 kilometers stretch between Park Market to Hatia, which is located less than a kilometer away from the district headquarters. During the drive, extension and projection of shops were removed. The drive began at around 12.30 pm under the leadership of  Sub Divisional Officer Surendra Prasad and continued till around 3 pm. More than 100 shop owners had themselves removed their extensions during this time, while the encroached portion of around 30 of them were removed by the municipal corporation workers and policemen. Talking to reporters after the drive, Prasad said, “We have been running information campaigns all through the area since the last three days, appealing to the shopkeepers to remove their respective installation from the encroached portion of the road.” “Majority of the shopkeepers had themselves removed their installations from the road before the beginning of the drive while some others removed the same after we began. However, for only a few, we had to use force,” he added. The SDO was accompanied by Assistant Commissioner of Police Manoj Swargiyar and circle officer of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation Ritesh Kumar. “The main problem in the area is that the shopkeepers extend their installments by putting furniture like benches, boxes, and shades outside their shop leading to the narrowing down of road. This creates a lot of difficulties in traffic movement as well as parking of vehicles of the customers coming to the market,” Prasad said. He also informed that the authorities will carry out similar drives in all market areas to avoid traffic jams. Earlier on November 24, the district administration also conducted a drive at Court Road area of Dhanbad adjacent to Hirapur, Hatia and Park Market. During this, they had removed several parked vehicles from the non-parking zones. Both the drives were aimed at regulating the traffic in areas which witness large footfall of people. A large parking zone has also been developed by district administration adjacent to the court to facilitate parking of vehicles away from the court road, which houses a large number of government offices beside civil and criminal courts of Dhanbad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-221
29-11-2020||Jharkhand||NCC wants to set up marine unit, seeks state govt support||The Jharkhand unit of National Cadet Corps (NCC) is keen on launching a naval unit for marine training, group commander Brigadier Manish Tripathi announced on Sunday while addressing the concluding ceremony of Constitution Day celebrations in Ranchi on Sunday. Speaking at the gathering at Audrey House in the presence of chief minister Hemant Soren, who was the chief guest, Tripathi said, “We are currently running seven NCC units including one fully dedicated to female cadets. We have units of land and air training and are working to soon start a naval unit too.” Tripathi said all they now needed was access to “a water body and some land” to commence the unit at the earliest. “Other required infrastructure and manpower is being readied by us. NCC headquarters have already given a go-ahead to our plans,” he added during his address at the function held to commemorate Constitution Day, also known as National Law Day, which is celebrated on November 26 every year to mark the adoption of the Constitution of India. There are five NCC units in Ranchi as of now. They are 3 Jharkhand Battalion, 19 Jharkhand Battalion, 3 Jharkhand Girls Battalion, 3 Jharkhand CT Coy and 2 Jharkhand Air Squadron. This apart, there are girls battalions in Dumka, Dhanbad, Hazaribagh, Koderma, Palamau, Gumla and East Singbhum. Tripathi said NCC cadets have always answered the call for help from the state government or district administrations. “During the Covid-19 lockdown, our young cadets worked day and night to assist district administrations to create awareness, enforce social distancing norms. “During the recently concluded Chhath festival, our cadets swung into action in barely five-hour notice to man ghats, which was commendable as we instill in youths a sense of responsibility, discipline, and dedication,” he said. Tripathi said the NCC was the only force across the globe that had been formed solely to channelise youths to become leaders of tomorrow. Chief minister Hemant Soren hailed the contributions of NCC in Jharkhand and assured all possible assistance from the state government for expansion of the force. He also asked the NCC to consider setting up its regional headquarters in Ranchi. “I am told that the NCC regional headquarters is currently in Patna. I request you to consider setting up a regional headquarter in Ranchi (Jharkhand) too so that NCC can intensify its activities by engaging more youths of the state and motivate them to choose the right path. As far as NCC’s request for setting up of the naval unit is concerned, I welcome the move… we have all the required facilities to suit their requirements,” he said. Tripathi said during the three-day Constitution Day celebrations that began on November 26, NCC cadets held various programmes at their camps across the state to create awareness about the Constitution among the people. In Ranchi, NCC cadets also held a 10-minute play to enumerate the significance of the Constitution. They also put up an exhibition to highlight NCC activities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-221
29-11-2020||Jharkhand|| Coal town survey on for Swachh Survekshan 2020  ||Officials of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation are conducting surveys of hospitals, government offices, resident associations, muhallas, hotels and market associations in the run up to to the Swachh Survekshan 2020. The scrutiny is being conducted across 55 wards of five circles of the district including Dhanbad, Jharia, Sindri, Katras and Chhatatand to assess their cleanliness scenario. The winners of all the categories would be given certificates after the conclusion of the Survey on November 5. City manager of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation and the Swachh Bharat Mission incharge Prem Prakash said, “Our team members are giving marks to prepare the ranking  lists of each of the facilities as per the different parameters  fixed for them.” He added, “Winners  at the district level of all the categories  will also be competing in their respective categories at the state and national level.” For ranking of hotels, the parameters included placement of twin bins, waste processing facility like composting machines, placement of dustbins in rooms, mandatory sanitisation arrangements all over the hotel as per Covid-19 norms and floor cleaning. Similarly, in the category of Hospitals, Resident Welfare Association, government offices, market associations, the survey for preparing ranking is being  made by allotting marks on different criterias like waste segregation facility, waste processing facility, placement of different bins in the  premises, separate toilet facility for men, women and also different abled persons, basic cleanliness and sanitation. Prakash said, “The survey aims to foster the spirit of competition among different institutions like schools, hotels, hospitals besides government offices. We have also made previous announcements regarding the survey, every year through newspaper notices. Preparations have also been made by participants of different categories after filling up forms.” He added that they began the survey by making up survey teams and choosing the officers on Saturday. “As part of the awareness drive we have already launched massive wall painting and slogan writing drives since October end around all the major ponds. Works are still  going on at more flyover railings and walls at an accelerated pace,” he said. The authorities are using waste materials like tyres, bottle caps and others to decorate the areas. The logo of Dhanbad as well as Jharkhand has been made with plastic bottle caps generated at the different bottled crushing machines installed at Bank More, bus depot and the railway station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-221
29-11-2020||Jharkhand||Low-key Guru Nanak Jayanti in steel city ||This year’s Guru Nanak Jayanti celebrations by the Sikh community will be a low-key affair. The Central Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee has decided to cancel the grand procession for the first time this year due to the pandemic. The 551st Guru Nanak Jayanti also called Prakash Utsav held on Kartik Purnima every year will be celebrated on Monday, November 30 this year. Mahendra Singh, president of Central Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee, Jamshedpur said, “Because of the prevailing pandemic and safety reasons, we took a decision to skip the grand procession.” There will be no langars too wherein community kitchens serve meals of rice, chapattis, tadka dal, and pickles to visitors in gurudwaras. A senior functionary of Central Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee, Satnam Singh Gambhir, who is also a national general of All India Sikh Students Federation had recently launched a campaign on Facebook seeking suggestions from the community members on whether to organise the nagar kirtan this year. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Gambhir said, “Majority people said no in their comments. Out of 250 comments, 240 responses were negative – against hosting the nagar kirtan because of safety reasons.” He also said to mark Guru Nanak Jayanti on Monday as gurudwaras will hold the concluding rituals of the three-day customary Akhand Path which had kicked off on Saturday, November 28. Sarabjeet Kaur, a housewife in Bistupur said, “This will be the first time that the streets of steel city will miss the festive fervour on Prakash Utsav, where thousands of members of the Sikh community participate in the nagar kirtan. We also enjoy the langars in gurudwaras during the jayanti celebration. But, this year we will be deprived of that.” This year the Prakash Utsav procession was supposed to be taken out from Jugsalai Gurudwara. Last year, the grand procession was taken out from the Baridih Gurudwara and after traversing over 5 km the procession culminated at the central Gurudwara in Sakchi. Jamshedpur has 36 gurudwaras located in various parts of the city while the population of the Sikh community is around 2.25 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-222
29-11-2020||Jharkhand||Drone-mounted cameras keep vigil on Betla National Park||Betla National Park under the Palamau Tiger Reserve is using drones with an aim to keep poachers and hunters away from the park. The drone is being flown mostly before the sunset. This operation is overseen by N Kumar, a 2018 batch Indian Forests Service officer, who is on his probation here. Betla range is spread over 48.49 sq km and the park area is less than half of the total area of the Betla range. The drone covers one-kilometer radius of the park. Kumar Ashish, deputy director, North division of Palamau Tiger Reserve said that they are using the drone to keep off dubious elements away from the park and it has also started to show its effects. He also informed that people with evil intentions sneak into the park during the sunset, hence they have decided to fly the drones around that time, as it is a deterrent to such poachers and hunters. “We are planning to have a drone that can be flown at night, which would be an advanced version of the present drone,” said Ashish. Apart from the drone surveillance, Betla National Park has been fitted with over a dozen live cameras which our forest personnel scan round the clock at the range office at Betla, stated Ashish. He also said that the installation of the live cameras has helped to improve the management of the park. Ashish said that the park environment is gradually looking up. He said, “Our main thrust now is to connect the villagers to the park making them feel that the park and the wildlife need to co-exist with them.” According to sources, the rebels who were very suspicious of the cameras in the Palamau Tiger Reserve thought it to be a tool of police to take note of their presence and movement and the cameras pose no problem to them. But the change of the stance of the rebels has everything to do with the business of the Palamau Tiger Reserve, which is neither pro-rebels nor pro-police but all pro-active of the wildlife.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-222
29-11-2020||Jharkhand||South Eastern Railway extends festival specials till December 30||In an attempt to cater to the extra rush of passengers, South Eastern Railway has decided to extend the services of the existing festival special trains to different destinations till December 30, observing all safety protocols. The trains which travel via various stations of Ranchi and Chakradharpur divisions include Santragachi-Pune Special (via Tatanagar); Hatia-Yesvantpur (Bangalore) Special; Tatanagar- Yesvantpur Special; Hatia-LTT Special; Tatanagar-Danapur Special; Hatia-Purnia Court Special; Tatanagar-Chhapra Special; Tatanagar-Howrah Special; Hatia-Islampur Special and Ranchi-Howrah Special. All special trains will continue to run as per existing timing and routes, said a notification issued by the office of chief passenger transportation manager at Garden Reach, the Calcutta-based headquarters of South Eastern Railway. “The decision for extending the running of special trains was taken considering the overwhelming response from the passengers and surge in berth occupancy,” said Sanjay Ghosh, chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway. Notably, improvement in berth occupancy rate prompted the South Eastern Railway zone to resume the services of Howrah Barbil Jan Shatabdi Express from Saturday, November 28. The train runs via Tatanagar railway station. According to the chief public relations officer, booking of tickets and reservations in the special trains (Up trains only) are available at all PRS (passenger reservation system) counters and through the internet. “Passengers are requested to strictly follow all safety protocols before undertaking a journey in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic,” he added. Chhotanagpur Passenger Association, the largest outfit of the state which works for passengers’ welfare hailed the railway decision. “We were happy to know that the South Eastern Railway has extended the running of all festival special trains. This will help passengers avoiding the rush and plan their journey conveniently,” said Arun Tiwari, general secretary of Chhotanagpur Passenger Association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-222
29-11-2020||Jharkhand||Red Paws foundation holds pet adoption camp||For the first time, a stray pup adoption camp was organised in Jamshedpur to motivate people to adopt Indian stray puppies who otherwise face the wrath of busy streets or merciless humans. The Jamshedpur Red Paws Rescue Foundation organised the first-ever stray pup adoption camp at the Circuit House Area just opposite the Durga Puja ground on Sunday with a positive response. With more than 10 volunteers, the Jamshedpur Red Paws Foundation came up with 30 pups that were lesser than three months out of which 22 got adopted on the first day. Animal lovers and animal rights activists do face a lot of problems when it comes to the adoption of Indian stray puppies. Without a proper animal shelter in the city, people most of the time fails to arrange for homes for these pups. The adoption camp thus was a possible way towards ensuring that people do adopt them which will be followed by proper monitoring. The adoption of pets required submission of ID proofs, address proofs, and contact details which will help the organisation and volunteers to pay surprise visits to check the condition of the pets later. The foundation has also taken the responsibility to provide anti-rabies vaccines to the adopted pets every year. De-worming medicines were also administered on Sunday post the adoption process along with proper counselling. “I had this idea in mind as we face a lot of trouble while arranging homes for strays but I was not very confident if this will work. The first time response was overwhelming. However, we have only allowed adults to adopt and not children. There were a lot of children who wanted to take the pups home but this is a perennial problem as later if the family denies keeping it, they find their way again on the busy streets and forage for food,” said Aniz Patel, founder of the Jamshedpur Red Paws Rescue Foundation. The foundation is now aiming to organise such camps regularly for better awareness among the denizens of the city. Those who adopted were happy as they took home those bundles of joy. “The best thing with Indie pups is the easy adaptability to our climate and low maintenance which is not the case with breeds of the western world. They too can be excellent guard dogs and can love you till the last breath of their life. I had no plans to adopt but as soon as I saw them by the roadside, it reminded me of my grandfather who kept feeding strays and spoke about their selfless love and loyalty. So, I adopted one who is going to be at my farm in Galudih near Ghatshila,” said Alok Sikandh, an M.Tech student who resides in C.H. Area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-222
