30-11-2020||Calcutta||Calcuttans march in solidarity with farmers||About 500 Calcuttans with roots in Punjab joined a rally on Sunday morning to protest the treatment meted out by the Centre and the Haryana government to farmers on their way to Delhi to voice grievances against the recently passed farm laws. The protesters, who walked from Gurdwara Sant Kutiya on Harish Mukherjee Road to Colootolla, also demanded the Centre pass a law to prevent any attempt at abolishing the system of having minimum support prices for agricultural produce. The organisers said the march was aimed at showing solidarity with the agitating farmers who had to brave jets from water cannons, tear gas and road blocks put up by the Haryana government and Delhi police on their way to the national capital. The marchers in Calcutta wondered why farmers could not move freely in their own country to raise their voice against a law that hurt them. Some of those who walked in Sunday’s rally said they had families back in Punjab who were still into farming. Some others left their land in the custody of other farmers and have settled in the city. “There is a fear among farmers that the minimum support price (MSP) system will be done away with. It guarantees the farmers a minimum price for their produce. If a farmer does not get a good price in the market, he can sell it to the government at the MSP,” said Ajit Singh, one of those who joined the rally on Sunday. “But the farm laws passed earlier this year do not talk about MSP. So there is a fear that the government does not want MSP any longer. This will ruin farmers, who will be at the mercy of private corporations that will directly buy from farmers,” said Singh, whose family has a 14-acre farmland in Ludhiana. “We want the government to pass a law and guarantee farmers that the MSPs will stay,” said the Bhowanipore resident, who is also vice-president of the MG Road gurdwara. Members of some other communities, too, joined the march, Singh said. The demonstrators were angry at the way the BJP government in Haryana tried to prevent the agitating farmers from Punjab from reaching Delhi. Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had announced on Tuesday that the state’s borders with Punjab would remain sealed on November 26 and 27. “The Haryana government did not do the right thing. Why cannot farmers go to Delhi to voice their demands? If political parties can protest in Delhi, why not farmers?” asked Devinder Singh Benipal, a resident of Dunlop. Benipal, who is also president of the Dunlop gurdwara, said his family had a 20-acre farmland in Ludhiana. “The farmers were peaceful but the government and police used water cannons on them, fired tear gas shells at them. Is it proper to treat farmers like that?” asked Benipal. The rally started at 11.45am. The protesters wanted to march till the BJP state headquarters but police stopped them on CR Avenue, outside the gate of the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, around 1.45pm. The marchers shouted slogans such as “Modi hai hai”, “Kala kanoon wapas lo” and “Kisan union zindabad” and also burnt an effigy of the Prime Minister on CR Avenue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-221
30-11-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta: College in-person classes not now||In-person classes at colleges and universities will not resume for now as the Covid pandemic is still raging, an official in the higher education department said. Classes will continue to be held on digital platforms, the official said. The decision was taken at a virtual meeting on Sunday between education minister Partha Chatterjee and the vice-chancellors of state-aided universities. The official said they feared that gatherings on campuses might lead to students, teachers and others contracting Covid-19. On-campus classes have been suspended since the third week of March, when the nation-wide lockdown was imposed to try and slow down the spread of the disease. At an earlier interaction with the VCs in late September, Chatterjee had not said anything about when in-person classes would resume, but asked the institutions to start sanitising their campuses. “Back then we were exploring the option of reopening campuses and so asked the institutions to start the sanitisation drive. But as the conditions are still far from normal, the reopening has been put on hold,” an official said. At Sunday’s meeting, a VC said, Chatterjee pointed out how states facing a surge in Covid cases had to revoke their decision on reopening the institutions. The minister did not name the states. The Karnataka government had on Monday decided against reopening schools and colleges in December because of the still raging pandemic. The Tamil Nadu government had revoked its order of reopening schools from November 16 for Classes IX to XII. “The condition is not conducive to physical reopening of colleges and universities now,” a source quoted the minister as saying at the meeting. Bengal’s Covid mortality rate is 1.74 per cent, compared with the national average of 1.45. A VC expressed the fear that it would be difficult to monitor whether the students are maintaining physical distancing if on-campus classes resumed. “Physical reopening of institutions will entail reopening of hostels as well. It will be equally difficult to monitor whether safety protocols are being adhered to at the hostels. All these could worsen the Covid situation. So we decided against physical reopening,” said another official of the higher education department. “They (VCs) are not keen on opening the hostels now. They have sought time to start in-person classes. I will apprise chief minister Mamata Banerjee about the development,” minister Chatterjee said at a programme in Behala. It was also decided at the meeting that the first-year undergraduate and postgraduate classes at state-aided colleges and universities would start on digital platforms without further delay. So far only the classes of those who are in the intermediate semesters were being held on digital platforms. To avoid any gatherings on campuses, it was decided that examinations of the students in the intermediate semesters will be held on online platforms. “As of now, it seems holding exams online is the only option,” the minister said. Several VCs asked during the meeting whether the students could be tested on truncated syllabuses, given that all chapters have not been covered in the absence of on-campus classes. “It has been left to the universities to take a call on whether they want to reduce the load of the syllabus or not,” said an official of the department. The state government has pruned the syllabuses for the students of Classes X and XII who will write their board exams next year as on-campus classes could not be held because of the pandemic. Holding classes on digital platforms is not emerging as a successful model for want of access to devices or connectivity among a section of students. After minister Chatterjee had advised in September that classes be held on digital platforms for now, Raiganj University in North Dinajpur had sought Rs 57.05 lakh from the state education department to create e-resources and buy smartphones for students who can’t afford them so they could attend online classes and access study materials digitally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-222
30-11-2020||Calcutta||Deceptive Covid condition emerges ||An increasing number of Covid-19 patients are suffering from what is being called “happy hypoxia” — a condition in which a patient feels no shortness of breath even when the oxygen saturation level is sinking steadily. Usually, a Covid-19 patient suffers from breathlessness, along with fever, dry cough and exhaustion, doctors treating such patients said. Breathlessness follows infection of the lungs. “If the coronavirus causes pneumonia, the lungs struggle to send enough oxygen into the bloodstream,” said Sumit Sengupta, a pulmonologist at AMRI Hospitals. “The Covid patient at first struggles doing simple day-to-day activities and then pants even when sitting on a chair.” Patients with happy hypoxia will not have any such symptoms. But doctors said by the time they feet tightness in the chest, followed by shortness of breath, the oxygen saturation level may have dropped below 93, considered the threshold for complications. Such patients, once admitted to hospital, are immediately put on high-flow oxygen, which continues for days on end, to avert further deterioration. To avoid such complications doctors are suggesting that a Covid-19 patient repeatedly check his or her oxygen saturation level using a pulse oximeter even if there is no apparent shortness of breath. Why does this happen? Experts in respiratory illness say hypoxia usually happens when there is an inflammation in the parenchyma of the lungs. As a result of this inflammation, caused by some infections, the exchange of gases inside the lungs gets severely hampered, resulting in a feeling of breathlessness. A man from Kasba who was hospitalised with Covid-19, and is now back home recovering from the aftermath of the infection, suddenly felt shortness of breath after walking to the washroom of his cabin on the first day at the hospital. He struggled to return to the bed even though there were no apparent symptoms of breathlessness minutes before. “When I got admitted in the afternoon, I had no breathing problems. I only had a fever and an upset stomach. In the evening I suddenly developed a severe shortness of breath. I had to step out of my cabin, though that is prohibited in a Covid ward, and alert doctors and nurses,” said the man in his late 40s. Over the next few days, he had to be put on a high flow nasal cannula so that oxygen would reach his lungs fast. In case of the coronavirus infection, the blood capillaries around the alveoli (tiny air sacs in the lungs) get clogged. “The clogging of blood capillaries results in hypoxia. In case of happy hypoxia, patients don't feel any shortness of breath even though the oxygen saturation level may be going down gradually,” said Ajoy Sarkar, a critical care expert at Peerless Hospital. “Once the inflammation spreads to the alveoli, the patient slips into a critical stage. By that time the blood saturation level drops dangerously.” A large number of Covid patients in Barasat, Belghoria, Naihati and Ashoknagar, in North 24-Parganas, reported happy hypoxia. Many of these patients opted for home isolation, only to get admitted to hospital later in a critical state. “That is why we are asking patients in home isolation that if the oxygen saturation level goes below 94 per cent, he or she should immediately get admitted to hospital, irrespective of whether there is any shortness of breath or not,” said Himadri Chakrabarty, a doctor who is leading a team treating Covid patients  across hospitals in North 24-Parganas. “A pulse oximeter can really help. Say, if the difference in counts between before visiting washroom and after is more than three per cent, it’s a tell-tale sign that the patient needs to be rushed to hospital.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-222
30-11-2020||Calcutta||Steel plaques to mark houses of famous Calcuttans||The city will get its own edition of London’s blue plaque that commemorates eminent residents by installing an inscription on their houses. The only difference is that in Calcutta it will be a stainless steel plaque, while the ones in London are blue and made of ceramic. Intach, Calcutta along with Rotary 3291 installed the first of such plaques on singer-composer Pankaj Mallick’s house at 2/2 Sebak Baidya Street, off Hazra Road, on Sunday, in the presence of Trinamul councillor Debasish Kumar. The plaque, which has Mullick’s date of birth and death, reads: “The first man of Rabindrasangeet — he was the first to popularise Tagore’s songs among the masses. A renowned music composer for Indian films, he was a revered singer as well. As a radio and recording artist and as a film personality, he was extremely popular across India and internationally, his repertoire comprised songs in Bengali, Hindi, Sanskrit, Urdu and other Indian languages. He also set the parameters for the Indian National Anthem.” Intach had earlier started the scheme for heritage eateries. Bhim Chandra Nag, KC Das, Mocambo, Eau Chew, Shiraz and others have an enameled blue plaque at their addresses. But for identifying the houses of eminent personalities in the city, Intach decided to go for stainless steel plaques because they are a lot easier and quicker to make. “The blue plaques for eateries are enameled plaques made at a factory that has remained shut since the Covid lockdown,” said G.M. Kapur, convenor of Intach, Calcutta. “We have been wanting something like this for the building where my grandfather lived. In the West, it is an established practice to have plaques on the houses of eminent people. So when Intach and Rotary approached me with the idea I readily agreed,” said Rajib Gupta, grandson of Mallick. Intach and Rotary will install plaques at the houses of Satyen Bose, Meghnad Saha, Tarashankar Bandopadhyay, Mrinal Sen, Uttam Kumar, V. Balsara, Jamini Roy, Ali Akbar Khan and Chuni Goswami. This will be done over three months. Intach also proposes to publish a book on 100 eminent personalities of Calcutta and hopes to set up plaques at each of their houses. London’s blue plaques are ceramic plates that are embedded on the wall of the houses of eminent people. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had unveiled a blue plaque at the house of Sister Nivedita in Wimbledon in 2017. The blue plaque scheme in London had started in 1866.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-222
30-11-2020||Calcutta||Township drive to kill engine at signal in Salt Lake||Motorists as well as two-wheeler riders who pull over at certain traffic signals in New Town and Sector V will be urged to switch off the engines in an attempt to reduce air pollution. The Bidhannagar commissionerate and Hidco, which looks after the civic amenities in New Town, will launch a fortnight-long campaign on December 1, as part of which volunteers with placards will stand at several traffic signals. The placards will bear messages asking motorists and bikers to kill their engines as soon as they stop. A Hidco official said Indian Oil, industry body Nasscom and the Sector V Stakeholders’ Association had agreed to join the awareness drive to reduce air pollution. At least five traffic signals have been chosen for the drive. They include the ones at College More and in front of Technopolis in Sector V. The other three are located on the Major Arterial Road in New Town — at Kolkata Gate and the City Centre II crossing and in front of Eco Park. “Many signals across the city have timers that display the time left for the signal to turn green. Still, a number of drivers and two-wheeler riders choose to keep their engines running while waiting at the signals,” an official said. “We have observed that drivers of cars, especially those that have their ACs on, refuse to switch off their engines when they stop at a red signal. This leads to a substantial rise in the air pollution.” The volunteers who will join the campaign are from residents’ groups and civic police. Debashis Sen, the chairman and managing director of Hidco, said they wanted to reduce air pollution in both New Town and Sector V. “There are signals in New Town and Sector V that remain red for up to four minutes during rush hours. If every vehicle’s engine is turned off during the period, the air pollution level at the spot will come down drastically,” said Sen. Apart from this, several cyclothons will be organised in December and app-enabled bicycles will be showcased to encourage people to leave their cars and bikes at home and cycle to their destinations in the township and back home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-222
30-11-2020||Calcutta||Molest cuffs on bike taxi driver in Calcutta||The driver of an app-based bike taxi was arrested late on Saturday for allegedly molesting and abusing a woman passenger. Police said Dhiraj Kumar Ram was picked up from his Tiljala house based on a complaint lodged by the woman. The woman mentioned in her complaint that she had booked the bike taxi from Beleghata on Friday afternoon. She boarded the two-wheeler on Beleghata Road around 1pm. Soon after, the driver asked her to pass on directions to her destination. The woman apparently told him that she could not check the directions on the app map since she was holding two mobile phones. “The woman alleged the biker started misbehaving with her soon after she expressed her inability to guide him,” said an officer of Garfa police station, where the woman had lodged her complaint. Dhiraj rode down EM Bypass and asked the woman to get off near a petrol pump in Kalikapur, which was not her destination. The next round of trouble began when the woman offered him a Rs-100 note to pay the fare of Rs 73. The driver allegedly refused to accept the money, saying he wanted the exact amount. An altercation broke out, during which the biker allegedly abused the woman. He then returned Rs 30 to the woman and while doing so, he allegedly molested her. Before the woman could react, the biker sped off. After gathering herself, the woman went to Garfa police station and lodged a complaint. “The biker’s mobile phone was switched off throughout Friday,” a police officer said. “We could only track down his location on Saturday.” Dhiraj, 22, has been booked under the IPC sections related to outrage of modesty of women, outrage of modesty of women by means of words and gestures and stalking. If convicted, he can be jailed for up to five years. A similar incident had occurred on November 22, when the driver of an app-based bike taxi had allegedly molested a woman passenger. The woman had booked the bike to return home home from Alipore. The biker allegedly molested her and asked her indecent questions about her body and her relationship with her boyfriend.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-222
30-11-2020||Calcutta||Free ration to 1,000 Sonagachhi women||One thousand sex workers at Sonagachhi got free ration from an NGO on Sunday. The Covid pandemic has posed a huge livelihood challenge for these women. Since March, the pandemic-induced lockdown had put most of the women out of work. The business is making a comeback but slowly and many women are still reeling under acute financial stress. On Sunday morning, volunteers of the Anti-Hunger Squad Foundation reached Sonagachhi on two mini-trucks loaded with dry ration. Each of the 1,000 women got 10kg of rice and 2kg of daal. “Many of the rooms in the buildings are locked. Many women have left the place because they could not continue paying the rent,” said Zeeshan Majid, the founder of the NGO. The foundation has been providing food to relatives of patients at government hospitals for two years. In the wake of the pandemic, the operations were scaled up and since March, the foundation has reached out to tens of thousands of people with free food. Sunday’s drive was conducted in coordination with the local police. Post-lockdown, with things gradually opening up, people are back to work. The food distribution drives across the city have come down. But many people are still struggling to make ends meet. Sonagachhi, Asia’s largest red-light district, was home to over 7,000 sex workers before the pandemic. Women from across India, and some from Bangladesh and Nepal, worked at brothels in Sonagachhi. A recent survey conducted by another NGO — Anti Human Trafficking Organisation — revealed that over 70 per cent of the sex workers wanted to leave the trade to look for new avenues of income. But most of them could not do so because of unpaid loans, taken from money lenders, brothel owners and pimps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-222
30-11-2020||Business||RBI policy, global trends to drive markets in holiday-shortened week, says Analysts||Macroeconomic data, auto sales numbers and the RBI policy to be released this week would be among the driving factors for stock markets in the holiday-shortened week, say analysts. Stock markets would remain closed on Monday for 'Gurunanak Jayanti'. "Going ahead, the overall structure of the market remains positive, but intermittent profit-booking cannot be ruled out given the sharp rally in the past few weeks. Globally, investors would watch out for Joe Biden transition and developments over stimulus announcement from the new US government. "On the domestic side, the market would react to the better-than-expected September quarter GDP data. Auto companies would be in focus as November sales data would start coming from Tuesday. Banks and financial stocks would be in focus as RBI's monetary policy is scheduled on Friday," said Siddhartha Khemka, Head - Retail Research, Motilal Oswal Financial Services Ltd. India's economy recovered faster than expected in the September quarter as a pick-up in manufacturing helped GDP clock a lower contraction of 7.5 per cent and held out hopes for further improvement on consumer demand bouncing back. Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services said, "Markets are awaiting the outcome of major events like RBI policy meeting, the release of manufacturing and services PMI data which will be decisive factors this week." During the last week, the Sensex advanced 267.47 points or 0.60 per cent. "RBI's MPC meeting is scheduled this week. Markets are expected to enter a holiday mood with no major directional move in the weeks to come," said Nirali Shah, Senior Research Analyst, Samco Securities. "Markets will first react to the GDP numbers. Besides, auto sales numbers and upcoming RBI policy meet would be on their radar," Ajit Mishra, VP - Research, Religare Broking Ltd said. Participants would also track development related to coronavirus vaccine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-219
30-11-2020||Business||Looking back||Much has been spoken of and written on how the world, as we know it, has and will transform during and after the Covid-19 pandemic. Rebooting the economy is as much about macro considerations as it is about  reinventing businesses and people skills at the micro level. Drilling down deeper, it becomes apparent that the essence of reinvention has trickled down to all constituents of humanity, societies and individuals. As we read about the effects of the the pandemic and speak with friends and professionals across the globe, here are some interesting learnings that have come to the forefront. From fear to acceptance When Covid-19 broke out earlier this year, there was panic and fear among human beings across countries. With lockdowns simultaneously imposed in many parts of the world, life came to a standstill. But now, with time, the atmosphere of fear has slowly been replaced by a sense of acceptance. Humans have adapted to the new normal by making the necessary adjustments such as minimising physical contact and practicing social distancing even though it wasn’t a very familiar exercise. There has been more time to turn the collective attention of humans toward self-care and general well-being, with people being forced to spend fewer hours outdoors. The trends  reflect this shift. Fitness apps, for instance, have witnessed a 40 per cent increase in the time users spent thereon. Human beings now also recognise the risk of loss and an increased perception about mortality. This awareness has prompted people to focus on self-preservation. Acceptance of this mortality risk has even been reflected in how consumers are now perceiving life insurance as a must-have. According to Irdai data, the new business premium of life insurers saw a 15 per cent year-on-year increase in August 2021. From self to sustainability The changes from this defining event has also trickled down to society at large. With societal engagements being restricted, various sections of the community adapted to the change by learning new skills and evolving on the professional as well as the personal front. Many salaried individuals have reinvented themselves as self-employed professionals owing to job redundancy. In addition to the move to self-employed status, the gig economy has also gained prominence in the employment landscape. This is because many organisations are now increasing their share of gig workers and freelancers as part of the remote working culture. In the midst of this shift, there’s also another impending change on the horizon. Society as a whole is making a transition from self-gratification and self-aggrandisement to long-term sustainability. This is reflected in how consumers are now shopping for goods. A Capgemini report revealed how 79 per cent of Indian consumers were altering their purchase preferences based on social responsibility, inclusiveness, or environmental impact. Clearly, there has been a shift in retail behaviour, with choices moving from luxury goods to need-based products and more focus on buying from businesses that make a difference. Thus, there’s greater focus on socially impacting activities and tasks rather than mere self-gratification. Broadening horizons The changes at the societal level have also spurred transformations at the level of the individual. There is greater focus on becoming self-sufficient. Coming hand-in-hand with this shift is a greater gravitation towards knowledge acquisition and upskilling. It was heartening to see that massive open online courses (MOOCs) witnessed a huge surge earlier this year. Clearly, the average Indian consumer is ready to make the transition from familiar territories to broader horizons. This may also equip individuals to work on multiple assignments from the comfort of their homes, in the wake of the new work-from-home culture, rather than seek permanent employment through conventional channels. This could also mean that individual entrepreneurship will also rise as traditional jobs shrink. The takeaway With this three-tier transformation, it’s also essential that businesses need to reinvent themselves to keep pace with the societies they operate in and the individuals they seek to serve. I believe that a shift in perspective is the need of the hour. Businesses need to move beyond number crunching and instead focus on their higher calling — the need to make visible and lasting differences to the well-being of the consumers they serve. Businesses may also need to rethink on how they invest their profits, such as the well-being of their workforce, retraining and upskilling of employees, investments in technology to give easier and more immersive customer experiences. The road ahead will likely be paved with milestones that have the names of those brands and businesses that succeed in providing a holistic human experience to their consumers. In this regard, companies can rely on data mining to better customise and contextualise their product offerings and the messages they send out. That, I presume, may be the right place to begin this journey in the next normal. The writer is chief of operations and customer experience,Bajaj Allianz Life||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-219
30-11-2020||Business||Qualcomm seeks policy push for 5G upgrade||India has a big market that needs to upgrade and set up for 5G offtake, and the government and policy makers can trigger growth of the telecom space by releasing spectrum, including 5G, in adequate quantity and at affordable prices, a senior official of Qualcomm has said. 5G would positively impact India’s telecom market, the second largest in the world and “still growing”, as increased data consumption and heightened adoption of technology due to the pandemic has prepared the market for the advent of next-generation technology, said Rajen Vagadia, VP and president, Qualcomm India and SAARC. “The case for the immediate rollout of 5G networks in India is a compelling one. It is no longer a choice, but a pre-requisite for the country’s growth and development,” Vagadia said. Role of regulator Indian regulators will have a big role to play in ensuring that 5G in India is deployed to its “full potential”. As the world’s second-largest telecom market, India holds huge promise for growth, Vagadia said. “The government and policy makers can trigger growth of the Indian telecom market by releasing spectrum, including 5G, in adequate quantity and at affordable prices,” he said in an email interview. As networks are congested, it is “prudent” to make the spectrum across all bands including mmW (millimetre wave) available for immediate deployment, he said. 5G will completely redefine mobile experiences and enable generations to benefit from it, the company said. Qualcomm, is a wireless technology innovator and fuelling the development, launch and expansion of 5G. “We are driving conversations at all levels of the ecosystem to catalyse the commercial reality of 5G in the country — from telco, education, healthcare, automotive, medicine to manufacturing,” Vagadia said. India has a big market that needs to upgrade and set up for 5G growth, he pointed out. “We expect a longer-term trial followed by circle level rollout towards the end of next year before a national rollout of services,” he said. 5G is expected to embrace and support specialised use in sectors such as manufacturing, energy, utilities, healthcare, pharmaceutical, transportation and logistics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-219
30-11-2020||Business||PSU general insurers told to improve their financial health||The finance ministry has asked public sector general insurance firms, especially National Insurance, Oriental Insurance and United India Insurance, to rationalise branches and cut down avoidable expenses to improve their financial health, sources said. Earlier this year, the Union cabinet decided to halt the merger process of three state-owned general insurance companies because of the weak financial positions of these three companies. Instead, the government approved a fund infusion of Rs 12,450 crore to meet the regulatory parameters. The finance ministry has asked these companies to cut the flab by rationalising branches and rein in other avoidable expenses such as guest house, sources said. Besides, sources said, they have been asked to expand their business through the digital medium. As part of the capital infusion exercise, the government also approved raising the authorised share capital of National Insurance Company Ltd (NICL) to Rs 7,500 crore and that of United India Insurance Company Ltd (UIICL) and Oriental Insurance Company Ltd (OICL) to Rs 5,000 crore each. The Rs 12,450-crore capital infusion approved by the cabinet in July includes Rs 2,500 crore provided to these companies in 2019-20. During this year, the government infused Rs 3,475 crore while announcing an infusion of the balance Rs 6,475 crore in one or more tranches. The government in budget 2020-21 had made a provision of Rs 6,950 crore for capital infusion in these three insurance companies in order to maintain the requisite minimum solvency ratio. Three PSU general insurers, with their large underwriting losses of Rs 14,443 crore, together have been responsible for the overall losses of over Rs 7,118 crore in 2019-20. NICL, with a combined ratio of 160.8 per cent and underwriting losses of Rs 5,759 crore, has suffered losses of Rs 4,108 crore, while Oriental Insurance and  United India Insurance have been hit with losses of Rs 1,524 crore and Rs 1,486 crore, respectively, in 2019-20. However, New India Assurance, the only exception out of the four public sector general insurers, posted a profit of Rs 1,418 crore in 2019-20. Meanwhile, the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Irdai) on Friday gave in-principle approval to the merger of Bharti AXA General with ICICI Lombard. ICICI Lombard is progressing applications for the receipt of requisite approvals from other concerned regulators for the transaction, the insurance company said in a regulatory filing. Upon closing of the proposed transaction, the consolidated entity will have a market share of about 8.7 per cent on a pro forma basis in the non-life business, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-219
30-11-2020||Business||Insurance start-up Plum raises $4m||Sequoia Capital India backed insurance startup Plum has raised $4.1 million in a bid to provide group health insurance to small and medium enterprises. The recent round of funding for the start-up, which was launched in March this year, is led by Sequoia Capital India and Tanglin Venture Partners. Existing investors, including Incubate Fund, also participated in the funding round. The insurer said that the amount raised would be used to expand in new markets, build distribution channels, hire talent and develop products. Since launch, the company has seen rapid growth, securing $1 million worth of insurance premium. The platform has more than 200 companies on board. The funding round is part of the fourth cohort of Sequoia Capital India’s Surge initiative where 17 start-ups collectively raised $45.35 million. The initiative provides seed capital allowing start-ups to scale up their operations. Small businesses find the process of purchasing insurance tedious and costly as they are unable to negotiate group policy pricing with a small employee base. But health insurance has gained awareness following the pandemic. “The group health insurance market in India is projected to grow to $13.4 billion by 2025 and we will see the rise of innovative insurance products. Plum hopes to provide 700 million people with employer-sponsored insurance,” said Abhishek Poddar, co-founder of Plum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-219
30-11-2020||Business||Luxury properties find buyers during pandemic||A building in the heart of Alipore stood vacant after receiving a completion certificate from the civic authority for about two years. The tide turned when the builder had least bargained for a revival: buyers began to show interest just after the lockdown was eased. Six months down the line, 12 of the 20 units at the tony address stand sold, reflecting a renewed appetite for luxury properties across the world, including India, as the super-rich look for a bigger pad for their primary residences or holiday homes tucked away in the hills and around beaches. While the overall real estate sector is showing early signs of recovery, coming after two calamitous quarters of sales, the traction for the luxury segment — which was in the dumps in the aftermath of demonetisation four years ago — stands out, in part because a few expected the big-ticket properties to get going when the going gets tough. In a city such as Delhi, there is a demand for farm houses and bungalows. In Mumbai, a place known for vertical developments, high and ultra high net worth individuals are looking at bigger apartments. For Calcutta, it is a mix of both; while locations at Alipore and Ballygunge are seeing traction for bungalows, interest is being shown in standout projects on Chowringhee and EM Bypass. Sotheby’s International Realty, which primarily focuses on luxury properties, claimed they were expecting to close more big-ticket deals this fiscal than ever before. “From June, we have done transactions worth Rs 500 crore so far and there is a pipeline for another Rs 1,000 crore for the rest of the year in Delhi, Mumbai, Calcutta, and holiday homes and Goa and the hills of north India,” said Ashwin Chadha, president, India, Sotheby’s International Realty. The uptick comes on the backdrop of an overall slump in real estate, especially in the affordable segment (price up to Rs 50 lakh), the choice of the middle class. India Ratings & Research in a note on November 27, says overall residential demand would decline about 40 per cent year-on-year in 2020-21, with the affordable segment being the worst hit because of the higher-than-anticipated slowdown caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. The turmoil in the economy, however, has not deterred the HNIs to splurge on a bigger home: having spent days and weeks without stepping out has made them realise the need for extra space. Chadha says this section of buyers want to be prepared for the next black swan event, having suffered this one. “A businessman or an executive would have spent more time in office during their working life than home. The ratio completely overturned since lockdown. They realised the worth of the home,” Sanjay Jhunjhunwala, managing director of Mani Group, said. Mani has built branded residency Vivara, adjacent to JW Marriott on EM Bypass, while it is a partner in The 42, the tallest building in Calcutta, on Chowringhee overlooking Maidan. NK Realtor, a Calcutta-based realty brokerage firm, confirmed that there is an uptick in Rs 5-crore-plus properties in the city. There are about 200 such units available in that big-bulge bracket and another 100 units may hit the market in 6-8 months, it noted. “We are seeing 20-22 such units getting sold in a month now, which is the highest after demonetisation,” Biplab Kumar, vice president of NK Realtor, said. Off-the-book transactions, which are often part of a big-ticket realty deal, was dealt  a major blow when 86 per cent of the legal tender became worthless in a matter of four hours on the evening of November 8, 2016. This segment has been a slow grind since then, admitted Rahul Saraf, managing director of Forum Group, credited with the development of the iconic Atmosphere on EM Bypass, which sells upwards of Rs 10 crore. He now says luxury home is also seeing an uptrend with increased enquiries and sales. Brokers say “adjustment in price” — an euphemism for a decline in asking rates — helped in clicking deals. There has been at least a 10 per cent reduction in the price of apartments — the price for the Alipore property slashed to Rs 11,500-per-square-foot from 13,000-per-square-foot — depending on cities and locations. A new breed of buyer has also come to the market. Chadha pointed out that people who made capital gains out of selling unlisted equities find real estate a good place to save tax. “While most of the buys are for self use, an element of investment is there in this case,” he said. While it may be too early to wager if the buoyancy in the luxury market is here to stay, when the affordable segment bounces back, the pandemic may just have widened the chasm between HNIs and the middle class a little more, at least for the foreseeable future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-219
30-11-2020||Business||Yamaha calls for uninterrupted supply chain||Yamaha Motor India has called for a resilient supply chain system locally which will cater to the requirements of all original equipment manufacturers (OEM). “This would require some investment, proper training and upskilling but would be beneficial to a greater extent for the entire industry,” Ravinder Singh, senior vice-president, Yamaha Motor India, told The Telegraph. Underlining the importance of an uninterrupted supply of parts from suppliers in order to sustain a seamless operation, Singh said: “Initially, when we were planning to resume our manufacturing operations in May, we came across several challenges. Availability of manpower for in-house manufacturing was one of the biggest challenges. Resuming operations of the suppliers was another challenge as many were caught in containment zones that led to a whole new difficulty in ensuring a smooth supply chain.” The company registered sales of 11,613 units in May and 29,539 units in June, which prompted the company to revise its annual domestic sales target to 5 lakh units for 2020 from 6.5 lakh units it had targeted in January 2020. In 2019, it had sold 6,24,000 units.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-219
30-11-2020||Business||Pharma industry expected to grow in double digits ||Pharma companies are betting big on the prospects of the Indian market. Analysts expect the market to grow in double digits over the next few years, the fastest in the world. The industry was badly affected during the first quarter with the Covid-19 pandemic and the resulting lockdown affecting patient visits to doctors. However, with the easing of restrictions and drug firms adopting digital methods, their performance turned out to be better-than expected. This is expected to improve further during the third quarter of this fiscal. For instance, domestic sales of Lupin fell 0.7 per cent in the second quarter from a year ago because of the pandemic’s impact on demand, particularly on acute drugs. With the market now turning around, the company is looking at a growth of 6-8 per cent from the Indian market. In the last fiscal, the Indian market contributed in the range of 17 per cent to 100 per cent to the revenues of the companies. (It was 100 per cent for Abbot Laboratories). According to analysts at Bernstein, while the US market has been in the driver’s seat dictating valuations, the domestic market remains the ever-reliable vertical for most generic companies. During the next 4-5 years, it will be the largest contributor to their profitability. Bernstein said the India formulations and life sciences market is worth $73 billion: of this the formulations market, which is the tenth largest in the world in terms of value, is worth $24 billion in 2019. This is slated to grow at 11-12 per cent annually over the next four years. Bernstein said the Indian formulations market was slated to be the fastest growising across the world in the next four years. According to the brokerage, the market has a unique set of factors that make it one of the most profitable: more than 25 per cent earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) and more than 20 per cent return on capital employed. Other factors include a high share of branded generics, less stringent regulations around product approval and manufacturing and free pricing in non-essential medicines, the analysts at Bernstein added. They pointed out that growth in the next 4-5 years will be driven by population growth, penetration of healthcare infrastructure and improving accessibility into smaller towns, increase in prevalence of chronic diseases, pricing growth and launches, including high-priced patented products. The forecast comes at a time Covid-19 has brought about some key changes in the industry. With companies also tapping the digital way to market drugs and communicate with doctors, companies are expected to see some savings in sales and marketing expenses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-220
30-11-2020||Business||Steel import duty hike wins support||A China-induced spike in iron ore prices has disrupted the steel sector, a situation made worse by the parity in the import and domestic price of steel that will necessitate a hike in import duties to protect the industry, analysts said. Steel prices in India have rallied Rs 4,000-5,000 per tonne on a monthly basis in November, with hot rolled coils rising 10 per cent to Rs 47,000 per tonne and rebars by13 per cent  Rs 44,000 per tonne. Despite these hikes, domestic hot rolled coil prices are trading at par with the landed cost of imports from Korea ($630 per tonne), raising the possibility of further import duty hikes in December,  Motilal Oswal said in a research note. Domestic price hikes in steel are being supported by higher international prices, which in turn are being driven by a sharp rise in Chinese domestic prices. China hot rolled coil and rebar prices are up 10 per cent to 11 per cent in the last two months. Iron ore exports have surged 70.3 per cent to 29.2 million tonnes (mt) in the first half of the current fiscal  compared with the corresponding period a year ago. About 92 per cent of the exports were directed towards China during this period —  the very period during which Indian and China had a violent border standoff in eastern Ladakh and when Chinese products were subject to a barrage of restrictions including the ban on apps. As much as 27 million tonnes of iron ore were shipped to China which are the highest level seen since 2011-12. “Iron ore prices have crossed $123 per tonne in September, a level last seen in 2014, amid better Chinese demand and tepid supply due to severe weather conditions and covid induced restrictions in Brazil,” rating agency Care said. However, prices are likely to retrace to lower levels in the second-half largely on the back of a ramp up of production by the miners in Brazil and Australia, Care said in its research note. Better export realisations prompted Indian miners to export huge quantities of iron ore despite a sharp fall in domestic production. “An improvement in (domestic) steel demand post monsoons had supported the rise in prices, but the overall operating margins for 2020-21 will take a hit, leading to deterioration in the debt profile of steel players, which in turn will impact the financial sector as well,” Bal Krishna Piparaiya, senior  director, Brickwork Ratings, said The longevity of any recovery in steel now depends on whether there is consistent new demand both in India and from other countries, along with reforms introduced by the government for the steel sector, Piparaiya said. International spot iron ore (cost and freight) averaged $119.8 per tonne in October 2020 against $84.7 per tonne in April 2020 and $ 103.3 per tonne in June 2020. Higher grade iron ore export attracts 30 per cent   duty —  even after this, India miners are earning huge margins as iron ore (62 per cent ore fines) were imported into Northern China for $130.2 a tonne, the highest level seen since January 2014. Lower availability of iron ore in the domestic market has sent prices higher over the past few months. Prices of lump ore and fines (NMDC, iron content 64 per cent) have jumped almost 50-60 per cent since June 2020 to average Rs 3,404.8 per tonne for lump and Rs 3,114.8 per tonne for fines in October compared with Rs 2,256.7 and Rs 1,966.7 for lumps and fines respectively in June. Domestic iron ore prices across grades have doubled from Rs 4,000 per tonne to Rs 8,000 per tonne on an average. Contrary to rising steel prices, the raw material basket has been a mixed one. While iron ore prices are at a multi-year high, coking coal prices are at four-year low because of restrictions on Chinese steel makers from buying Australian coking coal, causing a supply glut. Iron ore production fell 50 per cent during April-July of the fiscal  compared with the corresponding period of the previous year. The mismatch in demand and supply is mainly because of a  failure to start operation of 14 mines in Odisha which were auctioned in February, Care Ratings sai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-220
30-11-2020||India||Protesting farmers: Got MSP this kharif season; worried about future||Forty-four-year-old Ranveer Singh, Pradhan of Shahbazpur village in Tarn Taran district of Punjab, has travelled with his fellow farmers (125) in six tractor-trolleys covering a distance of about 425 km in this winter and reached the Delhi border. “I have sold about 125 quintals of kharif paddy in an APMC mandi and received MSP payment in my bank account. But what is the guarantee this will continue if such trade is permitted outside mandis. This is our worry,” said Singh, a protesting farmer at Singhu border here. Like other protesting farmers associated with over 32 farm organisations, his only demand is “repeal of the three new farm laws” enacted by the central government which he fears will dismantle the MSP system and put next-generation farmers at risk of exploitation by private players. “No doubt, we are getting MSP now. We are not sure if we will get it after 4-5 years. This fight is to protect the interest of next-generation farmers,” he said. Stating that many options have been provided under the new laws to trade outside mandis, he said however this will only weaken the existing government’s APMC (Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee) mandi system. “Like government schools and hospitals, the new farm laws will only weaken our mandis. We know mandis will not go away, but entry of private trade in over next few years will only weaken the mandi system,” he explained. Another farmer Baksheesh Singh, 60, from Patiala added, “All that we are demanding from the Centre is an assurance that the private players like Adanis and Ambanis will not buy below MSP if we sell our produce outside the mandi.” He also alleged that the entry of private players has weakened many government sectors from education to healthcare, where the poor cannot afford to get admission. When asked that the Centre under the new law has provided for dispute resolution mechanism at sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) and District Collector (DC) level, Singh said, “They are government people and they will listen to private players instead of farmers.” “When the current system is running smoothly, what is the point of having new laws. Even arthiyas (middlemen) are private players, but we are dealing with them for many years,” he said. Another farmer Balavinder Singh from Bathu Chak village in Amritsar district – who reached the Delhi border to participate in the protest – is of the view that the way farmers are treated by the central government does not instill confidence even if it claims the reforms are in the interest of the farming community. As per the official data, the government’s paddy procurement has increased by 18.60 per cent to 316.93 lakh tonnes so far in the current kharif season. Out of which, Punjab alone has contributed 202.74 lakh tonnes which is 63.97 per cent of the total procurement. Jagveer Singh, 60, who has travelled all the way from Patiala district said, “We are protesting peacefully here. We have the right to protest – good or bad. We are not goondas, which some ministers are saying to us. We will return to hometown only after the Centre repeals the laws.” While most of the protesting farmers are demanding for a repeal of all three new farm laws enacted by the central government, but their concerns are largely related to only one law – The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act (FPTC Act). Farmers also claimed that they are protesting out of their will and not been funded by any political parties. In a series of tweets, Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad sought to refute criticism of the farm laws by some farmer bodies and opposition parties. Many misconceptions like the farm bills are a conspiracy to not offer farmers MSP, are being spread, he said, adding that the reality is that these legislations have nothing to do with the minimum support price. “The MSP has been in force and will remain in force,” he said. Big companies will not be able to exploit farmers following these laws, as farmers can walk out of contract anytime without paying any penalty, the Union minister asserted. Union minister Prakash Javadekar said, “Don’t have misconceptions about the farm laws. Farmers of Punjab have sold more paddy in mandi than they did last year and at a higher MSP. MSP is alive and so is mandi. And government purchase is also taking place.” Upset over the government’s response, Bharat Kisan Union (Dakunda) General Secretary Jagmohan Singh said, “We want unconditional talks with the government. We will not come to the discussion table unless some of our farmers who are in Burari ground are not allowed to come out. It is a mini-jail.” Sticking to their demands, hundreds of farmers from Punjab – who have reached Delhi borders in their tractor-trolleys from districts of Sangrur, Tarn Taran, Amritsar, Ludhiana, Patiala and Fatehpur Saheb – said the ball now is in the court of the central government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-524
30-11-2020||India||Social media campaign to muster support for agitating farmers, launched by Congress||On Monday, Congress launched a social media campaign to muster support for the farmers protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws with party leader Rahul Gandhi saying, when farmers raise their voice, it resonates across the country. The party asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi why a conspiracy was being hatched to destroy the minimum support price (MSP) system and snatch away the livelihood of 62 crore farmers. “The Modi government has persecuted the farmer - first it brought black laws and then used lathis against them, but it forgot that when the farmer raises his voice, it resonates throughout the country. You also raise your voice against the exploitation of farmers and join the #SpeakUpForFarmers campaign,” Rahul Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. “The farmer of the country has come to Delhi in the cold, leaving his home and fields, to voice his protest against the black agriculture laws. In this battle of truth and untruth, with whom do you stand - the ‘Annadata’ (food-giving) farmer or the PM’s capitalist friends,” Gandhi said in another tweet. The former Congress chief urged the common man and Congress workers to stand in support of the protesting farmers and provide them with food. “The question is why is the farmer out on the roads, travelling thousands of kilometers and is stalling traffic. PM Modi says the three farm laws are in favour of the farmer, but if these laws are in the farmer’s favour, why is he not happy and why is he protesting,” asked the Congress leader. “These laws are for Narendra Modi’s two-three friends and are aimed at stealing from the farmers. That is why we all have to together stand with the strength of India ‑ the farmer,” he said. Sharing a one -minute-long video in which the Congress party asked the government to listen to the grievances of the farmers and to not use force against them, he flagged off the campaign. The video alleged that while the farmers produce food grains to feed the country, they had to face water cannons and lathis at the hands of the Modi government. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also joined the #SpeakUpForFarmers campaign and shared the same video to highlight the plight of the farmers. “In the name of farm laws, all billionaire friends are benefitting. How can farm laws be framed without even talking to farmers? How can the interests of farmers be ignored?” she tweeted in Hindi. “The government will have to listen to the farmers. Let us together raise our voice in support of farmers,” she said while seeking public support for the farmers. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala urged the prime minister to suspend the three agri laws and take back all 12,000 FIRs filed against farmers without any pre-conditions. He also demanded that Modi should himself talk to the representatives of all farmer unions and assures them of their grievances being redressed. “When will you withdraw the black farm laws? Why is conspiracy being hatched to destroy the MSP system? Why are you conspiring to snatch the livelihood of 62 crore farmers? Food growers of the country are crying for justice. Why are you using tear gas and batons to break their morale?” Surjewala asked Modi. Senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge said, “Lakhs of farmers who are protesting the anti-farmer laws passed by the govt have now been stopped outside Delhi. If the BJP is convinced of the laws passed by them, they should have to courage to meet the farmers and convince them.” Former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat lamented on farmers who are helping the country’s falling economy being rewarded with the new “black laws” and their grievances not being heard. “There is a conspiracy to take away the MSP, demolish the existing mandi structure and end the procurement system through the FCI,” Rawat said. Senior Congress leader Anand Sharma said the treatment meted out to the protesting farmers is condemnable and the central government should initiate a dialogue with them. Former Union minister Ashwani Kumar said the face-off between the farmers and central government over farm laws is fraught with grave consequences for law and order and the nation’s internal security. The Congress on its official Twitter handle demanded that the government must stop the alleged violence and atrocities against the farmers who are exercising their right to protest. “Use of brute force on the souls that feed a billion stomachs is nothing but grave, inhumane, gut-wrenching injustice. India will not stand for this. India will #SpeakUpForFarmers,” the party tweeted from its official handle. A host of party leaders including Shashi Tharoor, Salman Khurshid, and Sunil Jakhar also spoke in support of the farmers and urged the government to redress their grievances. The Congress has launched a day-long online campaign in support of the farmers who are agitating on the roads against the farm laws. The ongoing protests by thousands of farmers against the Centre's new farm laws entered the fifth day on Monday, with the protesters threatening to block all five entry points to the national capital. Rejecting the Centre’s offer to hold talks once they move to the Burari ground, the farmers said they will not accept any conditional dialogue and vowed to continue agitating until their demands are met.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-524
30-11-2020||India||In Delhi for 'decisive battle', farmers show no signs of backing down ||Farmers protesting against the Centre's new agricultural laws at Delhi border points on Monday said they have come to the national capital for a "decisive battle" and asserted that they will continue their agitation until their demands are met. Addressing a press conference at Singhu border, a representative of protesting farmers said that they want Prime Minister Narendra Modi to listen to their "mann ki baat'. "Our demands are non-negotiable," he said and claimed the ruling party 'will have to pay a heavy price' if it does not heed to their concerns. We have come here to fight a decisive battle," he said. Another farmer leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni said that around 31 cases have so far been registered against protestors to "suppress" their agitation. Chaduni said that farmers will continue their agitation until their demands are met. The desperation of the protesting groups is such that they are more worried about the new laws than the Coronavirus that is wreaking havoc across the world. Amid fears that the 'Delhi Chalo' protests by farmers will lead to coronavirus spreading faster, their leaders said the black laws enacted at the Centre are a bigger threat than the contagion. There had been few signs of social distancing as thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana began their protest last week against the three new agro-marketing laws, setting off on a march to the national capital. On the way, they skirmished with police at barricades and since Friday are massed at Delhi's entry points, many of them sheltering inside tractor-trolleys. Masks appear to be a rarity and there is little attempt at keeping a distance from each other, safeguards meant to prevent the infection from spreading. But as experts fear that the event could become a coronavirus superspreader, farm leaders say there are more pressing concerns before them. "The new farm laws brought by the (Narendra) Modi government are a bigger threat than coronavirus as farmers fear they will lose their livelihood with the implementation of these laws," Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan told PTI over the phone. Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher asked why coronavirus posed a serious threat to life only during the farmers' agitation, and not during the recent Bihar assembly polls. "When Bihar elections took place, where was COVID-19? When any political gathering takes place, where is coronavirus?" he asked, in an apparent reference to the election rallies. He claimed that the issue comes up only when farmers begin agitation for their rights. The Delhi Police initially declined permission for the farmers' protest in the city, citing the threat of COVID-19. On Sunday, Haryana Chief Minister M L Khattar lashed out at his Punjab counterpart Amarinder Singh, saying he will be responsible if the gathering of farmers worsens the coronavirus situation. Singh has backed the protest. A spokesperson for the BKU's Haryana unit led by Gurnam Singh Charuni on Monday claimed that farmers are trying their best to keep COVID-19 at bay. As much as we can, we are trying to follow the guidelines. But at the moment thousands of farmers are saying that getting the Centre's farm laws rolled back is the first priority as these will anyway destroy them, he said. He said it is now up to the Centre to accept their demands. When asked if they fear that the infection may spread as thousands have gathered over a large area, he said, "No farmer fears this disease at the moment. All they have on their minds is to get these laws rolled back." In Sonipat, a Haryana Health Department official said they have so far distributed 5,000 masks to the protesting farmers. Also, after every kilometre we have stationed an ambulance, he said. Mobile toilets have also been installed at various points and sanitisation is being regularly carried out, he added. The health department also plans to carry out random tests for COVID-19. We are trying to take all necessary measures so that everyone remains safe amid the pandemic, he said. We are also urging farmers to wear masks and try to maintain social distancing. Union Home Minister Amit Shah had appealed to the farmers to shift to the Burari ground and had said the Centre was ready to hold discussions with them as soon as they move to the designated place. A meeting of over 30 farmer groups on Sunday rejected Shah's offer for talks before the scheduled date of December 3 and demanded an unconditional dialogue. Thousands of protesters refused to budge and spent another night in the cold at the Singhu and Tikri border points. Their representatives had said that Shah's condition that they shift the protest is not acceptable and claimed Burari ground is an "open jail".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-524
30-11-2020||India||290 tigers dead in the past 19 years in Madhya Pradesh||Madhya Pradesh has lost 290 tigers over the last 19 years but the central Indian state still has more than 675 tigers, including 125 cubs, in the designated reserves and in the wild, a top Forest department official said on Monday. Claiming that the population of tigers has actually "gone up", he said Madhya Pradesh will continue to remain the "tiger state of India". The official said only five per cent of the deaths of big cats had occurred due to poaching or in man-animal conflicts. Most of the deaths of the tigers occurred either in territorial fights or due to natural causes, he added. "Madhya Pradesh has lost 290 tigers so far since 2002," Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) Alok Kumar told PTI. However, there are 550 big cats in tiger reserves in Kanha, Bandhavgarh, Pench, Satpura, Panna and Sanjay Gandhi reserve and in the wild, he said, adding that there are 125 cubs in the parks. Kumar said about 10 to 20 more tiger cubs might be roaming in the wild. "They can't be captured as they might be deep inside the jungles. When they turn young and venture out, we would be able to see them," he added. Kumar said movements of tigers were recorded through camera traps, patrolling and other means. Asked about the deaths of 290 tigers since 2002, Kumar said, "As the number of tigers has risen, they are fighting for territorial control. We are losing 25 to 30 striped animals every year. Of them (the deceased tiger), 95 per cent were weak and old. While the remaining five per cent of (290) tigers were killed by poachers or in man-animal conflicts". Queried on whether territories of the majestic beasts have shrunk due to encroachments, he said, "We do have an adequate area for tigers". Kumar said there was no talk on increasing the area for the striped animals. "The habitat of tigers needed to be protected, and for this people need to be made aware as well," he added. Kumar said the typical lifespan of a tiger living in a reserve is 12 to 13 years. Responding to a query, he said Madhya Pradesh will continue to remain the tiger state of India. "The tiger state tag pulls tourists to Madhya Pradesh. Our tourism is largely big cat-centric," said MP Wildlife Board (MPWB) member Abhilash Khandekar. He said the state government should take utmost care to conserve its "tiger state" status so that it does not lose out on tourists and thus revenue. "We don't have many big industries in MP. So each tiger counts for us," he said. He said that economy of Panna region had been adversely affected in 2005 when the population of big cats dwindled in the Panna Tiger Reserve in 2005. Earlier, MP had lost the 'tiger state' tag to Karnataka in the all India tiger estimation exercise for 2010, primarily due to alleged poaching in the Panna Tiger Reserve. That time, MP had 257 tigers compared to 300 in Karnataka. In the 2014 tiger census, MP slipped to no.3 position in the country with a population of 308 striped animals, after Uttarakhand (340) and Karnataka (408). The central Indian state regained the top slot in the 2018 Census with a population of 526 tigers, two more than Karnataka.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-524
30-11-2020||India||New laws bigger threat than coronavirus, say protesting farmers||Amid fears that the 'Delhi Chalo' protests by farmers will lead to coronavirus spreading faster, their leaders said the black laws enacted at the Centre are a bigger threat than the contagion. There had been few signs of social distancing as thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana began their protest last week against the three new agro-marketing laws, setting off on a march to the national capital. On the way, they skirmished with police at barricades and since Friday are massed at Delhi's entry points, many of them sheltering inside tractor-trolleys. Masks appear to be a rarity and there is little attempt at keeping distance from each other, safeguards meant to prevent the infection from spreading. But as experts fear that the event could become a coronavirus superspreader , farm leaders say there are more pressing concerns before them. The new farm laws brought by the (Narendra) Modi government are a bigger threat than coronavirus as farmers fear they will lose their livelihood with the implementation of these laws, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan told PTI over the phone. Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher asked why coronavirus posed a serious threat to life only during the farmers' agitation, and not during the recent Bihar assembly polls. When Bihar elections took place, where was COVID-19? When any political gathering takes place, where is coronavirus, he asked, in an apparent reference to the election rallies. He claimed that the issue comes up only when farmers begin an agitation for their rights. The Delhi Police initially declined permission for the farmers' protest in the city, citing the threat of COVID-19. On Sunday, Haryana Chief Minister M L Khattar lashed out at his Punjab counterpart Amarinder Singh, saying he will be responsible if the gathering of farmers worsens the coronavirus situation. Singh has backed the protest. A spokesperson for the BKU's Haryana unit led by Gurnam Singh Charuni on Monday claimed that farmers are trying their best to keep COVID-19 at bay. As much as we can, we are trying to follow the guidelines. But at the moment thousands of farmers are saying that getting the Centre's farm laws rolled back is the first priority as these will anyway destroy them, he said. He said it is now up to the Centre to accept their demands. When asked if they fear that the infection may spread as thousands have gathered over a large area, he said, "No farmer fears this disease at the moment. All they have on their minds is to get these laws rolled back." In Sonipat, a Haryana Health Department official said they have so far distributed 5,000 masks to the protesting farmers. Also, after every kilometre we have stationed an ambulance, he said. Mobile toilets have also been installed at various points and sanitisation is being regularly carried out, he added. The health department also plans to carry out random tests for COVID-19. We are trying to take all necessary measures so that everyone remains safe amid the pandemic, he said. We are also urging farmers to wear masks and try to maintain social distancing. Unions have expressed apprehension that the new agri-marketing laws enacted at the Centre will lead to the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving farmers to the mercy of big corporates. The government, however, says that the new laws give farmers options to get higher prices for their crops and the MSP regime will still continue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-524
30-11-2020||India||Another storm coming Tamil Nadu's way after Cyclone Nivar ||Less than a week after Cyclone Nivar battered Tamil Nadu, another storm is expected to affect the southern state, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday. The cyclone will cross the Sri Lanka coast on December 2 and will bring heavy rain over Tamil Nadu and Kerala, it said. Last week, a very severe cyclonic storm Nivar had hit Tamil Nadu. While there were no reports of loss of life, about 2.5 lakh people were housed in cyclone shelters in the state as part of safety measures. The IMD has issued a red-colour coded warning for the southern areas of Tamil Nadu, Kerala in view of the brewing storm and said that these areas are expected to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall. As the sea is expected to become rough due to the weather system, fishermen are advised not to venture into the southeast and adjoining southwest Bay of Bengal from the night of December 1 and along and off east Sri Lanka coast, Comorin area, Gulf of Mannar and Tamil Nadu-Kerala coasts from forenoon of December 2 for the subsequent 24 hours. Also, those who are out at sea are advised to return to the coast by November 30, it said. According to the IMD, a well-marked low-pressure area in the Bay of Bengal intensified into a depression. "It is very likely to intensify further into a deep depression during the next 24 hours. It is also likely to intensify further into a cyclonic storm. It is very likely to move west-northwestwards and cross the Sri Lanka coast around the evening of December 2," the IMD said. "It is very likely to move nearly westwards thereafter and emerge into the Comorin area on December 3 morning, the Cyclone Warning Division of the IMD said. The IMD said squally weather with wind speed would gradually increase becoming 55-65 kilometres per hour gusting to 75 kmph over the southeast and adjoining the southwest Bay of Bengal from the night of December 1 and 70-80 kmph gusting to 90 kmph over southwest Bay of Bengal, along with and off Sri Lanka coast. Winds with a speed of 45-55 kmph gusting to 65 kmph are likely over the Comorin area, Gulf of Mannar and Tamil Nadu-Kerala coasts from December 2 forenoon for subsequent 24 hours, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-524
30-11-2020||India||Govt calls all-party meet to discuss Covid situation||The Union government has called an all-party meeting to discuss the COVID-19 pandemic situation on December 4, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi expected to interact with floor leaders of various parties from both houses of parliament, official sources said on Monday. The Parliamentary Affairs Ministry is coordinating the meeting and has extended an invitation to all parties, they said. Floor leaders of all parties from Lok Sabha as well as Rajya Sabha have been invited for the meeting, which will be held virtually on Friday from 10.30 am onwards, sources told PTI, adding that Modi will chair it. This will be the second all-party meeting called by the government to discuss the COVID-19 situation since the outbreak of the pandemic. The first meeting was held on April 20 amid a nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of the virus. The top brass of the government including Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Home Minister Amit Shah besides Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi will also attend the meeting, they said. The government is likely to brief the parliamentarians about various steps it has taken to deal with the pandemic and may also touch upon the advances being made in vaccine development and distribution. The floor leaders of different parties include Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and Ghulam Nabi Azad of the Congress, Sudip Bandyopadhyay and Derek O' Brien of the Trinamool Congress, Midhun Reddy and Vijayasai Reddy of the YSR Congress among others. Modi has held multiple meetings with chief ministers, laying special emphasis on states with high COVID-19 caseload, to review the situation there and offer suggestions. The prime minister on Monday held a virtual meeting with three teams working on developing and manufacturing COVID-19 vaccine. He had also visited pharmaceutical companies in Ahmedabad, Hyderabad and Pune on Saturday, to review coronavirus vaccine development work there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-524
30-11-2020||India||PM holds virtual meet with teams developing, manufacturing Covid vaccine ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday held a virtual meeting with three teams working on developing and manufacturing Covid-19 vaccine and said they should take extra efforts to inform people in simple language about the vaccine and related matters such as its efficacy. A statement from the Prime Minister's Office said that Modi also asked the companies, represented by these teams, to come out with their suggestions and ideas regarding the regulatory processes and related matters. "The PM advised all the departments concerned to engage with the manufacturers and seek to resolve matters so that the efforts by these companies bear fruit to serve the needs of the country and the entire world," it added. These teams were from Gennova Biopharmaceuticals Ltd Pune, Biological E Ltd Hyderabad and Dr Reddys Laboratories Ltd Hyderabad. The prime minister appreciated the efforts being taken by scientists in these companies to come out with a vaccine solution to tackle Covid-19. The potential of various platforms for vaccine development was also discussed, the statement said. Matters relating to logistics, transport, cold chain etc in respect of delivering the vaccines were also discussed. All the vaccine candidates discussed are at different stages of trials and detailed data and results are expected early next year onwards, it added. Modi had on Saturday visited Ahmedabad, Hyderabad and Pune to review the development and manufacturing process of coronavirus vaccines at facilities in these cities. The total coronavirus cases in India have mounted to 94,31,691 with 38,772 new infections, while the death toll climbed to 1,37,139 after 443 more fatalities were reported, according to Health Ministry data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-524
30-11-2020||India||This November the coldest in Delhi in 71 years, says IMD||The month of November was the coldest in the national capital in 71 years, with the mean minimum temperature dropping to 10.2 degrees Celsius, according to the India Meteorological Department. Delhi had recorded a mean minimum temperature of 10.2 degrees Celsius in November 1949. The mean minimum temperature for November was 9.6 degrees Celsius in 1938; nine degrees Celsius in 1931 and 8.9 degrees Celsius in 1930, according to IMD data. Normally, the mean minimum temperature for the month of November is 12.9 degrees Celsius. The mean minimum temperature was 15 degrees Celsius last year, 13.4 degrees Celsius in 2018 and 12.8 degrees Celsius in 2017 and 2016. Delhi also braved four cold waves in November on the 3rd, 20th, 23rd and 24th. For the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than normal for two consecutive days. However, for small areas such as Delhi, a cold wave can be declared if the criteria is fulfilled even for a day, Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said. On Monday, Delhi recorded a minimum of 6.9 degrees Celsius. This is the eight-day this month that the minimum temperature remained below 10 degrees Celsius. On November 23, Delhi recorded a minimum of 6.3 degrees Celsius -- its lowest minimum temperature in the month since November 2003, when the city recorded a minimum of 6.1 degrees Celsius, according to Srivastava. The minimum temperature this month, barring on November 16, has remained 2-3 degree Celsius below normal in the absence of a cloud cover on most days, according to IMD officials. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground. The month of October was the coldest in 58 years in the national capital. The mean minimum temperature in October this year was 17.2 degrees Celsius, the lowest since 1962 when it was 16.9 degrees Celsius.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-525
30-11-2020||India||Delhi air quality slips back into 'very poor' category||Delhi's air quality turned very poor on Monday and is predicted to deteriorate further with calm winds and low temperature allowing the accumulation of pollutants. The city's air quality index (AQI) was 307. The 24-hour average AQI was 268 on Sunday. It was 231 on Saturday, 137 on Friday, 302 on Thursday and 413 on Wednesday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". The winds were calm at night time. During the day, the maximum wind speed is expected to be 10 kmph, according to the India Meteorological Department. Winds are predicted to slow down further. Therefore, Delhi's air quality is likely to deteriorate further and remain in the poor to very poor category over the next two days, it had said earlier. The minimum temperature was 6.9 degrees Celsius on Sunday and the maximum is expected to settle around 26 degrees Celsius, the weather department said. Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion. The central government's Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said the city's ventilation index -- a product of mixing depth and average wind speed will be around 2,500 m2/s on Monday and is likely to be 2,000 m2/s on Tuesday. Mixing depth is the vertical height in which pollutants are suspended in the air. It reduces on cold days with calm wind speed. A ventilation index lower than 6,000 sqm/second, with the average wind speed less than 10 kmph, is unfavourable for dispersal of pollutants. The share of stubble burning in Delhi's pollution has reduced as the harvesting season has ended. The contribution of stubble burning in neighbouring states to Delhi's PM2.5 levels was 6 per cent on Sunday, 4 per cent on Saturday, 2 per cent on Friday and just 1 per cent on Thursday, according to the Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-525
30-11-2020||India||Less than 40,000 Covid cases for the seventh time this month||The number of Covid-19 cases reported in India in a span of 24 hours dropped below 40,000 for the seventh time this month, taking the infection tally to 94.31 lakh, while the recoveries surged to 88,47,600, according to the Union Health Ministry's data updated on Monday. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 94,31,691 with 38,772 new infections, while the death toll climbed to 1,37,139 after 443 more fatalities were reported, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 88,47,600, pushing the national recovery rate to 93.81 per cent. The Covid-19 case fatality rate declined further to 1.45 per cent. The active Covid-19 caseload remained below five lakh for the 20th consecutive day. There are 4,46,952 active cases in the country which comprise 4.74 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, and surpassed 90 lakh on November 20. According to the ICMR, 14,03,79,976 samples have been tested up to November 29 with 8,76,173 samples being tested on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-525
30-11-2020||India||Protesting farmers reject conditional offer after Modi's Mann Ki Baat||The agitating farmers amassed at the Delhi-Haryana border for the past two days have rejected the Centre’s talks offer that had come with the condition that they shift to Delhi’s Burari area where a ground has been designated as a protest site. The farmers appeared to dig in their heels after Sunday morning’s Mann ki Baat — Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s monthly radio broadcast — in which he extolled the new farm laws they are protesting against. Modi offered the country sage advice on topics such as a Vedanta teacher in Brazil and an Annapurna idol but made no mention of the farmers’ agitation. However, by nightfall, the potential of the agitation to cripple the national capital appeared to have dawned on the political leadership. Senior ministers Amit Shah and Rajnath Singh and Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar went into a late-night huddle at the home of BJP national chief J.P. Nadda. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee has called on all farmers to proceed towards Delhi. Earlier, with the absence of train services in mind, farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh alone were being encouraged to come while their peers in other states protested in their own areas. Given the attitude of the government, however, the organisation felt the need for a greater show of strength as well as a need to prove that the anger against the new farm laws was not Punjab-specific but much more widespread. The farmers have been agitating over the past couple of months against the new farm laws and an electricity ordinance that seeks to reduce subsidies and privatise power distribution, besides pushing their longstanding demand for a law guaranteeing a minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. After the government had tried to stop the farmers reaching Delhi with tear gas, water cannons and barbed wire, a sliver of hope had emerged on Saturday night with home minister Shah offering talks before the scheduled December 3 farmer-government meeting. But the hope faded quickly with the arrival of a letter from home secretary Ajay Bhalla around 11pm on Saturday. In the letter, received by leaders of the 30 farmer organisations spearheading the agitation in Punjab, Bhalla set conditions for the talks: clear Delhi’s borders and move to Burari. In a video message from the Singhu border on G.T. Karnal Road, Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav said the letter had made it clear that the government was treating the agitation as a law-and-order situation and not an agriculture-related one. Else, the agriculture secretary would have written to the farmers, Yadav contended. Yadav and All India Kisan Sabha general secretary Hannan Mollah alleged that the government was asking the farmers to move to Burari because it wanted the agitation out of the limelight. Also, they said, those farmers who had reached Burari had reported that their names and addresses were being taken down, and that those trying to leave the ground there with their tractors were being blocked. “It is as though they are trying to create a Jallianwala Bagh-like situation,” Mollah said. “Condition put forward for talks is an insult to farmers. We will never go to Burari. It is not a park but an open jail,” Surjeet Singh Phul, state president of Bharayiya Kisan Union Krantikari (Punjab), said on the offer for talks. The Punjab-based farmers’ bodies have made it clear they want the government to talk not just to them but to the national movement of farmers. This involves over 400 farmers’ bodies that have formed several collectives. “They have rejected the government’s attempt at divide-and-rule,” Mollah said. Echoing Yadav, he said that while Punjab’s farmers may be at the vanguard this time, the three laws and the electricity ordinance were agitating farmers across the country. “We are ready for talks but not as per the conditions set by the government,” Yadav said. “At least, say you will reconsider and then an atmosphere will be created for talks; but this doublespeak is not the way to go,” he added, referring to the contradictory signals coming from the government. While Shah had adopted the most mellowed of tones to offer talks before December 3, Modi had talked up the new farm laws less than 12 hours later. “The farmers don’t want to be lectured the way the Punjab farmers were in the second round of talks over the past couple of months,” Yadav said. “Stop making it sound as if the farmers don’t know what is good for them.” He added: “Stop calling them names. First you have called them Khalistani. Next you will find a few Muslim farmers and say this movement is Islamist. Stop trying to discredit this movement and at least do what then Gujarat chief minister Narendra Modi had demanded in 2011 — a legal guarantee for MSP.” Yadav questioned the government’s pandemic logic against the agitation — Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has threatened to hold his Punjab counterpart Amarinder Singh, who supports the farmers’ protest, responsible for any spike in Covid cases. Yadav asked why the pandemic had not been an issue the previous Sunday when BJP ally Dushyant Chautala organised a rally in the Mewat region. “Stop using the pandemic as a political weapon,” he said. In his latest Mann Ki Baat, Modi hailed the new farm laws but made no mention of the farmers’ agitation. Some of the other topics his speech covered: ⚫ Jonas Masetti, also known as Vishwanath. Jonas teaches Vedanta and Gita to people in Brazil ⚫Recently in Kevadia, I also got a memorable opportunity to spend time with birds ⚫These cherry blossoms have further enhanced the beauty of Meghalaya ⚫A very old idol of Devi Annapurna is returning to India from Canada||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-525
30-11-2020||India||All pillars enforcing BJP agenda: Mehbooba Mufti||Former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti on Sunday mentioned the courts and the Election Commission while saying key institutions had been “compromised” and were “implementing the BJP’s agenda”. She accused the Opposition of keeping silent out of fear. The People’s Democratic Party chief alleged the Centre wanted to ban her party because she was speaking out against the abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status. “Unfortunately, what they (the government) cannot do on their own, they bring the courts forward. If a poor man was hit earlier, he would seek redress from the courts. Now they (the BJP) are doing all this through courts,” she said at a news conference. “Unfortunately, all our institutions... are implementing the BJP’s agenda in total. They are at the forefront of implementing the BJP agenda. We don’t know who to go to.” Referring to the ongoing District Development Council elections, Mehbooba said the candidates of the seven-party alliance that is fighting for the restoration of Article 370 were being locked up to prevent them from campaigning. The PDP is part of the alliance. Mehbooba questioned last week’s election of the Srinagar mayor — who is from a party close to the BJP — at a time the code of conduct for the DDC polls was in force. “When there was a code of conduct in force, how can you go for a mayor’s election (by the councillors)? Unfortunately, the Election Commission of India, a big institution supposed to protect democracy... is singing their (the BJP’s) tune,” she said. Mehbooba said democracy was being murdered in Kashmir in the name of the DDC elections and that the country’s top institutions should have tried to prevent it. “Unfortunately, they are compromised,” she said. Her comments on the courts came in the context of the BJP targeting senior Valley politicians for alleged land-grabbing in connection with the “Roshni scam”. The crackdown came after Jammu and Kashmir High Court had quashed as illegal the 19-year-old Roshni Act — which regularised the encroachment of government land by thousands — and ordered the release of all the beneficiaries’ names. “What is Roshni? It was a scheme which has been turned into a scam. The real scam is the electoral bonds scam. For the last year and a half, the Supreme Court is not hearing it,” Mehbooba said. “The act was passed (during) the National Conference (government’s) time and implemented during (then Congress chief minister Ghulam Nabi) Azad sahab’s time. It was a law, our Assembly passed it. If it (land encroachment) has been legalised by law, how is it a scam?” Mehbooba said many of the beneficiaries were poor people who were being served with eviction notices. She said if rich people had benefited, the government should go after them and spare the poor. She said she was being told directly and indirectly not to speak about the abrogation of Article 370 provisions. “I’m told I’m provoking people. They want to get to me, ban my party,” she said. She accused the BJP government of using the anti-terror law UAPA as a political weapon. “If there is no proof against anybody, he is arrested under the UAPA…. Tomorrow, they can tell anybody that it was not (Nathuram) Godse but your grandfather who killed Gandhiji. He can do nothing and will be booked under the UAPA. Who will raise questions, because there is no bail for six months,” she said. The National Investigation Agency had recently arrested Mehbooba’s aide Waheed-ur-Rehman Parra in a militancy case, and she was reportedly put under informal house arrest to prevent her visiting his home. The government has denied putting any such restrictions on her. “You have dubbed Muslims as Pakistanis; Sardars are called Khalistanis, activists are called ‘urban Naxals’, students and girls are called ‘tukde tukde gang’ and ‘anti-national’...” Mehbooba said. She accused the BJP of trying to divide the country through slogans such as “love jihad”. “The Opposition says nothing; they are scared (of being called) anti-nationals,” she said. Mehbooba said the government was scouring her accounts and government files from her tenure as chief minister to try and find evidence of wrongdoing. She said the government had found nothing and was now raiding the people to whom her family had sold their ancestral property in Bijbehara, Anantnag district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-525
30-11-2020||India||CDSCO disregards serious volunteer side effects in Covid vaccine trials||India’s drug regulatory agency threatens to erode the credibility of the country’s vaccine evaluation processes through its opacity on serious adverse events in at least two volunteers in India who received candidate vaccines against the coronavirus disease, medical experts said. The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) has released no information about probes into a flu-like illness in August in a volunteer in Nagpur who received a home-grown candidate made by Bharat Biotech, and a neurological illness in October in a volunteer in Chennai who received the AstraZeneca-Oxford candidate. Doctors discharged both volunteers after treatment in hospitals, and the vaccine companies conducting the clinical trials have asserted that the adverse events the two volunteers experienced were probed and found unrelated to the candidate vaccines. Experts have underlined that clinical trial protocols are typically designed to record and investigate every adverse event that occurs — minor to severe — in trial volunteers, and that all adverse events may not be triggered by the candidate vaccines under evaluation. Researchers involved in the trials have told The Telegraph that in both instances, the trial teams informed the local institutional ethics committees and the CDSCO of the adverse events, as required, within 48 hours after the volunteers reported the events. But experts say the lack of official statements on either of the probes from the CDSCO — the country’s apex regulatory agency for drugs and vaccines — points to a troubling opacity that has dogged several of its decisions on Covid-19. “It is possible the investigating panel did not see any need for even an interim trial halt,” said Satyajit Rath, a senior medical immunologist and visiting professor at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune. “But when this is not said authoritatively, with laid-out reasoning, by the regulatory authorities, it contributes to an erosion of trust.” The volunteer who developed a neurological illness after receiving the AstraZeneca candidate vaccine has sent a legal notice to the CDSCO, AstraZeneca, Oxford University and the Pune-based Serum Institute of India which conducted the trial, seeking Rs 5 crore in compensation. The Serum Institute released a statement on Sunday evening accusing the volunteer of “spreading malicious information” with “pecuniary motive” and threatening to seek Rs 100 crore in damages from the volunteer. “The allegations in the (legal) notice are malicious and misconceived,” Serum said. “While the Serum Institute is sympathetic with the volunteer’s medical condition, there is absolutely no correlation with the vaccine trial and the medical condition of the volunteer. The volunteer is falsely laying the blame for his medical problems on the Covid vaccine trial. “The claim is malicious because the volunteer was specifically informed by the medical team that the complications he suffered were independent of the vaccine trial he underwent…. He still chose to go public and malign the reputation of the company.” The notice sent by a Chennai-based law firm on behalf of the volunteer claims there has been an attempt “to conceal the entire episode of the adverse reaction suffered by (the volunteer) as a non-event” and go ahead with the clinical trial. Public health researchers say the institutional ethics panel and the CDSCO would have likely initiated their probe into the event by mid-October as the volunteer experienced the adverse event on October 11, ten days after receiving a shot. The lack of a halt in the trial suggests a probe was completed and the CDSCO chose not to make the findings public. “This opacity is based on presumptions that ‘authority knows best’ and is part of the pervasive attitude of both State and non-State authorities in India,” Rath said. Experts have also underlined that throughout the Centre’s response to the pandemic, the CDSCO has done little to explain the rationale behind any of its regulatory decisions involving the drugs approved for use to treat Covid-19 patients. “We need far greater transparency from this agency,” said Anant Bhan, a bioethics researcher and visiting professor of community medicine at the Yenepoya Medical College, Mangalore. “Not saying anything about a probe on a serious adverse event does not help.” Bhan said the CDSCO had released its decisions on various drugs and candidate vaccines against Covid-19 without any information on the reasoning or the lines of argument in favour of those decisions. “We also don’t know who guided those decisions,” Bhan said. Doctors with expertise in clinical trials say that while all adverse events need to be recorded and investigated by the data safety monitoring board, they need not be placed in the public domain during the trial. “There are checks and balances — the data safety monitoring board is independent,” said Urmila Thatte, former head of pharmacology at the King Edward Memorial College, Mumbai. “But after the trial, all the data should be available.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-525
30-11-2020||India||PM's defence of new farm laws delivers lethal blow negotiations: Congress||The Congress on Sunday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s defence of the new farm laws when lakhs of farmers were protesting on the streets had delivered a lethal blow to the prospects of the proposed negotiations, demonstrating the government’s disinterest in resolving the crisis. Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “The home minister and the agriculture minister pretend to be interested in a dialogue with the farmers. The Prime Minister in his Mann Ki Baat programme defends the farm laws. If the Prime Minister is standing in favour of these laws despite such widespread protests, what will be the outcome of a dialogue? Who should the farmers expect justice from? What will be the purpose of talks? Modi’s arrogance and obduracy are writ large on his stance.” Surjewala added: “The truth is that the Modi government intends to serve the capitalists and exploit the farmers. The Prime Minister is unaffected by the anguish and struggle of 62 crore farmers. The government wants to hand over the agriculture trade worth over Rs 20 lakh crore to crony capitalists. The seriousness of the government is reflected in home minister Amit Shah’s attitude — he can’t travel 15km to the Delhi border to talk to the farmers but will fly 1,200km to campaign for municipal elections in Hyderabad.” The Congress has consistently accused the government of steamrolling the three farm bills through Parliament to help private companies. Congress MP Rahul Gandhi also responded to Modi’s views expressed in the Mann Ki Baat radio address. “The promise was to double the farmers’ income but the Modi government ensured multifold increase in the incomes of Adani-Ambani. Those who are still defending the black laws cannot provide a solution in favour of the farmers,” Rahul tweeted. The Congress has decided to run a social media campaign on Monday — named Speak Up for Farmers — although the farmers’ unions have firmly rejected any political participation in their movement. But almost every non-BJP party, including former allies Shiromani Akali Dal and Shiv Sena, has extended support to the movement. The Congress on Sunday sought an apology from the Prime Minister and Haryana chief minister M.L. Khattar for the efforts by Khattar and other BJP leaders to malign farmers by alleging a Khalistani link. The Congress also demanded that the government withdraw the three farm laws, cancel the 12,000 FIRs filed by the Haryana government against agitating farmers and that the Prime Minister himself reach out to the farmers for a dialogue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-525
30-11-2020||India||Modi hails the new farm laws that cultivators are fighting ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday hailed the new farm laws as a game-changer for farmers while making no mention of the farmers’ protest that has reached Delhi. Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh have marched to Delhi, braving barricades, barbed wire, water cannons and tear gas in BJP-ruled Haryana, to protest against the new laws. Their tenacity has forced the Centre to blink and agree to let them enter Delhi provided they all gather at the Nirankari Samagam Ground in Burari. Modi, however, ignored the massive protest as he delivered his monthly radio address to the nation, Mann ki Baat, on Sunday morning. On Saturday, Union home minister Amit Shah had offered the farmers a meeting earlier than the scheduled December 3 talks if they moved from the highways at Delhi’s borders to the Samagam Ground, but the Prime Minister made no such appeal. As he had done in the past, Modi claimed the new laws had liberated farmers and opened up new possibilities for them. “My dear countrymen, new dimensions are being added to agriculture. The agricultural reforms in the past few days have also opened up new doors of possibilities for our farmers,” the Prime Minister said, according to the government’s English translation of his Hindi speech. The farmers say the new laws take away the safety of a minimum support price and leave them at the mercy of big companies. Modi claimed the provisions in the new laws represented longstanding demands by the farmers that his government had now met. “Every political party, at some point or the other, made the promise” but none apart from his government had fulfilled it, he said. Modi said farmers were already enjoying the benefits of the new laws. He said a farmer in Maharashtra had used a provision in the new laws to get a trader to pay his dues. While not even acknowledging a protest led by Sikh farmers, the Prime Minister showered praises on the Sikh community in the context of Guru Nanak Jayanti, which is on Monday. He recalled how he had got the Lakhpat Gurdwara in Kutch, Gujarat, restored after it was damaged in the 2001 earthquake. “Not only was the renovation done, its glory and grandeur were restored too. All of us were bestowed with ample blessings of Guru Sahib,” he said. Modi also mentioned the opening of the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor, a visa-free corridor from the Indian border to the Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan, which happened on his watch. “The opening of the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor in November last year was historic. I shall cherish this lifelong in my heart,” he said. He praised the Sikh community for feeding people during the Covid-19 lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-525
30-11-2020||India||Shah promises to rid Hyderabad of the 'nawab and nizam culture'||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday promised to rid Hyderabad of the “nawab and nizam culture” if the BJP wins the municipal corporation elections. Shah was in the southern city on Sunday to campaign for the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation polls, scheduled to be held on December 1. While canvassing on Saturday, Uttar Pradesh chief minister and Hindutva mascot Yogi Adityanath had backed the idea of renaming the IT hub as “Bhagyanagar”, boasting how he had undertaken a similar exercise in his state. Shah and Adityanath are part of a steady stream of central BJP leaders who have trooped to Hyderabad to campaign for the local body elections, lobbing polarising topics such as Pakistan, Mohammad Ali Jinnah, Osama bin Laden, Bangladeshi and Rohingya refugees. The BJP has made an unprecedented bid for the municipal corporation, eyeing the larger goal of getting a foothold in the southern state of Telangana. Since Hyderabad, which has a 43.5 per cent Muslim population according to the 2011 Census, is the stronghold of AIMIM leader Asaduddin Owaisi, who represents the Lok Sabha seat, the BJP has been seeking to target him to achieve its political motive in the state. “I want to assure the people of Hyderabad that we will take steps to rid Hyderabad of the nawab and nizam culture and turn it into a mini-India,” Shah said, addressing the media after a road show in the city. “We want Hyderabad to give up the nizam culture and become a modern city,” the Union home minister added. A day earlier, the saffron-clad Adityanath had said: “If we win, we will turn Hyderabad into Bhagyanagar…. Faizabad can be named Ayodhya, Allahabad is now Prayagraj, then why can’t Hyderabad be Bhagyanagar?” While campaigning, BJP MP and youth wing chief Tejashwi Surya had called Owaisi an “avatar of Osama Bin Laden” and accused the local MP of bringing “Rohingya Muslims” to the city. On Sunday, Shah too targeted Owaisi and his party. The BJP leader said the problem of water-logging in the city was due to the “appeasement” of “Majlis”, a reference to Owaisi’s All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM), who Shah accused of promoting “illegal constructions”. “If the BJP comes to power it will demolish all these illegal constructions,” Shah said. The BJP smelt an opportunity in Telangana after its recent surprise victory in the Dubakka Assembly by-election. The party feels that Telangana, like Karnataka, could become another BJP bastion in the south where it has been struggling to gain a toehold. The BJP now has just two MLAs in Telangana. The decline of the Congress in the state has also encouraged the BJP to try to take over the space of the principal Opposition. “We are already the principal Opposition and after the next election we will rule the state,” Shah said on Sunday, launching an attack on chief minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, who heads the TRS. Shah took on KCR for his “undeclared alliance” with the “Majlis”. “Why does he (KCR) not come out openly and declare his alliance with the Majlis?” Shah asked. He accused KCR of overlooking illegal constructions by the AIMIM due to “appeasement politics”. The ruling TRS and the AIMIM dominate the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation. In the last polls, the TRS had won 99 and Owaisi’s AIMIM 44 of the 150 seats. The BJP had managed just four and the Congress two. The TRS has often been friendly towards the BJP, backing the Centre on even controversial legislation in Parliament. The BJP, however, has now decided to train its guns on KCR in its bid to emerge as a challenger, replacing the Congress. Shah accused KCR of remaining cooped up in his “farm house” and neglecting governance, claiming that this would help the BJP to rise in Telangana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-525
30-11-2020||India||Cong leader Anand Sharma rearranges tweet after ‘confusion’||Senior Congress leader and spokesperson Anand Sharma has rearranged the sentences in a  tweet on the Prime Minister after the original version raised eyebrows in the party. “Prime minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Serum Institute, Bharat Biotech and Zydus Cadilla was a recognition of Indian scientists and their work to produce the vaccine for COVID-19. That alone will lift morale of frontline warriors and reassure the nation. Also respecting the institutions that India has built over decades that have expertise and potential making India world’s largest vaccine manufacturer. Urging Prime Minister to ensure that an efficient and equitable platform is functional as the vaccine arrives,” Sharma had tweeted. The tweet  triggered speculation about his intention and caused consternation in some sections of the party, especially because it went against the official line and Sharma is suspected to be among the Group of 23 that wrote to Sonia Gandhi on the drift in the party. Sharma later clarified: “Regretting the error in our earlier tweet where the lines got misplaced, resulting in some avoidable confusion. The original tweet reads as follows: Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Serum Institute, Bharat Biotech and Zydus Cadilla was a recognition of Indian scientists and their work to produce the vaccine for Covid. This is acknowledging and respecting the institutions that India has built over decades that have expertise and potential making India world’s largest vaccine manufacturer. Urging PM to ensure that an efficient and equitable platform is functional as the vaccine arrives. That alone will lift the morale of frontline warriors and reassure the nation.” The revised tweet suggests an equitable distribution system, not Modi’s visit, will lift the morale.,||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-525
30-11-2020||India||How a mother coped with PM visit to Varanasi||When police demolished a Varanasi slum on February 12 ahead of a visit by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, it wasn’t the looming hardship of a life on the streets that most worried the suddenly homeless Jeera Devi. Nor was it the fear of hunger, although the forced eviction meant a loss of livelihood for the 70-odd families that lived in the Sujabad slum and wove bamboo baskets, mats and hand fans. What bothered Jeera Devi most was the safety of her 16-year-old daughter, forced to live in the open with her parents, exposed to the stares of strangers in a state with a chilling record in gender crimes. “We were living in a neighbourhood alley, without a roof over our head, along with many of the other evicted families. Passers-by stared at my daughter. Local louts leered at her and the other young women, and misbehaved with them,” Jeera Devi, 50, said. The Varanasi administration demolished her bamboo-and-plastic shanty with the rest of the slum again last Tuesday — barely a month after the 200-odd slum dwellers had returned —ahead of another Modi visit, scheduled on November 30. But thrown on the streets again, Jeera Devi this time has one problem fewer to worry about. She had married off her daughter the last time to protect her from harm, although she believes that underage marriage is “galat” (wrong). “It was the only option I had — to find a groom for my daughter. We found the groom in Chiraiyakot, Mau district, gave Rs 2,500 as dowry and married her off on September 25. Now she is safe,” Jeera Devi told The Telegraph. “I knew that marriage at such a young age is wrong, but what else could I have done?” Over the past few years, Uttar Pradesh has witnessed horrific allegations of rape and brutality — from the 2017 Unnao atrocity that has landed a BJP lawmaker in jail to the September 2020 Hathras gang-rape-and-murder. The state tops the National Crime Record Bureau’s report for 2019, accounting for 15.3 per cent of the country’s crimes against women. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has, however, claimed that crimes against women have fallen by 27.32 per cent compared with 2016, when Akhilesh Yadav was chief minister. Jeera Devi’s husband Raja Ram said their elder daughters, aged 22 and 20, were married and so was their eldest son Deepak, 30. Younger sons Abhishek, 19, and Golu, 14, live with their parents. Sujabad is split into two parts: a village with brick houses and well-off people and the site where the slum had stood for decades with its 200-odd Dalit residents from the Dharkar and Bansfor castes. “A group of businessmen in Sujabad wanted us to vacate the area so they could store sand, stones and iron bars at the site,” Jeera Devi said. Her eldest son Deepak said the henchmen of these “sand and stone sellers” had helped the police demolish the slum both times, while misbehaving with the younger women and “using foul language”. Raja Ram said that after the February 12 eviction, the family had survived on food provided by an NGO. The slum dwellers had returned at the end of October, after social activists persuaded the authorities to let them, only to be thrown out again last Tuesday. Modi, the Varanasi MP, had come the last time to unveil a statue of BJP icon Deendayal Upadhyaya in the Padav locality, barely 500 metres from Sujabad, on February 16. This time, after his chopper touches down at a temporary helipad in nearby Dumri on November 30, his motorcade will travel through Sujabad to reach Mirzamurad, 1km away. Modi will also watch celebrations of Dev Deepavali in Varanasi and a light-and-sound show in Sarnath, 15km away. “The land where these people live belongs to the government. We wanted them to vacate the area because it’s close to the road along which the Prime Minister will pass,” a Varanasi Nagar Nigam official said on the condition of anonymity. “There’s a proposal to shift all the slum dwellers of the city to another government plot on the Varanasi-Chandauli Road, but the final decision is yet to be taken.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-526
30-11-2020||India||‘India is steeped in blind faith, parties exploit it’ ||Indian democracy is feudal, ruthless and despotic, says Kerala writer Paul Zacharia, chosen earlier this month for the state’s highest literary award, the Ezhuthachchan Puraskaram, in an interview with Nazeem Beegum. You were so hopeful about the country turning around from the present political situation before the Bihar election results were declared. Do you think the communal agenda is gaining momentum again? People are voting communally everywhere, not just in Bihar. Every party is using the communal card to create a vote bank, not just the BJP. The parties openly say it without any shame. The problem of communalism comes up when you try to turn your communal attitudes against another community to eliminate or isolate or suppress it. India has not been secularised — there exists the entire problem. We are still steeped in blind faith and it is exploited by political parties. We have not progressed like Europe, which progressed after the Industrial Revolution, Enlightenment, scientific revolution and the demolition of Christianity. Europe progressed only after Christianity was deconstructed. Religion ceased to be a force in European society. That was the moment of awakening and progress for the entire western culture because people started thinking freely. In India, that never happened. So, if you ask me about the Bihar elections, all played these cards very well there, and the BJP has proved that it is smarter than other parties. Do you think Indian voters are mixing their religious faith with  political beliefs? Many voters in states like Bihar, Uttar Pradesh or any such state are illiterate. Unlike (voters) in Kerala or even Tamil Nadu, they have received no modern education. They might be able to read and write but beyond that they have not been able to look at the world with new eyes and an understanding of what is happening. First of all, there is a feudal set-up where the village pradhan commands for whom they should vote. Second, they are not able to differentiate between communal parties and others. This political illiteracy and lack of education makes millions incapable of distinguishing between the communal appeal and the political appeal. Our communal parties are experts in confusing and mixing up the two, and cheating the people. Kerala is going to face  crucial local body elections next month. Do you think these elements will play a role there? Yes, because at the micro level, communal passions are stronger and can be exploited better than at the Assembly and parliamentary levels. But in Kerala, people are different from other states as they have received a certain amount of education and have a general awareness of what is going on. People are a little more demanding, and know their community needs and what they want to improve their lives. Besides, the Left still has a very strong hold on Kerala. The Left has a hold across all communities — Hindus, Muslims and Christians. That is a very important factor. There is a growing nationalistic fervour in north India that favours the BJP. But it is not happening elsewhere. How do you explain this? That again is (a result of) illiteracy. These superfluous emotions are exploited where people are illiterate. Therefore, when somebody talks about nationalism in Kerala, Malayalis know they are as nationalist as anybody else….  Hindi is a blanket language covering several cultures, and so the identities are always mixed up. This is one reason that such foolish and ridiculous ideas are being sold easily to populations who have no identity to claim. Moreover, Hindi as a language has been misappropriated by those who hold power. Those looking for larger power use the language used by the majority. Could you tell us about your Delhi days? I was there for 20-22 years. I went (there) as a greenhorn fellow from the south and I had, frankly, O.V. Vijayan (author and cartoonist) to help me learn about Delhi. Through Vijayan, V.K. Madhavan Kutty (journalist) and people like them, I came to understand how the Indian power system works, how Indian politics works, and what kind of agendas are taken at the end of the day, what kind of puny little people have power in India and how they take India for a ride. I learned the fundamental thing: how democracy is also taken for a ride by people with money, muscle power and all kinds of agendas, like the communal agenda. The basic thing I learned in Delhi is that democracy is only a mask and just a catchword, and that Indian power is always feudal, despotic and ruthless. I never had any occasion to change that viewpoint. So when I see Modi & Co. acting in a particular way, I’m not surprised. Whenever the nation travelled in the wrong direction in the past, the voices of intellectuals were heard from Delhi. Why isn’t that happening now? When you talk about the Nehruvian and Indira Gandhi days, yes, intellectual voices did rise. That generation is dead. The question of intellectuals and individual voices having an impact on governance is almost nil. After Independence, those things evaporated, mostly through political interference and suppression. The initiative was lost, and so you cannot look to Delhi or any other particular place in India for that. Intellectually eminent people are there, but scattered all over India. You are no longer a pariah for the Leftists, who assaulted you physically in 2010. Do you see a change in their attitude? You have won the government’s highest literary award too. That was done by some idiots at the local level of the (CPM youth wing) Democratic Youth Federation of India. I call them “pozhans” or stupid idiots. I didn’t care even then. But it was terrible (that) the people who did that were promoted. The very sad part was that the party justified that. I think V.S. Achuthanandan was the chief minister then. He, or the party, did not condemn the incident and one of its leaders justified it. It happened almost a decade ago. Maybe the party is changing slowly — I don’t know. But if the party still continues to be so, it’s not a problem for me or you. The party has to handle it. Speaking about the award, of course, it is an award constituted by the government, which is elected by the people. So I see it as an award from the people, not any institution. Nazeem Beegum is an independent journalist based in Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-526
30-11-2020||India||BJD expels ex-minister Pradeep Panigrahi||Odisha chief minister and the Biju Janata Dal (BJD) chief Naveen Patnaik on Sunday expelled former minister and Gopalpur MLA Pradeep Panigrahi who has been critical of government’s Covid management, from the party. He has been shown the door for his anti-people activities. The expulsion comes close on heels of the arrest of disgraced IFS officer Abhay Kant Pathak whose son Akash was to marry Panigrahi’s daughter on December 11. An advance booking amount of Rs 20 lakh had been paid to the Taj Lake Palace hotel, Udaipur in Rajasthan, for the marriage reception. However, Panigrahi challenged the BJD leadership asking it to spell out the nature of the anti-people activities he has been accused of being involved in. “I have done all my duties sincerely. I even ensured the party’s victory in 12 out of the 15 Assembly seats in undivided Ganjam district whose management I had been entrusted with. Chief minister has given me my political identity, made me an MLA and minister. I have nothing to say against the chief minister. But there is a deep conspiracy behind such a move,” he said. The former minister said: “There is no political voice in the governance. The journalists also fear to tell the truth.” His wife, Sujata said: “After serving the party for 20 years the allegation that my husband was involved in anti-people activities has deeply hurt us. It should be clearly explained to the people and to us.” Sources said Panigrahi was unhappy with the vigilance raid on Pathak and subsequent arrest of the IFS officer and his son. On his would be son-in-law Akash, Panigrahi said:  “Akash was working in Romania but returned to Odisha to look after his ailing mother. He had secured the highest marks in GMAT in 2016 and later was recruited by the Tata Group.” Meanwhile, Tata Motors have also lodged a complaint with the Crime Branch against Akash for impersonating as MD (I-C) Tata Motors Passengers Division of Tata Motors, Pune and cheating  unemployed youths by promising them jobs in Tata Motors. BJD’ Ganjam district unit president Ramesh Chandra Chaupatnaik told The Telegraph, “It would not have been possible for Akash to cheat young job aspirants without  political patronage. He has accumulated huge properties. Panigrahi is involved in anti-people activities. It should be investigated.” The IFS officer has been accused of having acquired properties 435 times his known sources of income. About Rs 9.4 crore was found deposited in the sons’ bank account.  Pathak and his Akash were leading a lavish life and chartered planes during lockdown. Besides, luxury cars and flats, Pathak had a farm house in Pune.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-526
30-11-2020||India||Sikkim plans civic polls in 2021||Elections to seven civic bodies in Sikkim are likely to be held either in January-end or the first week of February, four months after they were due but had to be postponed because of the Covid-19 pandemic. An indication to this effect was given by Arun Upreti, Sikkim’s urban and housing development minister, on Sunday. “We want to hold the elections at the earliest. We have started preparation for conducting the elections. I am hopeful the elections will definitely be held either by the end of January or the first week of February,” he said. The seven civic bodies are Gangtok Municipal Corporation (17 wards), Namchi Municipal Council (7), Jorethang Municipal Council (7), Gyalshing Municipal Council (7), Singtam nagar panchayat (5), Rangpo nagar panchayat (5) and Mangan nagar panchayat (5). Unlike in the last civic polls that were held in October 2015, the next elections would be held on a non-partisan basis this time after the P.S. Tamang (Golay)-headed Sikkim Krantikari Morcha (SKM) government amended the Sikkim Municipality Act 2007 in September requiring candidates to contest the polls in their individual capacity and not under the banner of any political party. In the last elections, the Sikkim Democratic Front (SDF) had made a clean sweep, winning all 53 wards in the seven civic bodies. The SKM, which was then in the opposition, had drawn a blank. Sources in the state election commission said the revised electoral rolls for the civic bodies were being prepared and would be notified soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-526
30-11-2020||West Bengal||BJP-TMC face-off in Malda||The BJP and Trinamul leaders in Malda got in a war of words on Sunday over various issues related to the district. The BJP on Sunday organised a public meeting at Baishnabnagar — where the party won in the 2016 Assembly elections — and fumed against the Mamata Banerjee government by referring to smuggling of cattle, fake Indian currency notes and narcotics. Trinamul on the other hand, accused BJP and the Centre for their nonchalant attitude towards a major issue of Baishnabnagar — the erosion caused by Ganga that has gobbled acres of land and have left hundreds homeless. A number of MLAs and MPs of the BJP, including local MLA Swadhin Sarkar, along with state and district leaders, congregated at Baishnabnagar and held a rally and a public meeting, accusing the state government of failure to end a slew of illegal activities in Malda. “Malda has become a den of smugglers, and makers of illegal arms and bombs, and the state has done nothing to stop these activities. We have information as to who all get the benefits from such practices. Central agencies have been conducting probes and soon the cat will be out of the bag,” said BJP’s state general secretary Sayantan Basu. The BJP also referred to the recent blast at a plastic crushing unit at Sujapur that claimed six lives and iterated that only a probe by a central agency could reveal the truth. After the blast, the state police and the government said that the explosion occurred because of a mechanical fault. The BJP alleged that some explosive led to the incident. “Why is the state (government) scared to invite the NIA for probing into an incident that claimed six lives? You are blaming a machine for such an explosion. We would not deviate an inch from our demand unless the NIA is allowed to investigate the case,” said Sreerupa Mitra Choudhury, a state vice-president of BJP’s farmers’ front. The district Trinamul leadership was quick to react, saying that the BJP was trying to divert peoples’ attention by hurling baseless charges at the state government. The key issue in Baishnabnagar is steady erosion, Trinamul leaders said, and so far, the central government and its agencies have stayed indifferent to it. Trinamul leaders pointed that many houses have been engulfed by the Ganga and people have been rendered homeless. Even BJP MLA Sarkar had lost his house, they said. “However, they never  flagged this issue before the Farakka Barrage Authority, a central agency, or officials and ministers in Delhi so that anti-erosion work can start in Baishnabnagar. The central government has always stayed indifferent to this issue. As elections are drawing near, the BJP leaders are trying to divert people to reap political dividends,” Moazzem Hossain, chairman of Malda district Trinamul, said. He claimed that the state provided alternative land to the affected people and would help them rebuild their homes. “This is the difference between the BJP and Trinamul,” said Hossain. Such war of words, observers said, indicates both the parties are desperate to secure most of the 12 Assembly seats in Malda. In the 2016 polls, the BJP could win one seat and Trinamul failed to secure even one. “Since 2016, Trinamul managed to get a number of MLAs and leaders from other parties, particularly the Congress, on board. Also, in 2019, BJP managed to secure the Malda North parliamentary seat. These factors seem to have bolstered the confidence of both sides.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-293
30-11-2020||West Bengal||Uproot BJP, it can’t be trusted: Roshan Giri||Roshan Giri, the second-in-command of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s Bimal Gurung faction, on Sunday appealed to people to “uproot” the BJP from the region. At the public meeting in Kurseong, Giri’s first in the hills after more than three-and-half-years, he took on the BJP, the party with which the Gurung faction last month severed ties after 11 years to ally with the Trinamul. For 11 years, no “permanent political solution” came about in the region, Giri said at the well-attended rally that lasted for over three hours from 11.30am. The meeting had two clear messages —  attack the BJP and the Morcha’s Binay Tamang-Anit Thapa camp, though both Gurung and Tamang factions are now allies of Trinamul. Their support to TMC was a “political decision, political strategy”, Giri said, adding that they had not sold out the Gorkhaland dream. Gorkhaland is as emotive issue from the hills that no party can afford to ignore, but both Trinamul and the BJP state committee are against the formation of a Gorkhaland state. Giri said that the BJP could not be trusted as their tallest leader Narendra Modi had during his election campaign for the 2016 Bengal assembly polls had specifically talked about starting a process to grant tribal status to 11 hill communities. “But till date nothing has happened,” said Giri. He added that previous Darjeeling BJP MPs also did precious little. Giri pointed out that the BJP in its 2019 Lok Sabha election manifesto had promised “a permanent political solution” and “granting of tribal status” to 11 communities from the region. The region did not make any headway despite the BJP-led NDA being in power in the Centre since 2014, he said. “We met Rajnath Singh (the former home minister) 23 times. The agitation was withdrawn (the 104-day continuous strike in 2017) on the assurance that a meeting would be convened within a fortnight, but in vain,” said Giri. This year, Giri said, Union home minister Amit Shah held a meeting with the Gurung faction in July 21. “A delegation that included party president Bimal Gurung, me, Nima Tamang and Binu Sundas (a professor in Delhi University but from Kurseong), met Amit Shah and he said that he would look into the issue (of tribal status) after Assam assembly elections,” said Giri.  Assam Assembly elections are scheduled for 2021 almost around the same time Bengal goes to polls. The Bimal Gurung faction also seemed angry that the agenda of tripartite meetings called by the Centre changed from GTA to Gorkhaland to GTA again. “We wanted discussions on Gorkhaland but the agenda was changed to GTA. This was because of the Bengal BJP,” Giri said trying to explain their need to support Trinamul during the upcoming Bengal elections. “During the 2024 Lok Sabha election, we will support the party that takes forward the Gorkhaland demand,” added Giri. “The BJP is only interested in expanding their party base. We have to uproot them from the region,” said Giri. Attacking the Tamang faction and the GTA, Giri claimed that funds to the tune of Rs 1,700 crore had been pumped to GTA in the last three years and only 30 per cent of it had been utilised. “During our tenure (in the GTA), there were three audits…there must be accountability now,” said Giri. Allegations of nepotism and corruption, right from teachers’ appointment to development work, were levied against Binay Tamang-Anit Thapa camp. Giri also said that Bimal Gurung would hold base in Siliguri after the December 6 public meeting and visit different parts of the region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-293
30-11-2020||West Bengal||Firhad Hakim slams TMC’s ‘dissatisfied souls’||State minister and Trinamul leader Firhad Hakim came down on party leaders who defected to the BJP from Trinamul or were thinking of doing so, and labelled them “dissatisfied souls”. Hakim, who arrived here on Sunday for an event to be hosted by Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) on Monday, said: “There are some dissatisfied souls who feel their aspirations have remained unfulfilled, after being elected as peoples’ representatives and being put in the state cabinet. It is only because of Trinamul and Mamata Banerjee and people across the state know me. But some people who do not have any principles and are ready to compromise with their ideology are leaving the party or can think of leaving it.” The state municipal affairs and urban development minister’s remark came when asked about former party colleague Mihir Goswami, the Cooch Behar South MLA who defected to the BJP on Friday. Hakim dodged a direct reply on Suvendu Adhikari, the Trinamul stalwart who quit from the cabinet on Friday. “He (Adhikari) is still in the party. I will not make any remark on him,” Hakim said. On Monday, Hakim will unveil a bust of Mahatma Gandhi at Kutcheri Road of Siliguri. The bust has been installed by the local civic body. This is the first time that a minister of the Mamata Banerjee government will attend an event hosted by the Left-run civic body. Asok Bhattacharya, the CPM MLA of Siliguri and immediate past mayor, is at the helm of affairs at the Siliguri Municipal Corporation and chairs the board of administrators. Bhattacharya had recently said he had invited three state ministers — the other two being Aroop Biswas and Gautam Deb — for the event. Political observers pointed that it was indeed significant as during the past five years Bhattacharya and other Left councillors have been consistently vocal against the Trinamul-led state government, accusing the latter of bias against the SMC and not allocating it enough funds. State ministers, including Deb, accused the mayor and the Left-run board of trying to hide their own administrative failures through such excuses. “It seems that the steady rise of BJP is one of the reasons that made Bhattacharya try and pass a message to residents of the city that they no longer maintain a distance with the Trinamul government,” said an observer. Hakim, when asked on the issue, ruled out the theory and said this was an official event where he would be present as a minister of the state. “It is an official programme where the state minister for municipal affairs and urban development will share the dais with the former mayor of Siliguri. The event is being organised by the civic body, there is no political element in it,” he said. After his arrival, Hakim also visited Bengal Safari Park. In the evening, Bhattacharya and some members of the board of administrators met Hakim and spoke on the region’s infrastructure development.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-293
30-11-2020||West Bengal||BSF jawan dies at India-Bangladesh border in South Dinajpur||A young BSF jawan posted on the India-Bangladesh border in South Dinajpur district died on Saturday night after he fell ill soon after his duty hours. Binod Kumar, 28, the jawan of the 26th Battalion of BSF, hails from Raipura of Uttar Pradesh. He was posted at the Ghunsi border outpost. “He returned to camp after duty on Saturday night and fell ill. His colleagues rushed him to Balurghat district hospital where doctors pronounced him dead,” said a police officer. The body has been sent for post-mortem. The BSF and the police have started separate inquiries, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-293
30-11-2020||West Bengal||Covid cancels this year’s Raas Mela||The Covid-19 pandemic that has curtailed some major festivities of Bengal has also cancelled this year’s Raas Mela in Cooch Behar, an annual event with a 200-year-old tradition and one of the largest public events in north Bengal. The Raas Mela or the fair held on occasion of the Raas Utsav is a festival initiated by the Cooch Behar royals. Every year, while the festival is held at the Madanmohan temple complex of the town, the fair is held in the Raasmela Ground for over a fortnight. This year, according to tradition, Cooch Behar district magistrate Pawan Kadyan, who also happens to be the president of Cooch Behar Debottur Trust Board, will start the festival by swinging the “Raas Chakra” late on Sunday evening and perform a puja. But the fair — which lakhs from the district and outside attend for a fortnight — will not be held this time. “Like every year, the festival will also be celebrated this year, but because of the pandemic situation, it has been decided that the fair will not be organised this time. The decision has been made to ensure that there is no sudden surge in Covid-19 infection,” the district magistrate said. Sources said that at the Madanmohan temple complex, health safety protocols would be strictly enforced during the festival that would continue till December 13. “Thousands of devotees visit the temple campus during these days. Each person must wear masks and use the sanitiser before entering the temple. Also, circles have been drawn across the temple premises so that devotees maintain social distancing. Special teams will keep a watch and ensure that people adhere to safety guidelines,” said a source in the administration. Raas Mela’s cancellation, however, left some Cooch Behar residents and traders disappointed. They, however, have some consolation that the Cooch Behar Municipality has planned an alternative fair, on a much smaller scale, at the MJN Stadium of the town. Bhusan Singh, chairperson of the board of administrators of the civic body, said people across Cooch Behar district and those residing in adjoining areas like Alipurduar eagerly wait for the annual Raas Mela. But as it was cancelled, they decided to organise a smaller fair named “Silpa Mela” at the stadium for the next 15 days. “This fair will have only 200-odd stalls, unlike the thousands of stalls at the Raas Mela. But people can at least have an option to visit a fair during the festival,” Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-294
30-11-2020||West Bengal||BJP bid to shed tag of ‘outsider’||The Bengal unit of the BJP seems to be taking the “when in Rome, do as the Romans do” advice seriously as the party has started making extra efforts to shed the “outsider” tag that Trinamul Congress leaders are trying to attach the saffron camp. Multiple sources in the state unit of the BJP this correspondent spoke to said they had realised that the “outsider” tag could be an Achilles Heel for the party in the 2021 Assembly polls. “You may have seen some attempts to shed the tag already.... There will be more,” said a source. Last Friday, BJP state president Dilip Ghosh visited the ancestral home of Bengali novelist Bibhutibhusan Bandyopadhyay in Bongaon. A few days ago, he went to the house of Rishi Aurobindo at Chanderagore in Hooghly. “Such stopovers weren’t part of Dilipda’s itinerary before... Now he is trying,” the insider said. According to this person, the need to project the party’s ability to understand Bengal and Bengali psyche has become extremely important as Trinamul leaders, including chief minister Mamata Banerjee, have made it clear that they would try to pitch the battle for Bengal as a contest between “bohiragato (outsiders)” and “bhoomiputra (sons of the soil)”. Trinamul’s “outsider” jibe at the BJP intensified after five BJP national leaders — Sunil Deodhar, Vinod Tawde, Vinod Sonkar, Dushyant Gautam and Harish Dwivedi — were given charge to oversee the party’s affairs in Bengal. BJP sources said Sunil Bansal and Pawan Rana, the general secretaries (organisation) of the party in Uttar Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh, respectively, were despatched to Calcutta recently and their counterparts from the units in Gujarat and Haryana — Bhikhubhai Dalsaniya and Ravinder Raju —  will also join the team, along with Ratnakar, the joint general secretary (organisation) of Bihar. These leaders — most of whom are known for their election winning abilities — have been given the task of organisational expansion in the party’s five organisational zones in Bengal. “The BJP is a national party unlike Trinamul and it is natural that national leaders will look after our poll-bound activities,” Dilip Ghosh said at a news conference on Sunday.  However, another leader in the BJP accepted that it was equally important — at least in a state like Bengal — to prove that the party or its leaders were not alien to Bengal or its culture. Some BJP leaders said while questions on the party’s Bengali credentials could always be swatted away by citing that Syama Prasad Mookerjee was the founder of Jan Sangh, they also admitted that Bengal didn’t produce any leader of national consequence in the saffron camp thereafter. The dearth of Bngali icons in the saffron camp, however, will not come in the way of the party’s attempts to project its Bengali credentials, said a source. “The party understands Bengal... See how the top rung of the party, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah, refer to icons of Bengal in almost all of their speeches,” said the source. In his address to the people of Bengal and his party workers in the state on October 22, Modi named a host of popular Bengali legends. On Sunday, Modi dwelt on Sri Aurobindo in his radio address to the nation. Another source pointed out that in the recent past, the state unit was publicly promoting leaders like former MLA Samik Bhattacharya and former state president Tathagata Roy — who has also served as the governor of three different states — as spokespersons on various platforms. “These two leaders are bridging a critical gap... We need people like Samikda and Tathagatada, who speak unadulterated Bengali unlike most of our leaders, in the coming days to counter Trinamul's outsider tag,” this person added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-294
30-11-2020||West Bengal||Covid: active cases drop to 24,405 in Bengal||Bengal on Sunday reported a dip in total active cases for the 34th consecutive day since Durga Puja, with 24,405 active cases now compared to 37,190 on Vijaya Dashami, October 26. On Sunday, Bengal reported 3,445 Covid-19 recoveries, 3,367 new infections and 54 deaths, 13 each from Calcutta and North 24-Parganas. Trinamul’s senior Rajya Sabha member Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, 71, tested positive for Covid-19, the seventh sitting parliamentarian from Bengal to get infected. He tested positive at Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, said a party colleague. Bengal’s total caseload is over 4.8 lakh now, including over 4.48 lakh recoveries and 8,376 deaths. Bengal’s recovery rate, rising for 38 consecutive days, is 93.18, close to the national rate of 93.76 per cent. Bengal’s mortality rate is now 1.74, compared to the national rate of 1.45 per cent. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. The numbers of infections from the festivals in October and November has shown that the court’s instructions were effective. With 45,208 tests on Sunday, the state’s total test count went past 58.34 lakh, at 64,831 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.24 per cent. Of the total toll, 7,010 or 83.7 per cent, are comorbid deaths, the state government said. Congress’s Malda South MP Abu Hasem Khan Choudhury, the BJP’s Midnapore MP and state unit chief Dilip Ghosh, Hooghly MP Locket Chatterjee, Balurghat MP Sukanta Majumdar, Jalpaiguri MP Jayanta Roy, and Trinamul’s Rajya Sabha member Shanta Chhetri had earlier tested positive. So have over 40 of the sitting MLAs, including leader of the Opposition Abdul Mannan, ministers Gautam Deb, Rabindra Nath Ghosh, Jyotipriya Mullick, Sujit Bose and now-former-minister Suvendu Adhikari, among others. Covid-19 complications claimed the lives of CPM veteran Shyamal Chakraborty, Trinamul MLAs Samaresh Das, Tamonash Ghosh and Gurupada Mete.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-294
30-11-2020||West Bengal||ECL officer had no ailment, says wife||The wife of the Eastern Coalfields Ltd (ECL) officer who collapsed during a CBI interrogation and died soon after has said her husband had no prior history of any cardiac ailment. “My husband had no prior history of any cardiac ailment.… But I am told that he suddenly died of cardiac arrest. I don't know how it happened,” an inconsolable Jaya Devi  told this correspondent on Saturday night shortly before leaving for Ballia in Uttar Pradesh. Her husband and ECL security officer Dhananjay Rai (not Roy as erroneously reported by this newspaper on Sunday) had died on Saturday after being questioned by the CBI as part of a probe into coal smuggling. Several neighbours and colleagues of Rai who visited the family’s Sripur home to pay their condolences said his wife Jaya Devi kept wondering how her husband, without a history of cardiac ailments, could collapse during questioning by CBI sleuths. Hours before she left Asansol, Jaya was informed by ECL officials that as Rai died in harness, she would be recruited as a “mazdoor” in the company. ECL sources said her salary would be around Rs 26,000 a month. Her husband used to get a salary of around Rs 75,000. “I have two daughters, aged 17 and 11.... We hail from Uttar Pradesh and all our relatives stay there. In Asansol we are alone. I have got a job but I don’t know how I would raise my daughters (alone here),” she said. Asked about Rai’s alleged involvement in coal smuggling, Jaya said she was shocked when the CBI went to their home. “My husband had been in the army... I don’t think he was part of any wrongdoing,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-294
30-11-2020||West Bengal||Abhishek Banerjee ends silence on Suvendu Adhikari ||Trinamul’s heir-apparent Abhishek Banerjee on Sunday ended his silence on Suvendu Adhikari without naming him and took on the saffron camp. Adhikari also made his first public appearance since his resignation from the state cabinet, at an “apolitical” event at Mahishadal in Haldia to honour freedom fighter Ranajit Boyal, where he refrained from any political comment. In his rally at Satgachhia, the 33-year-old Diamond Harbour MP and Mamata’s nephew did not take Adhikari’s name, but quoted him liberally. “How many of us have descended by parachute? How many of us have ascended by elevators? These concepts are alien to Trinamul….Had I taken an elevator, I too would have held a bunch of posts. Had I taken a parachute, I would have been the candidate from Calcutta South,” he said to loud cheers from thousands. Mamata had won from Calcutta South for decades. Abhishek was responding to recent public remark by Adhikari that in his (Adhikari’s) long political journey he took the stairs, not a parachute or an elevator. Sources close to him said the barb was aimed at Abhishek. Abhishek likened Trinamul and Mamata to “mother” and said there “couldn’t be any betrayal of the mother”. Adhikari at Mahishadal spoke about “nationalist” aspects of the freedom movement, the Constitution, and his commitment to Bengal and Bengalis. He said he would host a slew of events through December and honour freedom fighter Khudiram Bose on his birth anniversary on December 3. That is a day before Mamata’s virtual meeting with the leadership and four days before her “mega” rally in Midnapore, an Adhikari bastion. Abhishek lambasted the BJP for “fearing” to name him, referring to him as bhaipo or bhatija. “I will take names...Amit Shah is an outsider. Kailash Vijayvargiya is an outsider. Dilip Ghosh is a goon... I dare them to do the same.” BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh later said names need not be taken as people know who the nephew is. “They (Trinamul) have been goons for years. Now is my time. I will be a goon, if need be...”said Ghosh. Sources close to Mamata said Mamata seems ready to look beyond Adhikari, who has not yet resigned from Trinamul, and does not appear to harbour doubts about his joining the BJP. On Sunday, sources said, she decided to hold a major rally at Bongaon on December 9 to woo the Matua electorate. Before his resignations on Thursday and Friday, Adhikari had been the cabinet minister in charge of three departments, besides the chairperson of the Hooghly River Bridge Commissioners and Haldia Development Authority. Abhishek told the large crowd: “To fulfill selfish objectives, if somebody betrays the mother, will you spare them? If one sells his backbone to serve the cause of another party to favour it against Mamata Banerjee, will you spare them? Trinamul workers will issue a fitting reply to treachery.” Some 10km from Adhikari's dais, Trinamul youth wing held a rally led by ministers Rajib Banerjee and Sujit Bose, who said the party had only one leader, Mamata.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-294
30-11-2020||West Bengal||Bengal govt camps to enlist left-out beneficiaries||The Mamata Banerjee dispensation will set up over 13,000 camps across Bengal under its two-month old programme called “Duware Sarkar (government at doorsteps)” where people can apply for the state administration’s flagship schemes. The programme that will be launched on December 1 is part of an attempt by the government to debunk Opposition charges that beneficiaries need to pay “cut money” to enjoy the schemes. “The target is to reach out to all the people who were left out of government schemes. The way the programme is being planned, it is expected that a majority of the eligible people would be brought under different government schemes,” said an official. According to instructions sent out to different districts to make the programme successful, the state government has identified 11 flagship schemes — majority of which introduced since the Trinamul Congress came to power in 2011— as the focus areas. The list includes various schemes to dispense pension to old people, widows and Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, kanyasree and schemes to provide direct benefit to farmers and scholarships to students. “The state government has already prepared a detailed plan on how the programme would be rolled out from December 1 till January 31,” said a senior official. According to the plan, at least three camps would be set up in each gram panchayat and also in the municipality area. “There will be 13,000-odd camps in 3,354 gram panchayats and over 120 municipality areas. The programme would continue for 60 days,” said the source. According to the plan, there would be registration desks and help desks at each of the camps where common people will be informed about various government schemes and can submit filled-up application forms seeking assistance under any scheme. “The help desk would assist the visitors to fill in the application forms and get included in the list of beneficiaries. The camps would have officials from all departments concerned,” a district magistrate said. The camps would remain open between 8am and 4pm. The top brass of the government would keep track of turnouts at the camps which would have to submit daily reports on number of visitors and those who are eligible to apply for the schemes. According to sources, the programme has been planned in a way that all the eligible beneficiaries can claim benefits without facing much trouble. “Implementing agency for a majority of the schemes are gram panchayats. But under the programme, the benefits would be extended through government officials,” said a source. The primary reason behind the initiative, sources said, is to counter Opposition allegations that beneficiaries need to pay “cut money” to avail themselves of the schemes. “As complaints against local leaders of the ruling party and panchayat functionaries were tarnishing the image of the government, the initiative was taken to ensure that all left out people received the benefit without any trouble,” said a source. Trunamul insiders said the allegation of demand for the cut money by the local leaders was one of the major challenges facing the party ahead of the 2021 Assembly polls, “We did poorly in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls because of these allegations. We could not do well in rural areas only because people had complaints against some of our local leaders. The programme could change the perception about our government,” said a Trinamul MLA. Another Trinamul leader said the Left Front had suffered a lot in the 2011 Assembly elections as people had complaints about erroneous BPL list and lists of beneficiaries of several other projects. “We don’t want to face a similar situation. That is why the government is trying to rectify its fault, if any, by extending a chance to all eligible people to get enrolled,” said the Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-294
30-11-2020||North East||Hostels of colleges and universities to reopen from December 1 in Assam||All temporary Covid Care Centres in Assam have been closed down following a considerable decline in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state, Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Monday. The minister further informed that the government has decided to reopen the hostels of colleges and universities for final year students and of Class 10 and 12 for residential students in schools from December 15. Elementary schools in the state, which has remained closed till now due to the prevailing Covid situation, will reopen from January 1 in a staggered manner. "Classes from nursery to six will begin from January one and a detailed Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) will be issued later. We will, however, have a staggered approach with different classes coming on separate days", Sarma said. During November there has been a steady decline in the number of cases and by November 28 all temporary Covid Care centres have been closed down, the minister said. "As on date, the Covid-19 situation in the state is under control though, in other parts of the country and the world, there is a second or a third wave. The state government will continue to remain alert and will take stringent measures if the situation demands", Sarma said. "The treatment of patients will continue in the hospitals where facilities have been ramped up but if the situation deteriorates, we will make a decision accordingly and are prepared with a contingency plan in place," he said. Testing of samples will, however, continue aggressively, particularly at the airports and railway stations as now most of the cases detected are of people coming from outside. "We are conducting on an average 20,000 to 30,000 sample testing and around 50 per cent of the positive cases are detected from passengers at the airport," he said. The state has registered a total of 2,12,617 positive cases so far, of which 2,08,283 have recovered and 3,350 are active cases while 981 have died due to the disease. During November, in the first week 325 cases were detected on an average daily, in the second week it declined to around 211 daily, in the third week to an average of 178 daily and finally in the last week of the month, the average has come down to 158 daily. Meanwhile, referring to the likely use of vaccines, the minister said, "During the recent meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, we have been told to prepare four categories of people to be vaccinated in the initial stage and they include frontline medical workers like doctors and nurses, those in field duty like security forces, people above the age of 50 and persons with co-morbidities". "We are preparing the list and we expect 60 to 70 lakh of people to be included under these categories but the vaccine was not expected before March or April," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-33
30-11-2020||North East||Call to renew fight against CAA in Assam||An anti-CAA forum of political parties and organisations in Assam on Sunday called for a united fight against the contentious Citizenship Amendment Act. The move appears aimed at galvanising anti-CAA forces to pile pressure on the BJP-led government to get the new law revoked before next year’s Assembly elections. The Coordination Committee Against Citizenship Amendment Act (CCACAC) will issue a public appeal for a united fight on December 12, the first anniversary of the enactment of the CAA that the organisation will observe as Sankalpa Diwas (Pledge Day). Most in Assam are opposed to the CAA because it provides for Indian citizenship to non-Muslims from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan entering India till December 2014. They see it as a threat to Assam’s identity and culture and have held sustained protests that subsided because of the pandemic. “We have decided to observe the first anti-CAA anniversary on December 12. We will not only be renewing our pledge to continue our fight against the unconstitutional law but will also appeal to all anti-CAA forces to put up a united fight against the law,” CCACAC chief coordinator Deben Tamuly told The Telegraph. A highlight of the movement will be the felicitation of the six persons who died in the crackdown against anti-CAA protesters last year. “We will invite the families of the victims and felicitate them so people don’t forget their sacrifice. We will be renewing our pledge to continue the fight that we started in 2016 to uphold the secular character of our Constitution and we will also seek a thorough probe into the deaths of the six persons during the anti-CAA movement,” Tamuly said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-33
30-11-2020||North East||Nagaland to verify claim on diamonds||A village in Nagaland’s Mon district has hit the headlines following social media posts claiming discovery of diamond-like stones in the area, prompting the state government to despatch a four-member team of geologists to visit Wanching village and submit a report on the claims at the earliest. The videos and pictures of villagers from Wanching, 31km from the district headquarters, digging the area for the “rare and naturally occurring” precious mineral started doing the rounds for the past few days. However, reports emanating from Wanching on Saturday suggest the diamond-like stones may be quartz or some other kind of crystal but confirmation will be available only next week. Wanching has about 700 households with a population of around 4500. It falls under the Wakching subdivision of Mon district. Director general (prisons and jails) of Nagaland police Rupin Sharma was among those who tweeted, “Reports apparently of #Diamond found in #Wanching village #Mon district #Nagaland.” The directorate of geology and mining, Nagaland, has entrusted geologists Abenthung Lotha, Longrikaba, Kenyelo Rengma and David Lhoupenyi to visit the village and verify the claims. Mon district is known for its coal deposits. Minerals available in Nagaland include coal, limestone, petroleum and natural gas, nickel, cobalt, chromium, magnetite, copper, zinc, and platinum. Mon is over 330km from capital Kohima. A senior Mon district official told The Telegraph on Friday that some stones have been reportedly discovered but only the geologists will be able to confirm what these are.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-33
30-11-2020||North East||IIT Guwahati joins hand with IIT (BHU) on PhD ||A memorandum of understanding has been signed between IIT Guwahati and IIT (BHU), Varanasi, on Friday to offer a joint doctoral programme from July. Directors of both the institutes, Prof. T.G. Sitharam, Director, IIT Guwahati, and Prof. Pramod Kumar Jain, Director, IIT (BHU), said this is the first time in the country that two IITs have come together to offer a joint degree programme, an official statement said. The idea of a joint PhD programme was originally proposed by Prof Sitharam in 53rd IIT council meeting held on September 27, the move triggered by a vision to build a “Network of Excellence” of all IITs rather than each one striving to become a “Tower of Excellence”. The IIT council accepted the proposal to start the joint degree programmes. Through this academic collaboration, both the institutes are expecting significant boost in high quality research and foundation for further academic collaborations. Under the National Education Policy (NEP2020), such educational reforms and academic collaborations between premier educational institutes will promote multidisciplinary academic programmes and research for encouraging and promoting a knowledge-based economy of the country. IIT (BHU) is considering starting a joint MTech programme on similar lines to provide multi-institutional and multidisciplinary MTech programmes. IIT Guwahati has also agreed to be part of this initiative, the statement said. IIT Guwahati, established in 1994, is working towards augmenting critical science research initiatives, among others,  in genomics, developmental biology, healthcare and bioinformatics, flexible electronics, advanced functional materials, sustainable polymers, rural technologies, disaster resilience and risk reduction, and water resources and management. “IIT Guwahati is poised to scale newer heights through all round growth and development,” the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-33
30-11-2020||Opinion||Fatal mix: IMA against Ayurveda surgery||The Indian Medical Association has written to the Centre asking it to withdraw the gazette notification, which seeks to allow practitioners of ayurvedic medicine to perform 39 general surgical and 19 ear, eyes, nose and throat procedures that fall under the aegis of modern medicine. Although the Central Council of Indian Medicine has argued that the details of these surgical procedures were already laid down in the syllabi of ayurvedic postgraduate courses, the IMA’s reservations cannot be brushed off. Modern medicine is synonymous with scientific advancement. It is unlikely that ayurveda can match modern medicine when it comes not just to efficacy but also training, quality research and the output of knowledge. Had this been the case, India’s rich and famous would have made a beeline for ayurveda clinics and not state-of-the-art hospitals when afflicted with a serious illness. Yet, the signs of a push towards integrating traditional and modern medicine is discernible in policy.The National Education Policy, 2020 mentions medical pluralism and lateral movements that could lay the foundation for mixing these two systems. A ‘bridge course’ aimed at granting licences to practitioners of alternative medicine to prescribe allopathic medication and the creation of a national register for a new class of medical practitioners called ‘community health providers’ — their qualifications remain unclear — testify to this blurring of medical borders. Although medical pluralism — a philosophy that aims to assimilate diverse systems of healing — is not necessarily a bad thing given the steep paucity of healthcare professionals in India, this requires thorough and strictly regulated training.  Between 2016-18, the CCIM itself found at least 138 ayurveda colleges unfit to run undergraduate or postgraduate courses. Around 45 per cent of the people who practise medicine in India do not have any formal training in either format. An untrained corps of medical practitioners — whichever stream they may hail from — will only do more harm than good. Quality healthcare is a fundamental right and people in rural areas — where the shortage of modern medical practitioners is most acute — should not be left at the mercy of quacks. There are also worries — these can never be ignored when the Bharatiya Janata Party is in power — of the Centre trying to push through a particular kind of ideology in the name of boosting India’s healthcare sector. After all, the prime minister himself believes that the first plastic surgery was performed on Ganesha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-109
30-11-2020||Opinion||Boiling pot: Delhi police ask to imprison farmers in stadiums||Sir — It was heartening that the Delhi government refused to grant permission to the police to turn nine of the city’s stadiums into temporary detention centres for the agitating farmers from Punjab and Haryana who are protesting against the three contentious agricultural bills passed by the Union government in September. According to the farmers, the new laws would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations and weaken the government’s procurement system, as part of which the government buys staples, such as wheat and rice, from them at minimum support prices. The farmers are protesting for their rights. A peaceful public uprising is their constitutional right. Then why are farmers, sons of the Indian soil, being attacked? Why are their voices being suppressed? The Central Government must give farmers a chance to air their demands as well as really pay attention to their grievances. B. Ahsanullah,Delhi Sir — It beats reason that the police force in a democratic country can ask an elected government to use stadiums to capture citizens who are peacefully protesting in their own country. It is a small mercy that the Delhi government refused to grant the police the permission to do so. Given its recent decisions regarding Shaheen Bagh and other protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act one was almost afraid that permission would be granted. Farmers’ discontent has been growing in recent years — the careless economic policies of the Narendra Modi regime have debilitated the fragile rural economy. Farmers have experienced a growing mismatch between their production efforts and incomes under the present government. Climate change and its outcomes have not helped the farmers’ cause. The farm bills were almost like the last nails in the coffin. The farmers are thus right to be agitated. The State can suppress the farmers with an iron hand, but it cannot root out the discontent that is brewing in the hearts and minds of farm folk across the country. Ashokan Nallathambi,Chennai Sir — The Delhi police deserves to be severely reprimanded for its actions. It seems to have forgotten its role is to protect the people. Rima Roy,Calcutta Royal secret Sir — While the world debates how much truth there is to The Crown’s portrayal of the Charles and Diana relationship, as an Indian I cannot help but notice the series’s whitewash of the royal family’s gruesome colonial past and rampant racism. The blinkered valorization of Winston Churchill and Lord Mountbatten is an affront to their colonial legacy. These are more serious omissions than the amount of truth in its depiction of the royal family. B.D. Mukherjee,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-109
30-11-2020||Opinion||Misjudged: Judiciary, executive & legislature||While speaking on the theme of the ‘harmonious coordination’ among the judiciary, executive and legislature at a recent conference, the vice-president, M. Venkaiah Naidu, seemed to suggest instances of distinct disharmony among these three critical pillars of the State. Mr Naidu also referred to incidents of the executive exceeding its brief, with ominous implications for personal liberty. The legislature, he added, is not immune to this excess, citing a constitutional amendment that had put the elections of the prime minister, president and vice-president beyond the scope of judicial reach. Significantly, the vice-president’s citations of what, in his opinion, are testimonies of judicial overreach were the most concrete — and controversial. Among the examples cited by the vice-president to support his proposition were court orders on such issues as the banning of crackers on Diwali, the ban on old polluting vehicles, judicial monitoring of police inquiries and, tellingly, the judiciary’s denial of a role to the executive in the appointment of judges. There can be no doubt about the importance of the constitutional imperative to maintain a fine balance among the three arms of the State. Protecting the integrity of the realm of each institution is fundamental to the seamless functioning of a democracy. But there is ample scope of debate when it comes to understanding what exactly constitutes an act of judicial overreach. In nearly every instance that was cited by the vice-president, it was the judiciary — and not an indifferent executive — that had responded to the need to uphold public welfare. The court would not have had to intervene if, to cite one example, the powers that be had not turned investigating agencies into ‘caged parrots’ that dance to the tune set by their political masters instead of conducting probes impartially. The direction of investigation into the Delhi riots is a case in point. The burden of pollution in India — something that the court has attempted to lighten repeatedly — can also be attributed to the laxity of the executive. Given the fact that decisive electoral mandates for the Bharatiya Janata Party have coincided with increasing erosion of constitutional values, unprecedented threats to liberty of dissidents as well as undeniable pressures on institutions, the court remains the final bastion of redressal. It is enlightened judicial intervention — not overreach — that can yet save the day for democratic India. Mr Naidu must rest assured that India’s judiciary knows how to go about its job without being an encroacher.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-109
30-11-2020||Opinion|| False pledge: NRC in Assam||Many liberals and self-proclaimed Marxists in Assam held the firm belief — they still do — that the National Register of Citizens will eradicate the gaze of suspicion on ‘illegal’ people. This belief is nothing but an instance of false consciousness, a story manufactured by the caste Assamese middle class and the Assamese nationalist to invoke a spirit of acceptability among people towards the NRC. A bureaucratic exercise cannot be a solution to social malice. The elite among Assamese Muslims also supported the NRC process in this hope, as did a number of ‘miya’ poets. But by the time the NRC list was published last year, Assamese civil society bodies started expressing their dissatisfaction with the 1.9 million people who were left out of the register. The figure was too less for them. The NRC is far from over. The stories of hope that were sold are fading with every passing day. The anti-foreigner rhetoric has resurfaced, once again. It has been given a new lease of life and has indoctrinated a new group of youngsters into the fold of Assamese nationalism. This has resulted in a toxic mix of jingoism and hatred towards those perceived to be outsiders. Other lives The recent debate that emanated from the public rejection of the idea of a char-chapori museum by Assam’s health minister, Himanta Biswa Sarma, is a case in point. The proposal for a museum, which would reflect the culture and heritage of the people living in Assam’s char-chaporis, had come from the Departmentally Related Standing Committee on Education of the Assam government. The committee had proposed this idea along with another museum for the Gorkha community. The proposal was presented to the legislative house in March; 10 of the 15 committee members who gave those recommendations are from the ruling party in Assam. Char-chaporis are heterogeneous, non-colonizing spaces that are not inhabited by Bengali Muslims only. The health minister’s resistance reflects not only the sensibilities of the Assamese but also the condition of minorities in Assam. It is evident that Assamese society suffers from ‘sociocentrism’, a condition in which the identity of a pluralist society is articulated through a dominant member of the group. For the caste Assamese, it is unimaginable that artefacts associated with the Bengali Muslim community can be a part of the Srimanta Sankardev Kalakshetra in Guwahati. Sarma’s remark also embodies a mindset that perceives the Bengali Muslim to be a polluting element degrading Assam’s culture. Hence the need for segregation and the rejection of the idea of a shared space. The rejection reveals the extent of alienation and dehumanization of minorities, especially miyas. Sorry picture The elements that are integral to the iconography of the miyas being circulated on the social media — a torn lungi, barbed wire, muri, ittar — portray what the French writer, Albert Memmi, calls ‘heterophobia’: the fear of difference, both real and imaginary. There is proof of such fear lingering in Assam. The health minister reportedly blamed the ‘invasion’ of Covid into Assam on Muslims. The chief minister is reported to have noted in a public rally in Bodoland that the ‘Mughal’ assault on Assam continues, and that if we don’t become conscious of it, Assam’s mother tongue will become Arabic. These comments come in the backdrop of the Assam government discontinuing the funding for madrasas in the name of modernizing education. This kind of vilification has coincided with the rise of right-wing politics in Assam. But this should not take away from the fact that antipathy towards minorities has been organic to Assam’s culture. The NRC is not a solution. It is only an instrument to consolidate Assamese cultural essentialism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-110
30-11-2020||Opinion||Aung San Suu Kyi: Lady with the lamp||Myanmar’s pro-democracy icon, Aung San Suu Kyi, has led her National League for Democracy to a resounding electoral victory, triumphing over anti-incumbency, a raging pandemic and festering ethnic insurgencies. Her achievement is only bettered by her next-door neighbour, Sheikh Hasina Wajed, now in her third electoral tenure and presiding over a booming economy despite the Covid-influenced downturn. The two ladies join other successful women politicians like New Zealand’s prime minister, Jacinda Ardern (also returned to power), and the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, whose handling of the Covid crisis has been far better than populist male heavyweights like Donald Trump. The NLD has crossed its 2015 tally of 390 seats. It needed 322 to form the government — it already has a higher number of seats. That such a decisive victory could be achieved goes to show that there is no credible alternative to Aung San Suu Kyi. “People clearly realized the need for the NLD to get enough votes to form a government on their own, said the NLD spokesman, Myo Nyunt, insisting that NLD’s return to power would help “minimize political conflict”. That, however, is easier said than done. The all-powerful military, the Tatmadaw, has threatened to impeach the president, who is known to be close to Suu Kyi and is helping her run the country, if the elections are found to be flawed. The military-aligned Opposition, the Union Solidarity and Development Party, that was trounced has alleged that the election was neither free nor fair. It has demanded that the Union Election Commission step down and the polls be re-run. Despite a large number of voters alleging that their names did not figure in the rolls, poll observers have concluded that voting took place smoothly. But they have condemned what they describe as the Election Commission’s lack of transparency and its cancellation of the polls across areas with ethnic minorities citing security reasons. That is exactly what the military, worried over the NLD’s sweeping mandate, may now try to play up. The military is worried that the decisive mandate may now embolden the NLD to press for critical amendments to the 2008 Myanmar Constitution that gives the men in uniform one-quarter of all Parliament seats and control over three ministries — home, defence, border affairs. The NLD is also keen to see an end to the provision that no Burmese with a foreign spouse can contest for high positions like that of the president — a ploy to keep Suu Kyi from getting the top job because her late husband was British. The NLD-sponsored amendments to target these provisions during its first term in power failed because the ruling party could not garner the majority needed to bring changes to the Constitution. But a sweeping majority may make a real difference. Suu Kyi has made the first smart move immediately after being assured of a clear victory: her party called for a ‘national unity government’ with ethnic minority parties to establish a ‘democratic federal union’. The NLD sent a letter to 48 ethnic political parties, pledging to prioritize the desires of ethnic nationalities in the future. Suu Kyi is seeking to achieve political consensus to give the restive minorities a stake in running the government to weaken the rebel groups that thrive on the narrative of alienation; revive and strengthen the national reconciliation process through an effective dialogue with armed ethnic rebel groups; keep the army under control because the global community would welcome the reconciliation process to end decades of civil war that has plagued the country since Independence. Suu Kyi needs global support to push the democratic agenda in Myanmar and keep the military in check. A successful dialogue with the armed ethnic rebel groups would help her get over the loss of image after her tactical silence on the military’s alleged ethnic cleansing of Rohingya Muslims in Rakhine. It may also help Myanmar become a thriving tourist and investment destination. Such a transition would ensure that Myanmar’s resources translate into growth and prosperity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-110
30-11-2020||Opinion||The second wave||The second wave of Covid-19 has hit Pakistan. More than 3,000 people tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Saturday; the figure was a little less than 3,000 on Sunday. The numbers are alarming given that Pakistan was one of the few countries that had been successful in combating the global pandemic. Our numbers had decreased to quite an extent by August. An extensive lockdown in March and then smart lockdowns where needed led to a decrease in cases. Now, with the onset of winter, we are seeing an increase in coronavirus cases. Beds for Covid patients are not available in hospitals in several cities. People are not following standard operating procedures. We are seeing a kind of complacency that we had not seen before. Is this the corona fatigue or is it just our own careless attitude? Maybe both. But this is no time for complacency. The world may not get the vaccine for a few more months. Countries like Pakistan may have to wait even longer for the vaccine. When the first wave came, it took the world by surprise and we didn’t know what to do. We all knew someone who was infected, be it a friend or a family member. The second wave is no less dangerous. I lost a family member to post-Covid complications just two days ago. We were at the hospital every day for the last two weeks waiting for a miracle, but she did not survive. If you have been to a hospital’s ICU where patients with post-Covid complications are being treated, you wouldn’t wish anyone to ever catch this virus. It is scary and it can be deadly. Not to mention how emotionally and physically draining it can be both for the patient and his/her family. Our healthcare sector is not equipped to deal with the growing numbers of Covid patients. We, the people, have to be careful ourselves. As much as possible. And despite all precautions, someone can still catch it. Pakistan’s cases are rising every day but public places like gyms, malls and so on are still open even though the government has shut down all educational institutions in view of the second wave. Pakistan’s Opposition parties’ alliance — the Pakistan Democratic Movement — is taking out rallies across the country. Given that the second wave is gaining momentum, the government has asked the PDM to stop the rallies. The PDM, on the other hand, is refusing to do so. When the Opposition alliance came together in September and then decided on the dates of the rallies, Pakistan’s Covid cases were under control. But now that we are seeing a gradual increase in cases, the Opposition should pause and rethink its strategy. Unfortunately, the Opposition thinks it will be a sign of weakness if it gives in to the government’s demand. The government, too, has held public ceremonies in recent days. The Opposition brings up those gatherings when questioned about its rallies. The chairman of the Pakistan Peoples Party, Bilawal Bhutto-Zardari, tested positive for Covid-19 after the PDM’s rally in Peshawar. He will address the PDM rally in Multan today via video link. His sister, Aseefa Bhutto, will represent him by participating in the rally at Multan. Just a few days ago, in a series of tweets, the prime minister, Imran Khan, stated: “In Pak, the PDM by continuing with jalsas is deliberately endangering lives & livelihoods bec if cases continue to rise at the rate we are seeing, we will be compelled to go into complete lockdown & PDM will be responsible for consequences”. Leaders of the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz keep saying that this government — they have dubbed it as Covid-18 referring to the 2018 elections — is a bigger threat than Covid-19. Now this is quite an absurd statement given the seriousness of the global pandemic. It seems that both the government and the Opposition are not willing to move back from their stated positions. At the end of the day, it endangers the public. As the senior journalist, Fahd Husain, put it in his latest column, “If the second wave of Covid-19 got worse, the government would find a handy scapegoat in the PDM. If the PDM, sensing the danger of continuing with the campaign, took a break it would halt their momentum and help the government tide over this threat.” The government should talk to the Opposition instead of giving statements or tweeting about it. The prime minister should call the PDM leadership and request them to stop their rallies for the greater good of the country. Our leadership needs to put aside their egos for the moment and think about dealing with a global pandemic. Instead of blaming each other for the rising cases and super-spreader events, it would be a good gesture on the part of both the government and the Opposition if they can reach a consensus. Political protests against the government may be a democratic right but it should not be done at the cost of putting people’s lives at risk. The government may not be performing due to a number of reasons but sending the government home — without any concrete plan — is also not a good option. Governments don’t go home due to protests as we saw a few years ago when Khan took out a dharna for over a hundred days in the country’s capital. It did put pressure on the Nawaz Sharif government but it did not send the government home. The current Opposition most likely thinks that it has to strike before the Senate elections in March 2021. But is this a solution to our problems? No is the simple answer. Pakistan’s democracy can only be strengthened if all democratic dispensations are allowed to complete their five-year term and there is a smooth democratic transition. Pressure should be there on the governments to perform. The voting ballots should decide who gets to stay and who doesn’t. The Opposition can keep the pressure on the government inside Parliament but it should also postpone its public gatherings due to Covid. It will not be a victory for the government even if the Opposition thinks it is. We saw how the Opposition was in favour of lockdowns when the first wave hit Pakistan. At that time, the federal government was not in favour of lockdowns. Now we are seeing that the Opposition is downplaying the Covid crisis. Leadership has to set an example. The public will follow. We saw what happened in the United States of America with the Donald Trump administration’s mishandling of the pandemic. Both the government and the Opposition need to sit together and come up with a strategy to deal with the coronavirus rather than pointing fingers at each other and letting the public suffer as a result. Someone needs to take responsibility. And take it fast. The author is a journalist based in Lahore mehmal.s@gmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-110
30-11-2020||Jharkhand||CM Hemant Soren visits Luguburu Ghantabari to offer prayers||On the occasion of Kartik Purnima, chief minister of Jharkhand, Hemant Soren visited Luguburu Ghantabari and performed puja at the holy shrine of the Santhals. Luguburu Ghantabari is situated on the Lugu hill under Gomia block in Bokaro. The largest religious gathering of the Santhal tribals, organised every year on Kartik Purnima, was not held this year due to the ongoing pandemic. The CM said that Luguburu is the religious centre of deep faith. Every year the occasion was arranged with great pomp, but this time due to Coronavirus the event was cancelled. Security was beefed up, as the area is Maoist prone. DC, Bokaro, Rajesh Singh; DIG, Koylanchal, Prabhat Kumar; SP, Bokaro, Chandan Kumar Jha and other officers and political leaders were present at the occasion. Soren prayed for the well-being of the people and wished that the residents sail safely through this moment of crisis. At the same time, he also appealed to the people to follow the norms of wearing a mask and social distancing in the prevention of the Covid-19 virus. He also met members of the Dharamgarh Committee during his visit. Santhals are the largest tribal community in the country. Lakhs of Santhal tribals from across the country and abroad used to assemble for a two-day religious gathering organised every year on Kartik Purnima at Luguburu. The decision was taken on November 26 in a meeting held between the administrative officials and Dharamgarh Committee at Shyamali Atithi Bhavan of TTPS, Lalpania. The arrival of outside devotees at Luguburu Ghantabari Dharamgarh was banned as well. Dharamgarh committee appealed to the devotees to worship at their respective homes on the day of Kartik Purnima in view of the pandemic. Santhals visit their most sacred shrine once every year to worship Lugu Baba and perform religious rituals. Tribals used the gathering to discuss the development of their Santhali culture. Every year a huge fair was organised on the occasion which drew large numbers of residents from local areas, but this year the fair was also banned. “This is our biggest religious gathering. The Santhals from Nepal, Manipur, Orissa, Bihar, and other states participate in the function,” said Babuli Soren. Lugu Baba temple is situated in the vicinity of hills and is adorned with natural beauty. The devotees have to walk more than six kilometres on foot climbing the hill for the darshan of Lugu Baba. There is a big natural cave atop the hill inside where devotees offer puja to Lugu Baba. The Lugu hill is about 70 kilometres from the district headquarter and has a dense forest cover.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-220
30-11-2020||Jharkhand||Police lathi-charge to quell protestors||Local transport and work were disrupted due to the day-long chakka jam organized by local job seekers, outside the Associated Cement Plant of Sindri. The protest turned violent when protestors began to pelt stones, following which the police lathi-charged those assembled before the cement plant. During the clash, several policemen including Dhanbad’s sub-divisional officer, Surendra Prasad received minor injuries. Following which district administration imposed section 144 in the area. Around three persons were arrested from the site. A first information report (FIR) has been lodged against several individuals responsible for the stone-pelting episode. Notably, over 500 local job seekers of Sindri carried out a chakka jam to disrupt the transport system of the cement factory, since early morning. The protest was organized under the banner of two different organizations ‑ Bhartiya Mazdoor Sharmik Sangh and Tiger force. The protestors had a single demand - the creation of more contractual jobs for the local residents of Sindri. When sub-divisional officer, Prasad, reached the site at around 2.30 pm, he tried to initiate talks with the demonstrators led by district president of Tiger Force, Dharmjit Singh (sitting outside the ACC Sindri plant) and the ACC administration. During the discussion, the protesters agreed to have another meeting with ACC Sindri management on December 4. However, things turned ugly when an unidentified demonstrator hurled stones on one of the policemen deputed at the Dharna site. This, sparked tension between the police and the demonstrators, following which some of the demonstrators began pelting stone. To quell the unruly mob, the police lathi-charged and even arrested a couple of the protestors. Talking to media, SDO Prasad said, “The negotiation concluded on a happy note. We had even fixed a date for the next meeting. But some persons resorted to stone-pelting.” He added, “We are not going to spare any trouble maker. Those who were present during the meeting will also be held accountable for the violence that took place, as they were equally responsible for maintaining peace.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-220
30-11-2020||Jharkhand||Women leaders share idea of success, courtesy CII||The Jharkhand chapter of the Confederation of Indian Industry-Indian Women Network (CII-IWN), in association with India@75, organised a session with women professionals who shared their success stories and the ups and downs of their entrepreneurial journeys. Titled, "Will to Succeed, Will to Win - Women Leaders of the New Era", the session was held on Monday afternoon on a virtual platform in collaboration with India@75, an industry-led movement that brings together various stakeholders of society. The session deliberated on women professionals and entrepreneurs of today who are chartering unknown territories fearlessly to achieve their goals. Addressing the session, Atrayee Sarkar Sanyal, the newly appointed vice-president-Human Resource Management (Designate) of Tata Steel, said that the fire within an individual should never get extinguished. “…with great enthusiasm one should be focused towards one’s goal irrespective of what comes until one achieves his/her desired goal with proper planning and execution,” she said. Saumya Singh, head, Department of Management Studies and Centre of Innovation, Indian Institute of Technology (Indian School of Mines), Dhanbad, said that even though things had changed, the glass ceiling was still there. "But if I try to recapitulate my experience, things are certainly improving. With the moral conditioning we have been brought up with, we are often found to be asking questions to ourselves about who we are, how strong we are, what have we been able to achieve and what could we have achieved more had the situation been more favourable. Can we make situations more favourable for our daughters who are going to take the lead further?" she said. Dr Rupali Basu, managing director and CEO, Woodlands Multispeciality Hospital, Calcutta, stressed on qualities like technical intelligence, integrity and unhindered focus that lead to success. Swastika Basu, chairperson, CII-IWN Jharkhand Chapter and chief-Enterprise Risk Management, Tata Steel moderated the session. “These women of substance have forayed paths not only for themselves but also portrayed success stories for their peers. Their stories are stories of grit, determination and positivity and the courage that is inherent in a woman to face the challenges of life, the courage to break stereotypes and the courage of not limiting their ambitions”. Kanchan Kumari, vice-chairwoman, CII-IWN, Jharkhand chapter, and DGM (Quality), Tata Cummins, also attended the virtual session.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-220
30-11-2020||Jharkhand||State plans tie-up with FICCI to help revive trade and employment||The Jharkhand government has decided to rope in Federation of Indian Chamber and Commerce & Industry (FICCI) as its national industry partner to facilitate and guide policies in trade and commerce to create jobs in the post-Covid-induced lockdown period. Officials in the state industry department said an MoU would be signed with FICCI soon, while state industries secretary Pooja Singhal confirmed that chief minister Hemant Soren, who also holds industry portfolio, had given his consent for this. “The purpose of a tie-up with FICCI is to help and advise the state government towards economic revival during the post-Covid period to bolster investments and create jobs. They (FICCI) will also be helping us devise plans and policies for optimal utilisation of resources in priority sectors identified by the state,” she explained. After coming to power in December last year, the ruling JMM-Congress-RJD alliance has been highlighting the fact that it inherited empty coffers because of lavish spending by the former BJP-led state government. While the pandemic-induced lockdown further dented state revenues, the return of about seven lakh migrant workers who had lost their livelihood added to the burden of the state government. Now, after several months, a section of migrant workers is beginning to return to their places of work outside the state. Yet, economic hardships for most still remain. Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI), the state’s apex trade body, has admitted that markets were yet to revive. “In Jharkhand, many sectors are still reeling under a crisis due to late unlocking and lack of liquidity. As a result, new jobs aren’t being created. There is a need for a fresh push and out-of-the-box initiatives to boost jobs and livelihoods,” said FJCCI president Kunal Ajmani. He welcomed the move to rope in FICCI for assistance but said that unless the government’s work culture changed, nothing would change on the ground. “Just by roping them (FICCI) and hosting a big-ticket MoU ceremony will not make any difference unless things are simplified at the ground level to win the confidence of investors,” he said, citing Momentum Jharkhand, investment summits held by the previous BJP government where MoUs worth lakhs of crores were signed but nothing much came of them. “Jharkhand has seen several MoU ceremonies for trade and investment but unfortunately red tape and cumbersome processes turned investors off. The previous government brought in several policies and plans but the reality today is that a majority of the MoUs signed three years back didn’t succeed. In this year alone, three to four big textile players have virtually shut shop in Jharkhand only because of the bureaucratic hassles they were facing,” said Ajmani, suggesting that the government turn to tourism, hospitality, textiles and medium and small scale sectors to boost jobs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-220
30-11-2020||Jharkhand||Satyendra Dubey lives on, thanks to his friend||A real friend is one who walks in when the rest of the world walks out. This has been proved by Vikram Kaul, a US-based technocrat friend of Satyendra Dubey, an engineer of National Highway Authority of India who sacrificed his life in 2003 for the sake of honesty. To commemorate the values of Dubey, Kaul has funded the establishment of a library-cum-computer training centre for school students at a remote village Kohair in the naxal-affected Tundi block of Dhanbad. Kaul wants to inspire the next generation to follow the ideals of the honesty of Dubey, who was killed by a nexus of corrupt politicians, contractors and bureaucrats The Centre is established with the coordination of Rameshwar Prasad, a retired officer of Associated Cement Company, Sindri, who is presently a full-time social worker. The Centre, which is a single-storey building equipped with a bench, desk and a computer, will be operational every day for four hours. Talking to The Telegraph Online Prasad said, “The building was earlier being used by us for operating a single teacher school to educate children. Since the establishment of a government school in a nearby locality, the school has lost its utility. So now we have converted it into a library-cum-computer training centre with the help of Kaul. He is engaged in a lot of philanthropic activity and particularly funding the education of students of the economically backward section of the society, through different organisations like Foundation for Excellence with his friends.” “Though the fund for furniture, etc. has been provided by Kaul, a roommate of Dubey at IIT Kanpur but the local villagers have donated their labour to construct the building, etc.,” said Prasad. “Satyendra Dubey was a very honest and sincere officer employed in the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI). He was posted at Koderma,” said Prasad. “A native of Siwan district of Bihar, Dubey was very good in studies since his early days and topped in 10th and 12th examinations. He did his B.Tech from IIT Kanpur and M.Tech from Banaras Hindu University. Satyendra Dubey didn’t go abroad like his other friends for a job. He wanted to stay in India and serve the country honestly,” further elaborated Prasad. During his posting at NHAI in Koderma, he tried to expose a corruption nexus in NHAI right from the contractors to the officers, politicians, ministers, etc. He suspended some corrupt contractors and officers working in NHAI as well. He also sent a confidential letter to PMO to apprise about the widespread corruption. He was however assassinated by miscreants at Gaya on November 27, 2003, on his birthday. “We lost a great person who wanted to see India corruption free and established a library-cum-study centre in his memory at Kolhahir Tundi which is a very small tribute for his honesty,” said Rameshwar Prasad. “I am sure it will inspire the people and students to follow his ideals and never compromise with honesty,” added Prasad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-220
30-11-2020||Jharkhand||XLRI group reaches out to Raipur kids with English lessons||A students’ group at XLRI made use of the lockdown by imparting virtual English lessons to children of SOS Youth Homes in distant Raipur and the results were very fulfilling. The group, SIGMA-oikos Jamshedpur, conducted the programme, titled Basic English Learning Program-(BELP), in virtual mode over four months from August and concluded it successfully on Sunday. Each session was organised by team SIGMA with the help of volunteers from XLRI, who took classes for the kids every weekend. "The sessions were aimed at imparting basic knowledge of English grammar and improving communication skills so that the children would become more comfortable with the language. This would help them in the future, " said a volunteer who was part of the initiative. On the last day of the programme, easy-to-read storybooks and chocolates were sent to the students as a token of appreciation. SIGMA continues to collaborate with SOS in its efforts to provide students with opportunities for a brighter future by preparing them for competitive examinations and admissions to renowned schools across India. SOS Youth Homes was founded in Raipur in July 2005 and it started its activities in 2007. Currently, there are around 130 children residing with 14 mothers and three aunts, who take care of and provide a loving family to the children under the SOS Family Based Care programme. SIGMA-oikos Jamshedpur, which works under the guidance of XLRI Prof Raghu Ram Tata, chairman FACES (Fr Arrupe Centre for Ecology and Sustainability) and Prof Madhukar Shukla, has been providing academic support to underprivileged students every year. "Educational courses in English and computer literacy are a regular activity conducted by the group, along with extra-curricular activities like dance, singing, and art and craft sessions. This year, the programme had to be scaled to a virtual format due to the pandemic, " said Prof Shukla. The activities of the social group also include blood and stem cell donation camps, paper recycling, and food wastage prevention drives, spreading legal literacy amongst village inhabitants across Jamshedpur. SIGMA also executes research projects in association with national NGOs such as Goonj and international NGOs such as OIKOS to help impoverished communities become self-sustaining through sales enablement services and supply chain optimisation. SIGMA also ties up with corporate houses such as Tata Steel to hold case study competitions where the best minds from top tier B-schools across the country come together to solve national problems such as water conservation and renewable energy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-220
30-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad: Devotees take holy dip on 'Kartik Purnima'||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-221
30-11-2020||Jharkhand||Mahto lung transplant successful, weaned off breathing support ||State education minister Jagarnath Mahto, who underwent a lung transfer following a coronavirus infection that kept him bedridden for nearly two months, has overcome the ailment and is now good to lead a normal life again. Mahto is now able to sit on his own and also stand with support, doctors from the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) Healthcare in Chennai said on Monday, adding that the minister would be able to attend Vidhan Sabha sessions from January onwards. Dr. Suresh Rao, Co-director of the Institute of Heart and Lung Transplantation & Mechanical Circulatory Assist Device at MGM, said Mahto has started breathing without any artificial respiratory assistance from machines. But, he will take around two more weeks to start walking without support. “His lungs are fine. The oxygen saturation is also optimum. Right now, he is undergoing physiotherapy and should be able to walk soon,” said Rao, adding that the minister would be able to lead a normal life from the beginning of 2021 if everything went well from here. “He can lead a normal life, but he has to be careful and avoid any infection in his lungs,” said Dr. Rao. The 54-year-old Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) legislator from Dumri constituency in Jharkhand underwent lung transplant surgery at MGM on November 10. While he remained in the ICU, he was recovering fast and conscious since the surgery, doctors said. His party, the JMM, the largest party in the state Assembly, has started preparing for a grand welcome ceremony for Mahto, a son of the soil. The first-time-minister in the Hemant Soren Cabinet, Mahto is a popular figure among JMM supporters. Before getting infected by the coronavirus, he was in the news for taking admission in intermediate (class 11 and 12) and presenting cars to the toppers of class 10 and class 12 board exams in Jharkhand. Mahto tested positive for Covid-19 on September 28 and was admitted to state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi. He was shifted to the ICU of Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital in the state capital on October 1 and put on non-invasive ventilation. The minister was flown to Chennai on October 19 after his lungs showed no signs of improvement and was put on life support. Doctors from the hospital said that Mahto’s lung transplant surgery cost the Jharkhand government around Rs 30 lakh and his treatment altogether will cost roughly Rs 80 lakh. However, there was no official confirmation on the amount quoted by the hospital for the minister’s treatment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-221
30-11-2020||Jharkhand||Researcher spots two rare insects at Canary Hill, Ramgarh Ghati ||Independent researcher Mritunjay Sharma has discovered two rare insects, one at the picturesque Canary Hill in Hazaribagh district and other at Ramgarh Ghati on Ranchi-Patna Highway. The first is a rare golden tortoise beetle seen at Canary hill and the second one is painted grasshopper who only eats poisonous plants. Sharma said Canary is full of surprises and apart from his recent discovery, he had found the Peacock Pancy, one of the world's most beautiful butterfly, and India's largest anthill. "The golden tortoise beetle belongs to the leaf beetle family. In this area, so far only its two colours have been spotted-green and orange. In insects, the orange colour is very rare and hardly seen,"  Sharma said talking to The Telegraph Online, adding that there are over 3,50,000 species of beetles in the world. About the painted grasshopper Sharma said, "It is very rare and he had spotted it for the first time in his long years of research. Scientists wanted to know as to how this grasshopper which only eats poisonous plants digest it and stay safe. Research is on to crack this mystery and if decoded, it will help scientists save the life of those who consume poison." Sharma added that Jharkhand forests have many surprises and the tourism department needed to focus on nature tourism to attract tourists. "If better facilities provided I am sure people will like to visit Jharkhand," he said. Sharma's name was incorporated into the Limca Book of Records a few years ago for finding the largest anthill of India at Canary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-221
30-11-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand reports 198 fresh Covid cases||The Jharkhand government on Sunday tested swab samples of over 93,000 people for Covid-19 and as many as 198 of them, roughly 0.21 per cent, were found infected, figures compiled by the health department stated, highlighting how intensifying Covid testing did not trigger a major spike in the Covid caseload in Jharkhand. However, despite the rise in testing rate, around 18,000 swam samples were still pending for Covid test by Sunday evening, revealed government data. On average, the government tested around 15,000 people every day for Covid-19 in the past week, and less than 300 cases surfaced daily. While at least five of 24 districts in Jharkhand did not report even a single fresh case of Covid-19 on Sunday, as many as 14 districts reported a single-digit-spike in Covid cases. By the end of Sunday, there were 773 active cases in Ranchi and 307 active cases in East Singhbhum, two of the worst-affected districts in the state. Ranchi and East Singhbhum accounted for more than half of the Covid-19 cases that surfaced in Jharkhand on Sunday. While 69 people were found infected in Ranchi, 29 fresh cases of infection surfaced in East Singhbhum. However, the number of active cases of Covid-19 infection dropped in East Singhbhum and rose marginally in Ranchi. East Singhbhum reported 47 recoveries while 56 patients recovered in Ranchi in the past 24 hours. At least 214 Covid patients recovered from the infection across Jharkhand on Sunday, bringing the count of active cases in the state down at 2,138 and the recovery rate up at 97.15 per cent. Jharkhand did not report even a single Covid casualty on Sunday, stated a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM). So far, 963 people have died of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand and 351 of them were from East Singhbhum. Ranchi has reported 195 Covid casualties so far. The government has so far collected swab samples of 41.52 lakh people and tested 41.34 lakh of them. Of the over 41 lakh people tested, as many as 1,08,984 were found to be Covid positive. However, at least 1,05,883 of patients have recovered in the state so far. The growth rate of Covid-19 in Jharkhand was 0.17 per cent against the national average of 0.39 per cent. The doubling rate of the virus in the state was 405.58 days against the national average of 177.89 days. The Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 0.88 per cent against the national Covid mortality rate of 1.50 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-221
30-11-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand business airs Covid penalty grouse  ||The Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and industries (FJCCI), the apex trade body of the state, has alleged that the business community was being made a soft target for violating Covid norms. “Though we are in favour of observing the standard operation procedures as specified by the government and also do so, the authorities are punishing the businessmen for violation of those norms,” FJCCI president Kunal Ajmani alleged. Many shops have been sealed whenever more customers were found gathering in those, he said, adding that Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) has also proposed a fine up to Rs 25,000 to be collected from shop owners in such cases. “Observing Covid norms should be a responsibility of all and shopowners alone shouldn’t be penalised for that,” Ajmani further said, wondering if government offices would also be fined if many people gather there. “Shop owners keep sanitiser and also wear masks,” added FJCCI general secretary Dheeraj Taneja, adding they could at the most request the customers to observe social distancing. Meanwhile, the RMC, at a meeting held on Saturday, asked FJCCI representatives to direct shop owners to refuse to entertain such customers who approach them without wearing masks. “The meeting was meant for discussing ways for conducting a week-long special awareness campaign from today (Sunday) when they said it,” said Amit Sharma, chairperson of FJCCI’s municipal sub-committee who attended the meeting. The administration has also launched a special drive for imposing Covid norms so that the viral infection is not spread further. In Ranchi alone, 1,073 persons who were found to be moving at public places without wearing masks in four days till Saturday were fined Rs 500 each. The health department also launched a special drive for Covid testing on Saturday and Sunday for detecting the spread of new infection after Diwali and Chhath. Though the result of such tests conducted across the state on Sunday would be known late in the night, the same of Saturday did not indicate any major spread of infection. Of the total 32,584 samples tested on Saturday, only 209 accounting for 0.64 per cent of the total samples were found to be positive. Jharkhand had 2,154 positive cases on Saturday of which Ranchi district alone had 768 cases that accounted for 35.65 per cent of the total positive cases. The recovery rate in the state stood at 97.13 per cent which was better than the national rate of 93.70 per cent and mortality rate of 0.88 per cent was also much less than the national rate of 1.50 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-221
