01-05-2021||Jharkhand||Patient dies at Dhanbad hospital, negligence alleged ||The family members of a 49-year-old Eastern CoalFields Limited employee who died during the course of treatment at Asian Dwarkadas Jalan Super speciality Hospital, on Saturday staged a demonstration at the hospital campus alleging medical negligence. The protesting members claimed that the deceased, Sanjay Singh of Kumbardubi area of Dhanbad, was treated as a Covid patient before the test results that lead to his death. The hospital administration also charged Rs 1.5 lakh for five days of treatment. A team of officers from Dhanbad Sadar Police pacified the family members of the deceased assuring them of a fair probe of the incident. One of the family members of Sanjay Singh, said “We had admitted our patient in the hospital on April 26 and hospital authorities claimed that his Covid test would be conducted on April 28 but the Covid test was not conducted and he was administered Remedesivir without the test confirming him to be affected with Covid due to which he died.” “When we sought the Covid report from the hospital after the death of the patient, we were not provided with the report and instead the doctors fled the hospital confirming our doubt,” said the relative. “We are not going to spare the hospital administration and will lodge an FIR against the hospital administration holding them accountable for murder,” fumed the relative. This is the third such incident of allegation of medical negligence by family members at a private hospital. On April 26, three persons died due to Covid in a private hospital, Pragati Nursing Home, after which the family members of all three gathered at the hospital charging medical negligence. On April 14, a 55-year-old Covid patient also died during the course of treatment after which the family members of the deceased staged a demonstration outside the hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-66
01-05-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Steel starts Labour Day sale on e-learning platform||Tata Steel on Saturday announced a Digie-Shala “Labour Day Flash Sale Offer” on its learning products to celebrate the achievements of workers across the world. Digie-Shala is an intrapreneurial venture by Tata Steel which aims at educating students, working professionals for gaining the skills and knowledge required to excel in their careers. The offer began at 12 noon on Saturday and will be on till 11.59 pm of May 2. For availing the offer one can visit the website at www.capabilitydevelopment.org . There are several exciting offers on e-learning courses - technical and managerial - which can be availed during this offer period, said a company spokesperson. The courses are designed to help people understand the work environment of any industry and develop skills, with verified e-certificates given by Tata Steel. Some of these e-learning courses are on Industry 4.0, Total Quality Management, Advanced Excel, Programmable Logic Controllers (PLCs), Primary Steel Making, Industrial Engineering, etc. Tata Steel Assessment Services (TSAS) will also be available at an offer price to help any person get assessed in their core competency skills and build upon their gaps, if any. New packages have also been compiled for the benefit of individuals. Additionally, Tata Steel Digie-Shala will be conducting a ‘Labour's Day Quiz’ on all its social media platforms. The winner of each day’s quiz will win exciting gifts and vouchers. "Anyone can participate by following us on our Tata Steel Digie-Shala handles on Facebook, Instagram, or LinkedIn, "added the spokesperson. The event is expected to attract wide participation of visitors from all walks of life, including students from schools / colleges and working professionals from anywhere in the world. These services will help make the youth industry ready in the future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-66
01-05-2021||Jharkhand||Four from Jharkhand become national chess arbiters ||Four new chess arbiters have emerged from Jharkhand with Soukhin Pramanick (Dhanbad) and Priyanka Kumari (Dumka) as the first women to be certified senior national arbiters. The two, along with Vikram Kumar (Seraikela-Kharsawan)and Dhanbad’s Binod Kumar Saw, cleared the senior national arbiter examination conducted on a digital platform by the All India Chess Federation (AICF) on April 24 and 25. The four join Jayant Kumar Bhuyan (international arbiter), Vishal Kumar Minz, Chandan Kumar Prasad (all from East Singhbhum), Deepak Kumar (Ranchi), Prabhat Ranjan Kumar, Neeraj Kumar Mishra (both from Dhanbad) and Prabhu Nath Sah (Hazaribag) as arbiters. Expressing its satisfaction at the development, All Jharkhand Chess Association (AJCA) secretary Neeraj Kumar Mishra, an International Master, said it was good that women from the state were also becoming arbiters. “We are hopeful more women will be added to the list. We congratulate the arbiters who cleared the examination,” he added. With chess having a solid footing in Jharkhand, more candidates are set to clear the national arbiter examination. A wide section of players from the state have proved their mettle in national competitions and have a good understanding of the game. Some of these players would like to become arbiters and conduct tournaments in future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-66
01-05-2021||Jharkhand||Mango sales in steel city hit by Covid curbs||Mango, popularly known as the king of fruits, has few takers during its peak season with the restrictions imposed across the state during `health safety week’ till May 6. The streets wear a deserted look with very few out on the streets as the movement of people and operation of markets are following strict norms with Covid cases surging across the state. As a result of the lockdown, the sale of mangoes has nosedived much to the chagrin of fruit sellers who had stocked up Banginapalli and Ghulab Khas or Sindhura in large quantities. “I used to sell mangoes ranging from Rs 7,000 to 8,000 earlier. The sale proceeds should have been more or less similar during this peak season. But now the sale has come down to Rs 1,000 to 1,500 daily. Very few people are coming out of their homes in view of the lockdown and fear of infection,” rued Md. Afroz, a fruit seller in Bistupur. Roshan Kumar, a fruit seller in Sakchi, said during summer people generally prefer venturing to the markets in the evening but the prevailing situation has confined them indoors. “Moreover, we have to wind up our operations by 2 pm. My sale has dropped and I am incurring losses,” he added. At present, two varieties of mango – Banginapalli and Ghulab Khas – are available in steel city markets. Both are selling at Rs 120 a kg. Fruit sellers complained that they have to make payments to the wholesalers but the drop in sales is making things difficult. “There has been bumper harvesting of mangoes this season. However, the fruit is not attracting customers in view of the prevailing situation. It is very difficult to sustain in these uncertain times,” said Shaqueel Ahmed, a fruit seller in Golmuri. “Covid infection is not getting contained. I am quite sure the lockdown will get extended, which will compound our woes,” said Md. Aftab, a fruit seller in Ranikudar. “I love mangoes but am yet to get a taste of it this time. I have stopped going to the market for buying essentials. It would be a risky affair to go out in the open, especially markets. I am sure the lockdown would get further extended since the Covid situation is still not in control,” said Mrityunjay Singh, a resident of Sakchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-66
01-05-2021||Jharkhand||BIT-Sindri alumnus donates $1 million to PM Cares Fund for Covid crisis||A US based BIT Sindri alumnus, Dr K.P. Singh, the founder of a multinational company, has donated $ 1 million to the BIT Sindri Alumnus Association of North America to transfer to the PM Cares Fund in an effort to help the nation’s healthcare system crippled by the Covid-19 pandemic. Singh is the founder of Holtec International, a supplier of equipment for the energy industry. He has studied both MS in Engineering (1969) and PhD in Mechanical Engineering from University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia (1972). Singh has also decided to fund a 100 bed hospital at his native place of Barahiya in Bihar. During his visit to BIT Sindri in 2018, he promised to build a tech center with comparable level of funding to that of University of Pennsylvania if BIT became a central government funded institute. BIT Sindri director, D.K. Singh, said, “K.P. Singh has also decided to help fund the appointment of five adjunct professors at BIT Sindri including their travel expense.” BIT Sindri training and placement officer, Ghanshyam Rai, said, “We as part of the institute express our sincere thanks to the help extended during the pandemic by a BIT Sindri Alumnus based in America.” President of BITSAANA, Anil Singh, appealed to all members to make an effort to make BIT Sindri a central government funded institute. BIT Sindri Alumnus Association has 24 national chapters and seven international chapters, spread across the world  and its members work continuously to reinstate the glory of its alma mater to help the present students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-66
01-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand fails to launch mega jab drive, asks Centre for help ||Facing delay in vaccine supplies, Jharkhand, which could not launch the jab drive for people in the age-group of 18-44 years on Saturday, has sought Centre's intervention for facilitating procurement of at least 50 lakh vaccine doses, Chief Minister Hemant Soren said. The state had placed a demand for 50 lakh vaccine doses in advance to launch the vaccination campaign for the 1.57 crore population in the 18-44 age-bracket under the Liberalised and Accelerated Phase 3 Strategy of Covid-19 vaccination for which registration had commenced since April 28. "There are issues concerning supplies and we have written to the central government for facilitating procurement of at least 50 lakh doses," Hemant  told PTI. The CM said that the state was fully geared up to start the vaccination campaign as soon as it received the lot. "We hope to start vaccination for 18-44 once we start receiving the doses from both the manufacturers," he said. Hemant has already announced free vaccination for people in the younger age group. The state had placed orders with the Pune-based Serum Institute of India for 25 lakh doses of Covishield and with the Hyderabad based Bharat Biotech for another 25 lakh doses of Covaxin to launch the drive. Health Minister Banna Gupta told PTI, "We have placed an order for 50 lakh vaccine doses. They are saying that it will be supplied between May 15 and May 30.” "We are fully equipped to start the vaccination drive for the age group of 18-44. If you give us vaccines today we will start the campaign from tomorrow." Gupta said the state has made arrangements for inoculation of about 4.5 lakh people a day. The minister said that 1.57 crore population in the state fell in the age group of 18-44 years, while the population of those above 45 years including frontline health workers was 83 lakh. Asked about the people vaccinated in the state so far, the minister said the first dose of vaccine has been administered to about 25 lakh people above the age of 45 years including health workers while the second shots have been given to about 4 lakh people. Chief Minister Soren, who himself recently took the first jab of the vaccine, urged people especially the elderly to come forward to take the vaccine. Meanwhile, the central government vide a letter has asked the state to directly procure vaccine doses from the manufacturers. "As you appreciate that the next phase of vaccination starting from May 1, 2021, the government of India has liberalised the process and provided more flexibility and control to the states. The states can now directly procure vaccine doses from the manufacturers. "We urge the state to plan vaccination drives according to the availability of doses and also to ensure that citizens are informed well in advance," Vikas Sheel, Additional Secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare wrote to the state government. The letter mentions that 3.87 lakh doses of vaccine are likely to be available to the state in May. "...Based on discussions with the manufacturers of vaccines for facilitating a smooth roll out of the next phase of expanded vaccination programme in your state, 3,87,560 number of Covishield vaccine doses of Serum Institute of India (SII), Pune are likely to be available for your state, under the other than Government of India channel in the month of May 2021", the letter mentioned. It also said that the state may take necessary action to obtain supplies for commencing vaccination from May 1, 2021 as per policy guidelines issued by the Ministry. The Union Health Ministry on Saturday said over 79 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses are available with the states and Union territories and over 17 lakh doses will be supplied to them in the next three days. As per the government data, the centre has so far provided nearly 16.37 crore vaccine doses to states/UTs free of cost.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-66
01-05-2021||Jharkhand||State hospitals told to reserve 70% beds for Covid patients||The health department has asked all the government-run hospitals to reserve 70 per cent beds for Covid patients and also expressed the need to ensure similar reservations in private healthcare facilities owing to the unprecedented rise in Covid-19 cases across the state. In a letter addressed to all the Deputy Commissioner, Civil Surgeons, private hospitals and the director of Ranchi-based Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), the health department stated that the various healthcare facilities in Jharkhand need to increase the number of dedicated beds for Covid patients in order to deal with the rapidly rising cases of Coronavirus infection in the state. “Given the Covid-19 situation, it is imperative for all the government and private hospitals to keep at least 70 per cent of their beds reserved for Covid patients,” the letter stated. In an earlier directive in April, the health department had asked private hospitals to reserve 50 per cent of their total beds for Covid patients. However, the situation worsened since then, and the active caseload reached close to 60,000 in the state in no time, officials said. In the letter, which was addressed to all the hospitals and officials concerned on Friday evening, the health department also stated the need for setting up isolation wards for asymptomatic and mildly-symptomatic patients of Covid-19. “We need to set up isolation wards where Covid patients with normal oxygen level and mild to moderate symptoms can be kept,” the letter read. The health department has also directed all private and government hospitals to provide treatment to all the “presumptive” Covid patients even if their RT PCR test results did not confirm Coronavirus infection. Lately, several patients developed symptoms of the viral infection and needed hospitalisation even though their RT PCR tests came out negative. While the delay in the result of RT PCR tests was one of the reasons for keeping patients waiting for necessary treatments, doctors suggest that people with symptoms should start medications immediately without waiting for their RT PCR test results. In a statement issued in mid-April, the health department had admitted that mutated variants of the Coronavirus often succeeded in dodging RT PCR tests and could be detected through High Resolution Computed Tomography (HRCT). Following this finding, the state also fixed the price of HRCT tests in order to prevent exorbitant charges by private testing labs and clinics. According to the latest government data, at least 57,000 Jharkhand residents were battling the infection by Saturday morning. On an average, around 2000 patients were added to the active caseload every day in the past couple of weeks as fresh cases outnumbered recoveries. The state has also reported more than 100 deaths daily in the past one week, taking the Covid toll up at 2670.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-66
01-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid patients’ kin snatch oxygen cylinders in Palamau ||Relatives of Covid patients admitted in a hospital in Palamau district of Jharkhand barged into the storeroom and forcibly took away oxygen cylinders frustrated over the delay in getting them refilled. According to reports, over half a dozen relatives of Covid patients at the Medinirai Medical College and Hospital in Palamau had been waiting anxiously for the oxygen cylinders to be refilled since noon on Thursday. However, their patience ran out by evening when despite several attempts no action was allegedly taken by the hospital authorities to refill the cylinders. The patients’ relatives then walked to the storeroom of the hospital and created a ruckus over the delay in giving new oxygen cylinders in exchange for old cylinders. After a while they forcibly barged into the room and took away nearly a dozen cylinders and brought it to the Covid ward of the hospital for the patients. Hospital superintendent Dr K.N. Singh claimed the incident was a handiwork of some “mischievous” elements. “We do not give oxygen cylinders to relatives of patients. The cylinders are handed over to the staff after they produce a slip given from the (Covid) ward. However, the relatives wanted to take the cylinders themselves and had gone to the storeroom. Despite our best efforts, some mischievous elements do indulge in such types of acts,” said Dr Singh. The hospital official rejected claims that there was any shortage of oxygen cylinders at the hospital. Meanwhile, Palamau deputy commissioner Shashi Ranjan has constituted an oxygen task force with the additional collector as the nodal officer to ensure regular supply of oxygen and cylinders by coordinating with the firms supplying oxygen cylinders to the hospitals and in the district so that there is no oxygen crisis in any hospital. The task force will also be monitoring the use and supply of oxygen cylinders at the Sadar Hospital which is the main storeroom. On Thursday, Jharkhand registered 5,961 new Covid cases taking the total number of positive cases in the state to 55,877. The state also recorded 145 deaths due to the virus taking the total number of casualties to 2,540. The state has a virus growth rate of 2.55 per cent, which is much higher than the national rate of 1.36 per cent. The recovery rate of Jharkhand is 74.31 per cent, which is much lower than the national average of 82.10 per cent. The mortality rate is also higher (at 1.11 per cent) than the national average of 1.10 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-67
01-05-2021||Jharkhand||Patient beaten by lockdown cops dies in Hazaribagh district||A 40-year-old man being taken for treatment died after he was allegedly thrashed by a police patrolling team for violation of lockdown norms in Hazaribagh district of Jharkhand on Thursday evening. The incident occurred near Basria Road under Chouparan police station. Irate villagers of Karma blocked the road in protest against the death of Chakkan Bhuiyan who was being taken on a bike by his brother and his wife to neighbouring Koyali Kalan village. “The police patrolling party came towards us and started asking us why we were moving about in violation of lockdown norms. Before we could explain anything they started beating Chakkan and we fled from the spot out of fear. We were taking him to Chouparan for a medical check-up,” said Chakkan’s brother Shankar. People are prohibited from moving out after 3pm except for emergencies and medical reasons because of the lockdown-like restrictions in force in Jharkhand since April 22. After the police left, Chakkan’s brother and wife returned to the spot and found him unconscious. When they tried to bring him back to his senses, they realised he was dead. The irate villagers then blocked the road demanding action against the police. The protesters lifted the blockade only after receiving an assurance from Hazaribagh superintendent of police Karthik S. “We have ordered a magistrate-level inquiry along with the post-mortem of the deceased. We have also sent the patrolling team head Pradeep Kumar who was accused of beating the man to the police barrack. However, the police team claimed that shops in the area were kept open in violation of the lockdown norms till 8pm. When they tried to close down the shops, there was a stampede in which the 40-year-old man fell down from the bike leading to his death. We are awaiting the magistrate’s report and the post-mortem to find out the exact cause,” the SP said. Local police, however, denied the victim was beaten up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-67
