02-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad: 1 killed, 5 injured in family feud||One person was killed and five others injured in Kankani area of Loyabad police station about 10 km from Dhanbad district headquarter on Sunday when two neighbouring families had a clash over the construction of a drain near their house. Enraged over the incident, family members of the deceased Rohan Chauhan, and others of the locality ransacked the house of Sitaram Chauhan breaking TV sets, furniture, refrigerator and other electronic items besides burning two bikes lying in his backyard. The irate protesters also gheraoed the Loyabad Police station demanding police to handover main accused Sitaram Chauhan and his two sons, Anuj Chauhan and Rohit Chauhan. Residents of the locality said Sitaram Chauhan and Umesh Chauhan have had differences over the drain construction. On Sunday, a verbal dispute spiralled into a physical fight where Sitaram Chauhan and his two sons attacked Umesh Chauhan and his sons Rohan Chauhan and Uttam Chauhan with a dagger. Police rushed the duo to Sahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College and Hospital, where Rohan was declared brought dead and Uttam Chauhan is undergoing treatment in the ICU. A large number of policemen from different police stations including Loyabad, Putki and Moodih have been deployed in the area as the villagers are demanding immediate punishment of the accused, Sitaram Chauhan, Anuj Chauhan and Rohit Chauhan who were also also beaten by local residents before being arrested by police. Dhanbad City SP, R. Ramkumar, assured the residents that police will punish the guilty through a proper legal process. "The situation is under control as we have arrested accused persons and will follow the due legal process to ensure punishment to them," said Ramkumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-65
02-05-2021||Jharkhand||Seventh Nor'wester triggers rain and storm across state||The season's seventh and this month's first Nor'wester, triggered by a cyclonic circulation hovering over north-west Madhya Pradesh hit several parts of Jharkhand including Jamshedpur and Ranchi on Sunday afternoon. The storm accompanied by lightning and thunderous activity swept across several parts of Jharkhand with a wind speed of 40-45 kmph. The affected districts were Deoghar, Dumka, West Singhbhum, Ranchi, Ramgarh, Bokaro, Chatra, Dhanbad, Jamshedpur, Giridih, Hazaribagh, Jamtara and Khunti. On Friday, a similar Nor'wester - the season's sixth - had hit Jamshedpur, Ranchi and several other places  resulting in widespread lightning and thunderstorms. The steel city and its adjoining areas -- Ghatshila and Chaibasa encountered the Nor'wester around 2.45 pm. The wind speed was around 45 Kmph. The storm and moderate showers lasted for about 20 minutes. The Nor'wester had first hit several places in north-eastern and central Jharkhand before moving towards the south in Kolhan region. Ranchi and its adjoining areas experienced light showers while several places in southern Jharkhand including Jamshedpur witnessed moderate rain. Weathermen at IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre extended the rainfall and thunderstorm alert for another four days till May 6. "Partly cloudy sky with possibility of light to moderate rain is expected in various parts of Jharkhand for another four days, "said a duty officer at Ranchi. The Met centre also issued an alert of lightning for the next 72 hours. Met statistics revealed that maximum temperature in most places across Jharkhand has come down below the average normal due to the Nor'wester activity for the last few days. Like Friday, Sunday's Nor'wester too damaged overhead cables several  Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (JBVNL ) serviced areas in Kolhan and other places.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-65
02-05-2021||Jharkhand||State Congress and JMM leaders hail TMC victory in Bengal Assembly elections||Congress and JMM leaders have welcomed TMC’s victory in Bengal Assembly Elections and termed it as the debacle of communal forces. Congress MLA of Jharia, Purnima Singh, said, “The landslide victory of TMC proves the trust of people of Bengal in Mamata Banerjee’s work.” “In the last six years of BJP rule at centre, people have understood well that it does nothing but only create hype and fails on core issues and thus people didn’t fall prey to their false promises this time and rejected their divisive agenda,” said Singh. “The gross mishandling of the Covid issue by the central government and moreover worsening of the Covid situation in Bengal by holding huge political rallies, where positivity rate has reached as high as 55% further exposed the BJP before the people leading to its debacle in Bengal,” the Congress leader said. Dhanbad based All India Congress Committee Member, Santosh Singh on the other hand claimed that Bengal’s defeat is the defeat of prime minister, Narendra Modi and Election Commission. “They have misused Central Security forces, Enforcement Directorate and Election Commission and BJP suffered humiliating defeat despite all proving the fact that common people are the real heroes in democracy,” said Singh. District President of  Congress and eminent lawyer of Dhanbad, Brajendra Prasad Singh said, “The election result proves the defeat of communal forces  as BJP went into election with no real issue other than divisive agenda and people have taught them a befitting lesson.” “Prime Minister, Narendra Modi and Minister of Home Affairs held huge political rallies in Bengal at a time when Covid was spreading at a fast pace putting the life of common people at risk and people have taught them lessons for their inept handling of pandemic” said Singh. Echoing Singh’s sentiments, district President of JMM, Ramesh Tuddu said, “TMC worked on the ground and BJP indulged in raking up only emotional issues which have no connection with the real problem being faced by the commoners so BJP suffered humiliating defeat.” “The election result proves that Modi magic is waning and the failure of the central government on Covid handling has exposed the inefficiency of the BJP leaders” said Tuddu. State president of minority cell of TMC, Mukhatar Khan, “The election results proves that groundwork has no substitute and thus the BJP despite using all it’s might suffered a humiliating defeat in Bengal.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-66
02-05-2021||Jharkhand||Demand for Covid facility at old assembly building ||Officials of the Jharkhand Vidhan Sabha Secretariat have requested the government to set up a 30-bed Covid care centre with oxygen support for staff of the State Assembly at the old Vidhan Sabha building in Sector 2 citing a crisis of beds in the state capital and a rise in cases of infection among the staff working in the State Assembly. In a letter addressed to the Principal Secretary of Home, Prisons and Disaster Management Department recently, the Deputy Secretary of Vidhan Sabha, Ranjit Kumar also asked the government to ensure supply of life-saving drugs to the medical store at the new Vidhan Sabha building in Dhurwa for fast and effective treatment of Assembly staff infected by Coronavirus. “Several staff and officials of the Vidhan Sabha Secretariat have died of Covid-19 recently. Upper Secretary Manohar Lakra, Emergency Secretary Deepak Shukla and Administrative Officer Rajesh Pandey have succumbed to Coronavirus infection,” the letter stated, adding that several other employees of the Vidhan Sabha Secretariat were critical after contracting the viral infection. “Given the crisis of beds in hospitals, it cannot be denied that the situation can get worse in the days to come. I would, therefore, request you to set up a 30-bed Covid care centre with oxygen support at the old Vidhan Sabha building for our staff and ensure supply of life-saving drugs to the medical store at the new Vidhan Sabha building,” Kumar further stated in the letter. In the letter on behalf of Vidhan Sabha staff, Kumar has also requested the government to allow use of the Vidhan Sabha ambulance for staff infected by the virus and provide sufficient oxygen support in the ambulance during the ongoing crisis. The Russian Hostel at Sector 2 was temporarily used as the state assembly in Jharkhand since the formation of the state back in 2000. The new Vidhan Sabha building at Dhurwa was inaugurated in 2019 and is since being used as the permanent State Assembly. “A letter has been sent to the concerned officials and we are hoping that the government will do the needful at the earliest. The situation is fast going out of control and the crisis of beds is only adding to our problems,” said a staff in the public relations department of the Vidhan Sabha. The active caseload of Covid-19 breached the 20,000 mark in Ranchi on Saturday, and the district has enough Covid beds to only treat around 20 per cent of the patients, say health officials. Amid the unprecedented spike in cases, Covid fatalities have also been on the rise here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-66
02-05-2021||Jharkhand||Madhupur bypoll: JMM leader Hafijul Hassan wins with a margin of  5,247 votes||JMM leader and minister Hafijul Hassan Ansari has won with a margin of 5,247 votes over his nearest rival Ganga Narayan Singh of the BJP in the by- election to the Madhupur assembly constituency, according to the Election Commission. Hasan has polled 1,10,812 votes while his rival BJP candidate has to his credit 1,05,565 votes after the eighth round of counting, an EC spokesperson said. The bypoll in Madhupur in Deoghar district, which took place on April 17, was necessitated by the death of former minister Haji Hussain Ansari, father of the JMM nominee, on October 3 last year. Four Independent candidates - Ashok Kumar Thakur, Rajendra Kumar, Uttam Kumar Yadav and Kishan Kumar Bathwal, who were also in the fray - have polled 3,924; 2,409; 2,003 and 1,033 votes, respectively. According EC website 5,123 votes went to NOTA. Left parties who are not part of the JMM-led UPA government in Jharkhand decided to support Hafijul Hassan for the Madhupur bypoll. In a joint media statement issued at the CPM state office in Ranchi, four Left parties — CPI(M), CPI, CPI(ML) and Marxist Coordination Committee — had announced their support to the JMM-UPA candidate. “We had extended our support to the UPA candidates at Bermo and Dumka bypolls against the BJP candidates and have decided to do the same for Madhupur. This has been done as a protest against the pro-corporate policies of the BJP government reflected in the new farm laws, privatisation of national assets and dismal employment opportunities,” said Prakash Viplav on behalf of the joint coordination committee of the Left parties. Left parties do not have a sizable presence in Madhupur constituency but have a few pockets of where factory workers have shown their support for the Left parties. Chief Minister Hemant Soren, who was the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha's star campaigner for the seat, congratulated Hasan for the victory and thanked the people of the constituency for electing him. Referring to the West Bengal elections, Soren said that people there have given a befitting reply to the BJP and alleged that the saffron party misused a constitutional authority like the Election Commission which is a cause of serious concern.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-66
