03-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Calf rescued from well in Giridih||Bokaro: A calf that fell in a deep well has been rescued by the forest department team at Saria Block of Giridih on Monday. The rescue operation took five hours with the help of three JCB machines to lift the calf. A crowd of villagers had gathered at the spot to see the rescue operation. The calf is said to be the member of a herd of 22 elephants wandering the jungle of Saria Block for the past few days. Forest Ranger of Saria, Shyam Kumar said, “The herd of elephants have calves. The herd had come near the well. There was a banana tree close to the embankment of the well, we believe that the calf which had fallen in the well might had skidded while approaching the tree. However, we have rescued the calf.” After coming out of the well, the calf ran towards the village. The officials of the forest department are trying to drive the calf towards the herd. Rajesh Pandey a villager said that they heard calf trumpeting around 2 am. On Thursday night, the same herd of elephants killed a young man in the area. The forest department has sounded an alert in the area. (Our correspondent) Hazaribagh: A team of officials in Barkatha of Barhi subdivision on Monday sealed several shops immediately after getting information about businessmen flouting lockdown norms. The shops were selling utensils, textile and electronic items. Block development officer Kriti Bala Lakra and circle officer Nirmal Soren said they will act if anyone violates lockdown rules. “We had sealed ten shops and process is on to lodge FIR against them,” they added. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: A wagon carrying oxygen cylinders hit a car killing three on the spot in Konhara area between Barhi and Bagodar in Barkatha, 68km away from Hazaribagh district headquarter. Police said the accident occurred on GT road as both vehicles coming from opposite direction took the same diversion resulting in the incident. The three persons including a woman sitting in the car died on the spot. Police have sent the bodies for post mortem to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Dhanbad: The family members of a Covid patient who died during treatment at Central Hospital of BCCL at Jagjivan Nagar of Dhanbad on Monday created a ruckus at the campus alleging medical negligence. A team of police and Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) controlled the situation and promised the family members of the deceased of a fair probe. A Lodna colleiry employee of BCCL was admitted this morning in the Central hospital on Monday morning after his health condition deteriorated due to Covid but he died in the afternoon during the course of treatment. Family members of the deceased claimed that the patient was not attended properly by the doctors in the hospital. They further charged that he died after being administered an injection in the hospital. (Praduman Choubey) Dhanbad: Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh on Monday instructed the circle officers of Dhanbad and Nirsa to file FIRs against four doctors under the disaster management act for not partaking as a Covid frontline health worker. Singh further instructed the officers to write to National Medical Council and Jharkhand Medical Council for cancellation of license for practice of the four doctors. Singh said that these four doctors had been instructed to join Covid duty on April 26 and were given a 24 hour ultimatum to join but they did not respond to the notices showing severe negligence of services. (Praduman Choubey)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-65
03-05-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city to Lucknow a green corridor for oxygen transport||An Oxygen Express train carrying 85 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen for Covid-19 patients left Tatanagar railway station for Lucknow. The nearly 1,000 km distance between the two destinations- Tatanagar and Lucknow was converted into a green corridor so that the train could reach Lucknow with the consignment of liquid oxygen supplied by Linde India's Jamshedpur plant as early as possible. "The liquid oxygen loaded in 10 containers were  transported in seven wagons of an Oxygen Express train provided by South Eastern Railway, "said H.K. Balmuchu, station director of Tatanagar adding that a green corridor was made so that the train will not stop anywhere between the two destinations. On April 27, following a request made by Delhi government,  Jharkhand had sent four tankers of liquid medical oxygen by road from the Jamshedpur plant of Linde India, a leading manufacturer of industrial gases, to the national capital. During the second wave of the pandemic and surge in Covid positive cases, South Eastern Railway is continuously running Oxygen Express Trains from its jurisdiction to transport liquid medical oxygen to meet the medical emergencies. Running of Oxygen Express trains by South Eastern Railway started from April 23 and a total of 594.34 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen has been dispatched by South Eastern Railway through 13 Oxygen Express trains run so far. From Bokaro, total of nine trains have gone to Lucknow and three trains towards Bhopal, Sagar and Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh. Apart from this, one train has been run from Rourkela towards Faridabad in Haryana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-65
03-05-2021||Jharkhand||Landowners demand return of 220 acres at coal town mine ||An armed protest was carried out by more than 50 landowners at the project site of a private mining company of BCCL in Muraidih underground Colliery of Barora Area on Monday. The protesters, wielding traditional arms like bows and arrows, spears and lathi sticks, gathered at the main gate of the project site at around 7.30 am shouting slogans and alleging that jobs and monetary compensation was not given by the company in exchange for their land. The protestors blocked the entry of workers to the mine and demanded their land be given back to them. Mano Devi, one of the protestors said that a large number of local villagers parted with 220 acres of land for the project ahead of 2014 as they had been promised jobs and compensation. “We have been giving notices to BCCL since 2015 to provide us our due but all our notices are falling on deaf ear and now the company is also backtracking on their promise of jobs and compensation,” said Devi. Echoing her sentiments, Mansa Tuddu said, “We resorted to the extreme step of carrying out armed demonstration outside the project site of the colliery as all our earlier efforts to draw attention by giving notices have failed.” Earlier, landowners at Muraidih had also carried out protests on several occasions including one in February last year after which the BCCL management had promised to consider their demands. However, the armed protest was carried out as their promises were not fulfilled. “We have pacified the protesters in view of the disaster management act in place and convinced them to submit a written demand” said Manish Kumar Dubey, Assistant Sub Inspector of Barora Police station. Manager of BCCL Muraidih Colliery, Dhivar, said “The land acquisition has been carried out during the launch of the colliery following all due procedure but we will look into the objections of people who carried out the protest today.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-65
03-05-2021||Jharkhand||Fire training programme at all Covid hospitals across Dhanbad||The staff members of Sahid Nirma Mahto Medical College and Hospital and Central Hospital of BCCL including nurses, ward boys, doctors, sanitation workers and administrative members underwent a two-hour fire mock drill on Monday. The fire mock drill has been launched at the instruction of Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh. It will be conducted in all 30 Covid treatment facilities of the district including nine government and 21 private hospitals. The training was conducted under the guidance of district fire officer Surendra Yadav. He explained the process of alarm operation, stopping central AC, isolating power supplies and evacuation of patients from the hospital in case of a fire emergency. “We have explained various steps right from the beginning of discovery of fire to calling the fire service, operating existing fire safety devices, assembling staff and doctors outside the building and evacuation of patients,” said Yadav to The Telegraph Online. “With regard to evacuation of bed patients to a place of safety we explained operation of 2 and 4 handed lifts, fireman’s lift, blanket removal, putting patients on wheelchair, removal of patients downstairs and removal by stretcher with or without wheels,” said Yadav. “Specific use of different kinds of material like foam, dry powder, carbon dioxide and fire blanket for fighting were also explained,” elaborated Yadav. According to the schedule prepared by the District Disaster Management Authority, the training will be conducted at Sadar Hospital Dhanbad and Divisional Railway Hospital on Tuesday and at Asharfi Hospital and Asian Dwarkadas Jalan Super speciality hospital on Wednesday. The Fire Safety Audit of Patliputra Nursing Home and Pragati Nursing Home will be conducted on May 6. A fire safety audit of 20 private hospitals engaged in Covid treatment was conducted by the district fire officer and according to the report portable fire extinguishers were installed in several private hospitals which lacked the amenity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-65
03-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Dhanbad government hospital adds 60 ICU beds||The Dhanbad district administration has installed a 60 bed ICU Covid treatment facility at Sadar Hospital on Sunday. The number of ICU beds in the district has increased to around 250 after the April 18 permission given to 14 private hospitals to begin Covid treatment at their respective facilities. Apart from the Sadar Hospital, two other main ICUs operating in the district are at Cath lab of Sahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College and Central Hospital of BCCL in Jagjivan Nagar. The 14 private hospitals also run their own ICU facility. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh, monitored the installation of equipment and other facilities of the Sadar Hospital on Sunday. He designated three pharmacists at the hospital and instructed them to ensure management of the store room to ensure timely availability of all medicines and equipment for treatment of patients. Singh instructed the nodal officer of the hospital Dr Rajkumar to ensure availability of PPE kits, gloves, masks etc to all the staff working at the hospital. The deputy commissioner also wrote a letter to the Jharkhand Director of National Health Mission asking him to provide 200 pieces of jumbo type oxygen cylinders to the district. In his letter, Singh pointed out that the Covid treatment facilities of Dhanbad with 250 ICU beds cater to the need to several adjoining districts including Bokaro, Girididh, Koderma, Jamtara, Godda, Sahebganj and lack of proper supply of oxygen cylinders may affect the treatment at these facilities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-65
03-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand logs over 4,700 fresh Covid cases, 115 casualties in a day||Jharkhand continued to report a triple-digit-spike in Covid deaths on Sunday as at least 115 patients, including 42 from Ranchi alone, died during treatment in the past 24 hours, taking the Covid toll in the state close to the 3000-mark, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. However, the state reported a spike of less than 5000 cases on the day after fresh cases breaching the 5000-mark daily in the past one week. As many as 4,738 people were found infected by Coronavirus in the state on Sunday while 4541 Covid patients recovered from the infection, a bulletin released by the NHM stated. Even though the number of fresh cases dropped slightly on Sunday in comparison to the past one week, the positivity rate in the state was still 18.63 per cent, which is higher than the positivity rate in some of the worst-affected states in India. As per NHM data, Jharkhand on Sunday tested swab samples of as many as 25,421 residents. The over 4700 fresh cases took the Covid tally in the state to 2,44,472 while the active caseload jumped to 58,519. Around 75 per cent of the over 2.44 lakh people infected by the virus in Jharkhand so far was recovered, highlights government data. Ranchi not only reported the highest number of casualties but also the highest spike in cases on the day. As per NHM data, as many as 913 people were found infected by the deadly virus in Ranchi on Sunday while 792 patients recovered. The active caseload in the district on Sunday reached 20,163, which is the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. The 42 deaths on the day took the toll in Ranchi to 939. Meanwhile, East Singhbhum reported 652 cases against 780 recoveries and continued to witness a downward trend in the active caseload. As per government data, as many as 5,931 East Singhbhum residents were battling Coronavirus infection by the end of Sunday. The district also reported 12 casualties on the day, which took the toll there up at 645. As per government data, the growth rate of infection dropped to 2.39 per cent in Jharkhand on Sunday. However, it was still higher than the national average of 1.49 per cent. The doubling rate also improved on the day and reached 29.40 days, revealed NHM data. The doubling rate in the state was also lower than the national average of 46.84 days. The state on Sunday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 4200 people, while the second dose was administered to as many as 5607 beneficiaries. Jharkhand is yet to start vaccination for people in the age bracket of 18 to 44 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-65
