04-05-2021||Jharkhand||Special trains to be cancelled due to poor occupancy||Amid the surge in Covid-19 cases, South Eastern Railway ( SER) has decided to discontinue several special trains, including the Howrah-Ranchi Shatabdi Special Express, due to low occupancy and other operational constraints. The 02019/02020 Howrah-Ranchi-Shatabdi Special will remain cancelled from May 7 till further orders. Railway authorities at Garden Reach, the Calcutta-based headquarters of South Eastern Railway, said the decision to cancel the train was taken as the occupancy had dropped drastically due to Covid fears. "People have restricted travel owing to a surge in Covid cases resulting in 60 per cent fall in the sale of tickets. Therefore, a decision was taken to discontinue the train," said an official at SER's commercial section. The 03511/03512 Tatanagar-Asansol-Special train will also remain cancelled from Tuesday, May 4 due to poor occupancy, which has resulted in a drop of 50 per cent. The South Eastern Railway also notified the cancellation of the 03501/03502 Haldia-Asansol-Special train. The train will be discontinued from May 7. The 03505/03506 Digha-Asansol- Special will also remain cancelled from May 9, till further notification. Railway sources said that the footfall of passengers at Ranchi, Tatanagar and other stations had witnessed a drastic fall during the past few days. "Owing to low occupancy more special trains under SER jurisdiction are likely to be cancelled in the days to come, " said a railway official, adding that they were also facing operational constraints and manpower crunch as many railway employees under the SER zone had tested positive for Covid.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-64
04-05-2021||Jharkhand||Painting diyas, making paper bags keep special students busy amid pandemic||Painting Diwali diyas and making paper bags is keeping students of Jeevika, a Sonari-based special school, busy at home in Covid times. Ganga Bai deftly works on the diyas at her home in Bagunhatu while the bespectacled S Umesh remains focussed in turning sheets of paper into small bags. With the schools and institutions under lock and key in view of the health safety week imposed by the state government in view of the pandemic, Jeevika thought of keeping specials occupied in work they love the most. “We thought of keeping our students occupied at home as it helps to overcome boredom. The students were regulars when the partial lockdown was not enforced by the state government. We would soon engage other students in activities while staying indoors,” said Avtar Singh, founder of Jeevika. According to him, they have started making Diwali diyas in advance since they did not want their students to sit idle at home. “Our students really love making diyas and paper bags. We thought of giving them work they love the most. diyas made by them witness bumper sales in the run-up to the festival of lights,” Singh, a former international cyclist, explained. Jeevika has procured around 2,500 diyas from a potter in Asanboni village in East Singhbhum. All the diyas are being painted by Ganga Bai, who claimed one gold and two silver medals at the Special Olympics International World Summer Games in Athens, Greece, in 2011. Three of  her paintings have featured in the 2016 annual calendar of Tata Steel. “We have taken delivery of most of the diyas painted by her. We pour wax in the diyas ourselves. More of them will be delivered by the potter in Asanboni. These diyas will be handed over to other special students for painting and varnishing,” informed Sukhdeep Kaur, secretary of Jeevika who has done a foundation course in mental retardation from Ranchi-based Deepshikha. Singh said Umesh has made a good number of paper bags. “The paper bags are small in size and are meant for customers carrying four or five diyas. Ganga and Umesh as well as other students, who will be also shortly engaged in varnishing and painting diyas, would be duly compensated by us in due course of time,” he promised. Jeevika has already taught its students the importance of maintaining social distancing, washing hands, using sanitisers and greeting guests with Namaste instead of shaking hands. “We need to be very cautious in dealing with the pandemic,” Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-64
04-05-2021||Jharkhand||New director takes charge at XLRI ||Leading B-school XLRI underwent a change of guard on Tuesday with Father P. Christie handing over charge to Father Paul Fernandes, who will be the new director. An alumnus of XLRI-Jamshedpur Fr. Paul. Fernandes (Business Management, 86 batch) had worked at XLRI for many years in various capacities. Besides being a faculty member, he was also a financial controller. He was also the founder chairperson of Father Arrupe Centre for Excellence (FACE). Fr. Paul earned his Ph.D. in Economics and Ethics from KU, WWF Ingolstadt, Germany. He completed his M.Sc. in Economics and M. A. Licentiate in Applied Ethics from the Catholic University of Leuven, Belgium. Fr. Paul was appointed as the director of Xavier Institute of Management, Bhubaneswar (XIMB) in December 2012. He is the first vice-chancellor of Xavier University, Bhubaneswar (XUB). Besides being an educationist and administrator, Fr. Paul is also an accomplished researcher and writer. Some of his books include Economic Ethics and the Moral Perspective of the Golden Rule; Business Ethics and Corporate Governance and  Corporate Governance. Speaking on his appointment as the new director, Fr. Paul said, "It is indeed a privilege to be a part of XLRI, and it is a huge responsibility to help shepherd XLRI in these challenging times. Four important hallmarks of Jesuit education have guided XLRI's mission-led growth over seven decades - Excellence, Integrity and Ethics, Holistic Growth of an Individual and Social Consciousness. Excellence and Ethics are important elements of XLRIs DNA and are passed on to every student. One of the goals of XLRI is to nurture global responsible leaders who are conscious and sensitive towards the needs of lesser privileged sections of society and inspire them to work for the greater common good. We will continue to place a strong emphasis on our ethos." On the leadership change, Fr. P. Christie, the outgoing director, said, "I congratulate Fr. Fernandes and wish him the very best in his new role. I am confident that he would successfully spearhead XLRI to be an institution of excellence and management-centric research while nurturing responsible global leaders for the greater common good and a sustainable future." Commenting on the leadership transition,  T. V. Narendran, Chairman, Board of Governors at XLRI and managing director of  Tata Steel said, “An eminent educationist, Fr. Christie effectively led the Institute during the time of the Covid crisis. The sound health and safety of every stakeholder were his priority. His calm and dedicated efforts to uphold XLRIs legacy amidst unavoidable challenges speak volumes about Fr. Christies leadership skills and commitment. As we bid farewell to Fr. Christie, we are equally proud to be associated with another stalwart, Fr. Paul. Fernandes, and welcome him to the XL family. I am confident that XLRI will achieve newer heights of success and reputation under his able leadership and guidance in the years ahead." Session with author Marc Cosentino on Thursday, May 6 XLRI, in association with Kautilya Consult Club, will organise an exclusive virtual interactive session with Marc Cosentino, global case-solving expert and best-selling author of Case in Point on May 6, Thursday. The Wall Street Journal had called Case in Point, which has been published in five languages,  the M.B.A Bible. This will be a must-attend session for students looking for careers in business strategy and consulting, an opportunity to learn as well as interact with the world's foremost authority on case interviewing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-64
04-05-2021||Jharkhand||BIT-Sindri alumni donates $1 million to PM-CARES, asks others to contribute||Krishna Pal alias KP Singh, a distinguished 1967 batch alumni of the BIT-Sindri, donated $1 million to the PM-CARES fund earlier this week and asked the global diaspora of the organisation to contribute to the fund to help India fight the Covid-19 pandemic. In an emotional message to fellow alumni, Singh, founder, president, and CEO of Holtec International, said, “A catastrophe of unspeakable proportions has befallen our motherland. The death toll is escalating every day with no end in sight. People are dying for lack of medical care, cemeteries are swamped, and crematoria are overflowing with the deceased. The sky over Delhi, ash-laden from the leaping flames of countless funeral pyres, speaks to the magnitude of the tragedy”.” “Experts are afraid the crisis may get even worse, so am I. It is a holocaust of merciless ferocity, which has jolted me out of my reclusive life of first-world comfort and medical care and tugged me to confront the mass deprivation that stalks our ancestral land,” Singh said while appealing to BIT-ians. “Millions recently pulled out of poverty, are slipping back in. My own manufacturing plant (in Dahej, Gujarat) is paralysed. This message is a follow-on missive to you all that was sent two days ago,” he said. “This crisis has stirred my soul like never before: I confess to you that I sometimes break out in tears as I read the print media or watch television carrying the news of the spreading calamity. “Fighting and defeating the virus and saving lives is the immediate challenge to which all of us must dedicate ourselves with every means at our disposal, Singh added. He appealed to the alumni to make a pledge of donation by writing an email to @ softrock1947@gmail.com with a copy to Dr. Anil Kumar Singh, President of BIT Sindri  Alumni Association of North America (BITSAANA) @ anilsinghbitsindri@gmail.com. A native resident of Barahiya in Bihar, Singh who graduated in Mechanical Engineering from BIT Sindri in 1967 later obtained a Master of Science degree in Engineering Mechanics from Penn (1969) and a PhD in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia (1972). During his visit to BIT Sindri in December 2018 as part of BIT-Sindri Alumni Associations annual Global alumni meet assured preference to BIT Sindri students in the employment in his Indian Ventures. BIT Sindri Alumni Association (BITSAA) has  24 national chapters and seven international chapters, spread across the globe and its members works continuously to reinstate the glory of its alma mater the helps the present student. BIT Sindri Alumni Association of North America on other hand has over 560 members spread over the US, Canada and other North American Countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-64
04-05-2021||Jharkhand||Several flights cancelled as passenger traffic drops amid Covid fears||Passenger footfall at the Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi has dropped drastically amid Covid fears leading to the cancellation of several flights, especially to Mumbai, Delhi and Bangalore in the past one week, airport officials said on Tuesday. While the number of passengers arriving in Ranchi has almost halved, those leaving town have dropped to one-third of the usual numbers. Airport Director Vinod Sharma said that on average only 700 passengers were boarding flights from Ranchi daily now against the usual 2,000 when the second wave of Covid-19 was yet to hit Jharkhand. The arrival of passengers has also been affected, causing a drop of 50 per cent in the number of passengers that landed at Birsa Munda Airport in the past one week, he added. “Around 1,400 passengers are arriving here every day on an average. Usually, more than 2,500 passengers arrived in Ranchi every day before the enforcement of partial lockdown in Jharkhand and other states,” Sharma said. At least seven of the 20 flights scheduled to take off from Ranchi on Monday were cancelled, said airport authorities. Most of the cancelled flights, officials said, were scheduled for New Delhi, Mumbai and Bangalore – three cities that have witnessed a significant spike in Covid cases lately. However, the airport director clarified that airline companies were changing the itinerary of passengers to ensure that passengers who need to travel to other cities do not face problems due to the cancellations. Most airlines, he said, were plying at least one flight to a particular destination on a day and requesting passengers to board that flight instead of the one they were supposed to board. “For instance, if Indigo has three flights to Delhi and has to cancel flights due to lack of passengers, it is requesting the passengers of all the three flights to board the same flight to the destination. This way, they were ensuring maximum possible occupancy of seats in a flight and also ferrying passengers to the city they need to reach,” Sharma said. Daytime flights to and from the Ranchi airport remained suspended from March 28 to April 27 due to carpeting work on the airstrip. Airport authorities were planning to start new flights to tier-two cities after the work was complete. But the sudden crisis due to the Covid-19 situation has forced the airlines to keep their plans on hold, for now, sources said. At present, at least 20 flights connect Ranchi to New Delhi, Bangalore, Chennai, Kolkata, Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Hyderabad. The Birsa Munda Airport, which bagged the top position in the Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) last year, has a 75-meter basic strip, which is the minimum length required for any airport.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-64
04-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Police face wrath of shopkeepers in Bokaro and Godda  districts||Frustration at losing the opportunity to earn because of the lockdown regulations in Jharkhand amid an unprecedented surge in Covid cases is allegedly forcing people to take the law into their own hands. In two separate incidents, police had to face the wrath of shopkeepers while trying to ensure implementation of Covid-19 guidelines in markets in Bokaro and Godda districts. On Monday morning, a police team had gone to the main market in Dundibagh area under Bokaro city police station after getting reports of several shops being open in violation of the lockdown provisions. While the police team were trying to close down the shops, a few shopkeepers indulged in a heated debate. One of the shopkeepers even started heckling the police personnel and soon several other shopkeepers joined in the protest and started pelting stones at the police team. Police managed to arrest one of the shopkeepers and took him to the police station. However, a few of the shopkeepers manhandled an assistant sub-inspector rank officer Pinku Singh. After getting information, senior police officials reached the spot and ensured that apart from shops dealing in essential items, others were closed down in view of the government guidelines for the lockdown to check the spread of Covid-19. “The police team had gone to ensure social distancing in the market area and also ensure compliance with lockdown provisions, especially closing down shops not permitted to open under the Covid guidelines. “However, one of the shopkeepers, who is mentally challenged, entered into a tussle with police personnel and was joined by several other shopkeepers. We have arrested the shopkeeper and are also trying to identify other shopkeepers involved in the attack on police,” said Bokaro superintendent of police Chandan Kumar Jha. According to the lockdown guidelines, all shops except pharmaceutical stores have to be closed at 2pm. In addition, only essential shops selling food grains, ration, edible products and agriculture equipment are allowed to open. The lockdown is in force till May 6. On Sunday, at Dumru village haat (market) under Sunderpahadi police station area in Godda district, a police team was also attacked by local shopkeepers while it was trying to ensure that social distancing is maintained by people at the shops. The shopkeepers and the buyers not only hurled stones at the police vehicle but also injured a few police personnel. A case has been registered against 200 unidentified persons by the police. On Monday morning (till 9am), the state registered 4,738 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of active cases to 58,519. The state also recorded 115 deaths due to the virus on Monday (total casualties touching 2,944). Jharkhand’s mortality rate stands at 1.20 per cent, higher than the national average of 1.10 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-65
04-05-2021||Jharkhand||MGNREGA jobs helped people sustain in Jharkhand during 2020-21 ||The jobs created under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) helped people sustain in Jharkhand during 2020-21 and also expected to do the same even this year. This was revealed in a report on the performances of the job scheme released by an independent organisation, Lib Tech India, late last week. “We have just complied the data as available in the public domain to arrive at the conclusion,” said Laavanya Tamang of the organisation, adding they considered several indicators such as work and employment and payment issues. This job scheme helped scores of migrant workers who returned to their homes in Jharkhand following lockdown last year sustain lives and livelihoods, the report said, adding “over 14 lakh new job cards were issued in the state during 2020-21 that recorded a 75 per cent increase over the number of the previous year (2019-20)”. Though almost all districts issued more than double number of job cards during the year, districts like Giridih, Palamau and Sahebganj were particularly noteworthy, the report said. Over 11 crore person days were created under the job scheme in Jharkhand that was more than 89 per cent of the previous year’s figures. Though almost all households got jobs for over 46 days that year, 3.56 per cent of the total households got full 100 days’ jobs, the report pointed out. The person-days for women workers were also increased by 89 per cent, it further said. The job scheme was, however, also not free from glitches. Over 11 lakh transactions related to wage payments were rejected because of factors like biometric mismatch such as unsuccessful seeding of Aadhaar and bank accounts of the beneficiaries, the report pointed out, adding that wages related to 2020-21 for over Rs 14 crore were still pending. Reduction in payment delays and elimination of rejection in transactions would go a long way to help improve the scheme, the report expected. With the second wave of Covid-19 infection again prompting return of the migrant workers this year, the job scheme is expected to continue to play an important role in sustaining lives and livelihoods of the people of the state, the report said. “There is, however, no prominent indication for increased demand for job under NREGA so far," said James Herenj, convener of NREGA Watch that monitors the job scheme in the state. “May be the demand will pick up soon as the people are still very scared of the Covid-19 infection during the second wave and its fatality,” he said, adding the picture would be clear after some time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-65
