05-05-2021||Jharkhand||BCCL addresses Covid mismanagement at its hospital||After two days of continuous prodding by the district administration, the officials of Bharat Coking Company Limited have swung into action to improve the Covid Treatment Centre at its Central Hospital. The BCCL administration has made arrangements for 25 flow meters to be installed with the oxygen cylinders at the 30 bed Covid ICU hospital. The flow meters have been procured from Calcutta due to scarcity in the local market. They will be installed by Wednesday evening or Thursday. The hospital has 40 oxygen supported general beds for Covid patients. On Tuesday, Uma Shankar Singh, Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner and chairman of District Disaster Management Authority, wrote to the chairman cum Managing Director of BCCL, PM Prasad, to clarify the status regarding the availability of oxygen cylinders in Central Hospital within 24 hours. Singh in his letter to the CMD pointed out that as per complaints received at district Covid control room, it has been observed that despite the  presence of 268 jumbo size D type oxygen cylinders and 49 B type oxygen cylinders the patients undergoing treatment are facing difficulties in uninterrupted oxygen supply. He also said that as per the complaints, the oxygen cylinders meant for the oxygen supported non ICU Covid beds are being used elsewhere. BCCL CMD, PM Prasad, said, “I had a talk with the Deputy Commissioner this morning during which all concerns including that of oxygen cylinders were addressed.” “The usage of oxygen cylinders were getting affected due to lack of flow meter in the local market but considering the gravity of the situation we have procured the same from Calcutta and consignment would be reaching very soon to be installed in oxygen cylinders,” he said. “We are extending all cooperation to the administration to jointly fight the pandemic,” said the BCCL CMD. On May 2, the DC wrote to the BCCL CMD to make deputation of sufficient number of qualified doctors, medical staff in Central Hospital and all other regional hospitals of BCCL and its other medical facilities within 24 hours by making rosters to address the swelling number of Covid patients. Singh in his May 2 letter asked for improvement in the work pattern of doctors and medical staff of Central Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-63
05-05-2021||Jharkhand||State government extends lockdown for another week till May 13||The Jharkhand government has extended the ongoing lockdown, christened as ‘health safety week’ by another week till 6 am on May 13. State disaster management department on Wednesday night notified the fresh extension of the lockdown undersigned by chief secretary Sukhdev Singh. All the earlier curbs including shops and other commercial establishments functioning till 2pm will continue to be in place. However, select offices of the state government which were earlier permitted to function till 2pm are now allowed to function for a full working day. Movement of people for essential works—mainly medical emergencies—will remain unhindered provided people carry legitimate prescription or other valid document. All kinds of shops including grocery, vegetables and liquor shops will also be closed after 2pm. On Wednesday afternoon, the state government also announced mandatory seven day quarantine for all incoming migrant workers irrespective of a Covid-19 test as a precautionary measure to curb the spread of the virus, which in its second phase is now impacting rural areas in the state. WHAT’S ON WHAT’S OFF||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-63
05-05-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city Covid deaths trip crematorium furnace ||Three electric furnaces at Subarnarekha burning ghat in Bhuinyandih have been rendered non-operational owing to the load of cremating Covid bodies. The district administration has earmarked the ghat for the cremation of Covid bodies after 1 pm. Joint secretary of Subarnarekha Ghat managing committee, Ganesh Rao said cremating Covid bodies was proving to be a Herculean task in such a situation. “Three out of four furnaces are not functional due to the extra load. The furnaces are being repaired by a Calcutta-based agency. It will take two-three days for the furnaces to get functional,” he added. According to Rao, the furnaces need rest because they have been functional non-stop. “Over 40 Covid bodies are coming for cremation daily. It was 46 on Tuesday while 53 bodies were cremated a day before (Monday). It is obvious for the furnaces to stop functioning,” he said. The ghat management committee is spending sleepless nights as Covid bodies are coming one after another. “We spend day and night at the crematorium to complete the formalities. The situation was not like this last year in Covid times,” Rao said. He pointed out that the furnaces would again stop functioning after necessary repairs. “We are finding ourselves at wits end in finding a solution since the volume of Covid bodies is increasing almost every day,” the ghat joint secretary added. Though the rate of cremating Covid bodies is Rs 1,500 but the ghat management panel is charging Rs 2,000. “We take extra money to pay people who complete the last rites of Covid bodies since families and relatives are not allowed to do the same,” Rao stated. He added they are procuring wood on a daily basis while the district administration is also helping them out. Wood is used for cremating non- Covid bodies which are also cremated in good numbers. Both the Subarnarekha ghat and Parvati ghat in Jugsalai are showing philanthropic gesture. The latter is offering a discount for cremating bodies. Non-Covid bodies are cremated at the Parvati ghat. With the number of bodies coming for cremation at Parvati ghat increasing, the ghat management has started preparing cremation beds in advance. “We don’t want wait-listing of bodies and hence keep the cremation beds ready for the last rites. The charge for cremating bodies on wood is Rs 3,500 but we are charging Rs 3,000. We also ask families to pay money as per their capacity. Sometimes we don’t even charge money from people who cannot afford it,” said ghat management committee secretary Dipendra Bhatt. According to him, they have also started a fundraising campaign to meet the daily expenses in running the facility. The ghat also has two electric furnaces. Over 40 bodies are coming for cremation at this ghat daily. The Subarnarekha ghat management committee is also showing the same gesture. “We don’t ask for money from people who cannot afford it. We are doing this on humanitarian grounds. We need to support each other in this difficult time,” said Rao.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-63
05-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jan Shatabdi, Steel Express among 4 more trains cancelled ||South Eastern Railway (SER) on Wednesday evening decided to cancel four more special trains on account of low occupancy and operational constraints. As per a notification, the 02021/02022 Howrah-Barbil- Jan Shatabdi Special which goes via Tatanagar will remain cancelled from Thursday, May 6. Another popular train between Jamshedpur and Calcutta, the 02829/02830 Howrah-Tata Steel Express, which is being run as a Covid-19 special train, will also remain cancelled from Thursday, May 6. The 02849/02850 Hatia-Pune-Special will also remain cancelled from Hatia from  May 7 and from Pune with effect from  May 9. According to the notification, the 02257/02258 Howrah-Digha Special will also  remain cancelled from Thursday, May 6. "These trains were cancelled due to a drastic fall in seat occupancy. Covid cases are on the rise and, therefore, people have restricted their travel plans," said Sanjay Ghosh, chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway. He said Eastern Railway and other railway zones have also started cancelling special trains owing to poor occupancy and operational issues. Sources said that footfall of passengers at various railway stations under South Eastern Railway, including Tatanagar, Ranchi, Hatia, CChakradharpur and Rourkela, have witnessed a considerable fall during the past one week following a spurt in Covid-19 cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-63
05-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid test lab employees fleecing Ranchi residents  ||Employees of private and government labs in Ranchi are charging exorbitant rates for Covid tests amid an unprecedented spike in cases and long queues at government-run swab collection centres. As more residents are opting for home collection of swab samples, labs are charging as much as Rs1,000 for rapid tests and up to Rs1500 for RT PCR, some city residents have alleged while sharing their experience with The Telegraph Online. A few local residents, who underwent Covid tests recently, also alleged that some staff members working with Covid testing labs asked for extra money in exchange for reports before the waiting period, which is usually five to six days. “Last week, I paid Rs 3,000 to a person who works with RIMS for rapid antigen tests of me, my wife and our domestic help. The government’s cap on the price of Covid tests is only in pen and paper as cases are soaring and people fear moving out of their home even for Covid tests,” said Pradeep Kumar, a resident of Morhabadi, who recently recovered from Covid. “People don't mind paying extra if that spares them the hassle of lining up outside a testing centre and waiting for days to get the report,” he added. In December last year, the Jharkhand government capped rapid tests at Rs 150 and RT PCR tests at Rs 800 only. The higher rates charged by some sample collection staff was a violation of the government's guidelines. “If someone takes the pain of going to your house and collecting swab samples, then he deserves some extra payment especially during such testing times,” said a collection staffer working with a private lab in Ranchi. “The test reports will come in the next five to six days, but we can manage something if you need the reports sooner,” he added. The collection staffer, who also collects swab samples for government facilities, said the additional charge for the test was justified as some government-run swab collection centres were unable to provide test results even after weeks. “There is no fixed rate. It depends on the situation and the demand on a given day. The price can be anywhere between Rs 1,000 to Rs 1,500. But I can say for sure that no lab will collect swab samples from your home the day you request a test. It usually takes more than 24 hours,” the collection staffer said. Ranchi is faced with the worst ever wave of Covid-19. The death toll in the city breached the 1000-mark on Tuesday, while the active caseload hovers around 20,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-63
05-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Non-vegatarian items witness sharp decline in sales in Dhanbad||The sale of items like chicken, mutton and eggs has registered a sharp decline in Dhanbad during the second phase of the state-wide lockdown. An overall market survey indicates that chicken and egg sales are down by 80% while mutton sales is also down by more than 60% of pre lock down period figures. A host of factors including the opening of shops for limited hours from 7 am to 2 pm, lesser arrival of stock due to lockdown in different parts of the country including Uttar Pradesh and low demand from restaurants which are themselves receiving less than 10% of home delivery orders have attributed to the sales going down. The closure of all road side fast food stalls and some apprehensions regarding consumption of non vegetarian food during the pandemic are also some of the reasons for the decline in sale. Due to a decrease in income, the shop owners have reduced their staff strength and made pay cuts of the existing staff. Md Aftab, a chicken seller of Hirapur Hatia in Dhanbad said, “Our sales are down by more than 90% as against the daily sell of around Rs 50 thousand per day of pre lockdown period. We are registering sales of just around Rs 5 thousand per day now.” “The road side fast food sellers are our main customers and since around 1000 of them are lying closed in nearby areas, we are facing sharp decline in sale,” said Aftab. “Still very few people are accustomed to online food orders in small towns like Dhanbad and thus the restaurant sales have decreased affecting our income in turn,” said Aftab. The price of chicken has reduced to Rs 140 per kg from Rs 200 per kg recently. Firoz Quraishi, a mutton seller of DS Colony Mor in Dhanbad, said, “The mutton sales have also decreased by 60% with sales of around Rs 10,000 to Rs 12,000 per day compared with Rs 25,000 pre-lockdown.” “We are also witnessing shortage of stock due to lockdown in various parts of UP as our main consignment used to come from Fathepur and Kanpur mandi and due to lockdown there, we are facing reduced supply of stock” said Quaraishi. The lack of supply has shot up mutton prices from Rs 640 per kg to Rs 660 per kg||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-63
05-05-2021||Jharkhand||Compulsory week-long quarantine for migrants returning to Jharkhand||Concerned over the rapid spread of Covid-19 in rural areas, the Jharkhand government has announced compulsory institutional quarantine of seven days for all migrants returning to the state. Chief secretary Sukhdev Singh, in his order to all districts on Wednesday, stated that the quarantine rule would apply even if anyone tests negative through rapid antigen test (RAT) on arrival. “All migrant workers returning to Jharkhand will be tested (RAT) on arrival. Those who test negative shall spend 7 days in institutional quarantine facilities to be set up at appropriate level by the respective district administration. They shall be tested again (RAT) before leaving for home. In the event of anyone testing positive, they will be handled as per the Covid-19 treatment protocol,” read the notification. Officials said the compulsory quarantine will be in force till May 31 as the state government anticipates that more migrants would return in the next few weeks. In the last few weeks, several migrant workers have come back to Jharkhand from Delhi, Kerala, Maharashtra and other Covid surge states. However, state government is still to release consolidated figures of migrants who have came so far. Sources said that there has been no tracking of such returnees this time. Ironically, several reports also suggested laxity in testing at key transit points, like railway stations, airport, bus stands and check points, which is now leading to a surge in cases in several remote districts. Chief minister Hemant Soren, during a meeting with all departments, on Tuesday conceded that the government was facing difficulty in ascertaining a clear cut trend of the virus spread in rural areaseven as he directed the authorities to step up vigil. “Every person dying in rural areas must be profiled properly and their family members must undergo Covid tests so that we can get actual figures. Unlike cities, we aren’t getting the actual impact of the virus in villages while many are reportedly dying or suffering with ailments,” he noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-63
05-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Two held in Ranchi for selling Remdesivir for Rs 72,000||Ranchi police arrested two persons from a city-based hotel on Tuesday evening when they were fixing a deal of selling six Remdesivir injections at Rs.72,000 each. The police acted on a tip off and conducted a raid at Raso Inn under the limits of Jagganathpur Police Station and nabbed the duo. Senior Superintendent of Police S.K. Jha said that the duo pleaded innocence claiming that they were reselling the injection, which they bought in the black market, after a needy patient they knew of was provided the injection from a government hospital. “The matter is under investigation. An FIR has been lodged under the provisions of Drug Control Act,” said Jha. There is an acute crisis of Remdesivir injections in the state. Health Minister Banna Gupta claimed last week that the state was in need of at least 4000 Remdesivir injections daily, but received only 20,000 in the past 10 days, thereby being able to meet only 50 per cent of the demand. Several rumours regarding black marketing of Remdesivir injections across the cities in India have been doing the rounds since the spike in Covid cases. The anti-viral injection, doctors say, is crucial in treatment of asymptomatic Covid patients. The police, however, did not disclose the identity of the two men held on Tuesday. Sources said that one of them is a resident of Over Bridge locality on MG Road in Ranchi. The cops also recovered a car, a bike, six Remdesivir injections from the duo and said that the deal for the six injections was fixed at Rs.4.32 lakh. While there were rumours that the injections were originally from Bangladesh, Jha said that the police were yet to ascertain from where the injections were procured. The Hemant Soren-led Jharkhand government had earlier sought the Centre’s nod in procuring 50,000 vials of Remdesivir from Bangladesh for 1 million dollars. The CM, in a letter to the Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilizers DV Sadananda Gowda, stated that Jharkhand received only 8038 vials of Remdesivir from the Centre against its demand of 76,640 vials. Health Minister Banna Gupta said last week that the state had to procure additional 2000 Remdesivir injections from Assam as the Centre failed to meet the requirements of the drug in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-64
05-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid toll breaches 1,000-mark in Ranchi||The Covid toll in Ranchi breached the 1,000-mark on Tuesday as the district reported 33 of the 132 Covid fatalities that occurred in the state during the past 24 hours, figures compiled by the health department revealed. Ranchi is the only Jharkhand district to have reported more than 1,000 deaths since the entry of the virus in the state back in March 2020. Even though the margin between fresh cases and Covid recoveries narrowed, which led to the addition of fewer patients to the active caseload in the state, Covid casualties continued to haunt the residents of Jharkhand. As per government data, the state has been reporting more than 100 Covid fatalities daily for more than a week now. A bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated that as many as 5,974 Jharkhand residents tested positive on Tuesday while 5,810 Covid patients recovered. The active caseload reached 59,707 after the day’s findings. The 132 deaths on the day took the toll up to 3,205 in Jharkhand and 1,010 in Ranchi alone, the NHM stated in its bulletin. At least 32 died in East Singhbhum as well, taking the toll there to 699, the second-highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. As many as 10 Covid patients passed away in Bokaro during treatment on the day, while eight patients died in Ramgarh. While casualties continued to rise in Ranchi, the district reported a drop in the active caseload after the trajectory of Covid patients seeing an upward trend here every day since April. The district reported 1,165 cases against 1,300 recoveries, bringing the active caseload here down to 19,898, government data highlighted. East Singhbhum also reported a spike of over 1,000 cases on the day. As many as 1,070 patients were found infected in the district, taking the active caseload to 5,765. The district reported 996 Covid recoveries on the day. Among other districts, Bokaro reported a spike of 405 cases, while at least 535 people were found infected in Hazaribag. At least 316 Ramgarh residents also tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, while Koderma reported a spike of 267 in the Covid tally. As per government data, the growth rate of cases dropped to 2.17 per cent on the day but remained higher than the national average of 1.45 per cent. Jharkhand on Tuesday tested swab samples of 36,209 residents and more than 13 per cent of them were found infected. The doubling rate, however, improved and reached 32.33 days against the national average of 48.03 days on Tuesday. Meanwhile, the state administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 6583 beneficiaries, while the second jab was administered to 10,229 residents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-64
05-05-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Main Hospital procures advanced machines to conduct faster Covid tests||Tata Main Hospital (TMH) has decided to ramp up Covid testing facilities and already procured advanced machines to conduct faster RT-PCR tests. The machines are on a trial run and soon it will start conducting tests for patients. Addressing a teleconference here on Tuesday, Dr Rajan Choudhry, advisor, Medical Services, Tata Steel said that the hospital is adding to its facilities to cater to the growing needs of Covid patients. “We have procured new machines to conduct faster RT-PCR tests. With these machines, the hospital can conduct 1,200 RT-PCR tests daily. Trial tests are underway,” he said. He also informed that the hospital is also setting up a new liquid oxygen plant in association with Linde India. The move is aimed at enhancing smooth oxygen supply at the hospital. Meanwhile, Covid-19 is continuing to take its toll. As many as 74 deaths were reported at the Tata Steel-owned hospital in the last four days. Of the casualties, 46 were above the age of  60.  Sixty-three victims were from East Singhbhum district, eight from the tadjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district, two from West Singhbhum, and one from Ramgarh. Hospital records suggested that the rate of admission of Covid patients was very high. In the last four days. As many as 204 patients were admitted. The hospital is conducting more than 1,500 Covid tests daily and the average positivity rate is 48.93 per cent, which is very high in terms of spread of the virus. Last week it was 39.64 per cent. The hospital is also focussing on vaccination. So far it has administered 40,385 vaccines. Covid facility at school Tata Main Hospital has also decided to set up a 300-bed Covid care centre at the old campus of Kerala Samajam Model School at Sakchi. A team from the hospital inspected the school campus and has started taking steps to set up a  Covid care centre at the earliest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-64
05-05-2021||Jharkhand||Woman police officer kills self in Jharkhand||An officer-in-charge of a women’s police station in Jharkhand allegedly died by suicide at her quarter on Monday night. Rupa Tirkey, 26, the officer-in-charge of Sahebganj women’s police station, allegedly hanged herself from the ceiling around 10pm. Though no suicide note has been found but the mother of the deceased, who had arrived from Ranchi, has alleged that harassment from two women colleagues led her daughter to take the extreme step. In a letter addressed to Sahebganj superintendent of police Anuranjan Kispotta, Rupa’s mother Damyanti Oraon has named two women sub-inspectors for harassing her daughter which forced her to commit suicide. However, police officials have ruled out harassment as the reason for her suicide. “She was a bright police officer of the 2018 batch of Jharkhand Police Service and was known for her hard work and efficiency. She was promoted as Sahebganj women’s police station OC earlier this year. She had good academic record at St Xavier’s College in Ranchi. “It would be very childish for her to have succumbed to pressure from her colleagues and not brought the matter before other officials, especially the SP. We are scanning her mobile call records and will get some leads soon in the case. The body has been sent for post-mortem,” said a deputy superintendent of police in Sahebganj. Kispotta expressed shock at the incident. “She was a bright officer and we are shocked at the turn of events. At the moment it is very difficult to attribute any reason for the suicide. We are looking at several angles and will be coming to a conclusion soon,” the SP said. According to reports, Jira Badi police got information late on Monday night about Rupa’s death in her room in the police quarters. Thereafter, Kispotta, sub-divisional police officer Rajendra Dubey, police inspector Shashi Bhusan Choudhary, Town police station officer-in-charge Anant Kumar Arya and Jira Badi police station OC Sunil Kumar reached the spot. According to police sources, Rupa’s mobile phone was found engaged since Monday evening as she was talking to someone for a long time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-64
05-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Hemant flags off fleet of Sanjeevani vehicles in Ranchi||GPS enabled Sanjeevani vehicles loaded with oxygen cylinders will ensure availability of oxygen to heal hubs in Ranchi round the clock. Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Tuesday flagged off the first fleet of such Sanjeevani vehicles at Ranchi. “The government has introduced Sanjeevani vehicles to ensure availability of oxygen at hospitals in Ranchi in the first phase. Soon it will be started in Dhanbad and Jamshedpur too (two other hotspots of Covid second wave in Jharkhand),” said Soren. The chief minister announced that oxygen cylinders will always be available in these vehicles and will remain in 24x7 operation mode. “Oxygen cylinders will always be available in these vehicles. Under Ranchi district, the hospital where oxygen will be needed, immediate oxygen availability will be ensured at the earliest. “Sanjeevani vehicles will also have GPS tracking systems, so that it can be monitored properly by the district administration. Now patients will not have to worry about availability of oxygen in the hospitals. We are also trying to increase the number of oxygen supported beds and ventilator facility in the hospitals of Ranchi and other major cities,” said Soren. Sanjeevani vehicle will be used by Ranchi district administration for uninterrupted supply of oxygen in the hospitals within the district. Through this vehicle, immediate oxygen supply will be ensured in a timely manner to the hospitals as per the requirements. Also, an oxygen refilling cell has been activated in the district. The cell would monitor the supply of oxygen as per the demand. The Ranchi Catholic Church on Tuesday launched a free lunch service for the relatives of patients hospitalised in Ranchi’s biggest hospital RIMS. The service is conducted by the Ranchi Catholic Church under the leadership of archbishop Felix Toppo and Ranchi auxiliary Bishop Theodore Mascarenhas and organised on the ground by the Ranchi Catholic Youth unit led by its president Kuldip Tirkey. Free packed hot lunch consisting of rice, lentils (dal), chicken and vegetables along with bottles of mineral water were served to the needy people. “The church will continue to work for the poor as RIMS is frequently by the poor and needy who do not have time nor resources to prepare meal for themselves. We are conducting these program with all safety precautions and Covid guidelines,” said Bishop Mascarenhas. Till Tuesday morning, the state had added 6,899 positive cases taking the total number of active cases to 59,675. The total deaths due to Covid as on Tuesday morning was 3,073.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-64
