06-05-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town localities demand regular sanitisation||The residents of Sindri and Jharia localities of Dhanbad have demanded an intensification of sanitisation drive in the market places and residential colonies due to the rise in Covid-19 cases in these areas. Dipak Kumar  Dipu, president of Sindri Chamber of Commerce, has written to Dhanabad Municipal Commissioner, Satyendra Kumar on Thursday demanding sanitisation of Saharpura market which houses around 1000 small and large shops. "As Sindri is witnessing a large number of new Covid cases on a daily basis, we have demanded proper sanitisation of market as market places are the main source of the virus spread," said Dipu to The Telegraph Online. Residents of adjoining places like Domgarh, Patherdih, Baliapur also visit  Sindri’s Saharpura market. Dipu has demanded the santitisation of all the residential colonies on a daily basis. Amit Sahu, president of Jharia Chamber of Commerce has also demanded an intensive sanitisation of the market place of Jharia town. "The irregular sanitisation being carried out by the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation through large tankers at present are largely concentrated to main road and therefore is of no use as the main market where people visit in large numbers lies in the narrow streets like Gandhi Road, Sinduria Patti, Kapra Patti which have not yet been sanitised,” said Sahu. "We have come to know that that portable sanitisation machines purchased by DMC for sanitising the narrow streets and residential areas have not been used in Jharia yet," said Sahu. "The sanitisation work during the first wave of Covid last year was quite better as limited number of portable machines were used quite frequently," he added. Echoing Sahu’s sentiments, Jay Kumar, former council of ward 38 of Jharia said, "The sanitisation drive in our locality at Jamadoba is also confined to the main roads and containment zones while the residential colonies and streets are suffering and even garbage is not getting picked up by DMC, leave alone the sanitisation work.” Repeated efforts to contact Dhanbad Municipal Commissioner city manager Anand Raj failed as his number was found out of range while he didn't pick up the WhatsApp call.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-62
06-05-2021||Jharkhand||National chess federation comes up with initiative to help players during pandemic||Jharkhand’s chess community can look forward to getting a much-needed financial aid during the Covid-19 pandemic. The All India Chess Federation has come up with an initiative called `Checkmate Covid', aimed at providing financial, medical, vaccination and emotional support to needy people of the chess community across the country. Eligible persons of all age groups in the chess community will benefit under the project. The project was inaugurated virtually on May 4. It was followed by a meeting in which AICF president Sanjay Kapoor, secretary Bharat Singh Chauhan, FIDE president Arkady Dvorkovich, Grandmaster Viswanathan Anand, five-time world champion GM Koneru Humpy, world rapid chess champion 2019 GM Vidit Gujarati, Indian captain of gold winning team at Chess Olympiad GM D Hanka and other eminent personalities were present. All Jharkhand Chess Association secretary International Master Neeraj Kumar Mishra, international arbiter Jayant Kumar Bhuyan, FIDE arbiter Chandan Kumar Prasad and national arbiter Soukhin Kundu represented Jharkhand at the meeting. According to Basant Khandelwal, the nodal officer of the project in Jharkhand, there will be a panel of doctors who will be available for online consultation if the chess community is in home quarantine. “Over 500 AICF-registered chess players from Jharkhand will benefit under the project,” Khandelwal said from Chaibasa to The Telegraph Online. Shedding light on the eligibility criteria, Khandelwal, secretary of West Singhbhum District Chess Association, said, any person in the chess community with a FIDE ID number and registered with AICF for any of these three years (2018-19, 2019-20, 2020-21) are eligible to get financial aid. Necessary application for financial aid can be routed through the nodal officer of the state with following details and supporting medical documents/bills. Ïn case of emergency, the same can be forwarded to AICF’s dedicated email (checkmatecovid@aicf.in) with a copy to the nodal officer. Khandelwal said financial status will be considered when it comes to receiving aid. “Besides name, FIDE ID number, AICF ID number, applicants will also have to provide details of his/her profession (government or private employee or having a business). The AICF will evaluate the financial status before releasing part or full aid,” he informed. However, the AICF will reimburse Rs 500 to those who get vaccinations at private centres. According to him, the AICF is raising funds for the project. "A sum of around Rs 60 lakh has already been generated for the project. Those who want to contribute can donate online on https://prs.aicf.in/pay." Jamshedpur-based international arbiter and coach at Tata Chess Centre Jayant Kumar Bhuyan appreciated AICF for coming up with the initiative. “The initiative has come at a difficult time which would go a long way in helping the chess community,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-62
06-05-2021||Jharkhand||State hit by eighth Nor'wester bringing temperature below normal||The season’s eighth Nor'wester hit Jamshedpur, Ranchi and several other parts of the state on Thursday afternoon resulting in widespread lightning and thunderstorms. The summer saviour storm accompanied by lightning, thunder and rain covered several districts including Chhatra,  Gumla Hazaribagh,  Latehar , Lohardaga, Ramgarh,  Ranchi, Garhwa , Palamu,  Bokaro,  Giridih,  Khunti Koderma, West Singhbhum, Simdega and East Singhbhum. Jamshedpur and its adjoining areas encountered the Nor'wester around 3.30pm. The wind speed was around 40 kmph. Thunderstorms and rain lasted for about an hour resulting in an abrupt fall in day's reading. Several places in Ranchi district, Khunti, Ramgarh and Chaibasa in West Singhbhum also experienced the summer saviour storm at around 3 pm followed by light showers. Jamshedpur recorded around 15 mm of rain. Several other places including Gumla, Hazaribagh and Koderma witnessed over 5 mm of rain. IMD's Ranchi Met Centre confirmed the  Nor'wester. "An east -west trough was running from the cyclonic circulation over northern parts of Central Madhya Pradesh to Tripura across Jharkhand and Gangetic Bengal at 0.9 Km above mean sea level. The trough helped the weather system in triggering the Nor'wester activity,” said a duty officer at the Ranchi Met Centre. A weather analyst at the Patna Meteorological Centre said, "Satellite pictures suggested the storm has hit different places across Jharkhand with gusty winds resulting in light to moderate rain." In its afternoon bulletin, IMD's Ranchi Met Centre said thunderstorms and rain would continue to take place in Jharkhand till May 10. "Partly cloudy sky with possibility of light to moderate rain and thunderstorm activity is expected for the next four days," said the bulletin. Met statistics revealed that due to frequent Nor'wester activity the maximum reading has come down considerably in most parts of Jharkhand. The day's reading was four to five notches below normal in most of the districts due to frequent thunderstorms and rain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-62
06-05-2021||Jharkhand||RIMS adds 528 beds to double capacity in face of harsh pandemic||Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), the largest state hospital, added 528 beds on Thursday to double its capacity, something chief minister said was a result of the state governmen's efforts to ramp up the health infrastructure in the face of a deadly pandemic. Of the 528 new beds, 327 are oxygen supported that have been set up at the multi-level parking on RIMS campus. This apart, another 128 oxygen supported beds have been set up at the old building while 73 ICU beds have been put up at the oncology department. The new facilities were set up with the support of National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC), said officials. “With the new additions, we will now have 850 oxygen beds, more than double the 402 beds which we had till now. As far as ventilators are concerned, these will now get increased to 250 from 160. We are also working on plans to add another 108 oxygen beds,” said Rims director Kameshwar Prasad. During the first wave of the pandemic last year, RIMS had, on an average, 250 beds exclusively for Covid-19 patients. However, since the outbreak of the brutal second wave during the end of March this year, RIMS officials worked on a war footing to augment facilities to accommodate more patients, Prasad said during Thursday's online inauguration. “When the second wave hit, we had about 260 covid beds in March, which we increased to 650 during April. Now, we are adding 528 more beds.  Unlike last year, the second wave is more lethal. It is not just infecting people at a greater speed but also complicating the health condition at a faster pace, which is a cause of stress for all. All those who are admitted need proper care and observation. But with growing cases, paucity of beds is only natural. However, with support of the government, RIMS is trying its best to increase capacity," said the director. While chief minister Hemant Soren viewed the proceedings online from his home, health minister Banna Gupta, accompanied by officials, were present at RIMS. Hemant said that the state health machinery was working round-the-clock. “It’s a war against time and I am happy that RIMS and all government officials are working hard to address the challenges. It’s commendable the way everyone got together to set up the new facilities in just a fortnight," he said. “On Wednesday,  we launched a 250-bed hospital in Koderma district. A few days back, we added another 140 beds in Ranchi. Similar efforts are on in other districts too. Other medical facilities are also being enhanced despite resource crunch,” he said. Preparations have started for the Birsa Munda Covid Care Multifacility Hospital in the Ranchi Press Club. The Ranchi Press Club of Jharkhand will be the first such institute where a Covid Hospital is being set up for individuals working for the media. Beds and medical equipment have already been installed on the ground floor of the club. The hospital will be ready in the next four days. The 40-bed hospital, in collaboration with Ranchi Press Club and Mission Blue Foundation, will have all modern medical equipment including beds with oxygen support, ventilators, ICUs and ambulances. Specialist doctors and a team of around 50 para medical staff will be present round the clock at the hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-62
06-05-2021||Jharkhand||Crackdown on shopkeepers at Dhanbad Covid hotspot||A joint team of administrative and police officers launched a mass crackdown on Hirapur shopkeepers violating lockdown norms on Thursday afternoon. Hirapur is one of the Covid hotspots of Dhanbad. The locality has recorded the highest number of the total cases in the district in the last week. On May 5,  11 of 157 cases; 13 out of 128 on May 4, 9 out of 130 on May 3, six out of 136 of May 2, 10 out of 232 on May 1 and 4 out of 129 of May 30. The team led by sub divisional officer Surendra Prasad and DSP (Law and Order), Manoj Swargiyar (IPS officer) called on Srikant Saundik, secretary of Hirapur Chamber of Commerce, one of the 49 units of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and instructed him to ensure the strict abidance of Covid guidelines by the shop keepers. SDO Surendra Prasad warned of lodging FIRs against lockdown violators from Friday and sealing their shops. The representatives of Hirapur Chamber of Commerce while assuring all support to the administration welcomed the administrative drive and advocated regular raids in support of it. “Though majority of shops were closed but around two dozen shopkeepers were found operating in a clandestine manner and thus we have given strict warning to the office bearers of chamber of commerce of a crackdown from tomorrow involving lodging FIR against violators and sealing of their shops,” said Prasad. “We have also warned the pavement vegetable sellers and instructed them to immediately shift to Zila Parishad ground where majority of vegetable sellers have already shifted, some were found still operating from Hirapur” added Prasad. DSP, Manoj Swargiyar, told The Telegraph Online: “As hospitals are swelling with the patients it is high time for the traders to take lessons and not put their lives and others at risk, otherwise we will initiate strict action from tomorrow.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-62
06-05-2021||Jharkhand||IPL 2021: Dhoni delays return to Ranchi, makes way for teammates first||Chennai Super Kings captain MS Dhoni has always put his team first. In the Indian Premier League 2021, he dropped down the order and let the bats of Ravindra Jadeja, Ambati Rayudu and Moeen Ali do the talking. And now, as India’s COVID-19 crisis takes top gear with the second wave, Dhoni has made way for the rest of his team members to get back home first. The former Team India captain had informed the CSK management that he will be the last person to take the flight back to his hometown Ranchi. “MS Dhoni was the last player to board the flight today. He landed in Ranchi today at 3 pm,” a CSK official told The Telegraph. Earlier in the day, a morning charter flight from Delhi dropped some players to Rajkot and Mumbai, while the evening flight dropped players from Chennai and Bangalore. However, not all players have left for their hometowns, according to the official. “West Indies all-rounder Dwayne Bravo and CSK coach Stephen Fleming are the only two players who will leave on a charter flight tomorrow,” the official added. CSK’s upcoming clash with the Rajasthan Royals hit a roadblock as COVID-19 broke through the otherwise secure IPL bio-bubble, infecting the Chennai outfit’s batting coach Mike Hussey, bowling coach Laxmipathy Balaji and a support staff member. CSK last took the field at Delhi’s Arun Jaitley Stadium against Mumbai Indians in a match that went down to the wire.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-62
06-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to set up rapid test centres in villages for migrants ||The Jharkhand government has decided to set up dedicated Rapid Antigen Test booths in villages for mass testing of Covid-19 following an ICMR directive of prioritising rapid tests over RT PCR in the current scenario, officials from the health department said on Thursday. The dedicated rapid Covid testing centres will also help in identifying positive cases among the several thousand migrant labourers who have started returning to Jharkhand after many states enforced lockdowns in the wake of the surge in Covid cases, health officials said. Many migrant workers had reportedly dodged mandatory Covid testing at railway stations in the state recently. Such people could be tested in the villages itself once the dedicated RAT centres are set up, officials said. In the letter addressed to the deputy commissioners of all the 24 districts in Jharkhand on Wednesday, National Health Mission (NHM) Director Ravi Shankar Shukla asked the district administrations to set up dedicated RAT centres for Covid testing in villages as well as cities for random testing of masses. “ICMR has allowed Rapid Antigen Test at all private and government hospitals. Besides ensuring rapid tests at the healthcare facilities in your districts, it will be imperative to set up dedicated RAT centres in the cities and villages,” the letter stated. The state also launched a special rapid Covid testing campaign on Thursday under which it aims to test at least 1.6 lakh residents, another letter from the NHM stated. The Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) issued revised Covid testing guidelines on Wednesday, allowing all the state governments to rely on rapid tests for testing the masses. The ICMR stated in its latest guideline that RT PCR tests were not mandatory if a person tests positive for Covid-19 in Rapid Antigen Test. An official from NHM said that conducting large scale rapid tests will help the government identify cases of Covid-19 faster as test reports usually come faster in RAT than in RT PCR. The state, he said, can conduct Covid tests on the go at various public places also. Rapid Antigen Tests are also conducted through nasal and throat swabs like RT PCR tests. However, the result of the test is out within an hour. Doctors say that RAT is a low sensitivity test when compared to RT PCR, and may not be as accurate as the latter. The RT PCR test, on the other hand, takes around 48 hours, but the results are more accurate, doctors from the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) said. The Jharkhand government had last year made RT PCR tests mandatory for all symptomatic residents who test negative in rapid test.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-63
06-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid recoveries outnumber fresh cases after a month in Jharkhand||Covid recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of infection after almost a month in Jharkhand on Wednesday, causing a dip in the active caseload for the first time since the first week of April, government data revealed. However, the state continued to report a triple-digit-spike in Covid casualties on the day. As many as 141 Covid patients, including 41 from Ranchi and 27 from East Singhbhum, died on the day, taking the Covid toll in the state to 3,346, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. The state on Wednesday reported 5770 fresh cases against 5804 Covid recoveries, which brought the active caseload down to 59,532, the bulletin highlighted. Although Ranchi reported the bulk of casualties on the day, the number of patients dropped here as at least 1169 patients recovered from the infection on Wednesday while 958 people were found infected in the district. After Wednesday’s findings, the Covid toll in Ranchi stood at 1051, while the active caseload dropped to 19,654. East Singhbhum, however, reported a minor rise in the active caseload. As per NHM data, the district reported 897 cases against 863 recoveries, and the active caseload there reached 5,767. The Covid toll in the district jumped to 726 on the day. Among other districts, Bokaro reported 427 cases against 269 recoveries, while Hazaribag reported 693 cases against 331 recoveries. As many as 158 residents were found infected in Dhanbad while 208 Covid patients recovered there on Wednesday. Dhanbad also reported 10 Covid casualties on the day, the NHM stated in its bulletin. The state tested swab samples of 35,486 residents on Wednesday and more than 13 per cent of them were found infected by the mysterious virus. So far, over 2.63 lakh Jharkhand residents have been infected by Coronavirus and around 76.10 per cent of them have recovered, reveals government data. The growth rate of Covid cases also dropped in Jharkhand on Wednesday. Jharkhand’s growth rate of 2.10 per cent was, however, higher than the national average of 1.39 per cent. The doubling rate of infection in the state also improved on Thursday. As per government data, it would take 33.31 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand against the national average of 50.19 days. The state was yet to begin vaccination for people in the age bracket of 18 to 44 years. On Wednesday, as many as 8163 residents above the age of 45 years were administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19, while 15,743 beneficiaries in the same age bracket were administered the second jab.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-63
06-05-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi girl to study at Harvard University||A girl from a Jharkhand village is preparing for study at Harvard University unlike many of her contemporaries in the area who are usually married off early. Seema Kumari, aged 17, from Dahu village under Ormanjhi block of Ranchi district, has earned a full scholarship for pursuing an undergraduate course at Harvard University (Cambridge, Massachusetts) and plans to leave for the US in August. “Not only that, Seema also got selected in some other well known universities and institutions like Ashoka University, Middlebury College and Trinity College,” said Franz Gastler, who along 
with some friends had established Yuva School at Hutup village in Ormanjhi about a decade ago that groomed girls like Seema. Seema’s parents are marginal farmers and are unlettered. However, many of the girls in their area have been trained at Yuva School, an English medium school that helps them to appear for examinations conducted by the National Institute of Open Schooling and gives them guidance to secure seats for study at reputed universities, both within the country and even abroad. As was the prevalent custom, most of these girls would be married off early but the NGO Yuva motivated them to study and also play football to boost their confidence. It was not easy for the girls to play football initially but they overcame their fear. Seema became the vice-captain of the Yuva team that participated in Donosti Cup in Spain in 2016 and she later became a football coach for the local girls. “Her selection to Harvard was, however, based on her academic performance and had nothing to do with her football skill,” said Rose Thomson Gastler, principal of the Yuva School. Seema was even earlier selected for summer programmes in Washington and Cambridge in 2018 and 2019 respectively and had even attended a school in the US for a year under an exchange programme earlier, added Franz. “Her tremendous resilience and determination helped Seema achieve what she did,” said Rose, who was full of praise for the girl who cleared her Class XII from their school this year.
But Seema has still not decided what subject she would study at Harvard. “I have a plan to start an organisation for the women of my village and help them start businesses so that they became financially independent,” Rose said quoting Seema. The girl said she could pursue a subject that focuses on gender equality and women’s development.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-63
