07-05-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi quarantine centres ready to receive migrants ||The Ranchi district administration on Friday notified areas putting migrants under seven day institutional quarantine, to follow directives from state government as part of its heightened surveillance for early detection, tracking and testing of suspected Covid-19 patients to curb the transmission chain. Deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan after inspecting Hatia, Ranchi railway stations and mega sports complex in Hotwar said that they have worked out an elaborate plan to ensure that all incoming migrants are scanned properly and channelised towards earmarked quarantine centres as per the new protocols. Ranjan said that migrants residing in urban and rural areas will be put up separately for better monitoring and surveillance. Those who aren’t from Ranchi district will be brought through government sponsored buses to their respective districts upon arriving at railway stations from different states where respective district administrations will test and put them in quarantine centres locally. “Migrants hailing from urban parts of the capital will be put up at the facility set up at mega sports complex in Khelgaon. Those who live in rural areas will be kept at the quarantine centre prepared at their respective blocks,” he said. Explaining the flowchart of handling migrants, Ranjan said, “After alighting at the railway station, migrants will be directed to a waiting area where their registration will be done to know their place of residence. There, we shall try to arrange basic facilities like refreshments, water etc as much as possible. Buses will take them to respective districts. Those belonging to Ranchi after segregation will be taken to mega sports complexes or respective block level quarantine centres. There, they will undergo a RAT test and will be kept under quarantine irrespective of the results for seven days.” After seven days, another round of RAT testing of the migrants will be done. In case if anyone tests positive, he/she will be sent for home isolation/institutional care as per the advice of health department protocols while people testing negative can go home. Area specific magistrates have been notified for smooth coordination of the entire process. Ranjan after inspecting railway station and mega sports complex arenas assured that all of them will be equipped with required amenities to ensure hassle-free stay for migrants. A similar standard operating procedure was adopted during the first wave, but all the quarantine centres in the state were virtually dismantled as cases dipped. Since March end, the second wave became much more virulent infecting and killing people at an exponential rate than the previous wave. Even though the state government returned back to partial lockdown since April 22 to curb the transmission but unchecked movement of migrants from other hotspots back to their villages led to spread of the virus in hinterlands of the state, which has now emerged as a greater challenge to control.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-61
07-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand launches portal to help patient families book hospital beds||Chief minister Hemant Soren launched a one-stop online portal and a mobile application for booking beds across private and government hospitals on Friday, a move that could save patient families the trauma for having to desperately search for medical help at a time when Covid cases are spiralling. Titled Amritvahini (www.amritvahini.in), the website and its mobile interface were rolled out in the afternoon by Hemant from his residence in the presence of health minister Banna Gupta and other senior officials. A WhatsApp number (8595524447) was also released for residents to consult medical experts. Hemant said the initiative was in continuation of government efforts to combat the menace of Covid-19 in the state and boost people’s confidence about receiving timely medical attention. “While on the one hand we are working round- the-clock to increase our bed strength both at government and private hospitals, it is equally important that people get access to beds and other medical care on time. Therefore, we have now devised a one-stop online system that can be accessed via phone or computer/tablet, to check availability of beds across the state and book them as per need,” he said. A bed that has been booked will be kept on hold for two hours. In case the patient does not arrive, it will then be allotted to another patient in need. Till the time of filing this report, the website was yet operationalise the facility to book beds. However, it had other crucial information such as details of hospital beds across the state. Among the other services that will be available on the site are details on medical kits for Covid patients in home isolation, paid isolation facilities, ambulance on call, online consultation with doctors, etc. Ranchi district administration had in the in the second week of April rolled out an online dashboard (https://Ranchi.nic.in)  to provide real-time information on availability of hospital beds. But it was a failure owing to various reasons, from unresponsive helplines to private hospitals' reluctance to share details of available facilities. Ultimately, the people of Ranchi, which has been clocking around 1000 cases daily for a month now, were left to fend for themselves. Hemant conceded that the dashboard wasn't up to the mark, but promised to sort out the glitches. "The rate with which this virus is infecting people is so high that hospitals are turning full in no time.  ...from time to time, we are getting reports of people dying. It shouldn’t happen, but we are working hard to set things right,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-61
07-05-2021||Jharkhand||Railways issues fresh guidelines for travel during Covid second wave||The South Eastern Railway on Friday issued a fresh Standard Operating Procedure for passengers amid the growing cases of Covid-19 across the country. The fresh guidelines issued by Garden Reach, the Calcutta-based headquarters of South Eastern Railway said that onboard booking by ticket checking staff of a waiting list ticket will not be permitted. Moreover, unreserved tickets shall be permitted on limited trains only on which such unreserved journey has been permitted. Pre-paid catering services in trains have been disabled. No catering charges will be included in the fare. However, ready-to-eat meals, packed items, packaged drinking water bottles, tea, coffee, beverages etc. shall be made available to passengers in trains on payment basis through pantry cars. Provision of catering services in trains shall be subject to compliance of all safety and hygiene protocols issued from time to time. No Linen, blankets and curtains shall be provided during travelling. Passengers have been advised to carry their own linen. The temperature inside AC coaches shall be suitably regulated for this purpose. For the convenience of passengers, bedrolls would be available for purchase at all Multi Purpose Stalls. Chief public relations officer of SER Sanjay Ghosh said that passengers with fully waitlisted tickets will not be allowed to enter the railway station. "Passengers should use separate entry and exit gates at railway stations where such arrangements are made so that there is no face to face movement of passengers, "he said. Passengers have been asked to carry sanitisers during the journey. All passengers have been advised that on arrival at their destinations, they will have to adhere to health protocols prescribed by the destination state. Passengers have been asked to arrive well before departure time of the train to avoid crowding for thermal scanning at the entry points. According to the fresh SOP, it has been made mandatory for passengers to download and use the Aarogya Setu application.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-61
07-05-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city police crackdown on lockdown violators ||Jamshedpur police on Friday started a crackdown on those violating lockdown orders at Sakchi and Bistupur, the two major commercial centres. The cops caught those without helmets, driving licence and other valid documents inside the market and asked them to pay fines between Rs 500 and Rs 1000 as per the Motor Vehicles Act. Police sealed shops operating in a clandestine manner selling garments and stationery items at Sakchi. "We had information that some of the shopkeepers were violating the lockdown by clandestinely selling their products to customers inside the market. We therefore started the drive on Friday morning at 10 am which continued for two hours, "said Kunal Singh, officer-in-charge of Sakchi police station. He said that a similar drive was undertaken at Bistupur market. Fines were imposed on as many as 30 people at Sakchi while another 20 were caught in Bistupur market. Later, in the day after 3 pm the cops also carried out a drive on the Station- Bistupur Road and Kalimati Road in Sakchi stopping people and asking them reasons for being outdoors. According to the police, the drive will continue for a few days during the lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-61
07-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad street vendors struggle to survive during lockdown||The state-wide lockdown has impacted over five thousand roadside fast food sellers across the district, many of whom don't have ration cards and are thus facing difficulty to manage food grains to survive. Those with ration cards however are also facing difficulty in managing medical expenses of ailing family members besides procuring vegetables and paying the rent of their accommodations with zero income during the lockdown. A survey by the Dhanbad unit of National Association for Street Vendors Association of India indicated that only 50% of street vendors have ration cards. Sneham Sinha, district coordinator of NASVI said, “Integrating the fast food sellers with the online food delivery platforms can be of some help and the government and administration should seriously think over this.” Raj Kumar Yadav, a chaat seller near Big Bazar locality of Dhanbad said, “We have somehow survived the six months closure of last year during the first wave of Covid spending our limited savings but since we were not prepared for the lockdown this year we are facing difficulty in managing even foodgrains and are compelled to procure food and medicine taking debts.” Yadav added that seven persons including his wife, three children, a younger brother and elderly parents are dependent on his income of Rs 10,000 per month. Ginni Singh, a Kulcha seller of Saraidhela locality said, “Me along with my two younger brothers operate the road side stall to somehow manage the expenses of 12 people in our family, with around Rs 25,000 joint income per month but since the closure of the shop we are struggling to survive.” “We have applied for a ration card two years ago but are still to get the same and had there been the card we would not have faced difficulty in at least procuring food grains,” said Singh. Jitu Kumar, a chhole bhature seller said, “Though  we have ration cards and somehow manage the foodgrains from PDS shop, the house rent of Rs 4000 is weighing too heavy for my family with zero income for over a fortnight.” Shyamal Mazumdar, district convenor of Path Vikreta Samanvaya Samiti, said “It is high time that the government should provide Rs 10,000 as immediate relief to all the street vendors and waive off the repayment requirement of Rs 10,000 loan provided to a limited number of vendors under the Pradhan Mantri Street Vendors Atma Nirbhar Nidhi Yojna. “We are exploring the option of integrating these street vendors with online food delivery platforms like Swiggy and Zomato so their products can be supplied and they can have some income,” said Sumit Kumar Singh, City Manager of National Urban Livelihood Mission project of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-61
07-05-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city chess pioneer B. Tata Rao dies of Covid||B. Tata Rao, one of the pioneers for bringing chess to the steel city, died of Coronavirus infection at Tata Main Hospital on Thursday. Fondly called BT da, the 82-year-old was a resident of Adityapur and is survived by his wife, three sons and mother. Though his main involvement was in the field of volleyball, he was instrumental in the growth of chess in Jamshedpur. He was actively involved in almost all sporting events organised by LIC, his employers. Condoling Rao’s demise, All Jharkhand Chess Association (AJCA) secretary International Master Neeraj Kumar Mishra said his (Rao’s) contribution in chess was from the early days of East Singhbhum District Chess Association. “He (Rao) helped the then Singhbhum District Chess Association by getting a place in the LIC building in Bistupur for conducting chess activities before it was shifted to JRD Tata Sports Complex, He was dedicated  for chess,” Mishra added. BT da was the organising secretary of the Tata International Open Chess 1994 which attracted 435 participants. The event is still remembered by players across the country. He was later transferred to Seraikela-Kharsawan district with a request to propagate the game there. He was the founder and president of the Seraikela-Kharsawan District Chess Association. Rao was elected as joint secretary of AJCA for the tenure 2009-13 during which he also served as acting secretary for nearly a year. Due to his advancing age, Rao decided to hand over the Seraikela-Kharsawan District Chess Association to the young generation. IM's Varugeese Koshy and Vishal Sareen as well as all other senior members of the chess fraternity expressed their condolence to the aggrieved family. “Rao’s contribution towards chess was immense. He was dedicated to chess and always helped others. I would really miss him,” said international arbiter and coach of Tata Chess centre Jayant Kunmar Bhuyan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-62
07-05-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant's retort after call from Modi: It was only his 'mann ki baat'  ||Chief minister Hemant Soren has likened the Prime Minister's call to him on Thursday night to his "Mann Ki Baat", revealing that the Prime Minister only spoke his mind about the current Covid situation without allowing him to air his concerns about, and requirements for, Jharkhand amid a ruthless second wave of the pandemic. “Honorable PM has phoned today. He did mann ki baat (only spoke). It would have been fruitful if he had spoken about the burning issues and concerns and listened as well,” Hemant tweeted in Hindi at 11.19pm on Thursday after Modi spoke to him and chief ministers of Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, and Telangana. Modi’s Mann Ki Baat, is a monthly televised programme he initiated after becoming Prime Minister in 2014. In it, he interacts with people on various issues. Ever since Hemant became chief minister in December 2019, he hasnot shied away from speaking out against Modi and his government’s style of functioning, accusing the Centre of attempting to distort cooperative federalism, blocking release of funds, among others. Even after the PM’s video interactions with CMs over the last one year to discuss the handling of the Covid situation, Hemant has on multiple occasions criticised Modi for not allowing Jharkhand to put across its concerns at the interactive forums. But Hemant's latest jibe at the PM upset the state BJP with several leaders choosing to hit back. BJP’s Godda MP Nishikant Dubey said, “Dear PM, my CM is only interested in things like sand scam, coal scam, murders, rapes etc. Moreover, my CM doesn’t remember anything after the evening.” BJP's Ranchi MP Sanjay Seth said, “The country’s PM has called a CM of a state to know about the covid situation. This wasn’t a call for political discussion. Being a CM, you should have had some courtesy. The way you speak is also an insult to the people of this state, for whom a concerned PM had phoned.” Jharkhand's Covid situation turned worse since the last week of March this year, with the rapid growth of new infections as well as fatalities. Of the total 60,633 active cases, more than 80 per cent tested positive in the last six weeks. More than half of the 3,479 deaths in the state have been recorded only since April this year, increasing the state’s Covid mortality rate to 1.28 per cent against a national average of 1.10 per cent. During the first wave, Jharkhand's Covid mortality rate never touched 1 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-62
07-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Active caseload crosses 60.000 in the state||The Covid toll in Jharkhand drew closer to 3500 on Thursday, while the active caseload crossed the 60,000-figure mark as the state reported 133 casualties and close to 7000 fresh cases in the past 24 hours, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) revealed. As many as 6974 Jharkhand residents, including 1235 from Ranchi and 1010 from East Singhbhum, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the Covid tally in the state above 2.7 lakh, a bulletin released by the NHM highlighted. As per the bulletin, the state also reported 5740 Covid recoveries on the day and East Singhbhum as well as Ranchi accounted for more than 1000 recoveries each. The two districts also accounted for almost 50 per cent of the Covid fatalities reported on the day in Jharkhand. As per NHM data, Ranchi reported 42 Covid deaths while East Singhbhum reported 23 in the past 24 hours. Thursday’s findings took the Covid toll in Ranchi to 1093 and that in East Singhbhum to 749, the NHM bulletin stated. Among other districts, Ramgarh reported 11 deaths and Giridih reported 10, taking the Covid toll in the state to 3479. As per NHM data, Bokaro reported 333 cases against 269 recoveries on the day, while Hazaribag reported 479 cases against 411 Covid recoveries. West Singhbhum reported 321 cases, while as many as 326 people were found infected in Koderma and 330 in Palamu. However, Ranchi and East Singhbhum jointly accounted for more than 40 per cent of the active cases in the state. As per government data, at least 19,810 Ranchi residents were battling the viral infection by the end of Thursday, while 5,743 people were infected in East Singhbhum. In active caseload in Jharkhand was 60,633 by the end of Thursday. The positivity rate, however, dropped in Jharkhand on Thursday. The state tested swab samples of 88,695 residents on the day and around 8 per cent of them were found infected. The daily positivity rate in the state has been higher than 10 per cent in the past couple of weeks. The growth rate of infection in Jharkhand was 2.11 per cent against the national average of 1.37 per cent, while the doubling rate in the state was 33.24 days against the national average of 50.95 days. The mortality rate in the state was 1.28 per cent, which is higher than the national Covid mortality rate of 1.10 per cent. Jharkhand on Thursday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 t0 7,569 residents, while the second jab was administered to more than 13000 beneficiaries, a separate report from the NHM stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-62
07-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Alert on virus spread in Jharkhand parks and zoos||The Jharkhand forest department has asked all closed national parks, wildlife sanctuaries and zoos in the state to be on alert for the possibility of spread of Covid-19 among animals. The directive to this effect was issued by Jharkhand principal chief conservator of forests Rajiv Ranjan on Wednesday after eight Asiatic lions at Hyderabad’s Nehru Zoological Park tested positive for Covid-19 in perhaps the first such reported incident in India. The lions were found Covid-19 positive after examination of their saliva samples at the CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology Laboratory for Conservation of Endangered Species. “We have asked all the national parks, wildlife sanctuaries and zoo authorities to be on alert after the reports of lions testing Covid-positive in Hyderabad. An advisory has been issued to ensure that all animal keepers and zoo staff who frequent animal enclosures, including security personnel, are made to undergo RT-PCR tests. They also need to be vaccinated at the earliest. The authorities have also been asked to closely monitor the health of all the animals in the zoo. Though it is not possible to maintain a close watch on the animals at national parks and sanctuaries, after every animal death be it in zoo, parks or sanctuaries apart from the post-mortem they need to also undergo Covid test,” Ranjan told The Telegraph. The advisory directs officials that in any case of any Covid-like symptoms shown by animals in the zoo or national parks, their swab samples should be taken immediately for Covid testing. There is one state-owned zoo at Ormanjhi in Ranchi and two privately managed zoos in Bokaro (managed by SAIL Bokaro) and Jamshedpur (managed by Tata Steel). “We have also asked the zoo authorities to ensure maximum sanitisation and cleanliness in the animal enclosures and also ensure that all staff and animal keepers are allowed inside the zoo after thermal scanning. “A task force and rapid action force has been constituted, comprising veterinary experts, as per the advisory issued by the Union ministry of environment and forests for keeping vigilance at the zoo, national parks and sanctuaries round the clock, especially on the health of animals. Since the zoo and sanctuaries are closed due to lockdown restrictions, interaction with human beings is not possible,” added Ranjan. On Tuesday, Jharkhand reported 5,770 new Covid-19 cases taking the active caseload to 59,532. The state also registered 141 deaths due to the virus on Tuesday, taking the total casualties to 3,346.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-62
