08-05-2021||Jharkhand||Birsa Munda Central Jail conducts mass vaccination of prisoners and staff||Authorities at the Birsa Munda Central Jail in Ranchi have completed vaccination of at least 900 of the over 3400 prisoners and almost all the 300-odd staff members in a bid to avert an explosion of Covid cases similar to the one that wreaked havoc on Jharkhand’s largest jail during the first wave of the pandemic last year. “We did not want to take any risks this time around, so we are prioritising vaccination of all the staff members and jail inmates above the age of 45 years,” said Jail Superintendent Hamid Akhter. “The second wave has not affected the jail as badly as the first wave did last year, and I think vaccination has played a huge role in it,” he added. During the first wave of the pandemic last year, over 1000 prisoners at the Birsa Munda Central Jail got infected by Coronavirus and some even died of the viral infection. However, there were only four active cases among prisoners on Saturday, and only one of them needed hospitalisation, Jail authorities said. On Saturday, at least 200 prisoners were administered the first dose of the vaccine, while about 700 jail inmates got their jabs against Covid-19 earlier, said Akhter, adding that all other prisoners will be vaccinated at the earliest once the government opens vaccination for people in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. Even though fewer cases of Covid-19 were reported from the jail this year, the authorities were conducting regular RT PCR tests of the inmates to identify carriers who may spread the virus among other prisoners and staff members if not isolated on time. Jai authorities tested about 100 inmates this week and none of them tested positive. While the vaccination campaign was running in full swing at the Ranchi jail, authorities were facing difficulty in vaccinating those inmates who do not have valid identity proofs, the jail superintendent said. “Many prisoners do not have Aadhar cards or other such identity proofs that can be used for registering them for the vaccination. We are contacting families of such prisoners, so someone could volunteer to provide their documents for registration of the prisoners,” said Akhter. The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare recently issued an SOP for vaccination of such prisoners who do not have valid identity proof. As per the SOP, the documents of one point person in a particular group could be used for registration of group members who do not have valid identity documents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-60
08-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand High Court asks police to release seized oxygen cylinders||The Jharkhand High Court has directed all deputy commissioners to immediately release oxygen cylinders confiscated under their jurisdictions for immediate use at all Covid-19 hospitals to tide over the crisis of cylinders in the state. While hearing a petition filed by the state government seeking court’s permission for using seized oxygen cylinders, the division bench of Chief Justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and Justice Sujit Narayan Prasad passed the order on Saturday. Over 200 oxygen cylinders were seized by police stations across different districts recently from black marketers and illegal rackets. They were kept in strong rooms under district police wings. At a time when the state government is battling with shortage of cylinders for oxygen supply at hospitals in the wake of increasing load of critical patients, it was finding it difficult to manage supplies due to logistic crunch. As per the norms, court’s permission is must for using any items that are confiscated/seized by police during the raids. As far as oxygen availability is concerned, Jharkhand isn’t short of production but is in dire need of logistical support like oxygen cylinders, flow meters and oxygen concentrators among other medical infrastructure support to ensure seamless supply of the life saving resource up to the patient’s bed at the hospitals. Advocate general Rajeev Ranjan pleaded before the court on behalf of the state government. The bench hailed the government’s move to address shortcomings and issued release order, said sources. The Jharkhand high court has been keeping a vigil on the state government’s Covid management. On several occasions, it has pulled up the state for failing to address the shortcomings. The court was also highly critical of the state government for being unable to streamline affairs at Ranchi’s Sadar Hospital and on one occasion even admonished former Ranchi civil surgeon V.B. Prasad to resign from the job if he can’t perform. According to the officials in the state government’s oxygen task force, Jharkhand currently produces about 600 tonnes of oxygen daily while the existing requirement is close to 100 tonnes. However, it has barely 10,000-12,000 cylinders that are too less to meet the growing requirements. With state government adding up oxygen supported beds regularly across the districts, it is working overtime to sort out the logistic gap.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-60
08-05-2021||Jharkhand||JMM backs Hemant on 'Mann Ki Baat' tweet ||The Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) attacked the Union government and the BJP on Saturday for mismanaging the Covid crisis and praised its party leader and chief minister Hemnat Soren for "exposing" the Centre's shortcomings through his recent tweet against Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday. Soon after Modi spoke to Hemant on Thursday night, the chief minister likened the exercise to the PM’s Mann Ki Baat. “Honorable PM has phoned today. He did mann ki baat (only spoke). It would have been fruitful if he had spoken about the burning issues and concerns and listened as well,” he said in a tweet that seem to rattle the BJP and the Union government no end. The BJP then flielded Union ministers, chief ministers and other notables to condemn Hemant’s action throughout Friday. While Hemant chose not to react, his party, the JMM, critcised the Modi government for denying Jharkhand its rights and hailed the chief minister for speaking out against it as the chief minister. “Is speaking the right thing wrong today under BJP rule in the country? While others chose to keep mum, our CM did what is expected of him—to stand for his people at a time when the state is reeling under Ccovid-19 crisis,” said JMM general secretary and spokesperson Supriyo Bhattacharjee. The JMM said there was nothing derogatory in Hemant’s tweet as had been alleged by the BJP. “Out of concern and getting no assistance from the Centre, the CM was forced to speak out. He had expected PM to hear his concerns and requirements, which didn’t happen. In a sense, CM has exposed the way the Centre is treating Jharkhand,” he said. Bhattacharjee said Jharkhand was battling a shortage of medicines and resources at a time when the state was recording a four-digit spike in cases  and 100 deaths every day. “We require 4.5 crore doses of vaccine but we have only got 29.83 lakh so far. The situation now is so dire that we don’t have enough stocks to vaccinate those awaiting their second dose,” he said. “As far as medicines are concerned, we required 4,28,500 rRemdesivr but received only 29,000 vials. We need 475 vials of tocilizumab, but have got only 265. We asked for 41000 Fabiflu but that is still pending,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-60
08-05-2021||Jharkhand||Congress praises Dhanbad Sadar hospital Covid facility||A delegation of Congress leaders led by district president Brajendra Prasad Singh termed the Sadar Hospital’s Covid treatment facility as up to standard after an inspection on Saturday. The 40 oxygen supported beds have interrupted supply through a pipeline and the 60 ICU beds are equipped with the required number of ventilators and necessary equipment. At present, Covid treatment facilities are available at 30 hospitals of the district including 21 private and nine government owned. The district administration is working to launch a Covid ICU as PG block of Sahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College and Hospital within 20 days. “We came to know during the inspection that all the 100 beds of the Covid treatment facility of the hospital are occupied by patients and there is no shortage of oxygen at all in the hospital,” said Brajendra Prasad Singh. “It is quite a commendable achievement for the district administration which has developed the 100 bed Covid treatment facility at Sadar hospital in the district in less than 10 days,” said Singh and added rumours are being spread about the lack of oxygen in the district in order to malign the image of the state government but the fact remains quite contrary. “We however demand the local administration and state government to increase the beds in the hospitals in view of possible increase in the number of cases in the district,” elaborated Singh and added that at present there is neither shortage of ICU beds or oxygen supported beds. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh during a media conference held on Friday evening assured people that there is sufficient oxygen supply in all the Covid treatment facilities and 50 more beds will be added to the existing 271 ICU beds within 10 days. The deputy commissioner said, two oxygen plants are being established at Sadar Hospital of Dhanbad and Sahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College and Hospital (SNMMCH) with the help of Sindri based Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited and the cumulative capacity of both the plants will be 36 thousand litres per day, which will be ready within 20-25 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-61
08-05-2021||Jharkhand||Oxygen Express trains start using 20 feet containers||The South Eastern Railway’s Oxygen Express train left from Tatanagar for Okhla near Delhi on Saturday carrying 120 tonnes of Liquid Medical Oxygen. The medical oxygen was carried in six 20 feet containers, being used for the first time for transportation. Another Oxygen Express train left Rourkela on its way to Faridabad carrying 82.71 tonnes of LMO in seven tankers. So far, South Eastern Railway has run 30 Oxygen Express trains from Bokaro Steel City, Tatanagar and Rourkela despatching a total of 1500 tonnes of liquid oxygen towards Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi. Out of the total 30 Oxygen Express trains, 13 trains have been run between Bokaro and Lucknow, seven trains between Bokaro and Bhopal/Jabalpur and one from Bokaro to Bareilly. Apart from this, four trains have originated from Tatanagar for Lucknow, one train from Tatanagar to Okhla and four trains have moved from Rourkela to Faridabad. The liquid oxygen is supplied by Linde India, a leading manufacturer of oxygen and other industrial gases. Sanjay Ghosh, chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway said," More Oxygen Express trains will run in due course of time as per the requirements of oxygen for treatment of Covid patients by various state governments."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-61
08-05-2021||Jharkhand||Ramazan food business hit by lockdown curbs||The sale of traditional delicacies during the holy month of Ramazan and the festival of Id has decreased by more than 70 per cent this year due to the state-wide lockdown induced by the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Factors like limited time for shops to remain open, an increased sense of hygiene due to the pandemic and decrease in the purchasing power of the common people have also contributed to the decrease in sales. Mehboob Alam, owner of one of the oldest lachha hotspot of Dhanbad said, “The market is very pathetic as decreased purchasing capacity of people due to pandemic and lockdown is the main reason for the decrease in laccha sales as those who used to purchase two to three kilos are now ordering half a kilo or less.” “The sales of lachha used to surge to over 100 kg every year during Ramazan, except this year and also 2020,” said Alam. “This year the maximum sale till today is around 30 kg only,” he said. Tanveer Alam, seller of traditional delicacies including lachha, sheermal (dough prepared from flour, ghee, sour, salt and saffron) and bakarkhani (tandoori bread from Mughlai cuisine) said, “The decline in sales can be ascertained from the fact that we used to sell around 1000 piece of sheermal per day before 2020 but this year we have not sold more than 200 pieces a day till now.” Sheermal varieties are priced at Rs 20 to Rs 25 per piece. “Similar with Bakarkhani sales, priced at the range of Rs 50 to Rs 90. Instead of 50 pieces sold per day from our outlet during Ramazan we are selling only around 20 pieces per day this year,” said Alam. Wasseypur based social activist Hazi Zamir Arif, said, “Presently when Covid is at its peak the prime concern for everyone is to somehow save their life and all are other things have acquired secondary status so the sale of almost every product including Ramazan and Eid delicacies have taken a backseat.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-61
08-05-2021||Jharkhand||Almost 6,000 fresh Covid cases, 136 casualties in a day||Jharkhand reported at least 136 Covid fatalities on Friday, while about 6000 state residents were found infected from Thursday night to Friday night, taking the active caseload up at 61,177, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. As per a bulletin released by the NHM, the Covid toll in the state reached 3615 on the day. At least 38 Covid patients died in Ranchi while 26 succumbed to the viral infection in East Singhbhum in 24 hours, the bulletin further stated. Ranchi and East Singhbhum jointly accounted for around 40 per cent of the casualties in Jharkhand on the day. Friday's findings took the Covid toll in Ranchi to 1131 and that in East Singhbhum to 775. The state reported 5973 fresh cases of infection against 5293 Covid recoveries, and the two districts accounted for the majority of the cases. Ranchi reported 970 the fresh cases on the day, while East Singhbhum reported 968 cases, the NHM stated in its bulletin. Among other districts, Dhanbad reported 9 deaths, Giridih 10, Koderma 5 and Simdega 4. The active caseload in Ranchi dropped to 19,751, while that in East Singhbhum dropped to 5798 as the district reported 890 Covid recoveries against the over 968 cases, the NHM bulletin highlighted. As per NHM data, Ranchi and East Singhbhum jointly account for almost 40 per cent of the 61,177 active cases of Covid-19 in Jharkhand. The State on Wednesday tested swab samples of 46,305 residents and more than 10 per cent of them were found infected. The day’s findings took the Covid tally in the state above 2.70 lakh. As per government data, only 73.26 per cent of the over 2.70 lakh people infected by the virus so far in Jharkhand have recovered, while 1.09 per cent of them have died. While cases continued to soar, the vaccination programme did not see a warm response from citizens on Wednesday. As per government data, as many as 8,186, hardly 15 per cent of registered beneficiaries, were administered the first dose of the vaccine against Covid-19 on the day. On the other hand, the second jab was administered to 14,288 people, around 3 per cent of the registered beneficiaries. The growth rate of Covid cases in Jharkhand was 2.04 per cent on Wednesday against the national average of 1.36 per cent. As per government data, it would take hardly 34.38 days for the Covid cases to double in Jharkhand at the current pace. The doubling rate across India was 51.39 days||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-61
08-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Bokaro St Xavier’s School alumni offer oxygen aid||Civil society members have come forward in Jharkhand to solve the crises of oxygen and equipment amid the continuous surge in Covid-19 cases. Members of Bokaro Old Xaverians’ Associations (Boxa), an alumni association of St Xavier’s School, Bokaro, which started distributing oxygen and equipment to needy staff of their alma mater and to ailing parents of alumni members at a nominal cost on May 1, have decided to widen their ambit and provide oxygen cylinders to all members of the society. “We started an oxygen bank on our school campus wherein we provided oxygen cylinders and regulators to parents of our alumni members and staff and their family members of St Xavier’s School. However, we are going to widen its ambit and cater to all people depending on the availability of oxygen cylinders. We do not charge a single penny to those who are financially poor but only charge Rs 500 for oxygen cylinders and a daily rental of Rs 50 to those who can afford. “We were facing a shortage of regulators and oxygen masks and have held talks with a firm in Calcutta and hope to get them in a day or two,” said Sajan Kapoor, secretary of the alumni association and a student of the 1986 batch of the school. So far they have helped seven families. “We have provided oxygen cylinders to seven families and seeing our efforts other members of Boxa have contributed voluntarily to our effort. We have pooled in Rs 250,000 so far,” added Kapoor, who is a contractor based in Bokaro. Additional director-general of police Anil Palta, who is a student of the 1984 batch, is the mentor to the alumni association.“He is our mentor and it is on his advice that we have started this initiative,” said Kapoor. The alumni association members are also planning to start a free vaccination camp on the school campus on Sunday. In a related development, Jatin Kumar, a post-graduate student of Sidhu Kanhu Murmu University, Dumka, and a recipient of the National NSS Award 2018-19 from the President last year, has donated pulse oximeters, vaporisers, sanitiser and masks to RJG Gurukulam (an orphanage) for the children. Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Thursday virtually inaugurated 327 oxygen-supported beds in a Covid facility at a multi-storeyed parking lot and another 128 oxygen-supported beds at an old building in Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences, Ranchi, one of the biggest state-owned hospitals in the state. He also inaugurated 73 ICU beds in the oncology department of the RIMS. The Jharkhand Viklang Manch (an outfit for the physically challenged) on Thursday wrote to Soren to restart the pension scheme for the disabled. “The monthly pension of Rs 1,000 was being given to nearly 2 lakh disabled people in the state. But this has been stopped since November 2020. We have written to the secretary of the social welfare department earlier too but got no response. “So we have written to the chief minister to help us get the amount in order to tide over the economic crisis during the lockdown period,” said Manch president Arun Kumar Singh, who is orthopedically challenged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-61
