09-05-2021||Jharkhand||All electric furnaces at Jamshedpur crematoriums trip due to overload||The electric furnaces at two steel city burning ghats have become non-operational owing to overload of bodies coming for cremation. All four furnaces at Bhuiyandih-based Subarnarekha ghat have tripped and two at Parvati ghat in Jugsalai are facing the same problem. Subarnarekha ghat, which is reserved for cremating Covid bodies after 1 pm, is facing a challenging time as over 50 bodies are coming for cremation daily. With the furnaces not functioning, Covid bodies are also being cremated on wood. Subarnarekha ghat’s managing committee joint secretary Ganesh Rao confirmed all the four furnaces have tripped due to overload of bodies. “The furnaces stopped functioning one after another. One of the furnaces should be functional tomorrow while the rest would also be in order in two-three days. Covid bodies were also being cremated on wood. There’s no other option,“ Rao added. Parvati ghat managing committee secretary Dipendra Bhatt said the furnaces were being repaired and it would take a day or two to make them operational. The managing committee hardly found any mechanics to repair the furnaces before a team was finally located. “It was a testing time for us in finding mechanics. We found a team which had repaired the furnaces on earlier occasions,” Bhatt added. According to him, the coils of the furnaces were damaged due to the overload. “The furnaces broke down since bodies are coming for cremation one after another. The furnaces have limited capacity.  Around 25 bodies are cremated in both the furnaces, which functioned for over 13 hours without a break. The furnaces also needed regular maintenance which was not possible in these circumstances,” Bhatt informed. Over 40 bodies are coming for cremation at the ghat. “Fifty one bodies were cremated on Saturday. Since the furnaces are not functioning, all the bodies are cremated on wood. The ghat remains jam packed throughout the day. The cremation stretches till midnight most of the time,” he said. The ghat managing committee secretary said timber was being supplied daily to cremate the bodies. “Truckload of timber is dumped every night at the ghat, otherwise bodies cannot be cremated. Presently, all bodies are cremated on wood since the furnaces were not functioning,” Bhatt said. Asked if the ghat premises were being sanitised, he said there was no need as such since the area of the crematorium was spacious. “We sanitise the ghat in intervals. We have our own equipment,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-59
09-05-2021||Jharkhand||Social outfit starts auto ambulance service in Jamshedpur||The social organisation Marwari Yuva Manch's women wing - Surabhi - on Sunday started a free auto ambulance service for Covid-19 patients in Jamshedpur. The service will help in carrying patients to hospitals and other Covid care centres. Convenor of Marwari Yuva Manch's steel city chapter Renu Agarwal said the service will be available round the clock. "We have introduced an auto ambulance supported by oxygen cylinders for carrying Covid-19 patients to hospitals. The auto ambulance driver will be in PPE and will follow necessary Covid protocols, "said Agarwal adding that they have also taken an approval from the district health department for introducing the auto ambulance service. The social outfit opened an office at Chandrabali Udyan in Sakchi from where those in need can avail the auto ambulance service. Two cell numbers were issued - 8340493284 and 6202148057 through which one can get the service. According to Agarwal, the auto ambulance service would be available only in steel city covering areas like Sakchi, Bistupur, Sonari, Kadma, Mango, Golmuri, Sidhgora, Agrico, Baridih, Burmamines and Telco.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-59
09-05-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi organisation distributes free food packets to Sadar hospital employees||At a time when the Covid pandemic has overwhelmed hospitals with patients, their attendants too are confronted with various obstacles. JCI Ranchi, a city based social outfit run and managed by the trading community, has come forward to distribute free food packets at the capital’s Sadar Hospital from Sunday. On the first day, 200 food packets were distributed. The organisation aims to distribute 100 more packets from Monday to meet the growing demand. The packets are getting distributed during lunch time but the outfit has plans to start this service for dinner as well. Abhishek Modi, an official of JCI Ranchi said that while several others are trying on their own to help people through different initiatives as part of social mobilization in the current times of pandemic, they chose to do aan-daan (feed people). “While patients admitted to the Covid wards will be taken care by the Sadar hospital management, their attendants were facing concerns of food. Those who could afford will order or eat somewhere, but Sadar hospital is the place where poor and downtrodden across the state mostly turn up for medical treatment. Hence, we thought of starting free food service for the attendants after getting nod from district administration,” he said. He however said that the food packets will be given to anyone who feels hungry and turns up at their kiosks daily. “Although, it is mainly for attendants but we will be giving to anyone who is hungry. Technically, assessing if someone is an attendant or not, will be impossible,” he said, adding that the packets are prepared in most hygienic conditions. “In each packet, we are serving rice, two rotis, veg curry, dal, salad, pickle and dahi. The menu will remain constant except the vegetable that will keep changing daily. For about 300 packets, we have an estimated per day cost of Rs 20,000 per day and are currently managing through contributions from our members. We are open to any kind of contributions if anyone wishes to do so to sustain this initiative,” he said. “Till 2pm, markets are partially opened currently but there is a problem during night time as it is complete lockdown. Those who come here from other districts find it difficult to manage food in case of need. We are working out modalities to start this service during night time as well,” he said. “We are thankful to JCI and others who are doing philanthropic work across different sectors in times of pandemic to help people at large. Only through collective efforts, we can tackle the pandemic,” said deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-59
09-05-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi police seal garment shop, FIRs against owner and staff ||Ranchi police sealed a garment shop in Upper Bazar, the capital’s wholesale market, after a surprise raid on Sunday afternoon and registered FIRs against the shop owner and six others for violation of the partial lockdown in the wake of the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. An official of Kotwali police station said that an FIR has been filed under Disaster Management Act, 2005 on the shop owner—Waris Malik and six other employees—for illegally keeping the shop open during the lockdown. “While the shutter of the shop was down, there were many customers inside it. Customers were let go with a warning but the shop owner and staff were booked for violating the lockdown rules. As per the norms, garment shops are completely shut down till further orders while other operations of other entities that are permitted and considered essentials are allowed to run till 2pm,” said a cop at Kotwali police station, who was part of the raid team. Ranchi SDO Utkarsh Gupta said, “We received a tip off that a garment shop at Banwari complex located at Shradhanand road was clandestinely functioning despite the lockdown. We first sent a team of few people in civil dress to verify the information after which it was raided.” Gupta added that the health safety week is imposed for public safety in view of covid-19 pandemic and such violations aren’t just against government orders but push many at the risk of infection. The current phase of lockdown is enforced till 6am of May 13 as part of which medical shops are allowed to run, those selling essential items and restaurants are permitted to keep their shops open till 2pm. However after that, home delivery of items is permitted but dining at eateries is strictly prohibited. Administration officials said that they are keeping strict vigil across the district round the clock to ensure strict compliance and are taking actions on every tip-off received through different sources. Simultaneously, different teams are also attempting to thwart hoarding, black marketing of medicines and medical devices. On Saturday, a separate team arrested five persons of a medical shop in old HB Road for selling flow meter at exorbitant rates following a complaint by a lady customer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-60
09-05-2021||Jharkhand||Sindri traders worried about water logging, writes Dhanbad Municipal Commissioner||Plagued with the perennial problem of water logging, shopkeepers of Sindri’s Saharpura Market led by the president of Sindri Chamber of Commerce, Deepak Kumar Dipu wrote to Satyendra Kumar, Dhanbad Municipal Commissioner demanding comprehensive repair of the drain. Talking to The Telegraph Online Dipu said, “The old drain had been constructed when the market was being established over 50 years ago. The drain has several cracks in its sidewall over the years due to which the water spills out on the road, thereby making it difficult for the shopkeepers and customers to move around in the market.” He maintained that the condition aggravates during the monsoon. “Apprehending the condition to get worse when the monsoon sets in, made us write to the Municipal Comissioner” said Dipu. According to the worst affected section in the market is the Darji Patti (tailors’ section). “This is area is badly affected. The articles kept outside the workshop get due to the seeping drain water,” said Dipu. He added that the cumulative length of the market is around 1000 meters but there is a pressing need of having a proper plan to better the condition as the main drain where the water outflows is also damaged. “Commuting is not the only problem that we face. Water logging is a bigger issue as it poses the risk for the outbreak of epidemics like, malaria, typhoid, diarrhoea, dysentery, dengue etc in the area and foul smell emanating from the logged water also make it difficult for people to stay there,” said Dipu. He maintained that they had earlier this year had discussed the matter with the Municipal Commissioner, when they had met him to discuss the hike in rent. “We had discussed our problem with the Municipal Commissioner when we had met him regarding the revision of exorbitant hike in the rent of 100 shops of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation. He had assured that the issue would be addressed and that a detailed project report would be prepared along with resolving the issue at the earliest,” said Dipu. When Meena Minz, Executive officer of Sindri circle of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation was contacted, he said, “We don’t have any information about any assurance given by the Municipal Commissioner. So far no decision has been taken regarding the construction of the drain.” Apart from the 100 shops belonging to Dhanbad Municipal Corporation in Saharpura market there are 483 other shops of Fertilizer Corporation of India situated in various areas of Sindri like Saharpura, Manohartand,  Rodabandh, Rangamati and Domgarh apart from school, colleges and other official institutes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-60
09-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad area chokes on smoke from BCCL mine fire||Huge amount of smoke and gas after rainfall on Sunday morning started rising out of the crater of an underground fire of COCP Colliery of BCCL’s Bhowra area, affecting around 200 families of the Idgah locality. A temporary barricade has been put up around the area after local residents informed the BCCL management. “We woke up this morning inhaling and choking on gas and went to the adjoining bushy area to find huge amount of gas and smoke emanating out of a crater that had developed last year,” said Khushid Alam, central secretary of Bihar Janta Khan Mazdoor Sangh, affiliated to Hind Mazdoor Sabha. “Though minor gas emission is common in the area but with the regular rains since the last four to five days, the situation has aggravated and many people in our locality have started feeling itchy sensation in the eyes,” said Alam. “No step has so far been taken by BCCL authorities to fill up the crater and control the smoke and gas emission despite the fact that over 200 families live in the area and their health is likely to have adverse effects due to the emission,” said Alam. Divulging details about the crisis, Alam said, “Though the crater has been lying there since the last several years but the dumping of mines overburden carried out by the BCCL management during the last year worsened the situation as the overburden consisted of fiery coal.” “We demand immediate steps from the BCCL management, otherwise we will be compelled to stage a dharna,” he said. Another resident of the locality requesting anonymity said, “Stop gap arrangement adopted by the coal company, BCCL and the private mining company towards fire fighting is primarily responsible for the situation. If proper steps were initiated during the last year itself, the situation would not have worsened this year.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-60
09-05-2021||Jharkhand||Private hospitals told to stop vaccination, govt yet to launch phase 3 drive||The Hemant Soren government has  asked many private healthcare facilities across Jharkhand to stop their vaccination drive against Covid-19,  putting hundreds of  beneficiaries awaiting their second jab in a fix. Owners of private hospitals in the state said on Sunday that the state government also asked them to hand over their vaccine stocks without offering any explanation for doing so. “We were asked to stop our vaccination drive in the last week of April, and by May 5, the government also asked us to surrender all the doses of vaccine we had in stock,” said Yogesh Gambhir, the owner of Ranchi-based Raj Hospital. Gambhir, who is also  President of the  Association of Healthcare Providers of India (AHPI), a conglomerate of private hospitals across India, expressed shock over the government’s decision at a time when the idea  was to vaccinate as many people as possible at the earliest. “We were not given any reason for the decision. But it is quite shocking since we need to vaccinate as many people as possible at the earliest given the situation of Covid-19 in the state, and shutting down vaccination centres in this time of crisis does not make any sense,” he said. Several private hospitals have already administered the first dose of the vaccine to senior citizens and people above the age of 45 in the past couple of months. Now, most were  flooded with queries from beneficiaries who were supposed to get their second jab in April-end and May, say hospital owners. “The vaccination is temporarily closed in our hospital since May 1, but I think it will resume later this week. We are flooded with phone calls from beneficiaries seeking the second dose,” said spokesperson of Medanta Hospital in Ranchi Javed Ansari. Beneficiaries are worried that vaccination centres will be overcrowded once the state starts vaccinating people in the age bracket of 18 to 44 years and thereby pose risk of infection if senior citizens and people with comorbidities visit the same centres to get their second jab. “My second jab was due in the first week of May, but I could not get it at Raj Hospital, where I got the first dose. I am waiting for the vaccination to resume at private hospitals as I am afraid of visiting government facilities in the current situation,” said Poonam Jha, a resident of Pe Pee Compound in Ranchi. State Health Secretary Arun Kumar Singh said that the decision was taken in accordance with the new policies of the Centre, but refused to divulge further details. A highly placed source in the health department, however, said that private healthcare facilities will have to procure vaccines directly from the manufacturers as per the new strategy. The source said that the decision was taken in the wake of the depleting stock of vaccine in the state and high rate of wastage of vaccine in private facilities. These developments come at a time when the state government has accused the Centre of being prejudiced against Jharkhand and not providing sufficient doses of vaccines to the state. The state is yet to begin vaccination for people in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years despite the Centre opening immunisation for people in this group on May 1. Earlier, state Health Minister Banna Gupta claimed that Jharkhand sought 25 lakh doses each of Covaxin and Covishield from  manufacturers, but were denied supply as the Centre had already booked around 12 crore doses of vaccine in advance. As per data with the state government, Jharkhand has been administering the first dose of the vaccine to around 10,000 beneficiaries every day and the second jab to around 15,000 beneficiaries on an average. However, experts from private hospitals have expressed concern over the slow rate of vaccination, fearing that vaccines may reach their expiry date as they have a shelf life of only three months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-60
09-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad students develop Covid portal||A group of three B. Tech final year students of IIT (ISM) have developed a web portal that focuses on helping Covid patients and their families across the country in locating treatment facilities and other resources. The portal accessible on the link https://cr21.netlify.app/  has provisions to host verified pan India as well as state-wide Covid resources like information on government and private covid treatment facilities, oxygen and plasma availability and Intensive Care Unit facilities. Information on resources will be added by both the site administrators and the users. Users will have the options to add new resources or suggest changes to the existing ones. Their suggestions would be taken into account and then reviewed by the volunteers. If the resources are found valid and helpful, then it will be added to the main website, available to all the users. Mayank Roy, one of the creators of portal said, “We started working on the portal on May 3 and launched it yesterday and witnessing around 15 visitors on it after every 30 minutes.” “The basic idea behind launching the portal is to create a platform where everyone can search the Covid related facilities as the patients and relatives seeking oxygen, plasma, vacant Covid beds etc have to post their appeal on various social media platforms and like, Facebook, Whatsapp or even have to make calls to the concerned officials,” said Roy. “The more the people get involved in this, the better this app works” said Roy and added that for any queries, you can reach out to us at covidresourcesr21@gmail.com. “We will be gradually adding more volunteers for updating the information and users can also send their information to them which would be posted after verification” said Roy. State-wide and district wise information on Covid facilities have been posted on the portal and the readers can get their respective state and district section to find the facilities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-60
09-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid claims 141 more lives in Jharkhand  ||At least 141 Jharkhand residents died of Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the Covid toll in the state to 3,756 and the mortality rate up at 1.33 per cent against the national average of 1.10 per cent, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. While the Covid mortality rate continued to rise on Saturday, the growth rate of infection witnessed a marginal dip as the difference between fresh cases and Covid recoveries narrowed. At least 6,112 people were found infected by Coronavirus on Saturday while 5,953 Covid patients recovered on the day. The state’s Covid growth rate of 2.07 per cent was, however, higher than the national average of 1.35 per cent. Ranchi, the worst-affected district in terms of caseload and fatalities, witnessed a drop in active cases on Saturday as at least 1,033 patients recovered from the viral infection here against 836 fresh cases reported on the day. The district, however, reported 42 of the 141 deaths on the day – the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. As per government data, the district had 19,713 active cases by Saturday night and the toll here had reached 1,173. East Singhbhum, on the other hand, reported 1,025 cases against 911 recoveries. As many as 25 Covid patients also lost their battle against Covid-19 there on the day, taking the toll in the district to 800, the NHM bulletin stated. As many as 5,886 East Singhbhum residents were battling the viral infection by the end of Saturday. Among other districts, Bokaro reported 729 cases against 457 recoveries, while Hazaribag reported 271 cases against 532 recoveries. Even though Dhanbad reported only 172 cases against 187 recoveries on the day, at least 11 Covid patients died during treatment there in the past 24 hours. Bokaro reported eight Covid casualties, while nine patients died in Hazaribag. The state on Saturday tested swab samples of 45,658 residents and about 13 per cent of them were found infected, highlighted the NHM bulletin. So far, over 2.82 lakh Jharkhand residents have been infected by the mysterious virus and 76.98 per cent of them have recovered, reveals government data. The doubling rate in the state was 34.83 days against the national average of 51.52 days. Meanwhile, the state on Saturday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 8831 beneficiaries. The second jab was administered to 15,025 residents on the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-60
09-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Pandemic plight moves some to lend a hand||At a time when Covid-19 cases are surging and people are facing hardship amid the lockdown in Jharkhand, Good Samaritans have come forward to help in two different parts of the state. Santosh Kumar Panda, a 38-year-old employee of Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL) in Noamundi block of West Singhbhum district, has been distributing rations and medicines in a PPE kit to Covid-19 patients in home isolation. “It was a spontaneous decision after I witnessed the plight of the people living in home isolation in my neighbourhood. A friend and his family faced hardship with even relatives not coming to his help in providing rations during the quarantine period. Such incidents prompted me to do something. I approached the officials at SAIL General Hospital with a request to help such Covid patients. After discussions with them, I started helping the patients from the last week of April and have continued the work so far,” said Panda, an employee in the electrical department at the Kiriburu-Megahataburu iron ore mines. Panda takes order of rations and medicines over WhatsApp and call and delivers them to patients in home isolation on his motorcycle. He has shared his mobile number with the SAIL hospital and Kiriburu police station. “The SAIL hospital provides me a list of persons who are under home isolation every day. I contact them personally and share my number for handing over food items and medicines advised for Covid patients. I have even given my number to the local police station who in turn share the number with Covid patients who are under home isolation. On an average, I deliver rations and medicines to more than 10 houses daily. The orders are placed over WhatsApp or call (9439491930),” said Panda. Panda takes whatever the family members of those under home isolation can pay. “I hand over the invoices for medicines and rations to the households. If they are poor or express their inability to pay, then I do not take anything. If they can afford, then they pay me through the digital mode or in cash. A few of them even volunteer to give me extra money for fuel and time spent in the work, but I strictly refuse,” said Panda, who helps Covid patients in home isolation after his eight-hour duty at the mines. In another example of providing aid, members of a social outfit called Yuvak Sangharsh Morcha Janwadi have started distributing iftar kits to poor Muslim families affected by lockdown at Dhanbad. “We had distributed food and rations to people during the first wave of Covid-19 last year. Later, several other NGOs joined the effort. However, this year no social organisation has come forward to help the poor. We saw several Muslim families are not able to perform rituals after keeping fast during Ramazan because of poverty and loss of earning opportunities due to the lockdown. We decided to help them out in whatever way we can and distributed iftar kits,” said Dilip Singh, 30, who leads the outfit. The iftar kit comprises chana (gram), dates, sugar, mustard and refined oil, lacha sewai, besan (gram flour), rooh afza (syrup), face mask and soap. “Each kit costs around Rs 900 but with the support of my family, friends and well-wishers so far we have been able to distribute them to several poor Muslim families. Since Wednesday we have distributed the kits to around 50 families,” said Dilip. On Friday, the state registered fresh 5,973 Covid-19 cases taking the total active caseload to 61,177. The state also reported 136 deaths due to the virus on Friday taking the total casualties to 3,615 in the second wave. Jharkhand’s mortality rate stands at 1.30 per cent, higher than the national average of 1.10 per cent, while its recovery rate of 76.52 per cent is lower than the national average of 81.90 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-60
