10-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dip in coal town Covid cases||Dhanbad district has for the first time in more than a month, recorded Covid-19 cases in double digits with only 65 being detected on Sunday compared with 172 on Saturday. Out of the 65 cases, 42 have been detected through RT PCR test at Sahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College and Hospital, one was detected through trueNat test at Sadar Hospital and 22 cases were detected through Rapid Antigen Test conducted at various places across the district. On May 7, the district recorded 197 cases, 172 on May 6, 157 on May 5, 128 on May 4, 130 on May 3, 136 of May 2, 232 on May 1 and 129 on April 30. The recovery of Covid patients in the district stands at 125 on Sunday, 187 on May 8, 168 were discharged on May 7, 135 on May 6,  208 on May 5, 130 on May 4, 153 on May 3, 165 on May 2, 154 on May 1 and 168 on April 30. Expressing happiness over the decline in number of cases, Congress district president Brajendra Prasad Singh said, “The decline in fresh cases in the state and specially in Dhanbad proved the efficacy of measures initiated by the state government and the district administration in Dhanbad leading to the people following the social distancing measures and not venturing outside without work.” The district being centrally connected to different parts of the country through trains and bus services, is most vulnerable to Covid outbreak, but the effective steps initiated by the administration since the very beginning like mandatory testing of all rail and bus passengers as well as at district border with Bengal played a key role in the effective management of Covid. Singh cautioned against any relaxation on the part of administration at this crucial juncture and said, “As the restrictions put in form of the lockdown leading to decreased movement of people have shown results this should further continue until the downward curve stabilises for some time.” Sales Tax Joint Commissioner dies of Covid Vijay Kumar Dubey, Sales Tax Joint Commissioner, a resident of Dhanbad presently posted in Ranchi, died of Covid during the course of his treatment at Asharfi Hospital on Monday early morning. Dubey was the former secretary of the social organisation, Rising Charitable Trust. He used to actively participate in a weekly feeding programme of daily wage earners and beggars organised by the Trust near Golf ground.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-58
10-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand promises free jabs for 18+ from May 14 ||Chief minister Hemant Soren on Monday announced the start of the Covid-19 vaccination for the 18-44 year age group population in the state from May 14, reiterating his government’s promise to administer them free of cost. Hemant also rolled out the Birsa Aushadhi Yojana scheme, where free homeopathic medicines will be distributed among those living in home isolation across all districts. “We are going to start vaccination of 18 years plus population from May 14 now and will increase the pace of vaccination as and when we keep receiving the doses. Besides government machinery, all public representatives too must motivate people in their constituency to take the jabs,” Hemant appealed to all lawmakers at a meeting on Monday. As per health department records, around 1.97 crore people fall in this age group category for which the state government placed orders last month for 50 lakh vials of vaccine (25 lakh each of Covishield and Covaxin) after the union government eased Covid-19 vaccination policy. However, it couldn’t start the drive, which began nationally from May 1, due to paucity of vaccines. An official of the state chapter of the National Health Mission said that they currently have received about 2.44 lakh vials in the last two days from Centre while the direct stocks from the vaccine manufacturers are yet to arrive. Free homeopathic medicines for Covid patients Hemant launched Birsa Aushadhi Yojana scheme from his residence on Monday under which the state government with the help of state unit of AYUSH wing, will begin free distribution of homeopathic medicines to patients living in home isolation across the state. “In continuation with various initiatives as part of Covid management, we are rolling out free homeopathic medicines across the state from today. Experts have worked out various immunity boosting medicines which will be distributed among people in home isolation. Family members of the Covid-19 patients too will be given it free of cost,” said Hemant, adding that adequate medicines will be dispatched from Monday to all districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-58
10-05-2021||Jharkhand||Oxygen Express train leaves for Karnataka||The South Eastern Railway successfully sent the first Oxygen Express train from Tatanagar to Bangalore in Karnataka on Monday. The train left for Bangalore on Monday afternoon with 120 tonnes of Liquid Medical Oxygen in six 20 feet containers. Due to a sharp surge in Covid-19 cases, the transportation of Liquid Medical Oxygen has become crucial and South Eastern Railway took the initiative of Oxygen Express from April 23 to different destinations. The liquid oxygen was sourced from the Jamshedpur plant of Linde India, a leading manufacturer of oxygen and other industrial gases. "The consignment of liquid oxygen gas was sent as per the requirement of the Karnataka government which had sent a request for oxygen for treatment of Covid-19 patients,” said Sanjay Ghosh, chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway. Significantly, so far, South Eastern Railway has run 38 Oxygen Express trains with 2,123 tonnes of Liquid Medical Oxygen across the country to combat the deadly second wave of the Covid pandemic. From SER’s jurisdiction, 21 trains have been sent towards Uttar Pradesh, nine trains towards Madhya Pradesh, four trains towards Haryana, three towards Delhi and one towards Karnataka. These trains have originated from Bokaro, Rourkela and Tatanagar. With a team of dedicated officers and other staff, SER is ensuring timely transportation of oxygen for Covid affected patients in various destinations. The movement of these trains are given top priority and green corridors have been made for the trains.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-58
10-05-2021||Jharkhand||Bust vaccine myths in villages, speed up tests, Hemant told||Lawmakers of Palamau and Santhal Pargana commissionary stressed on intensifying awareness drives in villages to bust myths around the Covid-19 vaccine, increase testing facilities, devise ways for micro-level health surveillance and suggested several other measures to combat the spriling cases of Covid-19 during their online interaction with chief minister Hemant Soren on Monday. Over a dozen MPs and MLAs took part in the discussion held by Hemant under the backdrop of a rural surge in coronavirus cases. Highlighting the measures taken so far, Hemant appealed to them to work in tandem to strengthen the government’s efforts. “While we are working overtime to tackle the second wave, it’s time we also start preparing for the third wave, which as per experts, is going to affect children. On the other hand, with majority of our population residing in villages, we have a big task at hand to prevent this," he said. The chief minister also said the government will install two Cobas machines, which would become operational by the end of June, in order to increase the rate of Covid testing and overcome the delay in getting the results of RT PCR tests. “We are focussed on increasing oxygen-supported beds. From 250 oxygen-supported beds in the initial phase of the second wave, we now have in excess of 10,000 such beds. Covid Circuit and Sanjeevani Vahan are also helping patients in getting oxygen-supported beds,” said Hemant. The chief minister also said that Gamharia-based Indo-Danish Tool Room would soon start producing oxygen flow meters (a device that regulates oxygen supply) so that the state would not have to be dependent on Gujarat. The government is also simultaneously in touch with other manufacturing companies for procurement of the same, he said. “Besides cylinders, flow meters are scarce in the market today. Therefore, we are soon going to start our own manufacturing at flow meters at Indo-Danish Tool Room, an industrial training institute (ITI). Designs are almost ready and manufacturing of flow meters on our own will help to tackle the shortage,” he said as per a press release issued in the evening. To address the challenges of transportation of critical patients from villages, Hemant announced that two cardiac ambulances would be provided to every district in a few days. Earlier, lawmakers raised several shortcomings in the health infrastructure at the grassroots level. Congress MLA from Poriyahat Pradeep Yadav spokeof how non-Covid patients were dying for want of timley medical help. “A 30 year-old youth, who was admitted to Dumka medical college died two days ago only because he didn’t get oxygen. When I intervened after his parents contacted me, the medical superintendent told me that he couldn’t be put on ventilator or provided an oxygen bed because he tested Covid negative only a day ago. The report could be false but the reality is that the person died. This is a significant issue that needs to be addressed," he said. BJP MLA from Rajmahal Anant Ojha spoke of how delays in obtaining test reports were leading to complications. “Reports are delayed by over two to three weeks, which confuses people. Unlike urban areas, people in remote areas don’t get ready to get tested in the first place," he said, adding that vaccine hesitancy among villagers needed to be addressed too. JMM Maheshpur MLA Stephen Marandi demanded distribution of medical kits to everyone in villages irrespective of whether one was in isolation or not. “At every health centre, there should be a helpdesk that can guide people in the event one doesn't get a hospital bed. Unlike urban areas, people in villages cannot use mobile apps to tap resources,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-58
10-05-2021||Jharkhand||MP Bidyut Mahto donates 8 ambulances for rural areas||Jamshedpur BJP parliamentarian Bidyut Baran Mahto on Monday donated 8 air-conditioned ambulances equipped with oxygen cylinders to the East Singhbhum district administration, meant to ferry patients from rural areas. Mahto and deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar jointly flagged off the vehicles from the district collectorate. BJP East Singhbhum district president Gunjan Yadav was also present at the occasion. “People living in the rural pockets will benefit. The vehicles have already left for their rural destinations,” said Mahto. The vehicles were put on trial on Sunday to ensure everything, including mileage, was in order before they were handed over to the district administration. The BJP parliamentarian had also arranged rations and packed food for the people living in the blocks of East Singhbhum during the first wave of the Covid pandemic last year. Seven ambulances will ferry Covid patients from the rural areas and one is meant for the steel city’s urban localities. The ambulances will be used in Ghatshila, Potka, Baharagora, Musaboni and Patamda in East Singhbhum. Mahto will be handing over six more air-conditioned ambulances, including two meant for hearse service. Two ambulances will be for the steel city and will be run by the urban civic bodies Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee and Mango Notified Area Committee. District vigil The district police led by senior superintendent M. Tamil Vanan visited Sakchi market to ensure no shops were open during the state-wide lockdown. The police personnel also stopped an auto-rickshaw driver who was seen ferrying more than four passengers. The driver was warned and the extra passengers were asked to travel in other auto.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-59
10-05-2021||Jharkhand||Three Covid patients develop 'black fungus', lose an eye each||At least three cases of Covid-induced 'black fungus" have occurred in Jharkhand in the past 48 hours and all three patients have lost an eye during  course of treatment, doctors from Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital in Ranchi said on Monday, warning about a possible increase in cases in the days to come. On Saturday, doctors at Medica had to surgically remove one eye of a 38-year-old man from Ramgarh who was suffering from black fungus after surviving a Coronavirus infection. By Monday afternoon, doctors at the facility were treating two more Covid survivors – a 40-year-old man from Ramgarh and a 60-year-old woman from Ranchi – after they developed black fungus, doctors said. Mucormycosis or black fungus is a rare infection caused by exposure to mucor mould found in soil, plants, manure and decaying fruits and vegetables. This infection usually affects the lungs, the nasal tract and the sinus of the patient and has a fatality rate of 50 per cent, say doctors. Previously called "zygomycosis" it has been affecting recovered or recovering Covid patients. No other case of Covid-induced mucormycosis has been reported from any part of the state. But doctors do not rule out the possibility of more patients developing the disease but were unaware of its symptoms. “We already have three patients of black fungus in our facility. Many patients are failing to identify the symptoms at an early stage and are seeking medical help only once their condition gets critical,” said Dr Anindya Anuradha, the ophthalmologist who operated the 38-year-old Ramgarh man on Saturday and is also treating the other two patients. “We have flushed out the nasal track of the two patients who came to us today. The fungus has already damaged one eye of both the patients and we may have to go for a surgery if their condition deteriorates,” the opthalmologist said. While the deadly fungus is less likely to get transmitted from one person to another, doctors say that it is occurring in Covid patients who had to be administered high doses of steroids during treatment. “Diabetic Covid patients who were administered high doses of steroids during treatment were particularly at higher risk,” Dr. Anuradha said, adding that people with immunocompromised diseases such as HIV should also stay cautious. In the absence of timely treatment, which in most cases is removal of the eye, the virus may infect the patient’s brain and cause death, say doctors. Last year also cases of Covid-induced black fungus were reported in New Delhi and other parts of the country. However, this is the first time that Jharkhand has reported such cases since the entry of the virus in the state in March 2020, say doctors. With almost 78,000 cases of Covid-19 reported so far, Ranchi is the worst-affected district in Jharkhand in terms of caseload. Ramgarh, on the other hand, has reported over 11,000 Covid cases so far, according to government data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-59
10-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad locality residents protest Covid burial ||More than hundred residents of Joraphatak locality on Monday protested the alleged illegal burial of Covid victims at the burial ground of Joraphatak, fearing the water seepage from the ground will cause detrimental health problems. The protesters submitted a memorandum to Surendra Kumar, sub divisional officer of Dhanbad, demanding immediate action against the practice that will affect over 200 houses around the burial ground. Lakhi Sharma, a resident of the locality who led the delegation residents which submitted the memorandum claimed, “Over 20-25 dead bodies of Covid affected persons have been buried in the last 10 days and three dead bodies have been buried last night itself.” “The health department members come in the dead of night wearing PPE kits in ambulances and carry out burial of the bodies in a clandestine manner,” said Sharma and added when they raised the issue with local officials they claimed that the virus does not survive in dead bodies. “We want to put a blunt question before the administration that if the virus  does not survive in the dead bodies then what is the logic of constructing a special burial ground in the remote Aamjhar locality of Baliapur far from the human habitation,” said Sharma. Parmatma Yadav, another resident of locality who also participated in the protest said, “We are so scared due to the siren of the ambulance coming in our locality that we can’t have proper sleep since the last ten days and want a proper enquiry into the issue.” The Dhanbad district administration during July last year constructed a funeral site for dead bodies of Covid deceased on 3.5 acres of land in Aamjhar Panchayat of Baliapur block. The local villagers of Aamjhar initially also protested against the construction of a funeral site in their area apprehending the spread of Covid infection in their locality but was later persuaded by district administration officials. Repeated efforts to contact the sub divisional officer of Dhanbad, Surendra Prasad and Dhanbad Circle Officer, Prashant Kumar Layak failed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-59
10-05-2021||Jharkhand||Police hold flag march to impose lockdown curbs in steel city ||Concerned over the spurt in Covid cases, the East Singhbhum district administration launched a mega drive on Monday by taking out a flag march to drill into people the necessity of following lockdown rules and other safety protocols. The flagmarch, which was taken out from Sakchi police station, had more than 20 vehicles and was led by senior SP  Tamil M Vanan. It went around various places covering the Sakchi roundabout, Shitla Mandir area, Jhanda Chowk and Straight Mike Road. The senior SP, accompanied by ADM (law and order) N. K. Lal and other senior police officers, reprimanded several shop owners at Sakchi for not adhering to lockdown orders. At Sakchi the SP also warned auto-rickshaw drivers not to carry more than two passengers . The flagmarch later went across Kashidih and Bhalubasa localities where residents were asked to stay indoors and come out only in case of an urgency. A similar drill was carried out in densely populated Mango locality. ADM (law and order) Lal said that such drives would be held regularly. "We have decided to continue the drive so as to make people aware of the Covid and lockdown rules," he said. The steel city reported 562 Covid cases in the past 24-hours and recorded 11 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-59
10-05-2021||Jharkhand||Rickshaw drivers struggle for passengers, income drops  by 50%||More than 15 thousand auto rickshaw and e-rickshaw drivers of Dhanbad are facing one of the most difficult times with the state-wide lockdown during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Around 90% of auto rickshaw drivers have already stopped operations due to lack of passengers and increased overhead expenses, including high fuel and maintenance cost. The passengers are unwilling to pay the increased fare fixed for the lockdown period. Decrease in income of common people has also contributed to less number of passengers for rickshaw drivers. On an average they would run their vehicles with 10 passengers, the number has dipped to around two in this period. A delegation of drivers met the president of Jharkhand Pradesh Diesel Chalak Mahsangh, Chhotan Singh, demanding an ex gratia amount of Rs 5000 for all auto rickshaw drivers on the line of the Delhi Government. Vickey Chawla, an autorickshaw driver said, “The situation is quite different from the lockdown of the first wave of pandemic when auto rickshaws were not allowed to ply for three months but witnessed sufficient passengers when allowed to ply.” “As the second wave is more severe and death rate is more compared with last year, people themselves are scared of venturing outside and especially travelling in public vehicles despite no bar on public transport,” said Chawla. He said the decrease in passengers travelling by train has also led to a dip in their income as stations are a source of the majority of their daily passengers. “The income of such drivers having their autorickshaw is around Rs 1000 per day during the normal days while others also used to earn around Rs 500 per day but now the income has reduced to Rs 150 to Rs 200 per day thus it is very difficult to sustain life with such meagre money and also risking our own life” said Chawla. “With no income since the last over 18 days, it is very difficult to manage the expense of five persons including me, my wife and three children,” said Balkmund Sah, another autorickshaw driver of Hirapur. Chhotan Singh said, “More than 50% of around 15,000 auto rickshaw drivers of the district are deprived of ration cards and last year we managed the food grains from the district administration as well as some voluntary organisations and we will again meet Sub Divisional Officer of Dhanbad seeking some help for auto rickshaw drivers.” “The condition of those having ration cards is not much better as rice, wheat and dal provided from the PDS are not the only requirement to sustain life as family members of the many auto rickshaw drivers are ailing and require money for treatment and procuring medicines,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-59
10-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid recoveries outnumber fresh cases as number of active patients drop in Jharkhand||Covid recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of infection in Jharkhand on Sunday, causing a drop in the active caseload, while the state also reported less than 100 Covid fatalities after reporting a triple-digit-spike in the Covid toll every day since the beginning of May, figures shared by the health department highlighted. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 6461 Covid patients recovered from the viral infection on Sunday against 4169 fresh cases reported on the day, bringing the active caseload in Jharkhand down to 58,806. At least 97 Covid patients, including 43 in Ranchi and 11 in East Singhbhum, died in the past 24 hours, taking the Covid toll in the state to 3853. In the past one week, the state has reported around 130 Covid deaths every day on an average, so Sunday’s findings caused a drop in the average deaths reported daily in the month of May, health officials said. The active caseload also dropped in Ranchi and East Singhbhum – two of the worst-affected districts. Ranchi reported 779 cases against 1103 recoveries, while East Singhbhum reported 562 cases against 732 recoveries, highlighted the NHM bulletin. By the end of Sunday, the active caseload in Ranchi was down to 19,150 while that in East Singhbhum dropped to 5,691. The Covid toll, however, continued to witness a steep rise in the two districts. As per government data, Sunday’s developments took the Covid toll in Ranchi to 1216 and that in East Singhbhum to 811. These two districts account for more than 50 per cent of the Covid fatalities reported in Jharkhand so far. Among other districts, Deoghar reported 280 cases against 179 recoveries, while Ramgarh reported 204 cases against 149 recoveries. At least 192 people were found infected in Bokaro and 240 in West Singhbhum on the day. None of the Jharkhand districts reported more than 1000 fresh cases of infection on the day. The state on Sunday tested swab samples of 37,644 residents and more than 10 per cent of them were found infected. As per government data, over 2.86 lakh Jharkhand residents have been infected by the deadly virus so far and 78.11 per cent of them have survived. The growth rate of cases also dropped to 1.88 per cent on the day in Jharkhand against the national average of 1.36 per cent, revealed government data. The Covid growth rate in the state was above 2 per cent since the beginning of this month. The Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 1.34 per cent, which is higher than the national average of 1.10 per cent, stated the NHM data. On Sunday, the government administered the first dose of the vaccine against Covid-19 to 6971 residents while the second dose was administered to 10,683 beneficiaries, highlighted a separate report from NHM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-59
10-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Amrit Vahini website draws callers in Jharkhand||The people of Jharkhand have started availing the facilities offered by Amrit Vahini website and the related chatbot. A release issued by the state’s public relations department informed this on Sunday evening about those the online facilities the state government had introduced for Covid affected persons and their families on Friday. “23,575 persons visited the website during the past three days and 356 persons booked hospital beds using it while 37,375 persons availed the services offered by the chatbot,” the release informed about the online facilities that chief minister Hemant Soren had inaugurated on Friday. For the chatbot, interested persons can send their names on WhatsApp number 85955-24447 that helps open a chat box through which where they can obtain medical advice, information on prospective plasma donors and diet chart. “I’m told that over 37,000 persons used this facilities so far and 356 got hospital beds booked through this app,” Soren was quoted as saying in the release and added that people should utilise these facilities whenever they need those. Jharkhand on Sunday reported 141  Covid-19 fatalities, raising the toll to 3,756, while the coronavirus tally mounted to 2,82,174 with 6,112 fresh cases, a health department bulletin said, adds PTI. The state now has 61,195 active cases, while 2,17,223 patients have so far recovered from the disease, it said. Ranchi district recorded the maximum number of 42 fatalities, followed by East Singhbhum (25) and Dhanbad (11). The recovery rate stood at 76.98 per cent as against the national average of 81.90 per cent, the bulletin said. The mortality rate in the state, however, is higher at 1.33 per cent compared to 1.10 per cent at the national level. A total of 73,05,183 samples have been tested for Covid-19 in Jharkhand, including 45,658 since Saturday, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-59
