11-05-2021||Jharkhand||Clarify lockdown norms, say Dhanbad traders||Dhanbad traders have asked the district administration to clarify policemen about the list of shops that are allowed to open due to lockdown, as several cops are closing down outlets dealing in electrical items, plumbing materials, paints, hardware, etc. The traders, led by Sindri Chamber of Commerce president Dipak Kumar Dipu, have objected to the closure of these shops, which have been permitted to operate as per government notification. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Tuesday, Dipu said that cops on ground duty tasked with enforcing lockdown, often get confused and do not count the above-mentioned shops as construction material outlets, as they feel this includes only civil construction. “The confusion among some policemen about the list permitted sometimes lead them to forcefully close down shops dealing in permitted materials like paint, plumbing and electrical items. We have faced such incidents in Sindri recently, after which we took up the issue to sub-divisional police officer Ajeet Kumar Sinha,” said Dipu. He added that the issue was then resolved as the officer provided necessary instruction to his subordinates. “We also appeal to the administration to notify the on-ground cops about the list of shops that are permitted to open to avoid confusion and unnecessary harassment,” the official further said. He also questioned the logic of not allowing the opening of the motor part shops while, as per the orders, the motor repairing shops are permitted to open. “How will a mechanic repair a two-wheeler or four-wheeler if he can’t procure the essential parts,” he asked. Secretary of Dhanbad Motor Dealers Association, Prem Prakash Gangesaria, said, “Motor parts shops are open in various parts of the state like Ranchi, Jamshedpur and Chas but we can’t understand the reason why they are not being allowed to function in Dhanbad.” Manish Ranjan, treasurer of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry also agreed to this, saying mechanics will not be able to repair vehicles if they cannot procure their parts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-57
11-05-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Main Hospital installs 13kl oxygen tank ||Tata Main Hospital (TMH) has installed a new 13-kilolitre liquid oxygen tank for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. The tank, set up on a war footing within a fortnight, will work towards ensuring an uninterrupted supply of oxygen to patients in the hospital. TMH is currently treating about 450 Covid cases on its premises. The hospital witnessed 204 admissions last week. In all, it has had to admit 6,535 Covid patients. Addressing a teleconference here on Tuesday evening, Dr Rajan Choudhry, advisor, Medical Services, Tata Steel, said that the hospital was adding facilities to cater to the growing needs of Covid patients. "The new liquid oxygen plant is a step ahead in this direction. It was set up in association with Linde India. This will further enhance smooth oxygen supply at the hospital. The hospital earlier had a 6-kilolitre tank, and with the new tank, the total capacity has increased to 19 kilolitres," he said. Dr Choudry added that they had to enhance capacity due to the rising consumption of oxygen. As per hospital data, TMH recorded 76 Covid deaths in the last four days. Of these, 46 people were above the age of 60 years. But seven of these were below 40. A total of 64 patients who died were from East Singhbhum, nine from Seraikela-Kharswan and two from Dhanbad. TMH is conducting more than 1,500 Covid tests daily and the average positivity rate is 32.84 per cent, which is high in terms of spread of the virus. Last week the rat was 48.93 per cent. The hospital is also running a vaccination programme. There was a large queue of men and women who had come fr the vaccine on the premises on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-57
11-05-2021||Jharkhand||Patient hangs himself at steel city hospital, family suspects frustration||A 35-year-old patient died by suicide at the Sakchi-based MGM Medical College and Hospital on Tuesday afternoon, allegedly out of frustration due to his prolonged illness. Kailash Purty, the deceased, reportedly hanged with a towel at the medicine ward's bathroom. His wife Geeta Purty said she raised an alarm when her husband failed to come out of the bathroom even after an hour and took the help of hospital staff to break the door of the bathroom, where they found him hanging. Family members and the hospital immediately reported the incident to the Sakchi police, who have started a probe. According to family members, Kailash, a resident of  Ulidih in Mango used to work as a private security guard. "But as he was suffering from some stomach-related ailments he had to quit his job. He was frustrated because of the sufferings and this might have compelled him to take this step," said Jyoti Purty, sister of the deceased. According to her, Kailash was admitted to the hospital last week when he complained of severe stomach pain. He was undergoing treatment for the last five days. He had to be rushed to the hospital earlier in January this year, too, for the stomach-related ailments. A doctor of MGM Medical College and Hospital, Mritunjay Singh, said Sakchi police took the body in their possession after completing necessary formalities and sent the body to the Dimna-based MGM College for post-mortem. Nurses confirmed that Kailash was not suffering from Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-57
11-05-2021||Jharkhand||Mobile vans to conduct rapid tests in Ranchi localities ||Ranchi district administration will be rolling out mobile vans to conduct rapid antigen tests (RAT) in localities where more than 50 people are willing to get themselves tested. Deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan notified a WhatsApp-enabled mobile number, 9810592277, on which residents can ask for the service.  “We will send vans to all those places based on the demand. We need to have at least 50 people ready for testing in a particular locality," he said on Tuesday. Rapid tests are primarily used for first-level screening. A positive result in this necessitates a confirmatory RT-PCR test. State health officials explained that the new variant of the virus was not showing up in RT-PCR tests. Hence, an HRCT (high resolution computed tomography) scan of the chest is being recommended to ascertain the level of infection in the lungs to determine the course of treatment. District administration officials said they would use RAT as the first line of screening since these tests can be conducted relatively easily. The brutal second wave of the pandemic that hit Jharkhand in the last week of March has exposed severe shortcomings in the government's health machinery. As cases began piling up from April, the situation turned worse in Ranchi with people running from pillar to post to get admission in hospitals even as many treatment centres ran out of beds. The number of fresh infections has been showing a downward trend since May 7 with less than 1,000 daily cases. On Monday, Ranchi recorded 526 new cases. However, Ranchi has been reporting double-digit death figures every day. “The casualties are a nationwide trend. One of the reasons is the intensity of the latest strain of the virus. Unlike in the first phase, the health condition of those infected is deteriorating overnight. And the response time for medical intervention is usually very less. We all are worried about this,” remarked a doctor at Ranchi Sadar Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-57
11-05-2021||Jharkhand|| Dhanbad taxis have none to ply, earnings plummet ||Over a thousand taxi drivers of Dhanbad are reeling under the impact of the second wave of the pandemic, with many of them not receiving calls from customers for the past 20 days. The remaining are getting only one booking per day, instead of three to four. The situation of over 200 drivers operating at the Dhanbad station road is worse, as majority of them are returning empty handed at the end of the day due to lack of passengers in the area. A host of factors, including the decreased movement of passengers in trains, their suspension amid the lockdowns, and increased safety concerns among people are primarily responsible for this situation. Majority of passengers now prefer to travel in their own vehicles or opt for cheaper options such as autorickshaws, making the condition of the taxi drivers worse. BN Prasad (59) a taxi driver of Professor Colony in Chiragora told The Telegraph Online that he has been in the profession for the last 38 years and supports a family of eight, but the decreased income has been putting him under a lot of difficulties. “We had received a blow during last year’s lockdown already, with only a few of the trains being restored. However, the situation became worse during the second wave as the Railways suspended popular trains like Rajdhani Express, Shatabdi Express and the CoalField Express. We have been visiting the station daily with hope to get a passenger, but return penniless,” Prasad said. Inam Khan (40), another taxi driver of Panderpala locality, said,” I spent 10 litres of fuel for over a week but never got any passengers. So, I am now sitting at home.” Khan said that taxi drivers used to earn Rs 10,000 to Rs 12,000 per month normally, and during the wedding season it went up to Rs 15,000 per month. “Due to the cancellation of several weddings, we got another blow this year,” he added. Moshad Khan(35), a taxi driver of Wasseypur locality, said that the majority of the passengers boarding trains now are migrant workers. “They prefer travelling in autorickshaws and our main customers who used to arrive through trains like Rajdhani Express, Shatabdi Express, etc are elusive now,” he added. “Though we have ration cards but around 12 kg of rice and 10 kg of wheat can’t fulfil all our requirements. We also need medicines for treatment, housing rent etc and the government should come forward to help us,” said Moshad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-58
11-05-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city sets up seventh Covid testing centre||The East Singhbhum district administration has ramped up Covid testing in steel city with addition of one more centre that's working out of the community hall at Biswajeet Manimela ground at Bistupur here on Tuesday. The facility at Manimela ground is the seventh in Jamshedpur. Six Covid testing centres are already functioning at Sidhgora Town hall, Community Health Centre in Olidih (Mango), Tarun Sangh in Kadma, Community Health Centre in Kagalnagar (Sonari), Jail Chowk in Sakchi and M.E. School in Jugsalai. With Covid cases witnessing a spike in Jamshedpur, the district administration swung into action to set up an additional testing unit. Jamshedpur circle officer Amit Kumar Srivastav said  an additional Covid testing centre was needed so that more people could undergo tests. “Six Covid testing centres are already functioning in different localities of the city and another such facility would help more people to undergo tests,” he added. Over 40,000 people have so far tested positive for Covid-19 in the past one year during the first and second waves of the pandemic in East Singhbhum. Two persons were the first to test positive at Chakulia (in East Singhbhum) in May last year. Amid the rising number of Covid cases, the district police on Tuesday continued their  mega mask and helmet checking drive. Police conducted the drive in the presence of DSP (Headquarter 1) Birender Ram, DSP (Headquarter 2) Kamal Kishore, DSP (Crime Control Room) Arvind Kumar, DSP (Traffic) Babban Singh and officer in-charges of Mango, Olidih and Azadnagar at Mango, Azadnagar and Ulidih localities. The drive to ensure people were masks and two-wheeler drivers helmets was conducted near Azad Marriage Hall in Azadnagar. But local residents gathered and protested against the campaign. They said police were slapping fines on people at a time when shops were closed and business was adversely affected. Police later discontinued the drive and returned from the spot. Police are conducting similar drives at various other areas of the steel city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-58
11-05-2021||Jharkhand||Elderly woman killed during suspected robbery bid in Dhanbad||A woman in her 60s was killed on Monday night in what seems to be a robbery attempt at the Kusum Vihar locality of Dhanbad, leading the police to launch a probe into the incident. Sheela Sinha, wife  of a retired Sub Divisional officer of BSNL, used to live alone at her double-storeyed house. Her son lives in Patna, while her daughter stays in Bhilai with their families. The team of cops, led by Senior Superintendent of Police Aseem Vikrant Minz reached at the site late on Monday night and took details from the tenants who live on the ground floor of the house where the incident took place. The team also collected some evidence from the site. The two tenants, Rajkumar Singh and Dilip Kumar, said they didn’t  get any information  about the incident and only got to know about it when the deceased’s son Sumit Sinha called Dilip after not getting any response from his mother for a long time. Dilip said that when he went upstairs, he found that Sinha’s room was closed. She did not elicit any response despite knocking on the door and shouting repeatedly. He then found the lock of the door open and went inside to find the victim lying dead on the floor and her almirah open with several articles lying here and there. On Sumit’s instruction, Dilip then called the local police as well as the SSP, after which a team arrived. Talking about the incident, SSP Minz said, “It seems the woman was killed during a robbery attempt where she was strangled from behind by the culprits. However, since she did not have a huge amount of money at her home, we are also looking into other aspects of the incident.” Aparna Singh, wife of tenant Rajkumar Singh, revealed that she had seen the victim talking over phone with someone at around 9 am, while she was locking the door.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-58
11-05-2021||Jharkhand||IAF planes ferry 139 oxygen tankers for refill in a fortnight||Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi has facilitated the movement of at least 139 oxygen tankers since April 24 in a bid to help various states meet the demand for liquid medical oxygen (LMO) amid rising cases of Covid-induced hypoxia in patients, airport authorities said on Tuesday. “About 100 Indian Airforce aircraft flew 139 empty oxygen tankers to the Ranchi airport since April 24. These tankers were then sent to various steel plants in Jharkhand for refilling, so they could be sent to various states via road or railways,” said the director of Birsa Munda Airport, Vinod Sharma. Cryogenic oxygen containers brought to Ranchi airport by air were of capacities ranging from 10 metric tonne to 20 metric tonne, airport sources said. Transporting empty containers by air saved time and ensured that needy patients in different states got the medical oxygen they needed on time, sources claimed. The steel majors in Jharkhand – Tata Steel and Bokaro Steel Plant – have been supplying several metric tonnes of liquor oxygen to Uttar Pradesh, New Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal and some south Indian states. More than 8000 metric tonneoxygen has been supplied by the two companies to different states so far, representatives of the two companies said. Indian Airforce aircraft such as C 17, C 130J, AN 32, IL 76, among other small aircraft, have been helping with the timely supply of medical oxygen and other essential materials during the ongoing Covid crisis. Ranchi airport has ensured landing facility for aircraft carrying medical equipment, oxygen and other essentials on a priority basis, said officials, adding that air ambulances too are given priority. While the largest airport in Jharkhand has been contributing to India’s fight against the pandemic, passenger flights to and from the state capital have remained affected due to rapidly falling passenger traffic. At least nine flights to Delhi, Chennai, Mumbai and Ahmedabad were cancelled on Monday due to lack of passengers, airport authorities said. As per data shared by the airport, as many as 543 passengers travelled to other cities from Ranchi on Monday, while 1,204 passengers landed in Ranchi. Airport authorities have also put on hold plans to start new flights to tier-2 cities due to the Covid-19 situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-58
11-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid recoveries outnumber fresh cases in the state for the second consecutive day||The Covid toll in Jharkhand drew close to the 4000-mark on Monday as 129 more patients, including 35 from Ranchi and 16 from East Singhbhum, succumbed to the viral infection in the past 24 hours, figures compiled by the State health department highlighted. While the state continued to report a triple-digit-spike in fatalities, the active caseload witnessed a dip for the second consecutive day as recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of infection in Jharkhand on Monday. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 6962 Covid patients recovered from the infection against 6187 fresh cases that occurred on the day, bringing the active caseload down to 57,902. Ranchi on Monday reported thrice as many recoveries as fresh cases, thereby witnessing a significant fall in the active caseload. As per the NHM bulletin, at least 1704 Covid patients recovered here while 526 people were found infected. Monday’s findings brought the active caseload in Ranchi down to 17,929. However, with 35 casualties reported on the day, the Covid toll in the district jumped to 1251, NHM data revealed. Ranchi accounts for almost 30 per cent of the 3982 Covid casualties reported in the state so far. Recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of infection in East Singhbhum as well. As per government data, the district reported 1094 recoveries against 1015 cases, which brought the active caseload down to 5,601. The 16 casualties there took the Covid toll to 827, NHM stated in its bulletin. Among other districts, Bokaro reported 623 cases against 300 recoveries, while Gumla reported 288 cases against 220 recoveries. As many as 360 Hazaribag residents were found infected on the day while 668 patients recovered in the district. Pakur also reported 450 cases of Coronavirus infection, while at least 300 people were found infected in Koderma. The state on Monday tested swab samples of 1,00,724 residents and around 6 per cent of them were found infected. The figures indicate that the positivity rate in Jharkhand dropped significantly on the day. So far, over 2.92 lakh people have been infected by the mysterious virus in the state and 78.84 per cent of them have recovered, stated the NHM bulletin. As per government data, the growth rate of cases in the state was 1.85 per cent against the national average of 1.33 per cent. The growth rate of Covid cases in the state has dropped from over 2.5 per cent a fortnight ago. Meanwhile, the doubling rate has also improved. As per NHM data, it would take 37.86 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand against the national average of 52.40 days. The Covid mortality rate in the state, however, was 1.36 per cent, which is higher than the national average of 1.10 per cent. The state administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 12,339 residents on the day, while the second dose was administered to 18,128 residents, stated a separate report from the NHM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-58
11-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: 24-hour hunt to bury victim in Gumla district||Relatives of a retired police officer, who died of Covid-19 on Sunday in Gumla district of Jharkhand, had to run around for nearly 24 hours before being able to cremate his body, which started showing signs of decomposition, around noon on Monday. Alexius Lakra, 65, a retired police sub-inspector, died on Sunday around 10am at the Sadar Hospital in Gumla. A resident of Jori village in Bishunpur block under Bishunpur police station of Gumla district, Lakra had been admitted to the Sadar Hospital on Friday after testing positive for Covid-19 at the Bishunpur community health centre. The area is nearly 114km from state capital Ranchi. Following Covid protocols, Lakra’s relatives waited at the site near Mundar Dam in Bishunpur, which has been identified by the block officials for the last rites. The ambulance driver came with the body of the deceased and kept it near the site and left. While the relatives of the deceased, who are Christians, were planning for the burial, a group of villagers from Mundar opposed it claiming that the process would lead to spread of Covid-19 in their village. Lakra’s relatives somehow managed to hire a tractor and took the body to the Bishunpur block office in the evening and kept the body on the vehicle through Sunday night. On Monday morning, with the help of administrative officials the relatives took the body to Chera village in Bishunpur block, nearly 2km from Mundar Dam, for burial. However, the villagers there also started opposing the burial and there were heated arguments between the relatives of the deceased and locals. The villagers were adamant that the body should be buried in Lakra’s native village and not in another place. The relatives along with the officials then tried to perform the burial at two other villages — Gutuwa and Jehan Gutuwa — but again faced resistance from the local residents. Finally, Bishunpur block development officer Chhanda Bhattacharya, Bishunpur circle officer Dhananjay Pathak and Bishunpur police station officer-in-charge Sadanand Singh along with a sizable police force went to Juri and managed to perform the burial at Lakra’s native place. Bhattacharya blamed the hospital authorities for a lack of coordination which led to the delay in burying the body. “We were not given information on time about the body of a Covid patient being brought for burial from the district health officials. Otherwise, we would have prepared for the burial well in advance taking the villagers into confidence,” said Bhattacharya. Gumla civil surgeon Dr Vijay Bhengra, however, said that they had provided information to the block officials on time. “We had followed all the protocols and provided the information to the block officials concerned before sending the body in an ambulance. It is their responsibility to ensure burial or cremation of the body,” said Bhengra. Gumla deputy commissioner Shishir Kumar Sinha claimed it was not a big issue. “It is not a big issue as it is being made out to be. Bishunpur is a rebel-hit area and we could not conduct the burial as it was late in the evening. There was some opposition from villagers due to a lack of awareness on the spread of Covid. However, they were pacified and the body was buried,” said Sinha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-58
