12-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand extends ongoing lockdown to May 27||The Jharkhand government on Wednesday announced the extension of its ongoing partial lockdown till May 27 and introduced further restrictions banning all inter and intra state buses. A decision on the latest mode of lockdown was announced on Wednesday night after a meeting of the state disaster management authority (SDMA) under the chairmanship of chief minister Hemant Soren. Under the new measures, the number of people at marriage gatherings have been brought down to 11 from the earlier cap of 50 and mandatory quarantine (home or institutional) of anyone entering the state for seven days. All the new rules will come into effect from May 16 stated a statement released by IPRD. “Between 6am of May 13 and 16, all the norms announced during the previous notification will continue to remain in force,” it read. As far as home or institutional quarantine is concerned, it will not be applicable to those who return back within 72 hours. In order to curb the transmission chain of coronavirus infection, the state government had first announced partial lockdown on April 22 for a week, which further got extended to May 13. Essential services along with operation of few other key segments like, courier, construction, mining and wine shops were allowed to run as per the prescribed SOPs. Permitted commercial activities were allowed to run till 2pm, post which, complete lockdown was observed. The movement of people was restricted till 2pm, after which, they were only allowed for medical or other emergencies in public or private transport depending on the availability. However, this time, people can only travel in their private vehicles for prescribed reasons only through e-pass, which will be issued by respective district administrations, stated the press release.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-56
12-05-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town property dealer shot dead in Wasseypur||Unidentified bike borne criminals shot dead a property dealer, Ashraful Hasan of Wasseypur, on Wednesday afternoon. The incident took place near the Jabbar Masjid of Wasseypur when Hasan was heading towards his home at Wasseypur on a bike. Eye witnesses present near Jabbar Masjid told police that two bike-borne criminals arrived from behind, shot Hasan in the head and then fled from the site. Sources close to the family of the deceased claimed that Hasan, also known as Lala Khan, had recently received a letter from Aman Singh, a notorious gang leader demanding Rs 1 crore from him. The sender of the letter identified himself as Chhotu Singh, a member of Aman Singh’s gang and claimed that whoever disobeys him is not spared. Police seized a bike used by the criminals near the Dhanbad Gomoh Railway line in Wasseypur and sent the body of the deceased for post-mortem at Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital A joint team of Bank More and Bhuli Police outpost rushed him to Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital where he died during the course of treatment. Senior police officers including the Dhanbad Senior Superintendent of Police Assem Vikrant Minz and City SP, R. Ramkumar took details from the family members of the deceased and also the eyewitnesses near the incident site. Minz said, “We are trying to find out reasons for the incident and we have also seized a bike allegedly used by the criminals.” “We are trying to find out whether some personal enmity was behind the murder of Lala Khan and will try to crack the case as soon as possible on the basis of clues received by us,” said Minz. Aman Singh, was arrested by police from Mirzapur in UP on May 3, 2017 as the first shooter in the Niraj Singh murder. Singh has figured in a number of extortion threat cases to various private coal contractors, businessmen and politicians, including Rajesh Gupta, a close aide of Baghmara MLA Dhullu Mahto. He was shifted from Dhanbad divisional jail to Hotwar jail in Ranchi last year and was remanded for three days by Dhanbad police on February 10 this year in connection with threat calls made to a Govindpur based trader, Vimla Devi for a land deal case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-56
12-05-2021||Jharkhand||Forest division comes to steel city crematoriums' rescue||The Jamshedpur forest division has swung into action to bail out two steel city burning ghats, which are facing an acute crisis of timber, owing to an increase in the volume of bodies coming for daily cremation. Timber stocked in Jubilee Park has been earmarked and would now be made available to Subarnarekha ghat in Bhuiyadih and Parvati ghat in Jugsalai. Over 50 cremations take place daily at Subarnarekha ghat which is reserved for cremating Covid bodies after 1 pm while over 40 are consigned to the flames at Parvati ghat. Electric furnaces at both the burning ghats had stopped functioning in view of the overload of bodies last week. However, the problem has now been sorted out, with the ones at Parvati ghat being mended. The two (out of four) furnaces at the Subarnarekha ghat have been repaired and are functioning now. However, the number of non-Covid bodies has increased manifold and are therefore cremated on wood. Resultantly, demand for timber has increased but the managing committees of both ghats used to maintain limited stock earlier. “The timber lying inside the Jubilee Park will be provided to Subarnarekha and Parvati ghats which are facing a crisis. We have already inspected the timber at the park.,” an official at Jamshedpur forest division said on condition of anonymity. Parvati ghat manager Vinod Tiwary said they were facing a crisis of timber since the number of bodies coming for last rites has increased. “Two truckloads of timber are supplied by a local supplier daily, but now the demand has increased. It is good that the Jamshedpur forest division is arranging the same for us. We need it for hassle-free cremations,” he added. A functionary of Subarnarekha ghat said the shortage of timber was obvious in this situation. “We have never witnessed such a high number of bodies coming for daily cremations. Bodies were also being cremated at a vacant space inside the burning ghat,” he added. Covid bodies were also cremated on wood when the furnaces were not functioning. Some social organisations of the steel city are also helping out the crematoriums by providing timber.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-56
12-05-2021||Jharkhand||Street vendors hit by dismal sales during Ramazan||The street sellers of traditional items sold during Ramazan like namaaz caps and mewa have been hit by dismal sales during the state-wide lockdown amid the raging second wave of Covid pandemic. Readymade garment and footwear sellers are also facing the Covid induced slump in sales. Md Sohrab, former president of  Purana Bazar Chamber of Commerce, said, “More than 500-700 streets vendors of Purana Bazar selling these items used to earn the major share of their annual income through the month long sale during Ramazan, but this year there is almost negligible income for them.” “A host of factors, including the apprehensions regarding Covid infection compelling people to remain indoors, lockdown norms preventing the opening of majority of shops, decrease in purchasing capacity of the people due to economic slowdown have led to the decreased sale of Id items,” said Sohrab. “We, as part of the social organisation, Naujawan Committee of Purana Bazar are helping such people as the Id celebrations of these families who are dependent on these item sales have been badly hit,” said Sohrab. Md Enayatullah, a perfume and namaaz cap seller of Wasseypur locality of Dhanbad said, “We have been operating our shop since the last 20 years and we used to earn Rs 1,000 to Rs 2,000 per day during Ramazan except during the last year but this year too we have not earned more than Rs 500 on any day of Ramazan.” Echoing Enayatullah’s sentiments, Ehsan Alam, a roadside namaaz cap seller said, “I am selling caps since the beginning of Ramazan but could not sell more than two to three caps per day as most of the customers who come, return it after asking for rates.” “I used to work at a road side restaurant but turned cap sellers since the lock down of last year as all restaurants are closing during lockdown,” Alam said further.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-56
12-05-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city street food vendors have no customers amid lockdown||Street food vendors of Jamshedpur, some of whom had taken small loans to buy pushcarts and other essentials, are facing the brunt of the situation ever since the state government announced a lockdown last month in view of a spike in Covid cases across Jharkhand. Though the lockdown is enforced from 3 pm to 6 am, the vendors are not operating due to a dip in the number of customers -- most of whom fear having food outside. On top of this, most of the over 400 street food vendors in the city don’t have ration cards and are not able to afford food grains from the open market. Moreover, they have to meet the medical and other expenses of their families in difficult times when income is nil. The vendors in Bistupur, Sakchi, Kadma, Sonari, Burmamines and other places are facing hardship owing to the situation. Most are finding it hard to maintain their families. They fear that the lockdown would be extended and their problems would continue. “I am facing a lot of problems due to the lockdown. I am not operating ever since the lockdown was enforced last month. I had taken a loan to buy a pushcart and other related items. I don’t even have a ration card to buy food grains at a subsidised rate,” said Mohan Singh, a fast-food seller in Bistupur, who used to earn between Rs 15,000 to 20,000 a month earlier. .“I have already faced financial issues during the lockdown last year and was trying to somehow overcome the loss till the lockdown was enforced again last month. Very few people prefer to eat outside in the present scenario and there is no reason to continue in this situation,” said Bibhuti Prasad, a chaat seller in Sakchi. Earlier, he used to make around Rs 12,000 a month. Jitender Das, another vendor, said the state government should pay attention to their plight. “The state government should at least provide us financial assistance to overcome the crisis. The lockdown has dealt a heavy blow to us,” Das, who runs a  snacks stall in Burmamines said, adding he earned over Rs 20,000 per month earlier. The problem for these vendors gets worse as, unlike restaurants, they are not integrated with online food delivery systems.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-56
12-05-2021||Jharkhand||Black fungus infection claims woman with Covid in Jamshedpur||A 40-year-old Jamshedpur woman died of Covid-induced mucormycosis on Tuesday, making her the first person to succimb to "black fungus", a rare infection that occurs in the lungs, nasal passage and sinuses and often harms the eyes. The number of Covid patinets with black fungus has been rising in Jharkhand at an alarming rate with no less than 30 cases being reported in the last 72 hours. Doctors at Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital in Ranchi said the Jamshedpur woman, who died before she could be shifted to the private healthcare facility in the state capital, was diabetic and needed immediate medical attention. “We had arranged a bed for her in our hospital, but she died before she could be brought here,” said Dr Anindya Anuradha, an ophthalmologist who has been treating cases of black fungus at Medica. “The patient was bleeding from both her eyes and was in need of immediate critical care,” she added. While four patients suffering from Covid-induced mucormycosis were undergoing treatment at Medica, at least 20 more were waiting for beds in the hospital, doctors said. The hospital administration has started arranging for more beds to accommodate critical cases of black fungus, said Dr Anuradha. Two patients of Covid-induced Mucormycosis were also undergoing treatment at the state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) on Wednesday. Both patients were diabetic and had recently recovered from Covid-19, doctors said. Ranchi Civil Surgeon Dr Vinod Kumar admitted that cases of black fungus have been reported in the state capital and some patients may need critical care depending on the severity of the disease. “Two mucormycosis patients are undergoing treatment at the post-Covid care in RIMS. We do not have black fungus patients at Sadar Hospital yet as we do not have a post-Covid care facility here,” said Kumar, adding that early diagnosis was the only way to prevent severe complications in patients. Mucormycosis, also called black fungus, is a rare infection caused by exposure to mucor mould found in soil, plants, manure and decaying fruits and vegetables. This infection usually affects the lungs, the nasal tract and the sinus of the patient and has a fatality rate of 50 per cent, say doctors. Dr Anuradha of Medica Hospital said that almost all the patients that have been diagnosed with mucormycosis in Ranchi either had a history of diabetes or witnessed a rise in their blood sugar level during Covid treatment. “Covid survivors who are diabetic should be extra cautious and immediately seek medical attention if they feel any discomfort in their eye, nose or ear,” she said. Earlier this week, doctors at Medica had to surgically remove an eye of a patient to save his life, while two more patients lost their vision due to the disease.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-56
12-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad plans rehab programme for kin of deceased Covid patients||The Dhanbad district administration has decided to extend a helping hand to the family members of deceased Covid patients, belonging to the economically weaker section by providing foodgrains and other essential items besides providing various social welfare schemes. Both short term and long term measures have been planned under the Sathi Sambal scheme, conceptualised by Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh, to be integrated through various measures like making provisions for employment in private outsourcing companies and providing them skill development training. The measures will be rolled out from Thursday with the distribution of Sathi Sambal kits containing 10 kg of rice and wheat each; two kg each of pulses and chura (rice flakes); two kg each of sattu (parched gram powder), salt, chickpea, gram, washing powder; five kg each of potato, onion, sugar; two litres mustard oil; one kg each of spices and soyabean; five packets of biscuits; 10 pieces of bathing soap as well as detergent cakes; 200 grams of toothpaste; three toothbrush; two fruit juice packets, two bottles of sanitizers and 10 pieces of masks. Singh, while elaborating about the provisions of Sathi Sambal scheme said that besides providing kits, all such families will be provided with food grains and ration cards; widow pension; old age pension, disability pension, other social security, village development schemes, education,  social welfare and welfare department schemes. The deputy commissioner said children who have been orphaned and have no guardians to look after in the family will be looked after by different social and nongovernmental organisations. The CSR funds of different corporate organisations in Dhanbad will be utilised for this purpose. “For such families which have lost the lone earner, the educated boys and girls will be integrated with self employment and skill development schemes after carrying out the physical verification of family conditions,” Singh said. District Disaster Management officer of Dhanbad, Sanjay Kumar Jha, said, “Though the loss suffered by the families can’t be compensated by anyone but our effort is to provide some solace to bereaved families and we will be holding an online meeting with all the incident commanders and concerned officers in this regard today.” So far, around 333 out of a total of 13,552 Covid patients have lost their lives in Dhanbad while 11,538 have recovered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-56
12-05-2021||Jharkhand||Bokaro Steel lays pipeline to supply oxygen to hospital||The Bokaro Steel Plant is working to install a 4.5km oxygen pipeline from its production unit to Bokaro General Hospital and a temporary Covid facility, making it the first city in the state to have such an amenity. The direct supply will help the BGH management to augment oxygen beds where more than 200 Covid patients are being treated. At present, Bokaro has 3,677 active Covid cases. BSL has also begun the process of installing an additional 50 beds at a temporary Covid facility at its HRD Centre situated in between the oxygen production plant and BGH. BSL spokesperson, Manikant Dhan said, “The installation process of the pipeline is being done on war footing and the work will be completed in this week. The pipeline of gaseous oxygen being installed directly from plant to BGH is 4.5km long, it will go via HRD centre supplying medical oxygen on 50 beds there. The centre will be ready in the next ten days with all the facilities for the treatment of patients.” BSL, a unit of SAIL, has supplied around 6634 MT medical oxygen to eight states through road, train and air in the past one month. In its efforts to overcome the shortage of healthcare workers, the BSL management has issued an offer letter of reinstatement to 21 doctors and 30 nurses on contract. Ten additional non-invasive ventilators have been called for the treatment of patients at Bokaro General Hospital, which will be available soon. Efforts are also on to maintain the availability of vaporizers and other necessary equipment and essential medicines in the hospital, said Dhan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-57
12-05-2021||Jharkhand||CCL to fund health infrastructure upgrade in eight districts ||Central Coalfields Ltd (CCL), a Jharkhand-based arm of Coal India, has signed as many as eight MoUs with local administrations in the state to extend assistance in treatment of Covid patients and provide funds to augment medical infrastructure in district hospitals. In an official statement on Wednesday, the PSU said that it has signed MoUs with district administrations of Ramgarh, Latehar, Chatra, Bokaro, Ranchi, Giridih, Palamau and Hazaribagh. The company is also ensuring increased quantity of coal to power plants in various parts of the country for meeting  energy requirements, it added. CCL CMD P.M. Prasad said the MoUs with local administrations are valued at Rs 10 crore. “The company has already transferred Rs 6.25 crore. The the rest will be transferred shortly,” he noted. "In Latehar, CCL is setting up a 12-bed ICU with oxygen supply pipeline at the Sadar Hospital. In Chatra, CCL is setting up PSA Oxygen Plant and strengthening ICU facilities at the local Sadar Hospital. For Bokaro, it is helping create a digital covid centre and high-tech ambulance with oxygen,” the company said. Similarly, the MoU with Hazaribagh is for procurement of 100 oxygen concentrators, 100 Jumbo cylinders, 100 B-type cylinders, etc, for Hazaribagh Medical College and Hospital (HMCH). In Ranchi, CCL’s Gandhinagar Central Hospital has been converted into a dedicated Covid hospital by the district administration and a large number of patients are already undergoing treatment there . “CCL has earmarked budget of Rs 7.08 lakh under CSR for procurement of drugs, masks and  oxygen cylinders for Covid wards in the state capital,” it said. As far as its core competency, ie production of coal, CIL and its subsidiaries, including CCL, are  supplying raw coal to more than 80 per cent of the power plants in the country. “Anticipating a rise in power demand, the company is ensuring on an average 49 rakes of coal from its mines to various parts of the country. On Tuesday, May 11, 55 rakes were sent,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-57
12-05-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant hints at stricter curbs, announces specific Covid care plans for rural areas||Chief minister Hemant Soren has said that his government is working out modalities to rope in 300 ex-servicemen as frontline workers to wade through a reeling manpower crisis and hinted at announcing further curbs in the coming days to prevent the spread of the virus, mainly in rural parts of Jharkhand where specific Covid management plans are being put in place.. Hemant's statement came during the second leg of his virtual meeting with lawmakers on Tuesday, two days ahead of the expiry of the current partial lockdown (health safety week) on May 13. On April 22, the state government had enforced a week-long health safety week with a host of restrictions, which later got extended to May 13 by introduction of a few more curbs. Ahead of its expiry, the state government is of the view for more stringent lockdown, which many states had already done recently. Although Hemant didn’t talk about the nature of the expected extension of lockdown, he told lawmakers, “While we are working actively to control the situation, considering the current situation, it is imperative to break the transmission chain on an urgent basis. Hence, the state government is mulling to take a few more strict steps ahead.” Tomorrow, the state disaster management authority (SDMA) chaired by the chief minister is expected to take a further call on the status of lockdown, which according to sources in the government, is in all likelihood to be extended for another fortnight. While the daily caseload of fresh infections have slightly come down in the last few days but state’s mortality rate still continues to be higher than the national average of 1.10 percent. Detailing on a few plans in the offing as part of covid-19 management, Hemant informed the attendees that they are expecting to get services of 300 ex-servicemen to work as ‘covid warriors’ to tackle the emerging challenges of manpower. “Army Welfare Board (Sainik Kalyan Board) has informed me that about 300 ex-army men will soon be provided to us to work as covid warriors. We are aware of the gaps in our health infrastructure and about manpower shortages now and are taking appropriate steps on a priority basis. Roping in ex-army men is in that direction. This apart, I appeal to all of you to inform us about any human resource—retired doctor, paramedics etc, if they are willing to contribute. We will work on it to use them,” he said, reiterating about the progress so far in augmenting oxygen beds across the state, streamlining oxygen supply facilities, among others. “We also plan to set up PSA oxygen plants at sadar hospitals in every district,” he said. Close to three dozen MP and MLAs of Kolhan and South Chottanagpur commissionary attended today’s meeting to air their views, observations and suggestions before the government with focus on containing the virus in the villages. Some of the attendees included Khunti MP and union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda, Jamshedpur MP Bidyut Baran Mahto, Lohardaga MP Sudershan Bhagat, Ranchi MLA C P Singh, Mandar MLA Bandhu Tirkey, Silli MLA Sudesh Mahto among several others. Many lawmakers expressed concern over large scale illness as well as mortalities in the villages but were remaining undetected. For example, Singhbhum MP Geeta Kora cited that she has come across many regions in Chaibasa where different kinds of illness exist among people but aren’t reporting it properly due to proper awareness. Similarly, there are many misconceptions and fears about the vaccination among rural people. “There is a need to launch large-scale testing, tracking and treatment besides doing awareness about vaccination on war footing before the situation goes out of hands,” she advised. Many also cited the lack of functional health centres in block and village levels that are adding to further woes of the rural populace.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-57
12-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid toll crosses 4,000-mark in Jharkhand||Covid toll breached the 4000-mark in Jharkhand on Tuesday as at least 103 more Covid patients breathed their last in the past 24 hours, taking the total count of Covid deaths in the state to 4085, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. However, Covid recoveries outnumbered the fresh cases on the day by a fair margin, causing a further dip in the active caseload. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state reported 4365 cases against 7531 recoveries on the day, which brought the active caseload down to 54,533. The Covid trajectory in the state has witnessed a downward trend in the past couple of days, bringing the active caseload down from over 60,000 to less than 55,000. None of the 24 districts in Jharkhand reported a higher spike than 1000 cases for the second consecutive day on Tuesday. While Ranchi continued to report the bulk of fatalities and fresh cases on the day, the active caseload here dropped to 16,308 as the district reported at least 2169 recoveries against 583 cases, the NHM data highlighted. As many as 36 Covid patients died in Ranchi in the past 24 hours, taking the Covid toll here up at 1287. East Singhbhum also witnessed a drop in the active caseload on the day as at least 865 Covid patients recovered there while 530 people were found infected in the past 24 hours. As per NHM data, the active caseload in East Singhbhum stood at 5,250, while 14 casualties on Tuesday took the Covid toll in the district to 841. Among other districts, Bokaro reported 294 cases against 552 recoveries, while Palamu reported 384 cases against 297 recoveries on the day. At least 392 residents were found infected by the Coronavirus in Hazaribag, while 531 patients recovered from the viral infection there, stated the NHM bulletin. As per government data, the state on Tuesday tested swab samples of 46,635 residents and around 10 per cent of them were found infected. So far, over 2.96 lakh Jharkhand residents have been infected by the deadly virus and 80.25 per cent of them have recovered. The growth rate of Covid-19 in the state also dropped on the day. As per government data, the growth rate in Jharkhand was 1.74 per cent against the national average of 1.25 per cent. The doubling rate also crossed the 40-day mark on Tuesday. As per NHM data, the doubling rate in Jharkhand was 40.17 days against the national average of 55.60 days. The doubling rate in the state had dropped below 25 days last month. Jharkhand on Tuesday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 10,167 residents, while the second jab was administered to 19,127 beneficiaries, stated a separate report from the NHM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-57
12-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Awareness, more tests and vaccine must in rural areas of Jharkhand||Awareness campaign, speedy testing and vaccination will help check the spread of Covid-19 infection in rural areas of Jharkhand. That was the general opinion expressed by the MPs and MLAs of the state during their three-day virtual meeting on the Covid situation that was initiated by chief minister Hemant Soren and began on Monday. While the people’s representatives from Santhal Pargana and Palamau regions participated in the meeting on Monday, those from South Chotanagpur and Kolhan did so on Tuesday. Others from North Chotanagpur region will attend the same on Wednesday. “There is a lack of awareness among the villagers and they hardly use masks,” Jharkhand’s welfare minister Champai Soren pointed out on Tuesday, suggesting the panchayat functionaries should be engaged for running an awareness campaign so that people take precautions for checking spread of Covid infection. The minister also suggested that participation in functions like marriages should also be restricted and only those with negative reports should be allowed. Neelkantha Singh Munda, BJP MLA from Khunti, agreed with the minister when he also suggested that panchayat functionaries be engaged for creating awareness among rural masses. “There is a strong resentment against vaccination in rural areas,” he further said,  adding that he knew cases when some deaths were said to be due to vaccination while those who died had not taken any vaccine at all. Parliamentary affairs minister Alamgir Alam had also suggested that movement of people during upcoming Id should be restricted for checking spread of Covid infection in rural areas. Dinesh William Marandi, MLA from Littipara in Pakur, however, said that testing was being done at their areas bordering Bengal. V.D. Ram and Sunil Soren, BJP MPs from Palamau and Dumka respectively, also opined that lack of awareness had to be removed in rural areas and health infrastructures improved for tackling spread of the disease in rural areas. “There should be ambulances with advanced facilities so that patients can be shifted to Ranchi from Palamau for better treatment safely,” Ram pointed out. The chief minister, however, assured the government would provide two such ambulances to every districts of the state. “There are many rural hospitals whose construction have been completed but are lying unutilised as doctors and paramedics are yet to be employed,” pointed out Sanjay Seth, BJP MP from Ranchi,  adding that those could help improve rural health infrastructures if those are made functional by appointing doctors and others without delay. Speaker Rabindranath Mahto also emphasised on strengthening the existing community health centres so that those could help treat patients in rural areas. Some like Stephen Marandi, JMM MLA from Mahespur and Randhir Kumar Singh, BJP MLA from Sarath, stressed on increasing the number of testing in rural areas and providing the test reports fast.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-57
12-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand steel plants continue supply of oxygen ||The steel plants of Jharkhand continued to send liquid medical oxygen to different states so that those can cope up with the increasing demand of oxygen during the second phase of the Covid-induced pandemic. One oxygen special train with 120 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen (LMO), filled in six containers, left Tatanagar station for Dehradun in Uttarakhand on Tuesday while another such train with same amount of oxygen had also left the same station for Bangalore on Monday. Informing this, a release issued by the South Eastern Railway added that they had so far sent 43 such oxygen special trains that carried 2,420 tonnes of LMO to various destinations across the county during the past fortnight or so. “Those trains carried 2,420 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen in 114 tankers and 78 containers,” the release further informed, adding LMO was mostly sent from Bokaro Steel Plant in Bokaro and Tata Steel Plant in Jamshedpur, besides from Rourkela Steel Plant in Odisha that also comes under the jurisdiction of SE Railway. Of those 43 oxygen special trains, 22 were sent to Uttar Pradesh, 10 to Madhya Pradesh, six to Haryana, three to Delhi region and one each to Karnataka and Uttarakhand, the railways informed, giving details. Meanwhile, cargo aircrafts of the Indian Air Force have also been dropping empty oxygen tankers at Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi that are also sent to Bokaro and Jamshedpur for refilling  and subsequent dispatch by either road or rail. “About 139 oxygen tankers have been airdropped here since April 24,” airport manager Vinod Sharma informed when asked and added that refilled tankers were, however, being sent to various destinations either by road or rail and not by air. This exercise helps save time as bringing empty tankers would take much more time, he further informed, adding the tankers that are dropped in Ranchi are of capacities of either 10 or 20 tonnes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-57
