13-05-2021||Jharkhand||Bokaro launches helpline numbers for Covid orphans||The district administration announced a helpline number for children who have lost both or either of their parents to Covid infection or are in hospital undergoing treatment. “Children whose parents or either of them have died due to Covid-19 or are in hospital or in home isolation after testing positive of coronavirus can get help informing District Child Protection Unit, Child Line and Child Welfare Committee,” said Anita Jha, district child protection officer. Jha added that anyone can inform about the children calling on a toll free number 1098 and the women's helpline number 181. “If there is any kind of information related to children suffering from Covid-19 also, please give information to the Child Welfare Committee. We are there for help,” said Jha. The residents are requested to give information about any child in or around them, one of whose parents or both has died or children whose parents are admitted getting infected of virus and there is no one to take care of children. ■ Other contact numbers including district: - ◆ child line – 1098 ◆ Women Helpline – 181 ◆ Child Welfare Committee - 943015 3651 ◆ District Child Protection Officer – 8969335979 ◆ Protection Officer Institutional supervision- 7004946738 ◆ Law cum Probation Officer – 9031127123||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-55
13-05-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city witnesses widespread lockdown violations||Steel city residents are flouting Covid protocols including social distancing by turning up in large numbers at local markets, sometimes, even without masks. The Sakchi market remains crowded after 9 am till well past noon while the vegetable market at Ganesh Puja ground in Kadma bears a similar picture, especially on Sundays. Same is the scenario at other markets of the city. Most of the people are usually wearing masks well below their noses while some hang it from their neck. Social distancing has apparently taken a backseat with people seemingly in a hurry to hit the market to buy essentials when the lockdown is relaxed from 6 am to 3 pm. There are no takers for the public announcements by East Singhbhum district administration stressing on the importance of maintaining social distance and wearing masks. Police are also keeping regular watch on the markets but the gathering of people in large numbers refuse to thin. “People are taking Covid-19 infection very lightly. They seem least concerned about the seriousness of the situation. The chain of the virus cannot break if people show least concern about the guidelines,” said Abhiskek Mitra, a resident of New Baradwari in Sakchi who had come to buy medicines. Three youths who had come to the Kadma vegetable market on a bike sans masks came up with an irresponsible comment. ”There is no coronavirus as such. We never wear masks and maintain social distancing,” one of them argued. Some of the vegetable sellers were also seen not wearing masks. Asked about the same, one of them said: “Mask kabhi kabhi neeche utar aata hain. Kya Karen. Dhanda karna hai (Mask comes down sometime. What to do. I have to do business),” he said. Police are inspecting the markets to ensure shops are not open but very few constables are active when it comes to taking people to task for flouting the Covid guidelines. “Though the district police have levied fines on people not wearing masks but same seriousness should be shown in making people follow the Covid guidelines in markets,” said Purshottam Singh, a resident of Bistupur who had come to Kadma vegetable market. ADM (Law and Order) N.K. Lal when contacted said they were showing strictness but people seem bent on flouting the guidelines. “We are aware about the problem but people should also co-operate with us in adhering to Covid protocols. We are doing our best. We will be more strict from May 16 onwards,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-55
13-05-2021||Jharkhand||Marandi launches campaign against hospitals for fleecing Covid patients||Leader of BJP legislature party Babulal Marandi on Thursday announced a campaign against private hospitals, accusing many of them of imposing arbitrary charges in violation of government announced rates for treatment of Covid patients and floated helplines for the public to send in complaints. Marandi said that those who felt that they were charged unfairly could file their complaints either on WhatsApp (8674922223) or on email (yourbabulal@gmail.com) along with copies of medical bills as poof. “Through media reports and social media platforms we are coming across unchecked preying by private hospitals across districts. While the state government has already fixed rates for treatment of Covid patients, many hospitals are openly violating it. Therefore, I am now committing myself to fight for all such people who faced fiscal harassment by such hospitals both on the streets and in the state Assembly. If required, I will also approach courts to ensure justice,” Marandi said. Marandi said not all hospitals were fleecing patients, but there were many who were doing so. "In the name of increasing capacity, hospitals have set up beds at lobbies. Patients are put on saline drips or oxygen support but there is no one to attend to them. Due to such negligence, people have even died. However, their relatives are charged hefty fees under various heads. The state government and respective district administrations must launch a crack down on such practices,” he said. The state has fixed rates for hospitals after classifying them into categories. Hospitals in Ranchi, East Singbhum, Dhanbad and Bokaro, which are accredited to National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare Providers (NABH), are allowed to charge Rs 8,000 per day for oxygen supported beds, Rs 10,000 per day for non-ventilator ICU and Rs 12,000 per day for ventilator ICU. Those that are not accredited with NABH are allowed to charge Rs 7,500 per day for oxygen-supported beds, Rs 9,000 per day for non-ventilator ICU and Rs 11,500 per day for ventilator ICU. Similarly, NABH-accredited hospitals in Hazaribagh, Deoghar, Palamau, Seraikela-Kharsawan, Ramgarh and Giridih can charge Rs 7,500 (oxygen-supported bed), Rs 8,500 (non- ventilator ICU) and Rs 11,000 (ventilator ICU) per day. Those without NABH accreditation can only charge Rs 6,500, Rs 8,000 and Rs 10,500 per day for respective category of beds. In all the other districts, the rates for NABH-accredited hospitals are Rs 6,000 (oxygen-supported beds), Rs 8,000 (non-ventilator ICU) and Rs 10,500 (ventilator ICU) per day while those without accreditation can charge Rs 5,000, 7,500 and 9,000 per day for respective category of beds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-55
13-05-2021||Jharkhand||Fear, anxiety have become common during pandemic||Fear and anxiety has gripped Jamshedpur residents during the raging second wave of the Covid pandemic, according to Jeevan, a suicide prevention centre in the steel city. The Bistupur-based centre has found that people have become extremely concerned on how to deal with the situation when infected with the virus. “Fear of not getting beds in hospitals, oxygen, Covid vaccines and ambulances are the basic reasons behind the jump in anxiety level. This increases the stress,” said Jeoraj Jain, director of Jeevan. “Our findings are based on the daily distress calls we receive. All the callers say they were very concerned about what to do in emergency situations. The callers say they were worried whether they would get oxygen, beds in hospitals as well as Covid vaccines. The second wave of the pandemic has certainly made people extremely anxious,” Jain said. Jeevan volunteers counsel on the importance of taking precautions and not to become unnecessarily anxious. “Our volunteers try their best and also boost the morale of the callers who feel depressed after going through negative reports related to Covid. We always stress on the need to remain positive and deal with the situation as a responsible citizen,” the Jeevan director added. According to him, some of the 30-odd Jeevan volunteers have tested positive for Covid 19 and were in home isolation. “Our volunteers are working on rotation. Four volunteers are operating every alternate day,” Jain said. A Jeevan volunteer said people should try and develop a positive attitude towards life. “Yoga and meditation can help in these difficult times. People should think that this difficult phase is temporary and better days will come again. They should have patience and never allow negativity grip them,” he emphasised. He added that people are also becoming anxious about losing jobs. “This trend is very disturbing and driving people to negative thoughts. We always tell such people to never assume the worst scenario and always think about better days ahead,” he added. He, however, agreed that some people think that they would test positive for Covid even before they undergo tests. “People think what will happen after they test positive since there is a rush for beds, oxygen and vaccines. People should avoid hypothetical thoughts. Why to always think about the worst. We should instead think the opposite. This would help overcome negative thoughts,” he explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-55
13-05-2021||Jharkhand||Bus drivers and staff stare at zero income with new restrictions||The state government’s decision to suspend inter and intra state bus operations from May 16, has left more than 2000 drivers, conductors, cleaners, helpers and booking staff in despair. The non operation of buses will affect their salary and perks for the second consecutive year after the nation-wide lockdown last year. Around 50% out of the 350 buses including 150 interstate buses and 200 inter-district buses operating from Dhanbad have already suspended operations in a phase wise manner, since the imposition of lockdown in April due to lack of passengers and resultant losses. At present, around 10 of total 70 buses are running between Dhanbad and Bokaro. Only two are operational between Dhanbad and Ranchi out of over 30 and four out of 20 buses were operating from Dhanbad to Hazaribagh. Vimal Singh, a Jamshedpur based bus conductor said, “Though I am well aware about the seriousness of Covid situation due to which the decision to stop bus operation has been taken by government, but I am baffled that how will I manage the family expenses of four including my two school going sons.” “Though, I have the ration card but rice and wheat are not the only requirements to sustain life and we suggest that the government must have a backup plan to financially help people like us before initiating any lockdown measures,” said Singh. Md Najimuddin, a bus driver of Shiv Parvati travels, running between Dhanbad to Jamshedpur said, “I have a rented house at Mango in Jamshedpur and I am in frustration ever since I heard the news about the suspension of bus operation thinking how will I manage the house rent and food expense of family of eight including my six children without salary.” “We are not averse to the lockdown but we also want the government to provide help to all private vehicle drivers for the lockdown period and especially for those like us who are even deprived of ration cards, despite applying for the same several times.” Sumit Singh, owner of Bunela Travels operating 20 buses from Dhanbad to different districts of Bihar said, “We are helpless, even though we were somehow operating few buses despite incurring losses only for the sake of employees but it will be difficult to pay without operation of buses.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-55
13-05-2021||Jharkhand||CII-Jharkhand holds manufacturing conclave on automation ||CII Jharkhand organised its fourth edition of manufacturing conclave on Thursday with the theme as Automation – The Next Wave. The conclave deliberated on the best practices in manufacturing automation and also discussed the latest trends that are available in the industry to enable manufacturing excellence. More than 120 industry delegates from the manufacturing sector participated in the conclave. Addressing the virtual conclave, Chanakya Chaudhary, chairman of CII Jharkhand State Council and also vice- president Corporate Services of Tata Steel, stated that manufacturing is the engine for India’s economic growth and needs to continue playing its pivotal role especially at these tough times during the pandemic. "In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, manufacturing is putting a renewed focus on digital transformation initiatives. Many manufacturers are already leveraging components of a smart factory in such areas as advanced planning and scheduling using real-time production and inventory data, or augmented reality for maintenance. Automation in the manufacturing industry has been extensively achieved through the use of robots and Computer Numerically Controlled (CNC) systems. With the changing scenario in the manufacturing sphere globally, the Indian manufacturing units need to adjust and adapt to the latest technology in order to stay ahead in the competition," he said. Tapas Sahu, chairman, CII Jamshedpur Zonal Council and managing director, Highco Engineers Pvt Ltd pointed out that industry requires more support from the government not only in terms of improved business environment where some progress has been made, but also in the form of lower cost of doing business where much needs to be done. "As we are struggling to contain Covid, we have the responsibility to reshape businesses and lead the country on the growth trajectory. With the extensive use of technology, Indian manufacturers can not only meet international quality benchmarks but also strengthen their position as competent suppliers for the global market. The digitalisation of the manufacturing industry is crucial not only to boost domestic revenue and the country’s GDP but also to drive significant growth in job creation," he observed. Manish K. Jha, chairman, CII Jamshedpur Zonal Council , Ranjot Singh, vice- chairman, CII Jamshedpur Zonal Council and Vishal Badshah, convenor, CII Jharkhand Manufacturing and Engineering Panel and Plant Head of Tata Motors also addressed the conclave.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-55
13-05-2021||Jharkhand||18 to 24-year-olds to get their jabs across Jharkhand from Friday||The Jharkhand government distributed more than 2 lakh vaccine doses among the 24 districts in the state on Friday to launch the immunisation programme against Covid-19 for residents in the age bracket of 18 to 44 years, officials from the National Health Mission (NHM) said. At least nine districts – Ranchi, East Singhbhum, Dhanbad, Deoghar, Garhwa, Giridih, Hazaribag, Palamu and West Singhbhum – have been provided around 10,000 doses each for this phase of the vaccination drive, health officials said. Besides, about eight districts have been provided around 5,000 doses each, while the remaining seven districts have been given over 2,000 doses each. “The districts have been asked to make arrangements for vaccination centres and other infrastructural requirements depending on the population of beneficiaries,” said state immunisation officer Dr Ajit Prasad. “The vaccination programme for residents in the age bracket of 18 to 44 years will begin in all the 24 districts tomorrow (Friday),” he added. In Ranchi, the district administration will launch this phase of immunisation in 10 vaccination centres, five each in rural and urban areas, officials said. In urban Ranchi, jabs will be administered at ATI Hostel, Seventh Day Adventist School in Bariatu, Women’s College on Ciruclar Road, Ram Lakhan Singh Yadav College in Kokar and St. Xavier’s School in Doranda. Eligible residents will have to register for the vaccination via Co-Win website or mobile app and book a slot for themselves at the nearest vaccination centre. Vaccine jabs will not be administered to anyone who turns up at the vaccination centres without prior registration through online platforms, a statement from the Ranchi district administration read. Registration through the Co-Win platform was not mandatory during the earlier phases of vaccination for people above the age of 45 years and senior citizens in Jharkhand. Many vaccination centres directly administered jabs to the eligible beneficiaries if they turned up at the vaccination centre with their Adhaar cards. However, this time around, the only way beneficiaries can get the jabs is through online registration, health officials said on Wednesday. Jharkhand now has around 2.34 lakh doses of vaccine for beneficiaries in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years at present. As per details shared by the government, the state has provided 16,140 vaccine doses to Ranchi, 32,340 to Giridih, 39,910 to Dumka, 9,640 to East Singhbhum, around 39,000 to Palamau and 23,000 to Dhanbad. Over 14,000 doses were provided to Chatra and more than 26,000 to Hazaribagh. Health Minister Banna Gupta had requested Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday to allow offline registration for the jabs in some rural areas of Jharkhand citing intermittent or poor internet and mobile network coverage. “Some far flung villages in our state still do not have the right infrastructure for smooth internet and mobile connectivity, so people living in those areas will find it difficult to register online. I have asked the Union minister to allow offline registration in such areas of Jharkhand,” Gupta said. As per data available with the state government, about 1.57 crore beneficiaries are withing 18 to 44 years in Jharkhand. A press communique from the health minister earlier stated that Jharkhand had asked for 25 lakh doses of Covishield and Covaxin from the manufacturers. The state, as per the communique, was ready with 2,229 vaccination centres to carry out immunisation of residents in that age bracket. Jharkhand did not launch the immunisation programme for beneficiaries in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years on May 1 citing unavailability of vaccine doses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-56
13-05-2021||Jharkhand||Over 8,300 patients recover from Covid in a single day in the state||Jharkhand reported around twice as many Covid recoveries as fresh cases of infection on Wednesday, bringing the active caseload down to 50,467, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. However, as many as 97 Covid patients, including 19 from Ranchi and 18 from East Singhbhum died during treatment on Wednesday, taking the Covid toll in the state to 4182, the bulletin further stated. As per NHM data, at least 8331 Covid patients recovered from the deadly infection on the day and 4362 residents were found infected. So far, over 3 lakh people have been infected by Coronavirus in Jharkhand and more than 81 per cent of them have recovered. The active caseload dropped significantly on Wednesday in Ranchi, the worst-affected district in Jharkhand in terms of caseload and fatalities, as at least 2020 Covid patients recovered here against 658 residents testing positive for Covid-19. As per NHM data, the active caseload in Ranchi dropped to 15,410. More than 20,000 Ranchi residents were battling Covid-19 a week ago. So far, as many as 1306 Covid patients have died in Ranchi, highlights Government data. The active caseload dropped below 5000 in East Singhbhum on the day as the district reported 873 Covid recoveries against 489 fresh cases of infection. As many as 4,852 East Singhbhum residents were battling Coronavirus infection by the end of Wednesday. Fresh casualties took the Covid toll in the district to 859. Among other districts, Bokaro reported 142 cases against 763 recoveries, while 267 people were found infected in Chatra and 473 patients recovered there. At least 434 people were found infected by Coronavirus in Hazaribag on Wednesday, while 452 patients recovered there. Palamu reported 302 cases of infection against 376 recoveries. The state on Wednesday tested swab samples of 48,005 residents and less than 10 per cent of them were found infected. The positivity rate in the state had been hovering around 13 per cent during the past fortnight. As per government data, the growth rate of Covid cases also dropped on the day. The growth rate in Jharkhand was 1.57 per cent against the national average of 1.19 per cent, while the doubling rate in the state was 44.42 days against the national doubling rate of 58.57 days. However, the Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 1.38 per cent, which is higher than the national average of 1.10 per cent. Meanwhile, Jharkhand administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 11,042 residents, about 13 per cent of those registered for the jab. The second jab was administered to 16,790 residents, about 2 per cent of the total beneficiaries registered for the second dose in the state, a separate report from NHM stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-56
13-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Pressure swing adsorption plant plan for all sadar hospitals in Jharkhand||Jharkhand will have pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plants at sadar hospitals in all the 24 districts. Chief minister Hemant Soren during interaction with MPs and MLAs of North Chotanagpur region comprising districts of Chatra, Hazaribagh, Koderma, Giridih, Ramgarh, Bokaro and Dhanbad on Wednesday afternoon informed that decision has been taken for installation of PSA plants and oxygen banks at all the district sadar hospitals. “We have taken a decision for installation of PSA plants and oxygen banks in all district Sadar Hospitals by the end of this year in order to overcome the oxygen crisis as oxygen will be supplied directly from the plant to the hospital. We want to be prepared for the third wave of the Covid-19. We have also got a team from Union government for making over 80 ventilators operational in different districts of the state by this month end,” said Soren. According to state health department sources, each of the PSA plants will have capacities to generate oxygen and cater to hospitals with 200-500 beds and would be employing technology provided by DRDO and CSIR absorbing nitrogen from ambient air to concentrate oxygen. The oxygen generated will be supplied directly to patients admitted in the hospitals. Order will be placed by the end of this month for vendors for setting up the plant. Meanwhile, additional chief secretary (health) Jharkhand Arun Kumar Singh in a directive issued on Wednesday directed all the deputy commissioners to ensure that private hospitals having more than 50-bed have a PSA plant installed at the earliest. The chief minister also announced that each of the 24 districts will have dedicated nodal officers to look after oxygen supported beds availability and other assistance for Covid patients. “The district wise nodal officers numbers will be shared with all public representatives including MPs and MLAs so that they can enquire about any issues related to Covid patient’s admission and get it sorted at the earliest,” said Soren. The state government will also hold meetings with PSUs and corporate entities having operations in the state to assist in the vaccination drive. “Meeting will be held with representatives of corporate sectors and PSUs to seek their assistance in success of the vaccination campaign,” Soren said. The chief minister informed that delay in getting Covid reports would be minimised to a large extent with RTPCR labs coming up in nine districts in addition to the existing eight districts. This apart, two Cobas machines will also shorten the time gap between samples taken and report generated of Covid suspects in the state. “We will be distributing nearly 5 lakh RAT kits to anganbari sevikas and sahiyas (women rural healthcare workers) to ramp up testing of samples in rural areas,” said Soren. Meanwhile, on Wednesday morning, Hemant Soren in reaction to complaints from MPs and MLAs of Kolhan and South Chotanagpur region of private hospitals charging exorbitant fees from Covid patients, issued a warning to such health centres in a tweet at around 12am in Hindi. “The Jharkhand government has a fixed rate for Covid treatment for private hospitals. It is a punishable offence if charges are in excess of the government fixed rates. Any complaints related to it can be made in 104 through phone and action will be taken at the earliest,” tweeted Soren. Sources in CMO said that action would be taken under Disaster Management Act and State Epidemic Diseases Act which includes cancellation of licence of the hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-56
