14-05-2021||Jharkhand||Amid lockdown, Bokaro farmers see no sale of produce||Bokaro farmers have been facing problems in selling their seasonal fruits and vegetables since the onset of the lockdown, as tonnes of their produce are getting spoiled in the farmlands with a lack of market. The district agriculture department has begun a survey of the loss faced by farmers with their vegetables lying in fields without buyers. Farmers in almost all rural areas of the eight blocks in the district are facing similar problems with vegetables piled up in their farmland without buyers. Nearly 85 tonnes of watermelon are stocked by farmers at the farmland in Kander village of Kander Panchayat under Gomia Block. They now are worried about what to do with it without buyers. Randhir Mahato and Ranjan Mahato, the two youths who cultivated watermelons, said they had planted watermelons in five acres of land. A week ago they sold 25 tonnes of watermelon to a supplier of Bengal. After that, another 25 tonnes were harvested, but there were no buyers this time. Raju Kumar and four other farmers have about 40 tonnes of watermelon lying in the fields in Kander. Ashok Kumar Mahato, a farmer, said that his produce has been lying in the field for three days. Apart from this, 50 to 60 tonnes of watermelon from other farmers are also lying in the fields in the absence of a market. Farmers in Chandankiyari Block too are facing similar problems as they are not getting buyers for the vegetables. Before the onset of the second wave, the farmers had cultivated seeds believing it would bring them good profit, but the Health Safety Week imposed by the state government due to rising cases of coronavirus has shattered everything. They cannot even go to vegetable markets in urban areas as market timing and footfall of customers have reduced. Farmers also cannot bear the excessive fare to transport their vegetables and watermelons in this period. Uncertainty over how many days this partial lockdown will continue has also refrained buyers and suppliers to purchase vegetables from farmers. In Kasmar and Jaridih blocks, farmers said that they do not understand what to do in this situation. The farmers are demanding from the government and district administration to take necessary initiatives in this direction to save them. District agriculture officer, Rajeev Kumar Mishra said, “We have asked circle officers of all the blocks to collect ground reports of the difficulties and losses faced by farmers, after which we would report to the state government to provide relief. Vegetables and seasonal fruits are more or less piled up in every block without a market in this Covid situation. We are working out ways to come up with the situation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-54
14-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid-19 cases showing signs of decline in Jamshedpur, says doctor||Covid-19 cases have started showing signs of improvement in steel city, an expert said on Friday. Going by the trend of the last few days, it seems that the second wave had reached its peak and is now declining, said  Dr. Rajan Choudhry, advisor and former general manager, Medical Services, Tata Steel, during a telephonic conference with the media here on Friday evening. "Going by different parameters the situation is showing signs of improvement," he said. He went on to inform that the Covid-19 positivity rate has reduced from 32.84 last week to 32.17 this week.  While in the previous weeks the rate of positivity was 48.93. Admissions for Covid-19 patients have also been reduced to 123 in the last three days. The hospital has witnessed a total of 66,658 admissions so far. The deaths at the hospital have reduced to 40 in the last three days with 13 deaths on an average per day, while the figure in the last week was 18-19 deaths per day. Dr. Choudhry informed that 230 health staff and other members at the hospital have been hit by the virus comprising 58 doctors and 94 nurses. He said that the hospital has started a new vaccination centre at Fasy Auditorium in Loyola School for 18 years to 44 years. The vaccination for the age group between 18 and 44 years began today. He said that even after vaccination, one must continue to follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour including wearing of masks, hand sanitisation, social distancing and avoid crowded places. The hospital is operating with 595 Covid beds out of which 450 beds are at TMH and 150 at the GT Hostel. “We need to be careful as the downward trend should continue for the next two weeks. We should continue to avoid crowding, wear masks and follow social distancing. This will reduce the chances of the spread of the virus. If we remain serious about the protocols the virus will further reduce,” he noted. The advisor also said that TMH is also focusing on the post-Covid care clinic at its OPD. Keeping in view the need of those patients who recovered from Covid, the hospital will focus on post-Covid care for the next three months. He went on to say that they have witnessed post-Covid-19 ailments in patients who have recovered. Lethargy, joint pains, difficulty in breathing, itching and other skin-related diseases are some ailments found in patients post-recovery. "We have decided to continue to provide a consultant for such patients who want further treatment. It will be a paid service,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-54
14-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand makes e-pass mandatory for cars and bikes during partial lockdown||Jharkhand is coming up with a portal for issuing e-passes for the movement of cars and bikes from Sunday, May 16 when the next phase of the ongoing partial lockdown will be in force across the state. The lockdown, or health safety week, will be on till May 27. During this time, intra-state bus movement will be prohibited while those using private vehicles/taxis/bikes for travel will need to have valid e-permits from the local district administration. An official in the health department said that e-passes will have to be secured for any kind of movement on cars and bikes, except for medical exigencies. “Certain essential services like groceries, vegetable markets, etc, will remain open till 2pm during this period of the partial lockdown. But one will have to get an e-permit if one wishes to use a vehicle (car or bike) to go to a market,” he said, adding that the idea was to restrict the movement of people as much as possible. For obtaining an e-passes, an applicant will have to click on the portal  (https://epassjharkhand.nic.in)  and register using his/her mobile number. Thereafter, he/she will have to select the choice of travel (intra/inter-district) and purpose of visit from the available options. The e-pass will be sent on the applicant's registered mobile number. The portal is scheduled to be up and running by Saturday, May 15. Even for those scheduled to travel by train or air, an e-pass along with a valid photo ID and ticket will be required, read the SOP issued by the transport department. “All private vehicles/taxis coming into the state will also have to get e-pass but those vehicles which are only crossing through the state for other destinations are not required to get it,” it said, adding that vehicles going out of the state would not require permits. However, e-permits will not be required for people travelling for medical exigencies or funerals. Vehicles of both Union and state governments or those belonging to officials engaged in Covid duty would need passes. Those coming from outside the state via air, rail, road route will also have to register themselves at www.Jharkhandtravel.nic.in and stay in seven-day quarantine, as per directives of respective district administrations. Only those who are scheduled to return within 72 hours are exempt from mandatory quarantine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-54
14-05-2021||Jharkhand||TSAF plans Champions League 2021 to promote fitness and well-being||Tata Steel Adventure Foundation (TSAF) is organising TSAF Champions League 2021 to promote fitness and well-being of people while adhering to a stay-at-home routine. Beginning May 17, the 50-day team-based competitive program will encourage individuals to participate in fitness routines and challenges. Curated by TSAF mountaineering experts having over twenty years of experience, this transformational journey will help participants take their fitness to the next level with correct guidance and motivation. The themes of this challenge are designed to build endurance, agility, flexibility as well as upper and lower body strength. The program also includes weekly talk sessions with experts on areas such as nutrition, yoga, meditation, cycling, mountaineering, running and more. The Champions League 2021 is open to individuals of ages 18 and above who can join as a team of four participants or register individually to become a part of a team in the league. The participants can join from beginners to advance categories across all genders, track their progress on the leader board which can lead them to winning exciting rewards. Entry fee has been fixed at Rs 2,400 per participant.  TSAF will share a custom payment link with participants to make a payment post registration.One can reach out to Varun at varun.sharma@tsafindia.org or dial 9599675676 for queries. Shedding light on the registration process, a TSAF official said one can register as an individual or as a team with friends. Registration can be done at https://bit.ly/3vJA3b5. The best team, individual champions (each gender category) and maximum team improvement  will walk home with Rs 5,000 each. Those finishing second and third in the individual champions and maximum team improvement sections will receive Rs 3,000 and Rs 1,000 each, respectively. Key features of the programme will include three guided sessions with TSAF mountaineers per week, weekly experience sharing sessions and panel discussions with experts, one unique team challenge every week, work with friends from comfort and safety of home and track improvement with the leaderboard –individual, overall and improvement based. “Our fitness and well being has gone for a toss in lockdown 2. But the raging pandemic requires us to be more active and stronger than ever in across-directional interaction with both trainers and fellow participants. One can stay motivated, adventurous and consistent in their practice,” the official added. TSAF, a non-profit organisation, was founded by legendary climber and Padma Bhushan awardee Bachendri Pal in 1984 and has been the leader in mountaineering and outdoor education for the past 35 years. It has supported and trained 10 Everesters in the past 10 years, out of which 8 are working with the premier Jamshedpur-based adventure outfit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-54
14-05-2021||Jharkhand||Steady footfall at Ranchi as govt rolls out free vaccines for 18+||The third phase of vaccinations for those between 18 and 44 began in Jharkhand on Friday in 496 centres across the state with chief minister Hemant Soren inaugurating the initiative from the Administrative Training Institute here around noon. In Ranchi, the district administration has set up five centres each in rural and urban pockets. Deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said all these sites were new ones to avoid any confusion. “We are appealing to people to strictly follow the process, ie, they should register on the Co-WIN app first before taking the jab. Out of turn vaccines will not be allowed,” he said. On Friday, urban vaccination centres witnessed a steady footfall since morning. At Seventh Day Adventist School in Bariatu, there were about 100 people before the start of the drive at 11am. Mahesh Kumar, who is pursuing his MA in arts from Ranchi University, was among the first to get the jab. “I got registered on Thursday morning and was lucky to get the jab easily today (Friday). However, the rush is so high in the city that till May 20, all slots are now booked as my friends couldn’t find any slot this morning,” he said. Hemant also inaugurated a PSA oxygen gas plant at Sadar Hospital in Sahebganj district in the Santhal Pargana commissionary. A week back a similar plant was commissioned in Khunti from the MPLAD funds of local Lok Sabha MP and Union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda. Hemant said the state government was administering the vaccine free to everyone between 18 and 44 years of age and encouraging youngsters to avail of it without any hesitancy. “I appeal to everyone to come forward to get themselves vaccinated. Even after taking vaccination, please continue maintaining Covid appropriate behavior.” Among the others present at the inuguration of vaccination drive and the PSA plant, held at different venues, were state health minister Banna Gupta and several senior officials. According to the state government, 2,34,400 doses of Covishield and Covaxin were distributed across 24 districts for starting the third phase of the inoculation exercise, which was to begin to May 1 but got delayed due to vaccine shortage. Compared to urban distrcits, a few rural districts were allocated more doses given that the infections are spreading faster in the villages. For example, Dumka was given 39,910 doses of both vaccines, the highest allocation among all districts. It was followed by Palamau (39,730), Giridih (32,340) and Garhwa (17,200). Among urban centres, Hazaribagh was given 26,710, Dhanbad (23,270), Ranchi (16,140), East Singbhum (9,640) among others. A health department official said once the state received more doses, allocations would be increased. “The current allocation was made on the basis of high infection rates in certain pockets. Some vulnerable rural areas were also considered,” he said. The oxygen plant at Sahebganj hospital would ensure seamless supply to its 50-bed Covid hospital. Officials said that the plant can generate 5000 litres of oxygen per hour. During the inauguration, Hemant said the government was trying to set up one oxygen plant in every sadar hospital in the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-54
14-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad youths celebrate Id with oxygen ||On Id, a group of Muslim youths donated six oxygen cylinders, oximeters and other gadgets Md Afzal Khan, Sadar of Anjuman Islalluh Muslim of Jama Masjid of Purana Bazar, so that they can be provided to those in need. The youths, all part of the Naujawan Committee, donated the equipment by organising a small event on Friday morning Madarsa Islamia of Tikiya Para locality of Purana Bazar. Led by former president of Purana Bazar Chamber of Commerce, Mohammed Sohrab, the group said that the cylinders and the gadgets were procured by the 21 members on their own. “At a time when humanity is passing through one of the most difficult phases on all fronts -- be it medical, economic, or emotional -- there was no better way to celebrate Id than serving the Covid-affected,” said Sohrab. “Though we wanted to donate the equipment to the Sadar of Jama Masjid, he trusted us to take the responsibility to distribute them among the needy. We will provide the equipment to the needy as per demand -- irrespective of caste, creed or religion,” he added. Imtiyaz Ali, another member, said that the group has been serving the society for a decade, be it taking out Id processions or helping out Covid patients during the first wave. “This year, we have celebrated Ramadan and Id with simplicity and by extending help to the poor. We have also helped those who could not buy Id-related essentials on their own due to pandemic and lockdown generated financial constraints,” Imran Ali, a member of the committee, said. Md Afzal, Sadar of Anjuman Islamia Muslmin, while lauding the efforts of members of the committee, said, “No celebration can be better than helping humanity and the youth committee members had rightly espoused the essence of Id celebration by arranging oxygen cylinders, which essential at the present time.” In a similar gesture, Muslim youths of Jharia led by Akhlaque Ahmad, founder of social organisation Youth Concept, celebrated Id by planting more than a dozen saplings at Katras More area, one of the most polluted localities of the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-55
14-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand's active caseload drops below 50,000 as over 6,800 recover from Covid||While the active caseload of Covid-19 dropped below the 50,000-mark on Thursday, the state continued to report a triple-digit-spike in casualties despite the fall in the positivity rate, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), Jharkhand reported at least 6882 Covid recoveries against 4991 fresh cases on Thursday, causing a fall in the active caseload. As many as 48,468 state residents were battling the viral infection by the end of Thursday, the bulletin further stated. The active caseload has dropped from over 60,000 to less than 50,000 in the past fortnight. However, at least 109 Covid patients, including 40 from Ranchi and 16 from East Singhbhum, died during treatment on the day, taking the Covid toll in the state up at 4290, NHM data highlighted. Bokaro also reported 10 Covid fatalities on Thursday. As per government data, Jharkhand has a Covid mortality rate of 1.40 per cent, which is higher than the national average of 1.10 per cent. The active caseload also dropped significantly in Ranchi and East Singhbhum, two of the worst-affected districts in terms of caseload and fatalities. At least 1765 Covid patients recovered in Ranchi on Thursday against 605 fresh cases, bringing the active caseload here down to 13,731. However, the 40 casualties on Thursday took the Covid toll in Ranchi to 1346 on the day. As per NHM data, East Singhbhum reported 923 Covid recoveries against 579 fresh cases on the day and the active caseload there dropped to 4,490. The 16 deaths reported in the district on the day took the Covid toll there to 875. As per government data, Ranchi and East Singhbhum jointly account for almost 50 per cent of the active cases in Jharkhand. Palamu reported the highest spike in Covid cases on the day among Jharkhand districts. At least 932 people were found infected in Palamu on Thursday while 450 patients recovered there. Bokaro reported 272 Covid cases against 667 recoveries, while Dhanbad reported 175 cases against 173 recoveries. The state on Thursday tested swab samples of 59,078 residents and less than 10 per cent of them were found infected. As per government data, over 3 lakh state residents have been infected by the mysterious virus so far and more than 82 per cent of them have recovered. The growth rate of Covid cases in Jharkhand was 1.49 per cent against the national average of 1.11 per cent, while the doubling rate in the state was 46.75 days against the national average of 62.67 days, highlighted the NHM bulletin. The state administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 9428 residents on the day, while the second jab was administered to more than 14,000 beneficiaries, stated a separate report from NHM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-55
14-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid surge: Jharkhand extends lockdown till May 27 ||The Jharkhand government on Wednesday extended the lockdown till May 27 with more stricter measures to contain the surge of Covid cases in the state. After a meeting of the disaster management department chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren, chief secretary Sukhdeo Singh issued a directive informing about the extension of the lockdown, which was earlier scheduled to end on Wednesday. From May 16, people using their personal vehicles to move after 3pm will have to carry an e-pass, valid photo identity card and valid ticket in case of air/rail related travel, the directive said. “The e-pass shall be downloaded from epassjharkhand.nic.in. One would have to log in to the portal and get registered using mobile number after which a profile would be created. One would have to enter personal details and upload valid photo identity card. After the profile is updated there will be a an option ‘apply for e-pass’ where one would have to mention the reason for availing the e-pass. There would be seven categories for which e-pass can be issued including agriculture, health, food, construction, manufacturing and marriage, among others. One would also have to mention the return date of travelling while applying for the e-pass,” said a source in the disaster management department. However, those moving for medical reasons and for performing last rites would not require an e-pass. There will be total prohibition on intra-state and inter-state bus transport while intra-state public transport (cabs/autorickshaws) shall be permitted without an e-pass. All movement into the state by personal vehicles or taxis shall be permitted only on producing an e-pass. However, movement out of the state will not require an e-pass. All inter-district movement by personal vehicles shall be permitted only on producing an e-pass. “Those coming from other states to Jharkhand will have to mandatorily stay in home quarantine for seven days and would have to mandatorily get registered on the website www.jharkhandtravel.nic.in preferably before departure for Jharkhand. However, home quarantine rule will not apply to those who leave the state within 72 hours of arrival,” the notification said. It also prohibits gathering of more than 11 people in marriage functions (including bride and bridegroom) after May 16 morning and any kind of procession, bursting of crackers, while the use DJs and loudspeaker is prohibited. Information about the marriage function must be intimated to the police station concerned at least three days before the event. Covid guidelines will be strictly implemented in rural areas, especially in village haats (markets). A maximum of 20 people can attend a funeral ceremony. On Wednesday, Jharkhand registered fresh 4,362 Covid-19 cases taking the active caseload to 50,467, while another 97 patients died due to the virus taking the total casualties to 4,182. The mortality rate has been constantly decreasing in the last one week. While the infection rate between April 29 and May 5 hovered at 16.54 per cent, it has nosedived to 8.18 per cent in the last week. Meanwhile, Birsa Agricultural University veterinary department dean Sushil Prasad on Thursday issued a guideline for care and protection of pet animals from Covid infection. “There is threat of man to animal transmission of Covid infection and before going towards pet one should use masks. The owners should be on vigil of their pets to notice any Covid symptoms and immediately inform veterinary experts. If an owner is infected and has Covid symptoms then social distance should be maintained between owner and the pet and always wear masks before going to the animal. This apart, pets should be given nutritious diet to increase their immune capacity. The food of animals should be sprayed with 65 per cent ethanol/methanol. The animal fodder should be washed with clean water. The utensils of the pets should be regularly washed by bleaching powder and hot water,” the guideline said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-55
14-05-2021||Jharkhand||Parents hire hand cart to take son to hospital  ||Parents of a 13-year-old boy, who had fractured his left hand and leg, had to take him on a hand cart to hospital in Jharkhand and bring him back home in the same after failing to get an ambulance. The parents also alleged the health centre authorities did not provide them with an ambulance. According to reports, Samay, son of Tanu Namata, a contract labourer and a resident of Kuldiha village in Baharagora of East Singbhum district, fractured his left hand and leg on Wednesday evening after he fell from a tree while plucking mangoes. After spending the night writhing in pain, Samay’s parents took him to a nearby private clinic where the doctor plastered his hand and leg and gave some painkillers. He also suggested that Samay be taken for X-ray and treatment to a better health centre. “We tried to arrange for an ambulance to reach the community health centre in Baharagora but failed to get one. So we hired a hand cart owned by a villager for Rs 100 and took him to the health centre which is nearly 4km from our village,” said Namata. The parents reached the hospital on Thursday afternoon and after the X-ray was done, they returned on the same hand cart to the village. “We asked the health centre staff about an ambulance but they showed no interest. Since we had hired the hand cart, we brought our son back on it to our house,” said Namata. Several attempts to contact Baharagora community health centre in-charge Dr O.P. Choudhary on his mobile number proved futile. East Singhbhum civil surgeon Dr A.K. Lal termed it as an “unfortunate” incident. “It is an unfortunate incident. The community health centre staff should have arranged an ambulance for the boy after he had undergone X-ray and especially with his condition. I have sent a showcause notice to the hospital in-charge over the incident,” said Lal. He claimed that there is no shortage of ambulances in any of the blocks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-55
