15-05-2021||Jharkhand||Health minister focuses on child care for possible Covid third wave||State health minister Banna Gupta said on Saturday that Jharkhand needs to be prepared with more testing facilities, beds, isolation norms and ventilators for children in a bid to curtail the effects of a possible third wave of Covid-19, which according to experts, could affect children the most. Chairing a meeting with the top bureaucrats of the state in Ranchi, Gupta pressed for the need to be ready with child ambulances, mobile RT PCR testing facilities, special Covid kits for children in home isolation and beds in pediatric wards for children who contract the infection. Gupta also asked officials to hold a meeting with all pediatricians of the state and prepare a roadmap to tackle the third wave of infection in Jharkhand. “We also need to pay attention to lactating mothers and provide nutritious food to them. Child specialists, children’s hospitals, newborn care units and delivery and labour wards will also have to be used effectively to minimise the impact of a third wave,” the minister said. Health experts across India have warned that the third wave of Covid-19 was likely to affect children and asked people to take necessary precautions. Last week, the Supreme Court too asked the Centre to prepare for a third wave and cautioned that it may affect children. The apex court also asked the government to rope in NEET aspirants and nurses to handle the third wave. The health minister said the government would have to use pediatric wards at all sadar hospitals in districts to ensure treatment for coronavirus-infected children. The state, he said, also needs to prepare for cremation of children who fall victim to Covid-19 if the virus causes fatalities during the third wave. The meeting was also attended by health secretary Arun Kumar Singh and senior officials of the National Rural Health Mission. The officials informed Gupta that Jharkhand had the highest testing rate for Covid-19 among Indian states and that at least 45,000 people were tested for Covid-19 every day in the state. Jharkhand, they said, was also producing at least 800 metric tonne of medical oxygen every day for use within the state and outside. Gupta asked officials to focus on rural areas to ensure the infection does not spread among villages. Officials assured the minister that the government was running extensive campaigns at the panchayat level to spread awareness among villagers about Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-53
15-05-2021||Jharkhand||Indrani Roy gets maiden call up for India tour of England||Jharkhand's wicketkeeper-batter Indrani Roy is excited for getting her maiden national call-up for India's tour of England next month. The Indian women’s team was announced by the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) on Friday night. The opening batter has been picked for the Test, ODIs and T20s. The 23-year-old from Bengal, plays domestic cricket for Jharkhand. "I am happy and excited to be selected in the national team. It's a pride and I will try to do my best," she said. Speaking on phone from her residence in Howrah, Indrani said she was expecting a call-up as she had performance to back her claims. "Though I was keeping my fingers crossed, there was a gut feeling that I would be picked. I think my performance turned the tides in my favour," she added. The swashbuckling batter was the leading run-getter in the recently concluded senior women’s one-day tournament. She stamped her authority in the domestic circuit with this prolific performance. She amassed 456 runs in eight matches, including two unbeaten centuries. Her contribution with the bat powered Jharkhand to the finals of the tournament. Indrani was picked up in the Bengal U-19 team in 2014 and that year they were the champions. She played for four years till 2017 and then moved to Jharkhand for better opportunities. She plays Jharkhand State Cricket Association (JSCA) inter-district tournaments for Bokaro. While playing for Jharkhand, Indrani was picked up to play the U-23 Challenger Trophy. And, in 2018 and 2019, she played for India Blue and India C, respectively. The talented cricketer had an opportunity to rub shoulders with some of the best players in the country. Indrani praised the JSCA for promoting women’s cricket in the state. "The kind of facilities and match practice provided by the state association is very good. In addition, we have many local tournaments, in which players from 12 districts feature. There are inter-district tournaments that help to find local talent. Apart from that, we have the JPL (Jharkhand Premier League), which garnered popularity in its very first year itself. Just before the start of the senior women’s one-day tournament we had the JPL. The tournament helped the girls to build confidence going into the BCCI affiliated competition. In my case too, I played nine matches out of which I was the player of the match in eight of them. I owe my recent success to JPL,” Indrani signed off. India will play one Test, three ODI’s and as many T20s during the tour of England. The Test and ODI squad will be captained by Mithali Raj while Harmanpreet Kaur will lead in the T20 format.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-53
15-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad cracks down on hospitals for fleecing Covid patients||The Dhanbad district administration has tightened the noose around private hospitals charging exorbitant fees from Covid patients for treatment. Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh taking cognisance of repeated complaints of extra charges from Covid Patients by a private hospital in Govindpur, instructed the Block Development Officer of Govindpur, Santosh Kumar to investigate the charges and submit a report at the earliest. Singh said that repeated complaints have been received by the district administration and the state helpline number 108 about the extra charges for Covid treatment by private hospitals. The deputy commissioner said complaints have mentioned that some private hospitals charge Rs 15,000 per day for oxygen supported beds, which is around double the state approved rate. Notably, separate rates have been fixed for accredited hospitals of National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Health Care Providers (NABH) and non NABH hospitals. According to the state government’s approved rate of Covid treatment for private hospitals of Ranchi, Dhanbad, Jamshedpur and Bokaro the treatment rate for Oxygen Supported beds of NABH Hospitals is Rs 8000 per day while the charges for same facility in Non NABH hospitals is Rs 7500. Similarly, treatment cost for ICU without ventilator support in NABH hospitals is Rs 10,000 per day while the same treatment cost in non NABH Hospitals is Rs 9000 per day.  For ICU treatment with ventilators the approved rate is Rs 12,000 per day in NABH hospitals while the same has been fixed as Rs 11,500 per day in non NABH hospitals. Private hospitals have been instructed to carry out Covid treatment as per protocols of state Health, Medical Education and Family Welfare Department and have been warned against the realisation of extra charges other than the approved rates of treatment. “As the hospitals are under focus due to the pandemic, any incident of violation of charges will seriously damage their reputation and following administrative action their license may be cancelled,” warned Singh. On May 12, Singh warned the private hospitals of Dhanbad engaged in Covid treatment against fleecing money and added that an audit of death rate of Covid patients in private hospitals will be carried out by the district administration. He also instructed the management of these private hospitals to prominently display the treatment rate chart approved by the government in their respective hospitals. At present, Covid treatment is being carried out in 21 private and 9 government hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-53
15-05-2021||Jharkhand||Deoghar introduces bike ambulances||Deoghar district administration rolled out five bike ambulances on Saturday to ferry Covid-19 patients to hospitals and also provide medical help for people living in remote areas where ambulances can't reach due to various geographical challenges. Deputy commissioner Manjunath Bhajantri said the move was unddertaken in the light of a limited fleet of ambulances in the district. “We  flagged off five bike ambulances today and more will be added in the coming days,” he said, adding that anyone can contact the district administration helplines to avail of the service. Deoghar district administration has set up separate helplines, including numbers of the district control room (9031498011/8580271236), ambulance (108/9262291244) and oxygen (9973854796/9931185427). Speaking to reporters on Saturday, Bhajantri said the bike ambulances would operate in both rural and urban areas. “Many rural areas in the district don’t have connectivity for ambulances but two wheelers can reach quickly, which can reduce the response time in case of urgency. Similarly, in urban areas too, there are many places which are very narrow and four-wheelers can’t get in. The idea is to reach with medical help in the least possible time in those places,” he said. He said the bike ambulances will have basic medicines and facilities to at least bring a patient to the nearest point of assistance. “Bike ambulance drivers will be wearing safety gear like PPE kits,” he said. Deoghar is perhaps the first district to re-introduce bike ambulances _ an idea that debuted in Jharkhand a couple of years ago _ for the management of the pandemic. An official of the district health department said the initiative should be  of help when the state was going through a vicious second wave with cases spiralling in rural areas. “Such is the unpredictability of the virus that patients are turning serious suddenly. Timely medical help can make a difference,” he said. As per last night’s official bulletin, Deoghar currently has close to 1,500 active cases out of 9,437 total cases since the outbreak of the virus last year. As many as 94 people have died so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-53
15-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad railway porters in dire straits amid lockdown travel curbs||Around 100 porters of Dhanbad Railway station are bearing the economic brunt of the state-wide lockdown with gradual suspension of train operations for more than a month leading to a sharp dip in daily income. The porters, majority of whom are migrant workers, have already left for their respective villages. Ranjit Kumar, a porter at Dhanbad Railway station said, “Dhanbad station being one of the busiest of the region having large inflow of around 20,000 passengers per day, we used to earn around Rs 1000 per day but now we are getting one passenger after two to three days.” “After the lockdown of last March we faced extremely difficult days for four- five months due to complete suspension of operation of all trains," said Kumar. Though, the situation improved a bit till November to December last year with restoration of around 50% of trains but we are almost back to square one this year with the aggravated pandemic and resultant phase wise suspension of trains,” said Kumar, who is also president of Dhanbad Railway Coolie association. Ritlal Yadav, another porter at the station said, “Our main income was from Coal field express besides Rajdhani express and Shatabdi express but due to recent suspension of both Shatabdi express and Coal field express again we are getting very few passengers.” “While majority of the trains are cancelled, a few which are operating are also lying almost vacant with maximum five- six passengers travelling in each bogey,” said Yadav and added that the majority of passengers are preferring to carry their own luggage rather than letting anyone touch it for fearing the spread of the virus . Yadav said, “Though my wife and children were living here along with me but due to increased income I have sent them to my native place at Gaya in Bihar  where we have some agricultural land so that they can grow crops and earn a bit to somehow pass the difficult times.” “Though we have received some support from voluntary organisations in the form of food grains during last year’s lockdown, we have not received any support this year and finding it difficult to manage the family expenses of five including my three school going children,” said Sakal Kumar, another porter of Dhanbad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-54
15-05-2021||Jharkhand||Grandmasters, world Masters to battle it out at online blitz chess tourney||Three Grandmasters and 11 International Masters will be making smart moves across the board in an online blitz chess tournament starting this evening. The event is being organised by All Jharkhand Chess Association (AJCA) in association with XONG. Popular GMs R.R. Laxman, Harsha Bharathakoti, Karthik Venkataraman, Arjuna awardee IM D.V. Prasad along with 10 other IMs and two Women International Masters have confirmed their participation in the tournament. The tournament is being conducted on the online platform of lichess.org and will start at 4 pm and will be streamed live on XONG’s YouTube channel. "XONG" is a South Asian grassroot community-based eSports tournament organization. A brand of RouteToMarket Media India Pvt Ltd., XONG has conducted various eSports tournaments in South Asian countries, including India and Bangladesh. Entry fee for the event has been fixed at Rs 500 and a sum of 50,000 will be distributed to the prize winners, said AJCA secretary IM Neeraj Kumar Mishra. "We thought of conducting an online tournament since it is not possible to conduct one physically in Covid times. We are elated about the GMs and IMs participation," Mishra added. Jamshedpur-based Mishra said results of the tournament will be announced after three days. The results will be evaluated on lichess.org to check for any traces of foul play whatsoever,” he added. The state chess outfit had organised an offline senior state championship in Ranchi in March when the Covid-related situation was normal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-54
15-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Active caseload continues to drop in state||Jharkhand continued to record a steady drop in the number of fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday and the number of casualties also dipped in comparison to the past couple of days. The state reported at least 7112 Covid recoveries against 3776 fresh cases on Friday, which brought the active caseload down to 45,056, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. The active caseload has dropped from over 60,000 to 45,056 in the past fortnight. As per NHM data, at least 76 Covid patients, including 28 from Ranchi and eight from Bokaro, died during treatment on the day, taking the Covid toll in the state up at 4,366. East Singhbhum also reported seven Covid fatalities on Friday. Jharkhand has a Covid mortality rate of 1.40 per cent, which is higher than the national average of 1.10 per cent. The active caseload also dropped significantly in Ranchi and East Singhbhum, two of the worst-affected districts in terms of caseload and fatalities. At least 2,267 Covid patients recovered in Ranchi on Friday against 494 fresh cases, bringing the active caseload here down to 11,918. However, the 28 casualties on Friday took the Covid toll in Ranchi to 1374. East Singhbhum reported 968 Covid recoveries against 957 fresh cases on the day and the active caseload there dropped to 4,463. The seven deaths reported in the district on the day took the Covid toll there to 882. Ranchi and East Singhbhum jointly account for almost 50 per cent of the active cases in Jharkhand, highlights government data. East Singhbhum reported the highest spike in Covid cases on the day among Jharkhand districts. At least 957 people were found infected in Palamu on Friday while 968 patients recovered there. Bokaro reported 162 Covid cases against 328 recoveries, while Dhanbad reported 143 cases against 155 recoveries. Jharkhand on Friday tested swab samples of 49,596 residents and less than 8 per cent of them were found infected. As per government data, over 3.1 lakh state residents have been infected by the mysterious virus so far and nearly 84 per cent of them have recovered. The growth rate of Covid cases in Jharkhand was 1.35 per cent against the national average of 1.09 per cent, while the doubling rate in the state was 51.54 days against the national average of 64.20 days, highlighted the NHM bulletin. The doubling rate in the state had gone down to 25 days in the last week of April. Meanwhile, the state administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 45493 residents on the day, while the second jab was administered to more than 9,000 beneficiaries, stated a report from NHM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-54
15-05-2021||Jharkhand||Wage delay for MGNREGA workers||Wages of over 10 lakh workers in Jharkhand under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act have not been paid for over a month, according to data on the scheme’s website. The MGNREGA dashboard has been developed by the National Informatics Centre (NIC) and maintained by the Union ministry of rural development. “Wages of Jharkhand’s NREGA workers are pending since 45 days as the central government has not released funds. At a time when workers should get additional income to support their families during the pandemic-induced lockdown, the government has failed to deliver even their hard earned wages. It is another failure of the Narendra Modi government amid the pandemic and shows it is insensitive to the plight of rural workers. We will be writing to the Prime Minister’s Office on Saturday about the deplorable condition of workers due to non-payment of wages,” said James Herenz, convener of NREGA Watch, a civil society outfit monitoring lapses in MGNREGA projects across Jharkhand. The Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha, which claims to be a coalition of progressive organisations, formed to facilitate efforts to defend people’s rights and save democracy in the state, has tweeted about the non-payment of wages to MGNREGA workers and tagged chief minister Hemant Soren and Union rural development secretary N.N. Sinha. An IAS officer, Sinha has served in Jharkhand for a major period of his career. “We have drawn the attention of chief minister Hemant Soren and also union (rural development) secretary N.N. Sinha towards this issue. We hope that they raise the issue in a proper forum and get it resolved at the earliest as several MGNREGA workers are on the brink of starvation,” said Herenj, who is also a member of the Mahasabha. According to data accessed from the state rural development department, there are nearly 10.65 lakh labourers who have pending wages to the tune of Rs 10.48 crore. “Several workers had to take loans from rural mahajans (moneylenders) due to non-payment of wages for the treatment of family members affected by Covid-19. Some have no option but to go for traditional treatment in the absence of funds to meet medical expenses,” said Siraj Dutta, another member of the Mahasabha. The MGNREG, which guarantees at least 100 days of unskilled work in a year to every rural household, has assumed renewed significance and proved to be a lifeline for migrant workers who returned to their villages after loss of employment in cities. Jharkhand NREGA commissioner Varun Ranjan said the central government had earlier this week released funds for payment of wages of two categories — ST (Scheduled Tribes) and Others. Allocation for SC (Scheduled Caste) is yet to be released. “Allocation is released in three categories — ST, SC and Others. We have received allocation for ST and Others from the central government. It will be credited to the bank accounts of beneficiaries through the PFMS (Public Financial Management System) within a day or two,” said Varun Ranjan. The PFMS is a platform for e-payment under direct benefit transfer (DBT) to both Aadhaar-based and non-Aadhaar-based bank accounts of beneficiaries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-54
15-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand care for kids orphaned by Covid-19 pandemic||The Jharkhand government has come forward to ensure proper care for the children who lost their parents to Covid-19 pandemic. Chief minister Hemant Soren had on Thursday directed all the deputy commissioners to ensure proper care for the children who have lost their parents during Covid pandemic and also take steps so that they do not face exploitation or get trapped in child trafficking which is rampant in rural parts of the state. A source in the chief minister’s office (CMO) said that the government has announced financial assistance to the caretakers of such orphaned children and also launched a helpline for rehabilitation of such children. “In case other members of the family of the children, who have lost their parents, agree to take care of the orphaned child, they will be given monthly sponsorship assistance by the government. The amount would be finalised soon. However, members of the child welfare committee will visit the respective household and do a ground survey to ensure that the child is in safe hands. In case of no caretakers, those children will be taken to the state-owned children care home,” the statement from the CMO said. The government also issued child care helpline numbers. “Apart from the central child helpline number 1098, the government has also issued helpline numbers 181, WhatsApp number 8789833434 and mobile number 9955588871 and 8789370474. These numbers will be monitored by the concerned district welfare officer,” the CMO statement further added. The chief minister has appealed to the people not to release the details of such children in the public domain and directly report to the helpline. This will help the administration immediately approach such children and avoid exploitation, child labour or trafficking. Meanwhile, chief minister has also directed principal secretary social welfare department Avinash Kumar to start a survey of such families affected by the pandemic. “Those families whose single earner has died due to Covid-19 will be surveyed and the government will take steps to link them to social security schemes,” added the source in CMO. Meanwhile, Soren launched the third phase of Covid vaccination for 1.57 crore people in the state aged between 18 and 44 years of age free of cost on Friday at Ranchi. According to data shared by the state health department on Thursday, a little over 30,000 people among the 1.57 crore eligible beneficiaries for the third phase have registered themselves through the CoWin portal and Arogya Setu application to take their jabs since registration opened on April 28. Incidentally, the drive was scheduled on May 1 but was postponed as the central government along with manufacturers of Covaxin and Covishield expressed their inability to deliver the doses by that time. The state has 2.34 lakh doses of the vaccine for the third phase of the inoculation campaign. The ongoing vaccination driver for people above 45 years will continue and nearly six lakh doses provided by the Centre are still in stock. The chief minister also launched a PSA (pressure swing adsorption) plant at Sahebganj Sadar Hospital on Friday which will provide oxygen directed to the patient’s bed. On Thursday, the state added 4,991 positive cases taking the total active Covid cases to 48,468 and the death toll on Thursday was 108 taking the total casualty to 4,290.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-54
