16-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad traders donate blood to save depleting resources ||Dhanbad traders on Sunday donated blood to Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital’s blood bank, facing shortage during the Covid pandemic. The majority of the donors of the blood bank are from IIT (ISM) and BIT Sindri. Both the campuses are conducting online classes and hostels have been evacuated with the surge in cases. Around 13 units of blood were donated at a blood donation camp jointly organised by Purana Bazar Chamber of Commerce and Industries and Dhanbad Chamber of Commerce, Park Market at Vivekanand Chowk of Hirapur. “As majority of members of both the units of chamber of commerce have taken first or second dose of vaccine and generally blood donation is not considered safe within one month of taking vaccine so the donation was lesser than our expectation but we tried our bit to add to the stock and more camps will continue,” said Sanjeev Chaurasia of Dhanbad Chamber of Commerce. Dr A.K. Singh, SNMMCH’s blood bank in-charge said, “Though we are facing some shortage of stock in negative groups but overall the situation is alarming as we had 100 units of stock during the morning which increased to 113 following the donation of 13 units by members of two different units of Chamber of Commerce.” “We were apprehending blood shortage following the intensification of Covid vaccination drive but since a lot of awareness had been carried out about the possible blood crisis due to vaccination by a number of voluntary blood donor organisations, such people whose one month of vaccination has been completed are coming in large numbers to donate blood to tide over the crisis,” said Dr Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-52
16-05-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city police intensifies drive against lockdown violators||The East Singhbhum police launched a drive on Sunday to check e-passes, I-cards and other valid documents for travel during the state-wide lockdown in the steel city and other parts of the district to catch violators. The documents were checked at various check-points that have been set up in bordering areas like Baharagora, Potka and Patamda. Senior SP of East Singhbhum Tamil M. Vanan was also out on the road along with his subordinates checking e-passes of travellers at various places. Fines for breaking lockdown rules and loitering outside without valid reasons were imposed on as many as 50 commuters. The cops hit the streets as early as 6 am and remained on the streets under the scorching sun discharging their duty. All roads, market places, state highways and NH-33 passing through the steel city wore a deserted look after 2 pm. The fourth phase of the ongoing partial lockdown came into force across the state from Sunday. The lockdown, or health safety week, will be on till May 27. During the lockdown, intra-state bus movement will be prohibited while those using private vehicles, taxis, bikes for travel will need to have valid e-permits from the local district administration. E-passes were also checked for those moving in cars and bikes, except for medical emergencies and funerals. Industrial workers in Jamshedpur and the adjoining Adityapur industrial area were asked to produce a valid photo ID.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-52
16-05-2021||Jharkhand||Mountaineers address students at Tata Steel webinar||The Tata Steel Adventure Foundation in association with Tata Education Excellence Program organised a webinar named “Parvatarohan- Ek Charcha” for school students on Saturday. The speakers invited were mountaineers who had conquered Mount Everest. More than 200 students from standard VIII to XII from ‘Basic’ and ‘Saral’ assessment schools attended the webinar. "During this pandemic, children too are among the effected. They are unable to go out and meet their friends or teachers or involve in any extra-curricular activity. In such a situation this webinar helped to motivate and engage these young minds", said TSAF head and Everester Hemant Gupta who was also one of the speakers at the webinar. Besides Gupta, Swarnalata Dalai and Rathu Mahato also addressed the session. The speakers shared their experience with illustrative presentation of climbing the world's tallest peak and also shared the hardships faced to fulfil their ambition. The session also touched upon the wide range of career opportunities in the area of mountaineering from being a climber to being a trek leader or being in a rescue team. Through this session students also got an opportunity to appreciate the need of - leadership, team building, planning, self-discipline and hard-work. The speakers also focused on the importance of formal education in a sporting field too and shared their future plans to keep their tryst of conquering other global peaks. At the end of the session, a competition was floated for the students where they will be sharing their learning in the form of drawings or essays. Top two entries each in drawing and essay writing will be awarded. TEEP was started in 2003 to enable schools to improve the quality of education so that they can offer greater value to the students and create a culture of excellence to nurture the ‘citizens of tomorrow.’ The schools voluntarily participate in this program which is a year-long engagement and then they are assessed on education excellence maturity. Currently working with 40+ schools in and around Jamshedpur, guidance on career opportunities is identified as an area to handhold students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-52
16-05-2021||Jharkhand||State asks hospitals to set up post-Covid care facilities||Jharkhand government has asked all leading hospitals in the state to set up post-Covid care centres and strengthen existing facilities for rehabilitation of Covid survivors following a rise in cases of Covid-induced mucormycosis and fatalities caused by residual symptoms. In a letter addressed to all five state-run hospitals and a few corporate-run hospitals in Jamshedpur and Bokaro on Saturday, the Hemant Soren-led Government has said that in accordance with recommendations of the Expert Committee of Covid-19 Management in Jharkhand, all hospitals were directed to set up post-Covid care facilities for management, treatment and counselling of Covid survivors without further ado. “Hospitals should also appoint nodal officers for management of post-Covid care facilities,” the letter stated. “The arrangements should be made in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare for post-Covid counselling and treatment,” the letter added. Cases of post-Covid complications have been on the rise in Jharkhand since the second wave of the pandemic hit the state in April. Besides life-threatening residual symptoms in survivors, cases of black fungus or mucormycosis have also been reported in different parts of the state. While the government does not maintain an official record of Covid-induced black fungus cases, doctors say that at least 50 patients have developed mucormycosis following the use of high dosage of steroids during their treatment for Covid-19. “Some patients infected by black fungus need critical care, and it is important that hospitals get ready with the infrastructure to treat such patients as they also require isolation,” said Dr Anindya Anuradha, an ophthalmologist who has been treating mucormycosis at Ranchi-based Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital. Even after the first wave of Covid-19 last year, the government had directed state-run hospitals to set up post-Covid care facilities. At present, there is a functional post-Covid care facility at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi, where at least two patients of black fungus have undergone treatment so far. The government’s letter was addressed on Saturday night to RIMS, Tata Main Hospital, Bokaro General Hospital, SNMMC Dhanbad, Sheikh Bhikhari Medical College Hazaribagh, Phulo Jhano Medical College Dumka and Medini Rai Medical College in Palamu. Health officials said that the post-Covid care facilities will not only treat physiological problems in survivors but also address psychological problems caused by Covid-19. Many Covid survivors in the past have complained of anxiety disorder, depression and obsessive-compulsive behaviour in Jharkhand, say psychiatrists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-52
16-05-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Steel summer sports camp begins Monday||The most sought-after sports summer camp is all set to unfold in the steel city on Monday through digital means and will continue till the first week of June. The camp, which will culminate on June 8, is being organised by Tata Steel. It is aimed at promoting  health and fitness through training in various sports disciplines in line with the Centre's Fit India initiative. As many as 19 sports disciplines, including yoga, archery athletics, badminton, basketball, boxing chess, cricket (batting and spin bowling), cricket (fielding and fast bowling), football, golf, handball, hockey, karate, roller skating, table tennis, tennis, volleyball and zumba, are part of the proceedings. Tata Steel sports wing has been organising sports camps in operative locations of Jharkhand and Odisha involving school students for several years now. In view of the second wave of the pandemic, the company  will leverage digital means to connect with young and budding sporting talent during the camp. The camp, accessible across the globe free of cost, primarily caters to children in the age group of 6-18. People in other age groups, including adults, can also benefit from modules on yoga, zumba, etc. Camp participants will receive basic induction from experts and coaches through specially curated online videos (available on Tata Steel’s corporate website and YouTube every morning from 5am. The camp is being organised with GRITZO as the nutrition partner and ENERZAL as the hydration partner. More information on the camp can be accessed at https://www.tatasteel.com/corporate/our-organisation/corporate-initiatives/summer-camp-2021/. The 2020 edition of the sports summer camp, organised digitally for the first time, was a success with more than 40,000 views across platforms on videos of all disciplines. “We are expecting a similar response for this camp. Preparations are complete,” a Tata Steel sports wing official said. The JRD Tata Sports Complex in Bistupur has been the venue for offline sports summer camps. Students of steel city schools always look forward to picking up sports lessons under experienced hands, including some internationals, employed with Tata Steel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-53
16-05-2021||Jharkhand||Stormy weather across Jharkhand till Mid-week ||Cyclone Tauktae will lead to cloudy skies accross Jharkhand till Wenesday, May 19 while pre-monsoon thunderstorms would continue to take place in the next five days, the IMD has said. "Under the influence of the severe cyclonic storm Tauktae, Jharkhand is not likely to have severe weather impact. But, it would cause generally cloudy weather condition from the afternoon of May 17 (Monday) and would prevail till May 19 (Wednesday)," Abhishek Anand, head of Ranchi Met Centre, said on Sunday,  adding that thunderstorm and lightning are expected to continue for the next five days till May 21. Cyclone Tauktae which originated from the Arabian Sea was moving northwards. It is  likely to intensify further during the next 24 hours  and reach Gujarat coast in the evening of May 17. Sector wise forecast issued by Ranchi Met Centre suggested partly cloudy sky with light to moderate rain over various districts of northern,  central and  southern Jharkhand during the next five days.The Met centre has also issued an alert of lightning and gusty winds blowing at a speed of 40 kmph in several places during the next five days. A duty officer at Ranchi Met Centre said southerly wind was prevailing over Jharkhand resulting in moisture incursion, which assists in rainfall activity. Met data revealed that most places across Jharkhand, including Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Daltonganj, Bokaro, Dhanbad, Ramgarh, Hazaribagh, Pakur,  Sahebganj and Deoghar, were experiencing day temperatures below normal for the last few days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-53
16-05-2021||Jharkhand||Social activist arranges for last rites of Covid deceased||Dhanbad social activist Ankit Rajgaria and his team of four are helping in the funeral arrangements of Covid victims who have no family members to help perform the last rites. Rajgaria, 32, an activist of Karkend and his team, including Chaturbhuj Kumar, an insurance company agent of Kendua; Banti Vishwakarma, a light and sound house owner of same area; Ravi Shekhar, a tea leaf wholesaler of Bhuli and Sahid Ansari of Bhuli, have so far carried out the funeral of four Covid victims since May 9. Rajgaria is the first person from the states of Bihar and Jharkhand to undergo Bharat Biotech’s vaccination trial in Patna in December 2019 and January 2020. “While serving Covid affected persons by arranging oxygen cylinders for the last one month, we realised that many people who have no one in the family are facing a lot of difficulty in carrying out the funeral of their family members, losing life due to Covid as very few are coming forward to participate in funeral due to Covid scare,” said Rajgaria to The Telegraph Online on Sunday. “We received the first call for funeral from the daughter of a 75 year old Covid suspected victim of Bhuli on May 9 and carried the funeral by observing all the laid protocols of wearing PPE Kits and packing the dead body as per the laid norms in Bastacola, as she had no one to help,” said Rajgaria. “On the very next day on May 10 we received another call from the wife of a 45 year Covid deceased person of Bank Colony in Gosaindih and as the lady was three months pregnant and his brother in law were the only two persons in family, we helped them in carrying the dead body in Bastacola crematorium” said Rajgharia. Banti Vishwakarma, a friend of Rajgariha said, “I readily agreed when Ankit put forward the idea to me to take up the responsibility of carrying out the last rites of such people who have no one or very people to look after.” “We received the third request for a funeral from a Junior lady doctor of Sahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College and Hospital, whose father, though declared Covid negative, died due to lungs affected by Covid,” said Vishwakarma. “We carried out the cremation of the fourth body today of a Covid affected nephew of a doctor of Shakti Nursing home at Bastacola as very few in the family came to help,” said Vishwarkarma. “We also received the call for the funeral of an elderly Covid affected couple two days ago but as the message of us carrying out the funeral went viral in local social media, some relatives came forward and we are are happy that our basic objective to arouse the sentiments has been successful through our work,” said another member of the group Chaturbhuj Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-53
16-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid-19: State reports twice as many recoveries as fresh cases||Jharkhand reported at least twice as many Covid recoveries as fresh cases of infection on Saturday, bringing the active caseload close to 40,000, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. However, as per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state also reported as many as 65 Covid casualties on the day, which took the Covid toll to 4,431. At least 6,762 Covid patients recovered from the infection on Saturday while 3,157 residents were found infected. The active caseload dropped to 10,149 in Ranchi, the worst-affected district in Jharkhand, as at least 2,206 patients recovered here against 465 fresh cases. However, the Covid toll in Ranchi jumped to 1,393 on the day as the district reported at least 19 of the 65 Covid casualties. The Covid toll in East Singhbhum reached 894 on Saturday as at least 12 patients died there during treatment in the past 24 hours, the NHM stated in its bulletin. The district reported 743 Covid recoveries against 297 fresh cases of infection on the day. The active caseload there dropped to 4,010, the NHM bulletin highlighted. The state on Saturday tested swab samples of 52,939 residents and around 7 per cent of them were found infected. Over 3.13 lakh people have been infected by the deadly virus in Jharkhand so far and more than 85 per cent of them have recovered. Meanwhile, over 41,000 Jharkhand residents in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years were administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the total count of those inoculated in the aforementioned age bracket to 74,950, government data revealed. As per data with the NHM, at least 904 beneficiaries got the jab in Ranchi, while over 4,000 beneficiaries in the age bracket of 18 to 44 years were administered the first dose of the vaccine in Bokaro as well as Dhanbad. East Singhbhum administered the first jab to 3,239 beneficiaries in the said age bracket, while 2265 people got the jab in Palamu. Jharkhand also registered a drop in the growth rate of Covid cases on the day. As per government data, the growth rate in Jharkhand was 1.29 per cent against the national average of 1.04 per cent. The doubling rate in the state was 54.14 days against the national average of 66.70 days, NHM figures highlighted. The Covid mortality rate in the state was 1.41 per cent, which is higher than the national average of 1.10 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-53
16-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid surge: Civil society organisations come forward to shoulder responsibilities||Civil society organisations in Jharkhand have come forward to shoulder their responsibilities at a time the state is ravaged by the Covid-19 pandemic. Jharkhand Christian Youth Association (JCYA), a loosely formed outfit comprising Christian youths of various denominations, has not only arranged dry rations and masks but also creating awareness on vaccination in rural areas. “Unlike the Covid-19 pandemic last year, the second wave has affected rural areas. While the city dwellers do have access to good healthcare, their rural counterparts unfortunately lack such facilities. Even the NGOs and corporate sectors seem to be confined to urban areas in organising social initiatives. We decided to abide by our conscience and consciously decided to come together to help the rural people,” said Ranchi-based Kuldeep Tirkey, 33, central president of the JCYA. Nearly 20 members of the JCYA have contributed money to distribute dry ration kits comprising rice (6kg), dal (1kg), soyabean (1kg), edible oil (1kg) and masks. “Some of us are employed and a few are students. Those who are employed are contributing from their own salary while those who are students contribute from their pocket money. So far, we have distributed ration and masks free of cost in Hahap village under Namkum block. We have asked our friends, associates and community members to let us know about villagers who are facing difficult times so that we can distribute the dry ration and masks among them,” Tirkey said. The members are also creating awareness about vaccination. “Several misgivings are rampant among villagers against vaccines and we try our best to persuade them. We are also informing the villagers about the third wave of Covid, which is expected later this year and that vaccines will protect them from severe infections,” Tirkey said. Ranchi Catholic church had on May 4 launched a free lunch service for the relatives of patients hospitalised in the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences. The service is conducted by Ranchi Catholic Church under the leadership of archbishop Felix Toppo and Ranchi auxiliary bishop Theodore Mascarenhas and organised on the ground by the Ranchi Catholic Youth unit led by its president Kuldip Tirkey. Free packed hot lunches comprising rice, lentils (dal), chicken and vegetables along with bottles of mineral water were served to the needy. “We have distributed nearly 500 food packets daily since May 4 at RIMS,” Tirkey added. Meanwhile, JMM central general secretary Vinod Kumar Pandey on Friday launched an ambulance fitted with oxygen cylinder from the JMM central office at Bariatu in Ranchi. “Anyone can contact on the mobile number 8789493599 for availing free ambulance service in Ranchi city. We will soon be launching a similar service for rural pockets, too,” said Pandey. Deoghar deputy commissioner Manjunath Bhajantri and Deoghar SP Ashwini Kumar Sinha on Saturday launched five bike ambulances to ferry patients from inaccessible areas. “It will cater to narrow lanes in city areas and rural areas that do not have good roads and make it difficult for usual ambulances to reach villages. It will have a first-aid facility along with PPE kits, gloves, masks and sanitisers. All the ambulance drivers have been trained to administer first aid to patients while ferrying them to nearest hospitals,” Bhajantri said. On Friday, Jharkhand recorded 3,776 positive cases, taking the total active Covid count to 45,056. The day also saw 76 deaths, taking the total casualties to 4,366.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-53
16-05-2021||Jharkhand||Central Coalfields Limited steps up fight against pandemic||The Central Coalfields Limited (CCL), a Jharkhand-based subsidiary of the Coal India Limited, has stepped up its fight against the pandemic by signing memoranda of understanding with several district administrations to the tune of Rs 10 crore to provide facilities for Covid patients. “This is a time of pandemic and we are committed to serve our stakeholders. We have inked various MoUs with local administrations to set up ICU units, build infrastructure, etc, for giving better treatment to Covid patients. We have signed eight separate MoUs with the district administrations of Ramgarh, Latehar, Chatra, Bokaro, Ranchi, Giridih, Palamu and Hazaribagh for the treatment of Covid patients as well as building infrastructure in hospitals,” said CCL chairman-cum-managing director P.M. Prasad. Recently, the CCL management signed an MoU with the Latehar district administration for setting up a 12-bed ICU facility with oxygen pipeline at the Sadar Hospital. “Apart from this, we are helping in setting up a PSA (pressure swing adsorption) oxygen plant and strengthening the ICU at the Sadar Hospital in Chatra district as well as a digital Covid centre and high-tech ambulance with oxygen in Bokaro district. We have signed a MoU with the medical college in Hazaribagh for procuring 100 oxygen concentrators, 100 jumbo cylinders, 100 B-type cylinders so that Covid patients get treatment in the district itself,” a CCL spokesperson said. The CCL-owned Gandhinagar Central Hospital in Ranchi has been converted into a Covid hospital by the district administration. The CCL has earmarked a budget of Rs 7.08 lakh under its corporate social responsibility plan for procurement of drugs, masks and oxygen cylinders for Covid wards. “The CCL-owned Gandhinagar hospital in Ranchi, Central Hospital in Ramgarh and the Dakra, Rajrappa and Dhori hospitals with a total of 295 beds are serving as Covid hospitals in coordination with the district administrations and rendering free treatment to coronavirus patients. In 2020-21, we contributed Rs 26 crore to the central and state governments for tackling the Covid-19 pandemic. The CCL also contributed Rs 1.25 crore to the administrations of eight districts where our mines are operational, including Ranchi district. We also contributed Rs 129 lakh last fiscal for the distributions of dry food grains, masks, sanitisers, etc,” the spokesperson said. The CCL has lost around 47 employees to Covid. “Despite the death toll due to the ongoing pandemic, the CCL has recorded 112 per cent increase in production at 4.84 million tonnes in April 2021. The CCL had recorded 2.28 million tonnes of coal output in April 2020,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-53
