17-05-2021||Jharkhand||State waives cremation charges of Covid victims||The Jharkhand government announced the waiver of all charges at cremation sites as part of its move to help bereaved families of those dying of Covid amid reports of violation of prescribed charges for funerals. Chief minister Hemant Soren made the announcement during the online launch of an 80-bed oxygen supported facility at DAV school building in Ghatotand under Mandu block of Ramgarh district. The facility has been set up with the help of Tata Steel. During the ceremony, Hemant also expressed concern over the growing cases of black fungus, which in recent weeks, has emerged as a new challenge in post Covid recovery complications in the state. Around 15 cases of black fungus have been detected from several districts in the last couple of weeks and at least four have reportedly died so far. Soren said, “While we are trying to upgrade our medical infrastructure on a daily basis to tackle Covid-19, we are also trying hard to ensure that in the event of an unfortunate death of anyone due to the virus are given respectable send-off and that their families aren’t subjected to any kind of harassment at the cremation sites. Hence, we have now decided to end all kinds of charges imposed at the cremation site. For example, we have decided to provide woods free of cost at burning ghats. At burial sites, JCB machines will be engaged for digging pits.” Health minister Banna Gupta said that the new rule will be applicable for all kinds of sites irrespective of religious affiliations. “The government is also considering todeclare those engaged at such sites for various kinds of works as Covid warriors so that in case of any eventuality, their families can be compensated with some financial assistance, details of which are being worked out,” he said. The burial sites are overwhelmed with bodies since the outbreak of the second wave of the pandemic from March end. According to the health department, as many as 4479 persons have died since March last year of which more than 50 percent of the casualties have come in the last two months. As families lined up to dispose bodies outside funeral sites, many reportedly faced instances of fleecing and arbitrary charging by workers at those sites for offering various services. About the Ramgarh facility, Hemant added that it is part of state government’s efforts to now upgrade medical infrastructure in rural areas as the virus is shifting towards the remote areas. He said that they are working on multipronged dimensions that include mass testing for early identification of suspected cases, distribution of medical kits and creating awareness to weed off vaccine hesitancy in rural populace. “We have already distributed 20 lakh rapid antigen testing kits and have demanded another 45 lakh from government of India to pace testing in rural areas,” he noted, adding that they have begun distribution of five Covid medicine kits in rural areas and are equipping grassroot workers like sahiyas, anganwadi workers with oxymeters to identify suspected or critical cases. “We are also setting up oxygen banks in rural areas to prevent any shortage of oxygen, deploying at least two cardiac ambulances with all facilities at block levels to ferry critical patients to health centre among others,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-51
17-05-2021||Jharkhand||Audit report for Covid deaths at Dhanbad hospitals||The Dhanbad district administration has decided to conduct a death audit in a phased manner at hospitals engaged in Covid treatment, to curtail any lapses at the facilities. The survey will begin with five private and four government hospitals. A committee led by Dhanbad Civil Surgeon Dr Gopal Das has already been constituted which will begin the audit work within two to three days. The committee will find out the reasons for death, including why and how it took place during the course of treatment and also try to find out whether some negligence in treatment caused the death. “The team during the audit will also interact with the family members of Covid deceased patients and take their opinion noting down their complaints and suggestions,” said deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh while holding an online meeting at his office with civil surgeon and members of the audit team. The audit report will be prepared as per the National Format for Disease control and will be submitted before May 30. “The aim of conducting a death audit is not only finding faults for hospitals but rather bringing a real picture to find out where we have missed in treatment and what is required to bring down the death rate, how to strengthen the Covid treatment protocols? What preparations need to be made for the future? Etc,” said Singh and added that corrective steps will be taken as per the recommendation of the audit team. “We will be carrying out death audit in phase wise manner of all  hospitals beginning with nine hospitals, including five private hospitals like Healmax Hospital, Pragati Nursing Home, Asharfi Hospital; Asian Dwarkadas Jalan Super speciality hospital; Patliputra Nursing besides the four government owned Covid treatment facilities , including Divisional Railway Hospital, Sadar Hospital, Cath Lab of Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital and Central Hospital of Dhanbad,” said Singh. “The team during the course of the audit will also mention the number and opinion of doctors and medical staff of the hospital and make necessary suggestions to the hospital management to carry out improvement in the existing arrangement of the hospital,” further said Singh. Dhanbad has recorded 352 deaths out of total 14306 Covid cases, which is around 2.4%. The death rate in Dhanbad is much higher than the death rate of neighbouring Bokaro where only 215 out of 17480 Covid victims have died and thus death rate is 1.2%.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-51
17-05-2021||Jharkhand||Digital training programme launched on cyber security||The CyberPeace Foundation, in a joint collaboration with the Ministry of Education and the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), launched a first of its kind digital training Project eSaksham on Monday. The programme will focus on developing skills in the cyber security domain, exclusively for college students and teachers. May 17 is also celebrated globally as the National Telecommunication Day and Information Society Day. The initiative was kicked off by chairperson of AICTE Anil D. Sahasrabudhe over an online Zoom meeting, along with Shri Buddha Chandrasekhar, chief coordinating officer of AICTE; Lt. Gen (Dr.) Rajesh Pant (Retd.), National Cyber Security Coordinator (NCSC), Government of India and Capt. Vineet Kumar, founder and president, CyberPeace Foundation. The capacity building project was undertaken owing to the lack of manpower in the domain. According to NASSCOM, India had a shortage of one million cyber security professionals in 2020. The labour crunch is expected to hit approximately 3.5 million by 2021. The aim is to build a community where the internet strengthens instead of becoming a weakness, while making the youth industry ready and to also create a secure ecosystem where research work can be transformed into market ready products. “Everyone wants to be happy and safe but Homo sapiens have also got a criminal tendency and it is not new and when there is crime, there has to be cops. As civilization grew and we developed the World Wide Web, there were new challenges thrown to us. The eSaksham project will teach the participants how to identify and mitigate those challenges. Indian students are already very tech and IT savvy, participating in the eSaksham training will be a way to contribute to society," said Sahasrabudhe. "The Indian government too is working on a national cyber security ecosystem, the strategy for which will be ready by this year. In the new normal, there are only two mantras for survival- personal hygiene and cyber hygiene," said Pant. Following his speech he announced the third edition of the Global CyberPeace Challenge (GCC 3.0) which will be launched in the upcoming months. He also launched the eRaksha 2020 compendium created to celebrate the winners of the second edition of the competition conducted for students, educators, parents and caregivers across the nation. The eSaksham training will be conducted at four levels followed by assessments. A total of 5 lakh students and educators will be trained through the online sessions. 25000 CyberPeace Corps volunteers and 500 CyberPeace fellows will also be created through various levels of training, and 50 CyberPeace Clubs will be set up across the country. Participants at the final level will also be connected to mentors and will have access to laboratories and cyber ranges, to further develop their skills. Successful completion of training shall make the participants eligible for a certificate by AICTE and CyberPeace Foundation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-51
17-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad group helps with Covid relief for those without support||A group of 21 youngsters led by a social activist Abhishek Singh is arranging oxygen cylinders, plasma, beds and medicines for Covid patients who lack any assistance or help in arranging for the above. The group, Team Dhanbad, has so far arranged plasma for 27 critically affected patients of Dhanbad and other neighbouring places including Bokaro, Dumka, Ranchi and also in far off places like Mau in Uttar Pradesh and Ghaziabad. Singh, who underwent a Covid vaccine trial in December 2020 along with four member of his team said,“We started work with the onset of the second wave of the pandemic more than 50 days ago during the first week of March, helping patients find beds, arranging oxygen cylinders and food for the needy families through personal contacts etc.” “We used social media platforms including, Twitter, Facebook, Instagram to get in touch with the needy patients as well as the hospitals, etc arranging food for them,”said Singh and added  that they are getting over 100 requests for help from the families of Covid patients on a daily basis. Explaining the modus operandi of their work, Singh said, “The team is divided in separate sub groups, one of which keeps tabs on the social media platform looking for requests for help, finding the availability of beds and oxygen in the area, surfing websites, government helpline numbers etc.” “The other one is deputed on ground supplies, medicines and oxygen cylinders to patients in their home, personally contacting and convincing the Covid recovered persons to donate plasma for others fighting with Covid,” said Singh. “The going was much more tough when we started our work as we had lesser information about the availability  of resources but as things started rolling, we have earned the trust of everyone including the  government officials and administration, people’s representatives and even other social organisations within Dhanbad and other places like Bokaro, Ranchi etc,” said Singh. “Though, the situation has quite improved since over a week as half of around 1500 beds of Dhanbad are lying vacant with lesser number of fresh cases and higher recoveries but during the peak period around a fortnight back, we had to spend several hours outside hospitals arranging for beds due to a huge rush of patients,” explained Singh. The social group’s work has earned them praises from leaders like technocrat turned politician and former MLA. Kunal Sarangi and former chief minister Raghubar Das besides journalists like Rubkika Liyakat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-51
17-05-2021||Jharkhand||No need of e-pass for those going for vaccine or attending funerals||The Jharkhand government has clarified that residents leaving their homes for vaccination and other medical emergencies will not require e-pass for their vehicles following concerns raised by many at a time when those above 18 years of age were being immunised against Civid-19. A notification from the State Transport Department on Monday stated that people traveling within the state for vaccination, medical check-up and hospitalization will be exempted from the e-pass mandate for vehicular movement in Jharkhand. Besides , the notification also clarified that people attending funerals will not require e-oass for their vehicles. In the fresh set of guidelines for the extended lockdown, the Hemant Soren-led government made it mandatory for people to download e-pass for their vehicles even if they move out of their homes for buying essential goods from May 16 onwards. The e-oass, as per a government notification, could be downloaded from epassJharkhand.nic.in. However, there was no option for vaccine beneficiaries to download e-pass from the portal on Day 1 of the new set of restrictions. Besides, the website kept crashing, giving a tough time to residents on Sunday. “I had booked a slot for vaccination on Sunday itself, but I did not go to the vaccination centre as a friend was harassed by the police over the lack of an e-pass for his car earlier in the morning,” said Shaurya Sharma, a resident of Kanke Road. “It is a relief that the government has done away with the e-pass mandate for vaccine beneficiaries,” he added. Meanwhile, a Dhurwa-based resident has moved a PIL in the Jharkhand High Court against the government’s e-pass mandate, claiming that it was confusing and unnecessary. The petitioner, Rajan Kumar Singh, also stated that many Jharkhand residents did not have access to smart phones and could not download e-passes from the government portal. The notification from the Transport Department on Monday, however, stated that an e-pass will be mandatory for vehicular movement for the purpose of purchasing edible items and other essential goods except for medicines. The e-pass will be valid for a period of three hours from the time of download and it can only be available from 6am to 3pm. While the active caseload of Covid-19 has reduced in the state, the government is pushing for stricter restrictions in order to avert a rise in cases and a possible third wave. Meanwhile, the vaccination programme is in full swing with the state managing to inoculate more than 1.11 lakh beneficiaries in the age bracket of 18 to 44 years since May 14.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-52
17-05-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city school turned into Covid care centre||Mango-based Kerala Public School has become the first school in Jamshedpur to be converted into a Covid care centre equipped with oxygen cylinders. The school is lying closed for more than a year due to the pandemic. The 30-bed facility was inaugurated by Banna Gupta, state health minister and MLA from Jamshedpur West constituency, on Sunday evening. He was accompanied by district civil surgeon A.K. Lal, director of Kerala Public School, Sharad Chandran and special officer of Mango Notified Area Committee, Deepak Sahay. The newly inaugurated isolation centre also has a staff room and a rest room for nurses. The district health department has provided three doctors and six nurses to the Covid care centre for taking care of Covid positive patients. "Apart from local patients, the centre will also admit positive patients from other localities. Nurses and doctors will be present at the centre to take care of patients round the clock, "said Gupta. The minister also announced the launch of a 500-bed hospital in Mango soon. "The hospital will have ventilators and an Intensive Care Unit facility, " added the minister. East Singhbhum civil surgeon A.K. Lal said the Covid care centre was opened at the school concerned over growing cases of positive cases in the city. Health department officials said that a similar 30-bed isolation centre for Covid patients was also set-up at the Police Lines in Golmuri. The facility meant for policemen and their family members was inaugurated by senior SP of East Singhbhum Tamil M. Vanan on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-52
17-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand records less than 50 deaths in a day ||The active Covid-19 caseload dropped below the 10,000-mark in Ranchi on Sunday, while Jharkhand registered less than 50 Covid deaths for the first time in a day since the beginning of May, figures compiled by the health department highlighted, indicating a slight improvement in the overall situation in the state. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), Jharkhand reported at least 7,119 Covid recoveries against 2,321 fresh cases of infection on the day, which brought the active caseload in Jharkhand down to 36,540. The active caseload in the state has seen a dip in the past one week and officials have attributed the fall to stricter lockdown measures. At least 255 Ranchi residents were found infected by the coronavirus on the day, while 2,260 Covid patients recovered here, bringing the active caseload down to 8,125, NHM stated in its bulletin. Ranchi, however, accounted for at least 18 of the 48 Covid casualties reported in Jharkhand on the day. Sunday’s developments took the Covid toll in Ranchi to 1,411 and that in Jharkhand to 4,479. As per government data, the first dose of the vaccine against Covid-19 was administered to as many as 37,102 residents in the 18+ category on Sunday. So far, as many as 111,203 residents in that category have got their first dose. Almost all the 24 districts in the state reported a dip in the active caseload on Sunday. East Singhbhum reported 521 recoveries against 208 fresh cases of infection and the active caseload there stood at 3,685. The Covid toll in the district reached 901 as at least seven more patients died there in the past 24 hours. Among other districts, Bokaro reported 429 recoveries against 233 cases, while Dhanbad reported 92 recoveries against 138 cases. At least 104 people were found infected in Hazaribagh while 446 Covid patients recovered there. Giridih reported 236 recoveries against 99 fresh cases on the day. On Sunday, Jharkhand  tested swab samples of 40,291 residents and around 5 per cent of them were found infected. So far, more than 3.15 lakh Jharkhand residents have been infected by the coronavirus and around 87 per cent of them have recovered, highlights government data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-52
17-05-2021||Jharkhand||Lockdown: E-pass hurdle for Dhanbad residents||Dhanbad police caught over 500 commuters travelling without mandatory e-passes as the fourth phase of the state-wide lockdown commenced on Sunday. The police carried out extensive vehicle checking spread over 56 police stations of the district. Many of violators, however, were let off after it was known that they faced difficulties in getting e pass due to a technical glitch of the server in the official website epassjharkhand.nic.in.  Several others had to make rounds of the cyber cafe of their colony operating from residential complex for getting print outs of their passes. Traffic DSP, Rajesh Kumar Yadav who led the checking drive at City Centre Chowk, Rangatand Chowk and Randhir Verma Chowk said, “Though large majority of people were aware about the government notification and carrying the passes but we have caught several persons with no passes from different parts of the district some of whom have been let free after explaining valid reasons while others have been fined.” The roads and market places were much less crowded compared with other days. R.K. Chaudhary, a resident of Saraidhela who owns a wholesale medicine outlet at Topchanchi around 20 km away from his house said, “I came to know about the e pass when I went outside to go to my workplace this morning at around 7 am and tried continuously for three hours to get e-pass from my mobile phone to go riding bike but failed and ultimately had to remain at home.” Sanjay Kumar, a courier service operator who also owns a cyber cafe at Binod Market in Hirapur said, “Ever since I opened the shop, I tried continuously for getting passes for near and dear ones but due to glitch in sever I had to face a lot of difficulty and ultimately the situation improved a bit during the afternoon.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-52
17-05-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi man's petrol bunk plea to minister Dharmendra Pradhan||The petrol bunks of the country that facilitate filling air in the tyres of two and four-wheelers free of cost at present may also offer the same facility to cycles soon. This became a possibility when Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan, in a tweet on Friday evening, “noted the suggestion” of a Ranchi man and also assured that “we are committed to make an infrastructure inclusive and accessible to all”. The minister was replying to a tweet of Kanishka Poddar of Ranchi who had urged the minister on May 12 “to make petrol pumps cyclist-friendly and to make a cycling conducive ecosystem in India” and also attached an open letter addressed to him. Poddar, 38, was appointed the cycle mayor of Ranchi by BYCS, an Amsterdam based organisation that promotes cycling, in 2019. In his letter to the minister,  Poddar pointed out that people across the globe find solace in cycling during the Covid-induced pandemic as it helps avoid crowded transport systems and, as such, cycles are found in more number on roads these days. Even WHO recommends use of cycles to commute as it also ensures social distancing, he added in his letter addressed to the minister. “Petrol pumps across India have mandatory air-filling stations where people can drive in with their vehicles and get air filled free of cost,” Poddar wrote to the minister, urging him to make petrol pumps cyclist-friendly also. There is, however, a little problem but that can also be solved easily, Poddar argued. For filling air in the tyres of cycles that are used in India, three different kinds of nozzle — Dunlop, Presta and Schrader — are used. Petrol pumps of the country normally use Schrader nozzles, he informed, adding the problem can easily be solved by using a converter that is available in the market at a very nominal cost. Many including Lt-Gen H.S. Panag, an avid cyclist, Bhairrvi Joshi, BYCS CEO in India and Santhana Selvan and Akhtar Arshie, cycle mayors of Hyderabad and Guwahati respectively, also supported Poddar’s claim. “I’m hopeful something would be done as the minister assured they wanted to make the infrastructure inclusive and accessible to all,” Poddar told this newspaper when asked about the minister’s reply.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-52
17-05-2021||Jharkhand||Indians in Sydney aid for Covid care centre at Subdivisional Hospital in Hazaribagh district||The initiatives taken by an administrative officer, coupled with certain favourable developments, helped establish a Covid care centre within a week and also make it operational at Subdivisional Hospital at Barhi in Hazaribagh district last week. “It’s a Covid care centre with 20 oxygen-equipped beds and can be extended up to 30 beds, if required,” said Arvind Devashish Toppo, circle officer of Barhi whose initiatives helped establish it, adding they did it with “minimum expenditure that was also provided by some helpful persons from Bihar and Jharkhand who were currently residing in Sydney (Australia)”. It all started with his searching for some people who could help his friend’s mother get proper treatment at Sasaram in Bihar, Toppo said when asked. He had then contacted one of his friends who is a subdivisional officer (SDO) in Bihar and connected him to the local authorities that actually helped his friend’s mother get treatment. “It was during this conversation my friend, Ashwiniji, told me about some people from Bihar and Jharkhand who were living in Sydney but were helping people in Bihar during the present crisis and could possibly do the same for those in Jharkhand also if approached,” Toppo informed, adding that was how he contacted them and asked if they could help set up a Covid care centre at Barhi. “I also discussed the matter with the local SDO, Kumar Tarachand who is also a doctor and agreed to extend all help,” he further informed, adding he then held a virtual meeting with Praveen Kumar and Manish Kumar who were in Sydney about a fortnight ago and also spoke to them later when they agreed to help financially. “SDO sa’ab was very helpful and some others also came forward to help us when they knew about our purpose and we managed to set up the centre by spending about Rs 1.16 lakh only,” Toppo informed adding they used the existing infrastructure of the trauma centre at the hospital while bought some cots from a local supplier who gave those at base price. They also bought 10 mattresses while the owner of the shop offered 10 more free of cost, Toppo further informed, adding availability of oxygen did not pose any problem while the local MLA also offered to lay oxygen supply pipeline using his local development funds, he said when asked how they could set up the centre with such a small amount of money. “We also tried to make the centre look beautiful so that the patients didn’t get disheartened by its surroundings and even approached a local group that arranged for playing motivational music for boosting up their moral,” he further said, adding that was how the centre could even handle 25 patients, 5 more than its normal capacity, on a particular day after it started functioning. But the infrastructure and staff position at many government hospitals, more so at subdivision level, are often far from satisfactory and that may pose problems. “We also have shortage of staff but the administration has now drawn up a roster and also drafted other doctors to help run the centre and that will hopefully make help us run this centre smoothly,” replied Dr Shashi Prakash, medical officer in charge of that hospital, when asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-52
