18-05-2021||Jharkhand||Blast at underground fire zone triggers gas emission in Dhanbad||An incident of land subsidence and blast followed by gas emission on Tuesday rocked the project site of a private excavator working for BCCL in Basudevpur Colliery of BCCL’s Sijua area, about eight kilometres from Dhanbad district headquarters. This comes barely nine days after a similar incident took place at underground fire-affected  Idgah Muhalla of Sudamdih police station area of Dhanbad. Tuesday’s accident took place when coal production work was under progress just 200 metres towards the blast site. Panicked workers started running away from the spot after the blast, but nobody was injured. Locals of the Kenduadih Gwalapatti area were also threatened as thick layers of black smoke enveloped the skyline after the blast. Local residents, who also rushed to the site, expressed concern over the incident and demanded immediate steps from the BCCL administration to contain fire and gas emission at the earliest by initiating  comprehensive measures. A team of police led by Binod Oraon, officer-in-charge of Kenduadih appealed people to stay away from the site and said, “Though no loss of life or property took place in the blast, a sense of insecurity has gripped the people. So we have asked the local BCCL authorities to take measures to douse the fire at the earliest.” PK Singh, Project officer of Basudevpur Colliery of Sijua area, said, “The fire is not new and is rather simmering in the galleries of the underground colliery since decades. Rain last night has prompted the smoke and gas emission from this morning.” “We will put earth, soil and boulders at the incident site once the intense heat is controlled to some extent,” Singh added. Krishna Prasad Raut, local councillor, however charged the BCCL administration of negligence regarding the incident said, “Though the area is subsidence and fire prone, no comprehensive fire-fighting measures have ever been carried out by the BCCL administration. This has led the situation to go out of control and cause the incident.” “What will happen to the population of around 25 thousand living around the mine site if the fire situation further aggravates,” questioned Raut and expressed disgust over the late response of the BCCL administration about the incident. No one from the BCCL administration reached the site more than two hours after the blast took place.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-50
18-05-2021||Jharkhand|| Tata Motors shuts Jamshedpur plant for five days ||Tata Motors shut down its plant for five days from Tuesday amid an ongoing slump in the auto sector with the company deciding to use the "block closure" to conduct routine maintenance. Employees of the plant that produces heavy commercial vehicles like trucks, trailers, tippers, buses and other multi-axle vehicles, have been asked to report for duty on May 24 as May 23 is a Sunday, which is a  weekly holiday. Company sources said the five-day closure was also aimed at preventing the unnecessary build-up of inventory at a time when production was low. Officials of the Tata Motors Workers' Union said production of commercial vehicles had come down considerably due to the partial lockdown continuing for the last month. "Production in Tata Motors ancillary units at Adityapur in adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district was also severely affected due to the pandemic and the lockdown," said a union functionary, adding that work orders had come down considerably, which prompted the closure. The company observed a one-day block closure earlier this month on May 12. A two-day block closure was also observed on May 4 and 5. Last month, a one-day block closure was observed on April 10. Later, a two-day block closure was held on April 29 and 30. As per an internal communication sent to employees on Monday, the company said that workmen affected by the block closure shall avail their privilege or casual leave for 50 per cent of the day and for the remaining half of the period they shall be paid normal wages/salary. The internal communication further said that a separate notice would be issued for the employees who would be required to work during the block closure by the concerned division or department head.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-50
18-05-2021||Jharkhand||Mini museum in Dhanbad boasts of rare currencies, postage stamps||As the world celebrates international museum day today, Dhanbad based sexagenarian unique collector, Amrendra Anand (67) proudly flaunts his rich collection of a wide range of articles at his home-based mini museum comprising of rare currencies and coins; wide range of postage stamps, envelopes and inland letters; bank tokens, cheques etc. Anand, a retired development officer of Life Insurance Corporation  of India who is also the member of Numismatic society of India and The philatelic society of India, said, “I developed the habit of collecting rare things since childhood and continued the habit till date. “I believe that one can provide one's time to everything in life despite professional and family obligations if one leads a disciplined life,” said Anand. Anand’s numismatic collections at his personal museum at home has 18 files of different varieties of coins, currency notes,  Cheques, Hukum nama, Khadi hundi, hundi error notes fancy notes, besides demonetized currency notes. Anand’s coin collection at his home includes, the coins of the Kushan Period, Khiliji Period, Chola States, Ujjain and Vijaynagar states. The punch marked coin collection of Anand, include the Mauryan, Magadhan and Delhi Sultanate Coins. This apart, he also has the special coins known as temple tokens bearing the religious symbols and contemporary forgeries of coins. The collection of Currency Notes of Anand include the One Anna. Denomination note of Junagarh state besides the currency notes of Rs 1,000 denominations. The hand made Tibetan Notes which have been declared rare are also in the possession of Anand, who has submitted a research titled British India Coins and Currency Notes before the Numismatic Society of the BHU. Referring to his Collection of stamps, Anand, who is a member of about a dozen Philatelic societies across the country said that his stamps include both the pre-independence and Post Independence Stamps. Anand, who has featured in various shows including the Shabaas India aired on Zee TV and Mere Desh Ki Dharati on DD  News further says that his pre-independence Stamp Collection include both the Feudatory stamps used by independent princely states and Conventional stamps bearing the symbols of both the respective state and the British Empire. His philatelic collection includes all the postal stationeries including the Envelopes, Post Card, Inland letters and registered letters from 1862 to 1981 i.e from the era of Queen Victoria to King George VI in the pre Independence era. His Postal Stationeries include Post Cards of Queen Victoria and post cards of princely states like Jaipur and Travancore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-50
18-05-2021||Jharkhand||Senior BJP leaders hold virtual dharna on social media against Hemant govt ||The Opposition BJP held a virtual dharna on social media on Tuesday against the Hemant Soren government, criticising it for delaying payment to farmers in lieu of procurement of paddy crops at a time when the Covid-19 pandemic has halted the wheels of the economy. Holding anti-government and pro-farmer placards and banners, party MPs, MLAs and workers flooded social media with their photos and videos denouncing the state government. They also alleged that the coalition government of JMM-Congress-RJD had failed to provide loan waivers to several farmers as promised in the state budget and demanded the timely release of Kharif seeds ahead of the monsoon. The protest began at 11am and went on for two hours with the party leadership underlying that it was held on social media so as not to violate Covid restrictions in place across the state. Later in the evening, BJP also submitted a memorandum to governor Droupadi Murmu demanding her intervention on pending payments for farmers. State BJP president and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash said, “We have been regularly getting reports from different districts where farmers who sold their crops at government procurement centres are awaiting payments since December. With monsoon around the corner, they don’t have money nor resources to take up farming amid the pandemic. But the state government continues to remain insensitive towards their cause.” Chatra MP Sunil Singh added that the former  BJP state government had rolled out CM Krishi Ashirwad Yojana to provide assured financial assistance of Rs 2,000 to small and marginal farmers at regular quarters. “But soon after coming to power, this government stopped this scheme,” he said, threatening to intensify their stir against the government if the situation did not improve. Sources in the state food and civil supplies department said that to date over 5 lakh million tonne paddy had been procured from close to 1 lakh farmers and that the process was still on. On pending payments, an official said the delays were due to Covid-19. “During the last couple of months, procurement and payment were slow as many officials and workers on the ground got infected. But things are picking up pace,” he said. JMM-Congress hit back at the saffron camp for shedding crocodile tears for farmers. It asked BJP MPs and MLAs of the state to ask Prime Minister Narendra Modi why the nation's farmers were on the streets protesting against contentious farm laws. Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said, “It’s high time, the BJP question PM over farm laws, which has rattled farmers across the country forcing them to launch stir against the union government.” JMM, which is the lead alliance partner, cited numerous measures undertaken by the Hemant Soren government in the interest of the farmers. “Soon after coming to power, we have begun a loan waiver scheme. Procurement of paddy grains is still on and will continue till June for the first time so that maximum farmers can sell their produce on MSP. This apart, the state agriculture department has also begun distribution of Kharif seeds ahead of the monsoon, which never happened earlier," he said, adding that BJP did not have the moral right to talk about farmers after having implemented anti-farm laws last year amid the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-50
18-05-2021||Jharkhand||At steel city crematorium, this 68-year-old helps one and all||From co-ordinating cremation of Covid bodies to attending routine work at Subarnarekha burning ghat in Bhuinyandih, C. Ganesh Rao remains engrossed in a challenging yet risky job. The 68-year-old joint secretary of the ghat managing committee has taken on the cudgels at a time when the load of cremation, including Covid bodies, at the ghat is heavy by putting his own life at risk. Rao, who lives with his family at city’s Sitaramdera locality, remains precariously close to Covid bodies till it is put inside the electric furnace  for the last rites. The fact that he remains sans face mask, PPE and hand gloves highlights the risk he takes. “Ya Corona marega ya mein marunga. Mujhe pata nahin. Mai apna kaam karta rahta hun (I don't know if Corona will get killed or I’ll die. I will continue with my job),” Rao, a former Bank of India employee, told The Telegraph Online. Last year, the sexagenarian, with help of Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) workers,  carried two Covid bodies for cremation when people of nearby locality headed by JMM leader and former minister Dulal Bhuiyan created a ruckus while protesting their funerals. “I was informed by the district administration that two Covid bodies will be cremated at the ghat on July 4 last year. But the bodies could be cremated that evening as locals gathered outside the ghat and resorted to stone-pelting. The bodies were finally cremated early morning the following day (July 5) after the police controlled the situation. JNAC workers and I carried the bodies for cremation. Barring myself, others wore protective gears,” Rao recalled. After some days, Rao mobilised the staff to cremate Covid bodies. “Nobody in the ghat was willing to cremate Covid bodies after the ruckus. I somehow managed to instill confidence in them and mobilised them to work,” Rao recounted. According to him, his involvement in a risky job has made his personal life hell. “My wife (C. Janki Bai) and son (C. Sandeep) always protest and tell me not to go to the ghat in this difficult situation and risky times. Once my son came to the ghat and forcibly tried to take me home. But I refused to move an inch since I had a responsibility to fulfill,” Rao said. Rao’s other son C. Avinash is settled in the US while his lone daughter Harshika is married and lives in Nagpur. They too protest his work. He argued that he personally doesn't believe there is any Covid virus as such. “If there was a virus then why is it not transmitted to poor people living on the streets. And why I and other people working with me at the ghat are not infected till now,” Rao argued. Rao said that Covid has tattered relationships between people. “People have become so afraid of the virus that they forget the dead in a hurry. But I think it is not humane,” he said. He informed that around 1,800 Covid bodies have been cremated at the Subarnarekha burning ghat since last year “Twenty-three Covid bodies were cremated on Monday. Around 50 bodies, including Covid ones, used to come for daily cremation earlier. However, the volume of bodies has now come down to about 40,” Rao signed off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-50
18-05-2021||Jharkhand|| Jamshedpur police launch crackdown on commuters without e-passes||Steel city police on Tuesday launched a crackdown on commuters venturing out without e-passes amid the lockdown. People moving in cars, bikes and scooters were stopped at various check-points in Sakchi, Bistupur, Jugsalai, Sonari and Kadma and were asked to produce e-passes. Those who were unable to produce e-passes ended up paying a fine of Rs 500. Notably, in a recent order by the State Department of Home, Jail and Disaster Management, residents of the state will have to procure e-passes to go out of their homes to buy essential commodities till May 27. The passes will be valid for three hours from the issuing time. Morning walkers were also not spared. Around 80 of them were rounded up from Bistupur and Kadma-Sonari Link Road . Police asked morning walkers to board a bus which later brought them to the campus of Motilal Nehru Public School in Bistupur. All of them were later released after warnings and signing of PR ( Personal Recognisance ) bonds. Naresh Paswan, a sub-inspector of Bistupur police station said the drive was launched early in the morning. "The lockdown was imposed for breaking the Covid chain. If people come out of their homes without valid reasons or without urgency, the purpose of the lockdown is defeated, " he said. The Jharkhand government on Sunday imposed restrictions on the movement of vehicles and people within the state to stop the chain of Covid-19 transmission and issued e-passes for people who need to travel for emergency purposes. On the first day of the curbs, which will continue till May 27, the government's online portal that issues the e-passes crashed owing to heavy traffic. The technical glitches are now fixed and it's working fine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-51
18-05-2021||Jharkhand||International footballer turns brick kiln worker as poverty creeps in||Sangeeta Soren had represented India’s women football team in the under 18 level at international events at Thailand and Bhutan in 2018-19, and later became a part of the senior national team in 2020. Sangeeta is now compelled to work as a brick kiln worker at her village -- Bansmuri village in Baghmara block of Dhanbad. “My father Dube Soren is visually challenged, and has hearing impairment and so he cannot earn anymore. My elder brother works at a construction site where labourers do not get paid regularly,” said Sangeeta, who has been sitting at home as the trials for the national women’s team has been suspended due to the pandemic. “Poor financial condition of my family propelled me to work at the brick kiln of the village,” she added. The work at the factory however never affects her practice as she regularly practises at the village ground along with other girls from 6 am to 8 am, she said. Sangeeta plays in the forward position as striker in the national team. The footballer said that during the first wave of lockdown last year, Dhanbad Football Association had arranged foodgrains for her family but this year they have not received any help, compelling her to work. The Telegraph Online asked her whether she had been approached by the government in this regard. “It is the responsibility of the state government to take care of the international players. I had even tried to draw the attention of the authorities by tweeting to the chief minister and had also applied for scholarships. However, since any response is yet to come in that regard, I have stopped trying now,” Sangeeta replied. “The government should have known the whereabouts of the international players as they are limited in number. I think this is the reason why many players of Jharkhand are compelled to move to other states as they get better facilities there,” she opined. “Had the government secured jobs for international players like us, other girls would have been encouraged to choose football as a career,” Sangeeta added. The striker said she had learned to play football watching the boys in her village and later constituted an all-girls team. A footballer of her adjoining village, Sanjay Hembrom, served as her first coach providing her tips. Later, football player late Abhijeet Ganguly guided her at a crucial time. Secretary of Dhanbad Football Association Faiyaz Ahmad reasoned, “We had provided some support to the family last year but were not aware of her condition this year. We will visit her home and try to extend all necessary support to her. She might not have secured a job due to being ineligible due to the age criteria, but we will approach the authorities to secure employment for her.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-51
18-05-2021||Jharkhand||Pharmacies, hospitals run out of life-saving drug amid rise in black fungus cases||Many pharmacies and hospitals in Jharkhand have run out of a life-saving drug used for treatment of mucormycosis amid an alarming rise in cases of Covid-induced black fungus in the state, doctors said on Tuesday, warning that several patients may die if they are not provided the necessary medication on time. Amphotericin B, an antifungal medicine which plays a critical role in treatment of black fungus, was not available at pharmacies in Ranchi on Tuesday. While some private hospitals had stocks that may last for one or two more days, most government hospitals stopped administering this medicine to patients as they did not have enough vials available in their pharmacy, sources said. Dr Anindya Anuradha, an ophthalmologist who has been treating mucormycosis patients at Bhagwan Mahavir Medical Superspecialty Hospital in Ranchi, admitted that there was an acute shortage of the anti-fungal injection and that many patients were in dire need of it. “There is a shortage of Amphotericin B across the state. This drug is critical in treatment of mucormycosis and we would need several hundred vials of it for treating patients,” said Dr Anuradha. “The dosage of Amphotericin B is 5mg per kilogram weight of the patient. So, we would need at least 6 vials for treating one 60 kg patient in a day. And some critical patients are even on double dosage,” she added. On Tuesday, at least three patients were undergoing treatment for Covid-induced mucormycosis at state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), while five were admitted at Medica. As per records with hospitals in Ranchi, at least four mucormycosis patients have died this month. In the wake of the acute crisis of this drug, the Drugs Control Directorate of Jharkhand has written to pharmaceutical companies asking for supply of Amphotericin B or other drugs with the same composition as early as possible. “We have written to some pharmaceutical companies and asked them to supply drugs for treatment of mucormycosis. Hopefully, we will get supplies within a week,” said Surendra Prasad, joint secretary of the Drugs Control Directorate. “Usually, pharma companies do not manufacture such drugs in bulk as they were not needed in such huge quantities earlier,” he added. Mucormycosis, also called black fungus, is a rare infection caused by exposure to mucor mould found in soil, plants, manure and decaying fruits and vegetables. This infection usually affects the lungs, the nasal tract and the sinus of the patient and has a fatality rate of 50 per cent, say doctors. The treatment involves use of anti-fungal drugs and surgical measures. If the fungus infects a patient’s brain, then he or she is administered a double dose of Amphotericin B, say doctors. Some of the patients may not survive even after surgical removal of their eye.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-51
18-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid toll breaches 4500-mark, 60 more die in 24 hours   ||The Covid toll in Jharkhand breached the 4,500-mark on Monday as at least 60 more patients died during treatment in the past 24 hours, figures compiled by the health department highlighted on Monday. While the death toll continued to rise, the active caseload dropped down to 33,524 on Monday as the state reported 5,463 Covid recoveries against 2,507 fresh cases of infection, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. Ranchi, the worst-affected districts in the state in terms of caseload and casualties, reported the highest number of Covid recoveries on the day. As per the NHM bulletin, as many as 1,617 Covid patients recovered from the infection here on Monday against 292 fresh cases reported during the same period. The active caseload in the district dropped to 6,782. Ranchi, however, reported 10 casualties on the day. The district accounts for 1,421 of the 4,539 Covid deaths that have occurred in the state so far. East Singhbhum, on the other hand, reported 629 Covid recoveries against 392 cases of infection and the active caseload there dropped to 3,441. As per NHM data, the district reported 12 Covid fatalities on the day, the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. The Covid toll in East Singhbhum jumped to 913 on the day. On Monday, Jharkhand administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to as many as 44,348 residents in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years, taking the total count of those inoculated in this group to 1,53,544, as per government data. Over 10,000 residents above the age of 45 years were also administered the first jab, while 3,754 people in this age bracket got the second jab on the day. Jharkhand has so far administered the first dose the vaccine to over 30 lakh residents while the second dose has been given to 6.73 lakh beneficiaries, stated a separate report from the NHM. The growth rate of Covid cases in the state dropped below 1 per cent for the first time this month on Monday. As per government data, the Covid growth rate in Jharkhand was 0.99 per cent against the national average of 0.97 per cent. The doubling rate of cases also improved and reached 70.62 days in Jharkhand against the national average of 72.12 days on Monday. The state on Monday tested swab samples of 52,887 residents and around 5 per cent of them were found infected. So far, over 3.18 lakh Jharkhand residents have been infected by Coronavirus and more than 88 per cent of them have recovered. While the Covid recovery in the state was better than the national average of 84.80 per cent, the Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 1.42 per cent against the national average of 1.10 per cent, highlighted government data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-51
18-05-2021||Jharkhand|| Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha appeals to govt to shift ailing Stan to hospital||The Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha, a coalition of progressive civil rights organisations, on Monday wrote to Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse Patil urging him to shift octogenarian Jesuit priest Father Stan Swamy to a good hospital after family members of the Ranchi-based tribal rights activist complained that he had developed Covid-19 symptoms at Taloja Central Prison in Navi Mumbai. “Stan Swamy is a Parkinson’s disease patient with severe tremors in both hands. As a result, he has trouble drinking from a glass, taking bath and washing clothes on his own. He also has a serious hearing problem and needs hearing aids for both ears. He was operated twice for hernia in the recent past. Stan had called up his colleague (Fr Joe Xavier, director of the Bangalore-based Indian Social Institute) on May 14 and shared that he was feeling very weak and fragile. Stan has fever, cough and a running stomach. He was given antibiotics by the ‘ayurvedic’ doctor of the jail. “The medicines did not help much. He is yet to be tested for Covid. He has also not yet received first vaccine shot,” the letter said. It was signed by rights activists Aloka Kujur, Bharat Bhusan Choudhary, Elina Horo and Siraj Dutta, all members of the Mahasabha. The letter says that there are reports of rising Covid cases in the Taloja jail and suggests: “In this situation, Stan should be immediately shifted to a good hospital and given adequate medical treatment. It will be really helpful if he is shifted to a hospital like Holy Family (a super-speciality hospital in Mumbai) or Holy Spirit (charitable trust hospital in Mumbai) where his Jesuit colleagues can take care of him.” The letter, copies of which have been sent to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, further said: “Stan is an elderly and ailing person with limited mobility and no history of violence against others…. We also sincerely hope that he gets immediate bail.” Stan’s elder brother Irudaya Swamy had told the media on Sunday that the 84-year-old priest has severe cold, fever, body pain and diarrhoea and that he could not attend the call of his legal counsel on May 15. “We have no doubt that he is affected by Covid-19. We are worried,” the 90-year-old man from Tamil Nadu told a virtual news conference. Father Arockiasamy Santhanam, spokesperson for the National Lawyers Forum of Religious and Priests, said that they plan to urge the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to send a team of doctors to the prison to examine the situation and direct the government and prison authorities to attend to the health needs of prisoners such as Fr Stan. “The NHRC has issued many protocols to be strictly followed in the prisons. But it seems the Taloja prison does not follow any of the Covid protocols and the prison authorities do not have any respect for the NHRC,” alleged Fr Santhanam. He had also attended the virtual news conference organised on Sunday by the relatives and friends of Fr Stan and 15 others arrested in the Bhima-Koregaon case. The Jesuit lawyer wants the prison authorities to “respect health rights of  prisoners”. “Health is a fundamental right and very well part and parcel of Article 21 of the Constitution. We hope the Taloja (jail) will not become an Auschwitz,” he added. Fr Stan was arrested by the National Investigation Agency on October 8, 2020, from his residence near Ranchi on the charges of having links with Maoists and plotting to overthrow the government. The counter-terrorism agency flew him to Mumbai where a court remanded him to jail a day after his arrest. Fr Stan and 15 others have been arrested under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the anti-terror law Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-51
18-05-2021||Jharkhand||Hazaribagh railway station offers  free Wi-Fi ||Hazaribagh railway station in Jharkhand has earned a distinction that went largely unnoticed because of the ongoing lockdown in the state. Many residents came to know only when some papers informed on Monday morning that Hazaribagh Town had become the 6,000th railway station in the country offering free Wi-Fi service to the passengers on Saturday. But the railways enabled Wi-Fi at the station at such a time when no passenger trains are plying and hence, there is nobody to avail of the service. Even locals hardly go to the station area as the state is going through an extended phase of the lockdown. The railways had suspended both the trains — Ranchi-Patna AC Express and Giridih-Barkakana passenger — that pass through Hazaribagh Town station due to the current Covid situation. “But it’s (Wi-Fi service) done under a nationwide programme that began over five years ago and still going on across the country,” said a senior railway officer of the Dhanbad division under which the station falls. The officer preferred anonymity as “the project is being executed by RailTel (a public sector undertaking under the railway ministry), not us”. The project for making Indian railway stations Wi-Fi enabled under the Digital India initiative took off when RailTel in collaboration with Google started offering free Internet to passengers at Mumbai Central Station in February 2016 and went on extending the service to more stations. Thus, Hazaribagh Town  station, that became functional at Rewali on the outskirts of the town in February 2015  under Dhanbad division of  the East Central Railways, became the 6,000th Wi-Fi enabled station of the country on May 15. Jarapada station in Angul district of Odisha also became Wi-Fi enabled on the same day, said a release by the Press Information Bureau on Sunday. Incidentally, Mahuamilan railway station in nearby Latehar district under the same Dhanbad division was the 5,500th station of the country that started offering free Wi-Fi service in December 2019. “I just heard from a friend that our station became Wi-Fi enabled but didn’t go to that side, more due to the lockdown, to test how it works," said Shib Shankar Goswami, a teacher of the local St Xavier’s School. Goswami usually moves around on the outskirts of the town for recording the activities of various birds. “However, I used this railway Wi-Fi service elsewhere and found it provides good Internet speed,” he added. Jharkhand now has 217 Wi-Fi enabled railway stations while Uttar Pradesh has 762, the highest in the country. There is, however, no recent record available that showed its usage. An old report, however, suggested that about 1.5 crore people had used the Wi-Fi service offered by the railways in October 2019 who consumed 10,242TB (terabytes) of data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-51
