19-05-2021||Jharkhand||Morning walkers detained in lockdown crackdown||Jamshedpur police detained as many as 70 morning walkers on Wednesday for not wearing masks and following social distancing norms. The drive was carried out near Jubilee Park in Sakchi, Joggers’ Park in Sonari and at Kadma and Sidhgora. Those detained were asked to board a bus and were brought to Motilal Nehru Public School in Bistupur which was converted into a part Covid camp and part jail. The detained were also asked to undergo a Rapid Antigen Test. All of them were found negative. Jubilee Park, Joggers’ Park, Kadma-Sonari Link Road and Sidhgora Park attracts the maximum number of morning walkers. But, since the parks are closed due to the lockdown the morning walkers prefer to walk on the roads outside the parks. A police official said that several of those detained were not wearing masks, mandatory as per Covid protocols. "We have been receiving complaints against morning walkers violating Covid norms as they move in groups. Today, was the second day of the drive. A similar drive was carried out at the Kadma-Sonari Link Road yesterday during which a good number of morning walkers were detained and later released on PR bond, "said the police official deployed at the school adding that it may be a harsh decision, but maintains it is for the good of people in general. "We are only asking people to remain indoors as it will help in breaking the Covid chain thus preventing transmission of the virus," he further said. Notably, the cops have been strict against those violating the lockdown rules and Covid protocols. On Wednesday, a large number of commuters who could not produce e-passes and valid I-cards had to pay fines in different parts of the steel city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-49
19-05-2021||Jharkhand||Octogenarian social worker brings Covid treatment to remote village||Age is no deterrent for doing social work and helping others. This has been proved by Rameshwar Prasad, an 81 year-old retired mechanical engineer of ACC Sindri who has helped shape the career of several hundreds of students from economically weaker sections by funding their expenses in medical and engineering colleges. Prasad is now helping the rural populace of the hinterland of Tundi by providing free medicines and arranging for consultations for the Covid and asymptomatic Covid patients. A resident of Dhanbad, Prasad began the drive to help the villagers of Tundi from May 11 under the banner of Vanvasi Kalyan Kendra, and constituted a team of private doctors led by renowned physician Dr G. Chatterjee. Oxymeters and thermal guns to measure oxygen level and temperature are also distributed by Prasad’s team. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Prasad said ,“Though we have carried out help to over 100 villagers of over a dozen villages of Tundi block but gradually we will be extending our work to  villages of Topchanchi block also.” “The volunteers of Vanvasi Kalyan Kendra, are the men on ground creating awareness to rural populace convincing them to share their medical complications with us and helping them to take medical consultation from doctors or our team on phone or Whatsapp offering their smartphones to them for consultation on whatsapp etc,” said Prasad. Prasad has provided smart phones to the volunteers for arranging the medical online consultation with the doctors. “Occasional training of the volunteers is also being organised to provide medicines as prescribed by team of doctors and also gauging the situation when hospitalisation is required for patients etc,” said Prasad and added that a similar training for one to two hours is scheduled at Ramkrishna Mission temple complex at Bank More on May 21. None of the villagers who have been provided consultation and medicines required hospitalisation as awareness played the key role. “Some Indians settled in foreign countries are also helping us in our mission to make the rural populace aware of Covid related facts,” said Prasad. In November last year, Prasad set up a library and computer training centre at Kohair village of Tundi block with support of Vikram Kaul, a US based technocrat friend of Satyendra Dubey, an engineer of National Highway Authority of India who sacrificed his life in 2003 for the sake of honesty, exposing the nexus of politicians and bureaucrats in corruption.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-49
19-05-2021||Jharkhand||Congress FIR against top BJP leaders on fake 'toolkit row'||The Congress, which is a part of the ruling JMM-led alliance govenrnment along with the RJD in Jharkhand,  filed FIR an against the BJP central leadership on Wednesday, accusing it of propagating a “fake toolkit” to defame the grand old party, a day after senior members of the saffron camp released a string of documents bearing the AICC letter head on social media. The state Congress unit, followed similar action taken by the All India Congress Committee in Delhi and lodged an FIR  against the BJP’s central leadership at Ranchi’s Kotwali police under different provisions of Indian Penal Code and Information Technology Act. Congress spokesperson Alok Kumar Dubey in his formal complaint named BJP national president J.P Nadda, national spokesperson Sambit Patra, union minister Smriti Irani, party general secretary B.L. Santosh & others. “Through the present complaint, we seek to register an FIR against the aforesaid persons & other such people for forging the letterhead of AICC Research Department and printing false and fabricated content on the same, in order to share the forged/ BJP manufactured document from their verified twitter handles and other social media platforms, with the intent to create communal disharmony and civil unrest in the country among individuals, escalating violence, fueling hate and spreading fake news. The hidden agenda of this team of fraudsters was to divert the attention from the Modi Government’s mammoth failure in providing necessary aid to the people of India, amidst the current pandemic,” read the letter. Several members of the Union cabinet, BJP chief ministers and senior ministers shared the document, which they labelled the “Congress toolkit”, arguing that the Opposition party was engaged in maligning the country and the Prime Minister. The document contains topics on which the Opposition party can corner the Prime Minister, such as lack of transparency on PM-CARES Fund or the decision to spend thousands of crores on the Central Vista project during the pandemic; and how to highlight the service of the Youth Congress and reach out to the media and intellectuals. BJP leaders claimed that news reports questioning the Modi government’s role in tackling the pandemic, the criticism for allowing the Kumbh Mela and praise for the Youth Congress’s efforts to help the Covid-affected were all stage-managed. Countring this, the AICC lodged a police complaint in Delhi against BJP president J.P. Nadda and several of his colleagues, accusing them of forgery with the intent to divert attention from the “mammoth failure” of the Narendra Modi government in handling the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-49
19-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dalma sanctuary officials request vaccine drive in villages||The Dalma wildlife sanctuary officials have requested East Singhbhum district authorities to conduct a Covid vaccination drive at all the 85-odd villages dotting the elephant abode at the earliest. With the deadly virus spreading its wings in villages of Jharkhand, the Dalma officials are serious and are against taking any risk. East Singhbhum civil surgeon Dr A.K. Lal has been requested to facilitate the mobile Covid vaccination drive in villages. “I have written a letter to the civil surgeon for the same. Villagers cannot travel all the way to Jamshedpur to get vaccinations. It would be a wise idea if the East Singhbhum civil surgeon facilitates mobile vaccination drives in villages itself. Vaccination for villagers is of utmost importance at this crucial juncture,” said Dalma divisional forest officer Abhishek Kumar to The Telegraph Online. He added that they have also been raising Covid awareness among forest staff and stressing on the importance of maintaining social distancing, wearing masks and using sanitisers. A forest official said the 85-odd villages inside the sanctuary do not come under them. “They are revenue villages and the forest department does not have a direct control on them. We can only request government authorities to conduct vaccination drives in villages for the benefit of the inhabitants,” he added. Forest officials are wary of animals getting infected by the virus. “If the virus spreads in Dalma villages, it can easily get transmitted to animals. This is the reason we have closed the sanctuary for tourists,” the forest official explained. Though the villagers are aware about the Covid-related situation but travelling to the steel city to get vaccines is not practically possible. “Most of the villagers do not have the means to travel to Jamshedpur. So it would be better if the government comes to their doorstep and facilitates mobile vaccination camp,” the forest official added. “Our job is to protect the flora and fauna as well as wild animals living in the sanctuary. But we do tell villagers the importance of social distancing while passing through villages. We have to pass through villages while daily patrolling,” a forester said. Patrolling is continuing in both the eastern and western ranges of the sanctuary, 30 km from Jamshedpur. Patrolling is aimed at watching the position of elephants and other animals as well as keeping an eye on illegal tree felling. The elephants, all of whom have come back to the sanctuary after their annual sojourn to the jungles of West Midnapore and Bankura in neighbouring Bengal, are presently stationed uphill.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-49
19-05-2021||Jharkhand||Junior doctors at Nirmal Mahto threaten strike over pending stipend||Around 137 junior doctors, 45 interns and 92 junior residents of Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College have threatened to go on strike in two days, after being deprived of two month stipends. A delegation of around 15 junior doctors met the superintendent of the hospital, Dr Arun Kumar Chaudhary, demanding immediate release of their stipends. The doctors during the meeting with the superintendent also raised the issue of lack of safety kits for them during work at emergency service. The protesting doctors have alleged discrimination against them with regard to non-payment of incentives as senior doctors and other medical staff engaged in Covid treatment, are receiving stipends. “We are yet to receive the stipend of March, April till date despite the fact that like everybody, doctors are facing financial constraints during the pandemic when the family of one and all is affected,” said one of the protesting doctors to The Telegraph Online on Wednesday. He further pointed out that the stipend of junior doctors at SNMMCH at Rs 41,000 per month is much lesser compared with other junior doctors posted at RIMS (Rs 75,000 per month) and MGM Jamshedpur at Rs 60,000 per month. “While the doctors in other states are getting incentives and extra salaries we are even deprived of minimal stipends” said a protester. Dr Arun Kumar Chaudhary said, “The stipend payment to junior doctors could not be made due to non arrival of allotment from the state health, medical education and family welfare department but we will send the reminder and the payment is likely to be made after the arrival of allotment within a day or two.” “We have been told by the superintendent that the stipend payment could not be made due to non arrival of funds and he assured us payment of the same within two days failing which we will be compelled to go on strike” said another junior doctor who took part in the meeting. “We have also demanded personal safety kits for emergency duty as it is very difficult to distinguish between Covid and non-Covid patients during emergencies like accidents and thus the immediate priority is to begin treatment and there is always a chance of infection due to exposure to a Covid patient, which could have been avoided with the use of safety kits,” said a junior doctor requesting anonymity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-49
19-05-2021||Jharkhand||Storm brewing, may turn into cyclone leading to moderate rain next week ||A low-pressure system brewing over Bay of Bengal is likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm resulting in rain in Jharkhand and neighbouring Bengal and Odisha next week, the IMD said on Wednesday. A bulletin issued by IMD's New Delhi office on Wednesday afternoon indicated the formation of a low-pressure area over north Andaman Sea and adjoining east-central Bay of Bengal around May 22, and said the sytem was likely to intensify into cyclonic storm Yaas as named by Oman. Weathermen said the low-pressure zone is likely to intensify gradually into a cyclonic storm, move northwestwards and reach West Bengal and Odisha coasts around May 26. This will result in rainfall, particularly in southern and central Jharkhand early next week. "We are keeping a watch on the situation. If the low-pressure system intensifies into a severe cyclonic storm it will result in heavy rain in Bengal and Odisha and moderate rain in Jharkhand," said a weather scientist at IMD's Delhi office, adding that the system was under continuous surveillance. The concerned state governments were being updated regularly, he said. G.K. Das, director of the regional Met centre at Alipore in Calcutta, said, "It's early to comment. Various weather models suggest formation of a low-pressure system over east-central Bay of Bengal. It is likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm. Things will be more clear in the next 48 hours." Abhishek Anand, head of  IMD's Ranchi Met Centre, said this was the season of low-pressure systems and tropical cyclones. "Last year, around this time (May 20)  Amphan, a severe cyclonic storm originating from the Bay of Bengal, had led to widespread devastation in  Bengal. About Yaas, it's too early to comment because everything depends on its direction, movement and strength," he said. As per IMD forecast, several places across Jharkhand experienced light to moderate rain during the past 24 hours due to the impact of a cyclonic circulation. Daltonganj recorded 59mm rainfall, the highest so far. Thunder, lightning claim 5 Thunderstorm and lightning claimed five lives _ two each in Latehar and Deoghar while one casaulty was reported from Bokaro . Several places, including Jamshedpur, Ranchi, Ramgarh, Bokaro, Garhwa, Khunti and Seraikela-Kharsawan district, experienced thunderstorm and rain on Wednesday evening which was due to the impact of a low-intensity Nor'wester.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-49
19-05-2021||Jharkhand||Vaccine: PIL filed to make process friendly for differently-abled people ||A social outfit working for the welfare of differently-abled persons has asked the government to focus on beneficiaries who may not be in a position to turn up at vaccination centres owing to reasons of mobility, and ensure jab sites ae equipped to deal with people with special needs. Jharkhand Viklang Manch has filed a PIL in the Jharkhand High Court seeking the judiciary’s intervention to make vaccination easily accessible to those battling physical challenges. President of the Manch Arun Kumar Singh said that they moved court through their lawyer Anup Kumar Agarwal and are now hoping for an early hearing. Singh said the PIL was submitted online with acknowledgement number EC-JHHC01-00036-2021. “Majority of people with different kinds of disabilities aren’t able to go to vaccination centres as many of these are not suitable for them. The first and foremost thing which the state government needs to do is to conduct vaccination at such buildings that are disabled-friendly,” Singh said. He added that the mandatory online registration on the Co-WIN app too must be either done away with or alternative arrangements be made so that those with problems of visual impairment can easily get themselves registered. “There are several cases where people have no one to help them iwith the registration process. Hence, there should be an alternative arrangement for registration,” he said. As per the 2011 census, there are 7.69 lakh people in the state registered as haing some or the other disability. From May 14, the state government has begun the third phase of vaccination for people between 18-44 years of age. “We also demand that district administrations must organise door-to-door camps or locality-wise clusters for those who can’t come to vaccine centres on their own,” he said. As per government data issued on Tuesday night, about 1 lakh among the 1.97 crore people in the age group of 18-44 in the state have received the first dose of the vaccine so far. Overall, 30,61,831 have received their first dose across different age groups since the start of the vaccination drive while only 6,75,553 have got both doses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-49
19-05-2021||Jharkhand||Bengal's Bitan Banerjee wins online chess tournament||International Master Bitan Banerjee of Bengal emerged champion (on basis of tie-break) at the online blitz chess tournament organised by the All Jharkhand Chess Association on May 15. Banerjee scored 7 points in 9 rounds to win the top slot. IM Hemant Sharma, IM Anuj Shivratri, GM R.R. Laxman, IM Neelesh Saha and IM Aronayak Ghosh were the top 6 finishers who also settled with 7 points. The event attracted 85 players consisting 6 GMs, 18 IMs and 2 women International Masters from across the country. The event was conducted on the online platform of Lichess. The tournament was the first one organised by the AJCA in association with XONG, a brand of RouteToMarket Media India Pvt Ltd. “First of all, thanks to the organisers of the tournament. It was a very strong tournament with lots of GMs and IMs taking part. I thoroughly enjoyed the competition. Although, we are missing the experience of over the board games, these events are a boon to us, it is helping us to stay in touch with the game as well as popularising chess, using the live streaming on XONG’s social media handles.”, said Banerjee. XONG is a South Asian grassroot community-based eSports tournament organiser. It has conducted various eSports tournaments in South Asian countries, including India and Bangladesh. AJCA secretary IM Neeraj Kumar Mishra said the event was a success and they were happy for the participation of some top players. "The tournament gave an opportunity to participants to get in touch with the game in Covid times," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-49
19-05-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town launches pre-monsoon drive to clean roads, drains  ||The Dhanbad Municipal Corporation is carrying out a special cleanliness drive ahead of the monsoon season, in all 55 wards spread over five circles, including Jharia, Dhanbad, Sindri, Katras and Chhatatand, with focus on desiltation work on all major drains. Extra labourers have also been deployed at all the wards for clearing construction materials lying scattered on different roads and streets, causing traffic hurdles. The basic aim of the desiltation work is to ensure smooth flow of water in the  drains to avoid it from overflowing during the monsoon and thereby preventing water logging in residential colonies and roads, which is a regular occurrence every year. City manager of the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation, Md Anis said, “The drive is being carried out in all 55 wards simultaneously and out of 15 labourers of each ward nine to ten are being used for drain desilting work while rest have been spared for sweeping  work for roads and streets.” “We are also hiring extra unskilled labourers under the Mukhyamantri Shramik Rojgar Yojna for the desiltation work in all wards as per instruction of state uraban development department,” said Anis. Elaborating about the deployment of labourers for desiltation of major drain, Anis said, “As the previous experience with manual desiltation of large drain of more than 10 to 40 feet wide drain is not satisfactory due to deeper layers of silt not being cleared, we have deployed altogether five earth movers for the desiltation work.” “Two of these earth movers are being used on rotational basis in 14 wards of Dhanbad circle for deeper desiltation, while three others are being used for remaining 41 wards of three other circles,” he said. The drive began last week and is scheduled till May 25, but Anis said if required, the DMC will request the state Urban Development Department to extend the date. Umesh Kumar, supervisor and in-charge of the drive at Jharia Circle said, “We began the drive in Jharia with the desiltation of one of the major drains situated on Dharmshala road lying between the autorickshaw stand to children’s park.” “Other than the regular labourers we are using 30 to 40 extra labourers for the desiltation work on daily basis depending on the exigencies,” said Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-49
19-05-2021||Jharkhand||PM-CARES ventilators not working, RIMS ICU doctors call for proper training||Defunct ventilators from PM-CARES Fund, coupled with lack of adherence to installation protocols and training to technicians, are giving doctors at the Covid ICU of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) a tough time, doctors looking after critical patients in Jharkhand’s largest state-run hospital said. A senior doctor of the hospital even drafted an email to the Prime Minister’s Office on Wednesday, highlighting the  challenges and difficulties they were faced with. “Some of the ventilators just stop functioning abruptly, while some have technical glitches that lead to sudden drop in oxygen level. This is quite risky as patients may die of a technical snag in the machines,” said a senior doctor on duty at the Covid ICU, requesting anonymity as he feared he could be singled out and made to bear the brunt of a political attack. As per details shared by the RIMS administration, the hospital received 104 ventilators for Covid patients from the PMCARES in the latest lot, and at least 44 of those ventilators had some or the other technical snag. The Trauma Centre at RIMS, which has been transformed into a Covid care facility, has about 100 ICU beds and all of them were occupied on Wednesday. Dr Pradip Bhattacharya, who is in-charge of the Covid ICU at RIMS, recently put forth his concerns to Prime Minister Narendra Modi via video conferencing. The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) was quick to follow up with Bhattacharya on the issue and he has been in touch with representatives from the PMO since the meeting. “There are protocols that we need to follow during installation of ventilators. Technicians also need to be trained for using the machines. I have apprised the PMO about the situation and we are also writing an email to them today highlighting the details,” Dr Bhattacharya told The Telegraph Online. He, however, admitted that the hospital already had about 100 functional ventilators and some of them were provided from the PMCARES  Fund. “The situation is under control, but we still need to focus on training our manpower in operating the ventilators that we receive,” added Bhattacharya, who has served as a doctor for 25 years after gaining experience of intensive care at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi. Doctors working in the Covid ICU at RIMS did not wish to be quoted on the matter despite having trouble in operating the ventilators. “Ventilators are not toys. These are serious medical equipment which require proper handling by trained people in order to be used for treating patients. You cannot just dump the ventilators here and expect technicians and doctors to figure out how to operate them on their own. It could prove fatal,” said a doctor at the ICU, requesting anonymity. Other non-BJP-ruled states like Punjab and Rajasthan have also shared similar feedback about the PMCARE ventilators in the past with a Rajasthan minister calling the ventilators “junk”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-49
19-05-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Main Hospital stops plasma therapy following ICMR order||Tata Main Hospital (TMH) has stopped plasma therapy for the treatment of Covid-19 patients in the wake of fresh guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) -- the Centre’s topmost medical advisory panel -- on Monday. The government on Monday dropped the use of convalescent plasma therapy for treating Covid patients from Clinical Management Guidelines. Last week, the ICMR-National Task Force for Covid-19 held a meeting in which all the members were in favour of removing the use of convalescent plasma from the guidelines, citing its ineffectiveness and inappropriate use in several cases. Addressing a telephonic conference on Tuesday evening Dr Rajan Choudhry, advisor, and former general manager, Medical Services, Tata Steel said that following the ICMR guidelines the hospital decided to do away with plasma therapy. TMH has been using plasma therapy since last year for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. He informed that the Covid-19 positivity rate has reduced from 32.84 on May 9 to 30.48 on May 16. In the last four days, 136 Covid positive patients were admitted. The hospital till Tuesday witnessed a total of 6,794 admissions. The deaths at the hospital have also reduced to 39 in the last four days with 9 to 10 deaths per day while the figure in the last week was 13 to14 per day. Out of 39 deaths, 30 were from East Singhbhum, four from  Seraikela -Kharsawan, two from West Singhbhum, one from Dhanbad and one from Ramgarh. The recovery rate has improved to 78.14 per cent. Meanwhile, the hospital so far completed  50,000 vaccinations. The hospital issued an appeal saying that even after vaccination, one must continue to follow Covid-19 appropriate behavior that includes use of mask, hand sanitisation, social distancing and avoiding crowded places. Dr Choudhry informed that they are also operating with several constraints as several doctors, nurses and other paramedical staff have been infected with Covid -19. Training module to combat third wave TMH has also started taking preventive measures to combat the possible third wave of Covid- 19. Rajan Choudhry said that they were augmenting pediatric facilities, concerned over reports suggesting that the third wave would mostly impact children. He said they have plans to increase the number of ventilators for children. Apart from improving pediatric infrastructure, the hospital has also launched training modules for health staff to help them prepare to fight the next wave.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-50
19-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand logs almost 3,000 fresh Covid cases, 62 casualties in a day||The growth rate of Covid-19 in Jharkhand dropped below the national average on Tuesday after almost a month as the state reported at least 4859 recoveries against 2925 fresh cases in the past 24 hours, which brought the active caseload down to 31,528, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. As per bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the growth rate of Covid-19 in the state was 0.91 per cent against the national average of 0.93 per cent on Tuesday, while the doubling rate of cases in Jharkhand also improved in comparison to the national average. As per NHM data, it would take 76.68 days for the cases to double in the state against the national doubling rate of 75.03 days. While the Covid recovery rate in the state also surpassed the national average of 85.60 per cent and reached 88.74 per cent with recoveries outnumbering fresh cases every day in the past fortnight, Jharkhand’s Covid mortality rate continued to be higher than the national average 0f 1.10 per cent. As per NHM data, the Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 1.43 per cent on Tuesday. At least 62 Covid patients, including 20 from Ranchi alone and 17 from East Singhbhum, died in the past 24 hours, taking the Covid toll in the state to 4601. As per government data, at least 1441 Ranchi residents have died of Covid-19 so far, while 930 have died in East Singhbhum. The active caseload, however, dropped in Ranchi as well as East Singhbhum as recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of infection in both the districts on the day. As per government data, at least 330 recoveries against 289 fresh cases brought the active caseload in Ranchi down to 6,731. The active caseload dropped to 3,265 in East Singhbhum as 948 patients recovered there while 784 were found infected. The state on Tuesday tested swab samples of 54,338 residents and around 6 per cent of them were found infected. As per government data, over 3.20 lakh Jharkhand residents have been infected by the virus so far and around 89 per cent of them have recovered. Bokaro reported 198 cases against 365 recoveries, while 241 people were found infected in Dhanbad and 144 patients recovered there. Hazaribag reported 170 cases against 401 recoveries, while 104 people were found infected in Ramgarh and 319 Covid patients recovered there. Meanwhile, the state on Tuesday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 48,725 residents, including 37,992 in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. The second dose was administered to 2,565 beneficiaries on the day, stated a separate report from the NHM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-50
19-05-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi administration mulls dedicated Covid ward for children||Ranchi district administration have started exploring possibilities of setting up of 40-60 bedded dedicated children ward for Covid-19 at Sadar hospital as part of their advance planning to tackle the pandemic amid concerns of a possible third wave that will impact kids. Deputy commissioner Chhavi Rajan on Tuesday said that they are exploring different plans to ramp up childcare covid facilities on war footing to be better prepared to tackle any challenges in days ahead. “I have inspected Ranchi’s sadar hospital today along with other officials to scout for space. On the ground floor and on few other floors, we have space where we can set up children’s ward for Covid-19. I have asked the authorities to prepare a formal plan for setting up of 40-60 bed facilities so that we can formally begin work after government’s nod,” he said talking to reporters at the hospital premises. Earlier in the day, Ranjan and his team had gone to Rani children hospital, a dedicated hospital for kids, near Radium road. Ranjan said that the purpose of the visit was to walk through the medical infrastructure that is in place at this hospital and also interact with doctors on further requirements to deal with the pandemic. Notably, the move comes in the wake of a meeting chaired by health minister Banna Gupta with top officials of the health department three days ago to chalk out modalities for the third wave. Gupta pressed for the need to be ready with child ambulances, mobile RT PCR testing facilities, special Covid kits for children in home isolation and beds in pediatric wards for children who contract the infection. He also asked officials to hold a meeting with all pediatricians of the state and prepare a roadmap to tackle the third wave of infection in Jharkhand. After the outbreak of the second wave in the last week of March this year, medical infrastructure in the state began to crumble as the rate of infection peaked. By the first week of April, chaos prevailed everywhere including in Ranchi with hospitals running out of beds and people even struggling to get covid tests done, necessary medicines among others. However, the situation has now stabilized to a large extent in recent weeks as the state government went on to more beds on war footing across different districts and rolled out different initiatives like oxygen banks, online bed booking portal among others to tide over the crisis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-50
19-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Oxygen cylinders stolen from Hazaribagh Medical College ||Two ward boys have been arrested for the theft of a large number of oxygen cylinders and regulators from the Hazaribagh Medical College and Hospital in Jharkhand and their sale at higher prices to relatives of Covid patients and suppliers has come to light amid the surge in coronavirus cases. This is the first case of theft of oxygen cylinders from a government hospital in Jharkhand during the Covid-19 pandemic with the oxygen crisis affecting almost all states. A case was registered in connection with the incident at the Sadar police station on Tuesday after deputy superintendent of the hospital Dr A.K. Singh, lodged a complaint on Monday. The hospital is also known as the Sheikh Bhikhari Medical College Hospital. The complaint written in Hindi by the deputy superintendent, a copy of which is available with The Telegraph, mentions that a large number of Covid patients are under treatment in the biggest hospital in the region and for them oxygen cylinders are a life-saving equipment. “We have been getting reports from the stores for the last few days about missing big (D-type cylinders) and small (B-type cylinders) and also apprehensions that they were being stolen. We had also informed the superintendent (S. Karthik) in the recent meeting. “We got information from oxygen cylinder supplier and owner of M/s R.R. Traders (Hazaribagh) Mohammed Afhaque Ali Rashid that two persons, both ward boys in our hospital Surendra Kumar Yadav and Mohammed Asif had approached him with an offer to sell B-type cylinders for Rs 4,000 and D-type cylinders at Rs 18,000,” the complaint said. It further said that the firm owner had asked both the ward boys to bring the cylinders with an intention to trap them and recover the stolen equipment. As soon as ward boy Mohammed Asif came with the cylinders to the supplier, he informed Sadar sub-divisional officer Vidya Bhusan and the cylinders were retrieved. “We would like to inform you that out of a total of 165 B-type cylinders, we have only 64, and out of a total of 349 D-type cylinders, we have only 267. This apart, out of a total of 115 oxygen cylinder regulators we have got only 55 and the remaining oxygen cylinders and regulators have been stolen,” the complaint said. A case has been registered under IPC Section 379 (theft) and Section 7 of the Essential Commodities Act at the Sadar police station and the two ward boys have been arrested. “A complaint has been registered by the hospital deputy superintendent at the local police station and the police are investigating it. It would be premature on my part to comment on the matter,” said Hazaribagh deputy commissioner Aditya Kumar Anand. Hazaribagh superintendent of police S. Karthik confirmed the lodging of the complaint. “We have lodged an FIR and the matter is being investigated. We are matching the hospital records and ledger books and the ward boys have been arrested,” he said. Hazaribagh is around 98km from state capital Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-50
19-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Jharkhand govt to start intensive door-to-door testing in rural areas||The Jharkhand government has planned to start an intensive door-to-door testing covering all households in rural areas in each of the over 4,400 panchayats across 24 districts, continuing with chief minister Hemant Soren’s efforts at plugging loopholes in Covid management. In a letter addressed to all the deputy commissioners by the additional chief secretary (health), Arun Kumar Singh, has directed for constitution of block-level Covid task force but also take help of over one lakh sahiyas, auxiliary nurse midwives and community health officers for conducting an intensive public health survey. “There should be a block level Covid task force in each of the (260) blocks with BDO or circle officer as its chairperson and in-charge medical officer as its member secretary while child development project officer, concerned police station officer-in-charge, woman surveyor (social welfare department), JSLPS block level program manager, block panchayat raj official, block supply officer, block education extension officer as its member,” the letter informs. The directive further states that sahiyas, anganbari sevikas and multi-purpose workers (MPWs) should be trained for Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) in addition to providing them adequate home isolation kits, pulse oximeters and thermal scanner and there should be two groups of sahiyas and sevikas in each panchayats, while one group would conduct RAT and other testing, another group would identify the Covid suspects. All the sahiyas, sevikas and ANMs should have been given two doses of vaccines. Testing booths should also be constituted in crowded areas. The team apart from sending Covid suspects to health centres and home isolations would also create awareness about Covid protocols for home isolations and vaccinations. Community health officers and ANMs would be carrying out telephonic monitoring of the person under home isolation. There should be at least two ambulances with drivers in each of the blocks and the task force should also ensure that dead bodies are disposed of as per Covid protocol. The task force would have to submit daily reports to the deputy commissioners of the district. The exercise would be carried out for 10-days from May 25. Meanwhile, Soren on Monday inaugurated an 80-bed oxygen supported Covid care centre at Ghatotand in Ramgarh in association with Tata Steel Foundation, West Bokaro unit. The government has also announced to arrange for the wood of those needy persons for the last rites of family members dead due to Covid pandemic. On Sunday, Jharkhand registered 2,321 positive cases taking the total Covid active load to 36,540, Sunday also saw 48 deaths taking the total casualty to 4,479.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-50
