20-05-2021||Jharkhand||Railways dispatches highest quantity of oxygen on a single day||The South Eastern Railway on Wednesday achieved the highest dispatch of more than 770 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen under its jurisdiction via nine Oxygen Express trains originating from Bokaro Steel City, Rourkela and Tatanagar. Records suggest that from April 23, SER has so far run 96 Oxygen Express trains dispatching a total of 6,317 tonnes of LMO to 10 states and Union Territories. The Oxygen Express trains were run to fulfill requirements of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Karnataka, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh and Delhi. "This has been made possible due to the untiring efforts of railway employees who have been working round the clock to ensure fastest transportation of Oxygen Express trains," said Sanjay Ghosh, chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway. Train Cancelled Concerned over growing cases of Covid-19 and loss of revenue due to poor occupancy SER's Calcutta based headquarters on Thursday evening notified cancellation of both the Up and Down Bhubaneswar - New Delhi Special train between May 21 and June 1.  The train runs via Tatanagar railway station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-47
20-05-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi doctor unites abandoned 90-year-old woman with family||A doctor at Ranchi’s Sadar hospital with the help of district administration and Ranchi railways has successfully helped a Telugu speaking nonagenarian woman reach home safely after she was abandoned at the hospital last month by her family members. According to officials at Sadar hospital, the elderly woman identified as Chinna Madhu, was anonymously dropped at the government run hospital by her son-in law. Hospital authorities then admitted her to a ward suspecting Covid. Successive tests on her confirmed the infection post which she underwent treatment as an anonymous person. The woman’s son Govind Rao and her son-in law Appa Rao works as lineman under Ranchi railway division, said railway officials. “She could barely speak, and was very weak. Moreover the language which she spoke was difficult to understand,” remarked a nurse. She recovered fully on May 16. However, her extended stay at the hospital raised eyebrows of Dr Ajit Kumar, a surgeon posted here on Covid duty, who on Wednesday night posted her photograph on social media seeking help to trace her family. “The photo went viral. Even many city based journalists shared it to help us trace the family. This morning, we got a tip from a resident about her identity. We learnt that son and son-in law of the lady are railway employees in Ranchi. After finding their names, we contacted Ranchi railway division authorities who tracked her kids,” said Dr Kumar. On Wednesday night the woman was shifted to a city based old age home with the help of district administration to prevent re-infection. “After the intervention of senior officials of railway, we got in touch with the son-in law who originally dropped the lady at the hospital. In the evening, I personally took them to the shelter home, picked the lady to drop her in her home in railway colony. The lady’s son said that he too was down with Covid,” said Ajit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-47
20-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dumka labourers stranded in Nepal cry out for help in video message ||A group of 26 labourers from Dumka district of Jharkhand has sent an SoS from Nepal using a video message urging the Hemant Soren government to rescue them. In the video, which went viral on social media on Thursday, one of the labourers is seen saying that many of his co-workers are down with Covid-19 like symptoms but aren’t getting any help from the local administration. Nor is their local employer helping. he said they were short of money and that it seemed their employer had abandonded them. All the labourers, working in a hydro power project at Sindhupal district of Nepal, are between 25 and 40 and belong to villages of Ramgarh and Jama block in Dumka, a tribal dominated district of Santhal Pargana. They are holed up in a single room at Gauri village for many days without any assistance, for many weeks due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown in Nepal. One of the labourers, Narayan Das of Ramgarh, told The Telegraph Online on Thursday evening that they had come to Nepal about two and-a- half months back to resume work. “But soon after coming here, a lockdown was imposed and we ran out of work. The contractor who employed us too isn’t helping. Many of us have been down with fever and other ailments for the last few days. The nearest health centre is about 7km downhill from where we live,” he said, appealing to the authorities back home to coordinate with the Nepal government and organise their return. Notably, many of the workers who are stranded were rescued by the state government during the previous lockdown. But Das said that they had to return after their employer called them for work. “There wasn’t enough work in our villages back home so we had to come back,” he said. Another labourer Shankar Mahto added, “Our contractor hadn’t paid full money last year so we had to return to claim that and send to our families back home.” The labourers had first contacted Dumka social worker Sachidanand Soren on Wednesday night and sent him their video, after which it went viral. Amalji, block development officer of Rampur, said he wasn't aware of stranded labourers from his district, but promised to look into it. “So far one family member of the labourers has contacted the district administration. We will try to find out more and take appropriate steps,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-47
20-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad to get a new electric crematorium amid rising Covid deaths||The Dhanbad Municipal Corporation has initiated the construction of an electric crematorium at the Mohalbani Ghat on the banks of the river Damodar in Bhowra area of Jharia after facing extreme difficulties in cremation due to increased deaths during pandemic and limited space in existing traditional crematoriums. The new electric crematorium, located near a non functional crematorium of Mineral Area Development Authority, will be established at a cost of Rs 2crore and will be equipped with a scrubber and a 100 feet chimney. “We have already issued a short expression of interest in this regard and the technical bid of the applicants will be opened on May 21,” said Anup Samanta, executive engineer of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation to The Telegraph Online. As per the notice of expression of interest, the selected agency for the installation of crematorium will also be responsible for the operation and maintenance of the crematorium for five years. The proposed crematorium will be equipped with a 200 KVA silent diesel generator, a 200 KVA electric transformer besides, tin shed roof etc. Expressing happiness at DMC’s move, social activist Madhurenra Singh said, “Though we were demanding installation of electric crematorium since the beginning of the second wave of Covid at Aamjhar in Baliapur where the bodies of Covid victims are being cremated at present but we are happy that at least a move to establish crematorium has been taken, although it is not at Aamjhar and rather at Mohalbani.” “We at the same time would also request the administration to ensure proper maintenance of crematorium as a bitter past experience of total failure of the electric crematorium of MADA which could hardly operate for less than six months after it’s establishment in 1997 due to various reasons like lesser capacity of transformer not generating required electricity,” said Singh. “We also demand the fixing of a workable charge for the cremation as the previous charge of Rs 51 failed to manage operation costs that ultimately led to its closure,” said Singh. According to the official figures around 345 people died due to Covid in Dhanbad but death registration figures of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation of the last four months reveal that a total of 3079 death certificates have been issued by DMC in January, February, March and April.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-48
20-05-2021||Jharkhand||Rain across Jharkhand, courtesy Tauktae exit-effect ||A cyclonic circulation hovering over Uttar Pradesh and its neighbourhood triggered rain and thunderstorms in several parts of Jharkhand on Thursday evening. The cyclonic circulation, which was caused by the residual effect of cyclone Tauktae that originated from the Arabian Sea and resulted in widespread devastation before landfall on the coast of Gujarat, was extending 3.1km above mean sea level. Several parts of Jharkhand, including Jamshedpur, Ranchi, Bokaro, Ramgarh, Khunti and Seraikela-Kharsawan, witnessed thunderstorms, lightning and rain due to the impact of the cyclonic circulation. The local IMD observatory in Jamshedpur recorded over 15mm rain between 6.30pm and 7pm. Rain was continuing even after 7pm. Ranchi recorded around 2mm rain while several other districts experienced around 10mm of rain. Satellite pictures indicated a cyclonic circulation over southwest Uttar Pradesh and a trough over neighbouring Bihar, extending upto 0.9 km above mean sea level. Based on satellite pictures and radar inputs, Ranchi Meteorological Centre issued frequent nowcasts (short-term forecast) since Thursday afternoon indicating moderate thunderstorms and showers in central and southern Jharkhand. Chaibasa in West Singhbhum, Gumla, Simdega , Dhanbad and Deoghar were among other  places that experienced thundershowers and lightning. Head of  Ranchi Met Centre Abhishek Anand said light rain or thunderstorms are expected in isolated pockets, especially in  central, north-east and southern Jharkhand, in another 24 hours due to the impact of the cyclonic circulation. He also hinted at a gradual rise in maximum readings after the next 24 hours, adding that the cyclonic circulation over Uttar Pradesh  was resulting in heavy moisture incursion into the atmosphere from Bay of Bengal which resulted higher humidity and discomfort index in most parts of the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-48
20-05-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city minibus owners unable to cope with lockdown losses||Survival for minibus operators has become challenging in Covid-induced restrictions with most finding it hard to stay afloat. Around 85-odd mini buses plying in the steel city, have all come to a grinding halt due to the health safety week imposed by the state government in view of the spike in Covid cases in Jharkhand. The buses ply on different routes under the banner of Jamshedpur Shikshit Berojgar Mini Bus Association (JSBMBA). The vehicles operate from the main bus terminus in front of Jama Masjid in Sakchi and ferry passengers to Govindpur, Telco, Baridih, Sundarnagar, Railway Station, Adityapur, Kandra etc. Some owners of mini buses were plying their vehicles at the start of the lockdown last month, but stopped operating due to a very few number of passengers. “We ran around 25 buses at the beginning of the lockdown. But we attracted very few passengers since the bazaars closed at 2 pm. The buses were later withdrawn,” a JSBMBA member said. With mini buses not plying, the income of operators has stopped. “It is tough days for us. Our income has come to a nought.  We are finding it hard to pay our drivers and cleaners. We are somehow managing to stay afloat,” a bus owner said. Vivek Singh, general secretary of JSBMBA, said the mini bus owners cannot survive in this situation. “We are paying a heavy price due to the restrictions. Minibus is our primary source of income, which has been adversely affected due to the restrictions,” he added. Mini buses were the main mode of commuting for the middle income group during pre-Covid days. The vehicles stopped running during the first wave of the pandemic. However, very few chose to travel in mini buses when restrictions were withdrawn due to fear of infection. “We fear people will continue to skip minibuses owing to the fear factor. The pandemic has dealt a heavy blow to us. It is very difficult to survive in this situation. Besides operating our vehicles, we also have to bear expenses towards maintenance and salary of drivers and cleaners, not to forget permits and other government taxes,” another member said. “We sincerely adhered to directives of the district administration when the restrictions were eased last year by sanitising our mini buses. Moreover, we also sanitised the vehicles after every trip. But the passengers continued to stay away from mini-buses,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-48
20-05-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city NGO feeds stray dogs amid lockdown||The members of Jamshedpur Red Paws Rescue Foundation, a city-based NGO,  have come up with a noble gesture to feed stray dogs at a time when they are bearing the brunt of the state-wide lockdown. The canines are going hungry since steel city restaurants and fast food stalls have downed shutters because of the restrictions. Hotels are operating with take-away and online delivery systems only. The strays used to get leftovers when the restaurants and fast food stalls were open. Foundation members have taken the onus of feeding the strays in their respective localities, including Sonari, Bistupur, Station Road, Kadma, Mango, Dimna Road, Sidhgora, Jugsalai and Northern Town. “The strays have been going through difficult times due to the lockdown. We thought of feeding them since we felt it is our responsibility. Our members are taking care of the same,” said JRPRF founder Aniz Patel. According to him, the feeding exercise is held from 5 pm to 10 pm every day. “Despite our efforts, we have not covered the whole city. We would try to spread our wings by going to untouched localities by involving the public. We appeal to the people to feed the strays in their respective localities. We think it is everybody’s duty to feed the strays at a difficult time,” Patel added. The members feed home cooked food to the strays. Some even stock bread and biscuits for the hapless animals. “We are sure most citizens of Jamshedpur are generous enough to take care of the strays but it would be wise if all make a contribution towards this cause. The strays have nowhere to go,” one of the foundation members said. Kishore Oza, a resident of Bhuiyandih who feeds strays at Northern Town and Bistupur, said he feels very happy and satisfied in doing the same. “I have been feeding strays and also taking care of their veterinary needs for years. It’s a very satisfying experience to feed the strays,” he added. The Foundation is active throughout the year. Besides conducting anti-rabies vaccination drives, the NGO also arranges sacks to keep the strays warm in winter. The foundation had also put reflective collars on strays to prevent them from falling victim to road mishaps at night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-48
20-05-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city multiplex now a vaccination centre||The Bistupur-based PJP Cinepolis , the state's first six-screen multiplex, was converted into a Covid-19 vaccination centre on Thursday, making it the first such initiative in the state. The vaccination was being given to the age group of 18 and 44 years. It saw big draws of families, students, businessmen and corporate executives. Located on the second floor of the plush P&M Hi-Tech City Centre Mall on the Outer Circle Road in Bistupur, the 1,042 seater multiplex was the fourth vaccination centre in Steel City after Loyola School in Bistupur, Tata Workers' Union school in Kadma and RVS Academy in Mango. "The vaccination drive at the new centre which began at around 10 am this morning will continue till the evening. The health department has set a target of providing 1000 Covishield vaccines at this centre on the first day, "said Ravi Bharti, city manager of Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee, who was overseeing the vaccination drive at the PJP Cinepolis. He said of the six-screen multiplex five were being used as waiting and vaccination areas, while the other one was utilised as an observation area. According to Bharti, deputy commissioner of East Singhbhum Suraj Kumar and district civil surgeon A.K. Lal gave necessary directives to officials manning the centre for ensuring hassle-free vaccination process. Physical distancing norms and other Covid protocols were followed among those who had come for vaccination. Vaccines were administered in strict adherence to tokens issued. Officials of the health department said only those between the age group of 18 and 44 years who have booked online slots will be eligible for vaccination. Those who had come for vaccination at the mall on the first day were happy. "Thanks to the district administration and health department for selecting PJP Cinepolis as one of the vaccination centres. Four members of my family got vaccinated at the centre under the comforts of AC and proper arrangement. The management of the multiplex and the mall also ensured proper Covid protocols, "said Atul Agarwal, a businessman who stays at Bistupur. PJP Cinepolis is a joint venture between noted director Prakash Jha's Production and Mexican Plex chain Cinepolis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-48
20-05-2021||Jharkhand||For Covid awareness, walls are this artist duo's canvas ||One doesn’t need money and prowess to help others in the fight against Covid and instead only needs a sense of humanity to help society and nation defeat the crisis. This has been proved by one of the most trusted and acclaimed names in the field of painting and sculpture in Dhanbad, Bhushan Singh, popularly known as Bhushan Art. Bhushan is spreading awareness among citizens by making wall paintings to raise awareness about the need to wage a united war against Covid. His son Gaurav Singh, also an artist, has teamed up with him in the awareness drive. It started on Wednesday at major spots of town, including near Puja Talkies and also near Golf Ground. “We have continuously worked for several months for Dhanbad Municipal Corporation making wall paintings all across the town spreading awareness among people about the significance of cleanliness as part of Swachh Bharat Mission during 2020-21,” said Bhushan to The Telegraph Online. “In one of the paintings, we have shown the pandemic rising out from China and the Indian defence forces leading the fight by setting up hospitals, airlifting doctors, medical supplies, and large cryogenic oxygen containers,” said Bhushan and added the painting is aimed at driving the point that instead of indulging in petty politics, everybody should join hands to overcome the difficult times. “A person can’t remain oblivious to the surroundings and thus if we can appeal to people to adopt cleanliness, sanitation and hygiene in their daily life to make the community, town and nation a more liveable place it is also our responsibility to make people aware about the need to observe social distancing norms, Covid protocols etc,” said Bhushan. Singh has earlier made some paintings at Randhir Verma Chowk of Dhanbad during Anna Hazare's agitation on Lokpal bill. “We will make similar paintings at other places of the town to make people aware about priorities during Covid,” said Gaurav Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-48
20-05-2021||Jharkhand||Truck collision leads to major fire ||A collision between two trucks on GT road near Barhi chowk, 40kms away from Hazaribagh, led to a fire accident where both the trucks, a car, a pickup van, 20-plastic drums and three pushcarts were gutted on Thursday morning. Police officials said one truck was carrying coal and the other stone chips. After the collision, one of the truck’s fuel tanks cracked and the diesel leaked to nearby vehicles engulfing them in fire. The drivers of both the vehicles managed to jump out on time. Fire tenders reached the spot and brought the fire under control. For the fire team, the biggest challenge was to prevent the fire from spreading to nearby houses. Police said a teacher Rajendra Kesri and one Mohammad Meraj from the locality spotted the fire first and both informed Barhi subdivisonal officer Nazir Akhtar. About the incident, Akhtar said no loss of life was reported. Many residents said this was the first of its kind accident on GT road where so many vehicles were gutted by fire. They were thankful to officials who acted on time or else their lives would be in danger.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-48
20-05-2021||Jharkhand||Rapid testing booths at crematoriums for kin of the bereaved ||The Jharkhand government has decided to set up rapid antigen test (RAT) booths at various burning ghats and graveyards across the state and make Covid testing mandatory for relatives of those who have died of diseases other than Covid-19 in a bid to identify asymptomatic cases and break the chain of transmission. A letter issued by state health secretary Arun Kumar Singh to the deputy commissioners of all the districts stated that the testing booths at crematoriums will ensure quick Covid test for family members of the deceased and all those who attend funerals even if Covid was not the cause of death. “In cases of Covid deaths and also deaths caused by diseases other than Covid, it is imperative to ensure rapid testing of the family members not only at the crematoriums but also at the residence of the people who die in a bid to identify cases of infection and prevent further transmission,” the letter, a copy of which is in possession of The Telegraph Online, stated. The letter further stated that rapid testing of family members of the deceased would prevent spread of the virus to other people during rituals following the last rites. While the state has limited the number of attendees at funerals and rituals to 20, officials fear that such gatherings could still lead to transmission of the virus. Teams will be constituted at the district level to visit homes of people who die, irrespective of whether they were Covid positive or not, and conduct rapid tests for family members, an official from Ranchi district administration said. With the government launching Covid testing kits that can be used at home without the need of medical supervision, the process may get easier, he added. The decision comes in the backdrop of the Hemant Soren-led government deciding to bear the expenses of cremation of all Covid patients in the state. Hemant had recently said that the government will bear the expenses of logs required for cremation and infrastructure needed for burial ceremonies. With the rise in Covid fatalities since April, cremation has been a challenge in the state, especially Ranchi. The Ranchi administration has set up a burning ghat for bodies of Covid victims at Ghagra, but locals have raised concern over pollution and toxic gases that are being spread due to constant burning of bodies in the locality. So far, Covid-19 has claimed at least 4,654 lives in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-48
20-05-2021||Jharkhand||State's active caseload drops below 30,000 as over 4,500 patients recover from Covid||The active Covid-19 caseload dropped below the 30,000-mark in Jharkhand on Wednesday as at least 4528 patients recovered in the past 24 hours while 1894 state residents were found infected by Coronavirus during the same period, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. However, while the active caseload dropped, at least 53 Covid casualties on the day took the toll to 4654, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. Ranchi reported 14 Covid deaths on the day, while at least 11 patients died in Bokaro. Ranchi reported 1200 Covid recoveries against 251 cases and the active caseload here dropped to 5,762, NHM data highlighted. On the other hand, at least 449 Covid patients recovered from the viral infection and 241 people were found infected there. The active caseload in East Singhbhum was 3040 by the end of Wednesday. These two districts account for around 40 per cent of the active caseload and more than half of the over 4500 deaths reported in the state so far. As per NHM data, as many as 1455 Ranchi residents have died of Covid-19 while East Singhbhum has reported 936 Covid casualties. The State on Wednesday tested swab samples of 48,971 residents and around 6 per cent of them were found infected. More than 3.22 lakh people have been infected by the deadly virus so far in Jharkhand and over 89 per cent of them have recovered. As per government data, the growth rate of Covid-19 in Jharkhand was 0.76 per cent against the national average of 0.84 per cent. The doubling rate of cases in the state was 92.02 days against the national doubling rate of 82.90 days. However, the Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was higher than the national average of 1.10 per cent. The Covid mortality in Jharkhand was 1.44 per cent. The first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 was administered to 47,652 residents, including over 38,000 in the age bracket of 18-44 years, in Jharkhand on Wednesday. As many as 2092 beneficiaries got the second jab on the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-48
20-05-2021||Jharkhand|| Bombay High Court orders medical test for Father Stan Swamy||Bombay High Court on Wednesday directed Taloja central jail authorities to take Jharkhand-based Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist Father Stan Swamy — an accused in the Bhima-Koregaon case — to JJ Hospital for a medical examination on Thursday. “The vacation bench of Justices S.J. Kathawalla and S.P. Tavade also directed JJ Hospital’s dean to form a committee of expert doctors, including a neuro-physician, an ENT specialist, an orthopaedic doctor, a general physician and other doctors, if required, for the medical examination, which has to happen on Thursday at 11am,” Father Swamy’s legal counsel, senior advocate Mihir Desai, said over phone from Mumbai. “The bench further asked the state government to submit a report of the medical examination before the high court by May 21 and asked the Taloja prison authorities to arrange for Father Stan Swamy to be produced before the high court via videoconference at 4pm on that day, if the prison has such facilities,” Desai added. The bench was hearing a plea by Desai against the special NIA court’s decision in October last year to reject Swamy’s interim bail plea on medical grounds. Earlier in May, Desai was granted permission by a high court bench led by Justice S.S. Shinde to move the vacation bench, seeking a hearing on Swamy’s bail plea. During the last hearing in the high court on May 4 this year, a bench had directed the state authorities to file a report on Swamy’s health by May 15. Desai submitted a note in the high court on May 17, stating that Swamy was in poor health and detailing the lack of medical aid at the Taloja prison, the impossibility of social distancing (required during Covid-19) in the overcrowded jail and Swamy’s deteriorating condition amid all these. The state’s counsel, Y.P. Yagnik, told the bench that Swamy was being taken care of in the prison and had been taken to JJ Hospital on Tuesday evening for the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine. Jesuits across the country, who run educational institutions, are continuing to hold special prayers for Swamy’s recovery and bail. “We have been praying for Father Swamy since his arrest by the NIA in October last year from his Namkum residence near Ranchi. But with his health deteriorating, as communicated to us by Jesuit Father Joe Xavier, we are praying for his speedy recovery. We are specially praying for his bail,” Father Jerome Cutina, the provincial of Jamshedpur Jesuit province (which looks after Odisha, Singhbhum and Dhanbad region), told The Telegraph. “His life is under imminent threat due to his pre-existing medical condition, advanced age, lack of medical facilities at Taloja central jail and the coronavirus that has breached the prison walls and already infected a fellow inmate who was sharing the same hospital ward with Swamy,” a senior Jesuit based in Ranchi said on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-48
