21-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand government sends bus to bring stranded workers from Nepal||The Jharkhand government on Friday sent a bus to Nepal to bring back 26 labourers of Dumka stranded in Sindhupalchok district of the neighbouring country. The chief minister’s office made the announcement in the evening and said that all are expected to return by Saturday. The Dumka district administration has also pressed two magistrates along with a team of doctors and security forces in separate vehicles along with the bus to coordinate with the authorities in the Himalayan country for smooth transition of workers from the border. The district administration has also issued a no objection certificate on behalf of state government as movement permit to the officials to bring the workers back. One of the magistrates, Anup Kumar Verma, who was originally posted as a junior engineer in the district irrigation department said that if all goes well, they will return by late Saturday night. The labourers will be picked from Birat Nagar, which is 7 km south of Nepal connecting with neighbouring Bihar. “As per the directions from state government here, Nepal authorities will facilitate transportation of labourers till Biratnagar from where we will receive them. A two member medical team is also travelling with us besides half a dozen security forces. The medical team will scan the medical status of all the labourers there before bring them back,” he said. “All the returnees will be kept at an indoor stadium in Dumka after their arrival first and following their health check-up and other procedures, they will be sent to their homes,” read the statement issued by the chief minister’s office. The state government learnt about the stranded labourers on Thursday after their video went viral on social media requesting for rescue. In the video, which went viral on social media on Thursday, one of the labourers was seen saying that many of his co-workers are down with Covid-19 like symptoms but aren’t getting any help from the local administration. Nor is their local employer helping. They also rued about shortage of money seeking assistance to return back to their villages in Ramgarh block of Dumka. All the labourers had gone to Nepal to work in a hydro power project at Sindhupal district of Nepal and are stuck in Gauri village for many days without assistance due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown in Nepal. Last year too, many among these 26 labourers were rescued from Nepal during first wave of covid-19. Earlier this year, they had again returned in search of livelihood.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-46
21-05-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Main to introduce Covid ward for children||The Tata Main Hospital, concerned over a possible third wave, has decided to come up with a special Covid ward dedicated to children. In a weekly telephonic conference on Friday evening, Dr Rajan Choudhury, advisor, Medical Services, Tata Steel said that with reports suggesting a possible third wave and its impact mostly on children they are focusing on augmenting paediatric facilities. “We have decided to come up with special Covid wards for children in order to tackle the impact of the third wave. The focus will be on maximising beds with oxygen and air conditioning. We are also shutting two wards G1 and G2 for necessary renovation. This is a part of our strategy for the possible third wave,” he said. Referring to the prevailing Covid situation, he said the second wave is showing a downward trend for the last few days. Providing statistics he said the Covid-19 positivity rate has reduced to 18.53 per cent in the last three days. In the last three days 64 patients were admitted at the hospital. The deaths at the hospital have also reduced to 24 in the last three days with an average eight deaths per day. Out of 24 deaths, 20 were from East Singhbhum and four were from adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district. The recovery rate has improved to 79.13 per cent. The private hospital run by Tata Steel has also completed 56,372 vaccinations. He appealed to people that even after vaccination one must continue to follow Covid-19 protocols including wearing masks, hand sanitisation, social distancing and avoiding crowded places. Three patients die of black fungus Tata Main Hospital witnessed three deaths due to Mucormycosis or black fungus. A total of seven patients suffering from black fungus were admitted at the hospital. The hospital is also facing shortage of medicines required for treatment of black fungus which is primarily affecting people who are recovering from Covid-19. Local health experts said compared with the first Covid wave there has been more cases of black fungus reported during the second wave. According to health experts, it spreads through the nose and affects other parts of the body such as the eyes. People with diabetes are said to be more prone to the infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-46
21-05-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city's oldest Durga Puja unveils unique idol||A unique Durga idol at the Durga Bari in the steel city’s Jugsalai locality, is all set to attract tourists in the time to come. Carved out of marble, the 8’6” tall idol has been made by a Bengal artisan. The idols of Lakshmi, Saraswati, Ganesh and Kartik are also made of marble. Durga Puja at Durgabari in Jugsalai is one of the oldest in Jamshedpur. The Jugsalai Durgabari Trust gathered funds from members for the Rs 15 lakh idol that was ordered about two years back. “The uniqueness of the idol is that it has no joints. It was carved out of a 15 tonne marble block procured by the artisan. The weight of the idol is about 8.5 tonnes,” said Shankar Bhobai, secretary of the Trust. According to him, this is a one of a kind idol in the eastern zone and the artisan has taken pains to delicately carve out the idol. “The idol has been made by Ganesh Gorai, an artisan from Sonamui in Bengal’s West Midnapore,” said Bhobai. “Initially, the artisan was reluctant to make the idol. But he agreed after relentless requests from our side. We visited Sonamui five times to request the artisan who is known for making marble idols. The artisan has made an idol without joints for the first time. It took two years to complete the idol but we are extremely happy,” added Bhobai. “The idol was transported from Sonamui in a trailer. It was unloaded at Durgabari with the help of a crane. “The ritual (pran pratistha) was solemnised from May 17 to 19. Only the priests and some Trust members were present during the rituals. Covid guidelines were duly followed,” the Jugsalai Durgabari Trust secretary said. The beauty and uniqueness of the idol is sure to attract tourists. “In fact, we want Durgabari to become a tourist destination in Jharkhand,” Bhaboi added. Durgabari has been conducting Durga Puja since 1936. It was being celebrated at a pandal earlier but the Durgabari has now been turned into a temple. “Henceforth, Durga puja will be celebrated at the temple (Durgabari). The new temple has a bhog room and a Shiva temple. A sum of around Rs 5 lakh has been spent for the temple,” Bhaboi said. The newly-constructed temple is presently shut for devotees in view of the pandemic. “The temple will open once the situation becomes normal,” Bhobai added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-46
21-05-2021||Jharkhand||Police conduct raids to curb food grain smuggling ||At a time when many belonging to an economically weaker background are facing a food crisis due to decreased income during the lockdown, repeated incidents of black-marketing and smuggling of foodgrains meant for Public Distribution Shops are taking place across the district. A team of Jharia police on Friday seized around 17 quintals of rice in Bastacola area from a pick-up truck and handed the seized stock to the district food supply department. Nirmal Singh, the marketing officer of Jharia circle of district food supply department, reached Bastacola to carry out an investigation and physical verification of the foodgrain stock. The raid was conducted by Jharia police on the basis of a tip off about one Rajkumar Tanti and Pannalal Sao bringing PDS rice from Koiri Bandh locality. “We have reached here after the information given to us about the seizure of PDS rice by ADM (Law and Order), Chandan Kumar and found around 17 quintal rice packed in 34 plastic bags containing around 50 kg rice per bag,” said Nirmal Singh. When asked who was involved in the smuggling and where the rice stock was being taken, Singh said, “We are in the process of getting details from the police and based on the information, we will also lodge an FIR against those involved in the incident.” The district administration is already conducting a drive at the instruction of ADM (law and order) Chandan Kumar. On May 12, around 80 quintals of PDS rice was seized from a private godown from Jaihind Chowk of Baliapur during a raid conducted under the joint supervision of Baliapur Block Development Officer Ratan Kumar and Circle Officer Rampravesh Kumar. An FIR has been lodged against the godown operator Ashok Bhagat at Baliapur police station. On April 6, Loyabad police in a raid at Ekra bridge, seized around 20 quintals of rice loaded in a pick-up van and arrested two, both residents of Bagodar area of Giridih district. On June 26, last year, police had seized around 1 tonne of PDS rice from a matador at Dhansar area of Dhanbad and arrested the driver Ravi Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-46
21-05-2021||Jharkhand||Sporadic rain ensures regular water supply in Dhanbad ||The frequent rains at periodic intervals through summer has averted a water crisis in the district as all water bodies including Maithon, Topchanchi and Damodar supplying water to around 20 lakh residents of Jharia, Dhanbad and Katras are flowing at a comfortable level. More than 2 lakh residents of Topchanchi have received uninterrupted water supply after a gap of more than a decade as the Topchanchi lake is flowing at 64 feet, much above the danger level of 35 feet. Around 24 lakh gallons of water is supplied through Topchanchi lake to different localities of Katras town including, Katras Bazar, Rani Bazar, Sijua, Malkera, Tilatand, Rajendra Nagar, Keshalpur, Shalanpur etc. Due to the water level dipping to less than 35 feet almost every year during summer propels the civic body Mineral Area Development Authority to ration the supply to once a week during summer. Similarly, Maithon lake that supplies water to more than five lakh residents of Dhanbad under the Dhanbad Water Supply Scheme is also flowing at 461 feet much above the danger level of around 445 feet. The water level of Damodar near the Jamadoba based water treatment plant from where water is supplied to more than five lakh residents of Jharia town is also flowing at a comfortable level of around 450 feet, above the danger level of 410 feet. “Though the frequent rains may not have helped much in recharging the water bodies but it has helped to maintain the level to some extent by preventing the loss due to evaporation which is common feature in the complete dry summer,” said Indresh Shukla, executive engineer cum technical member of Mineral Area Development Authority to The Telegraph Online. “We are comfortable at both Topchanchi and Damodar and thus water supply is also being carried out on daily basis,” said Shukla and added the desiltation work carried out in Topchanchi lake two years ago has also led to increase in its catchment and resultant storage of large volume water, thereby enabling regular water supply to Katras. Aurba Saha, Public Relation Officer of DVC at Maithon, said ,“Though the water level is slightly below the comfortable level of around 480 feet at Maithon, it is still much much better than the danger level of around 465 feet.” “With monsoon round the corner we are expecting the situation to improve during the next month,” said Saha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-47
21-05-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city runs out of vaccines for 18-44 age group||The vaccination drive in East Singhbhum district for the 18-44 year age group is likely to suffer a setback as Covishield stocks were exhausted on Friday. The drive can continue only if 5,000 vials reach the steel city from the state capital in Ranchi by Friday night, chances of which are slim. The vaccination drive for the 45 years and above age category will continue as the stocks of both Covishield and Covaxin are adequate for the beneficiaries. There are seven vaccine centres across the East Singhbhum district -- six at steel city and one at Baharagora block of the district, where on an average 5,200 beneficiaries are getting vaccinated every day. East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar confirmed the shortfall of Covishield vaccines meant for the 18-44 years age-group. "Very negligible number of vaccines is left for 18-44 years age group. We are trying to procure 5,000 vials so as to tide over the crisis. If the consignment of vaccines does not reach today, then we have to suspend the vaccination drive for the above-mentioned group for two days, "said Kumar to The Telegraph Online. He, however, claimed that the vaccination drive is being carried out without any chaos. The deputy commissioner said that there is no word about the Sputnik vaccines from the state government, but the Tata Main Hospital management has taken an initiative in procuring the Russian-made vaccine. "The Tata Main Hospital management has placed an order for the Sputnik vaccines and the process of procurement of the vaccine is on," said Kumar. According to the health department sources, 2,71,562 people have been administered their first dose and 62,581 people have got the second dose in the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-47
21-05-2021||Jharkhand||Met office warns of thunderstorm and lightening across Jharkhand ||IMD's Ranchi Met Centre issued an alert of widespread thunderstorm and lightning over Jharkhand in the next 24 hours due to the impact of two cyclonic circulations. Head of Ranchi Met Centre Abhishek Anand said two cyclonic circulations - one over Uttar Pradesh and the other over Southwest Bay of Bengal - were impacting Jharkhand and that this would result in thunderstorm and lightning, accompanied by rain, over several Jharkhand districts in the next 24 hours. Light to moderate rain occurred at many places on Friday, while certain areas like Jamshedpur experienced heavy rain during the past 24 hours (5.30 pm of Thursday to 5.30 pm of Friday ). Lightning claimed seven lives on Thursday evening. Three persons, including a couple, lost their lives while four others sustained injuries during a lightning strike at Chowatand village in Gomia block of Bokaro. They were MGNREGA workers digging a well. To protect themselves from sudden rain they took shelter in a hut which was under a tree. Lightning struck the hut, killing them on the spot. Lightning resulted in two deaths in Garhwa district while two villagers, one each in Latehar and Palamau, were killed after being struck by a bolt. According to Met records, Arki in Khunti recorded the highest rainfall 66 mm. This was followed by Jamshedpur which recorded rainfall of 55mm in the past 24 hours. Nimdih in adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district and Tenughat in Bokaro district recorded 45mm rain. Ghatshila in East Singhbhum recorded 44mm rain. Ramgarh, Chaibasa in West Singhbhum , Hazaribagh, Koderma, Godda  and several other places recorded rainfall of over 20 mm in the past 24 hours. Weathermen in Ranchi said satelite pictures indicated that a cyclonic circulation over Southwest Bay of Bengal was lying  over Southeast and Central Bay of Bengal between 3.1km and 5.8km above mean sea level. Under its influence, a low-pressure area is likely to form over East-central Bay of Bengal  and adjoining north Andaman Sea around May 22. It is very likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm by May 24 and  move north-westwards and reach the Odisha-West Bengal coast around May 26. A trough was also running from sub-Himalayan West Bengal to south Odisha across Jharkhand extending upto 0.9km above mean sea level.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-47
21-05-2021||Jharkhand||Florists face double blow during lockdown||Over 200 florists of Dhanbad are facing the repercussions of cancellation of marriages and suspension of train operations that has affected the supply chain from Howrah. Many flower retailers have been compelled to shift to selling vegetables due to their debts increasing day by day since last year. Talking to The Telegraph Online, a flower wholesaler, Dinesh Kumar said, “Having faced one of the worst times last year we were hoping to compensate for the losses this year with bumper lagan (marriage) season with over 30 thousand marriages scheduled between April and July for which advance bookings from the parties had also been secured.” “The cancellation of over 90% of marriages however completely dashed our hopes and gave the most severe blow to the florists,” said Kumar. “The lockdown in Bengal and cancellation of trains running between Dhanbad to Calcutta have also affected our business prospects further and majority of florists are in debt,” said Kumar. “As all the stock coming from Howrah has affected the procurement of flowers, many are bringing flowers from Krishnanagar in Nadia district of Bengal,” said Kumar. Rahul Kumar, a flower retailer of station road in Dhanbad said, “We have received advance booking for marriages from seven parties but for six of them we had to return the advance money due to cancellation of marriage while for the seventh, the marriage took place on a much smaller scale with 30% expense on flower decoration of the agreed amount.” “Though, we are getting some demand from the family of deceased persons for the funeral function due to increased deaths  but due to lesser stock availability due to lockdown in Bengal and also due to cancellation of trains like Coal field Express and Black diamond express we are finding it difficult to supply flowers to them,” said Rahul Kumar. Sunil Malakar, another flower retailer of station road said, “We had around eight advance booking for marriages but all of them stand cancelled and instead a few are coming to procure Jaymala for carrying out the decoration of the vehicle for the bride and groom themselves.” “We are in extreme poverty and are even deprived of ration cards as despite making online applications since the last six years we have not received the ration card so far,” said Malakar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-47
21-05-2021||Jharkhand||Recovery rate goes past 90 per cent as over 4,300 patients recuperate from Covid||Jharkhand on Thursday reported twice as many Covid recoveries as fresh cases of infection, which took the Covid recovery rate in the state above 90 per cent. However, fatalities continued to rise, keeping the state’s Covid mortality rate higher than the national average. As per government data, as many as 4326 Covid patients recovered from the infection on the day while 2056 residents were found infected. The state, however, reported 60 Covid casualties which took the Covid toll in Jharkhand to 4714, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. The doubling rate and growth rate of Covid cases and the recovery rate in Jharkhand have improved in the past fortnight in comparison to the national figures. As per NHM data, Jharkhand’s Covid growth rate was 0.67 per cent against the national average of 0.80 per cent, while the doubling rate in the state was 103.63 days against the national average of 86.92 days. The Covid recovery rate in the state was 90.38 per cent against the national average of 86.70 per cent, but the Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was still 1.45 per cent against the national Covid mortality rate of 1.10 per cent, revealed government data. Ranchi, the district that has reported highest number of Covid fatalities so far, accounted for 14 of the 60 casualties on Thursday. On the other hand, East Singhbhum accounted for eight deaths and Bokaro reported nine. By the end of Thursday, the Covid toll in Ranchi stood at 1469 while that in East Singhbhum reached 944, highlighted the NHM bulletin. Two fresh casualties took the Covid toll in Dhanbad to 358, while the toll in Bokaro was 248. The active caseload dropped to 5,227 in Ranchi as the district reported 275 cases of infection against 796 recoveries in the past 24 hours. East Singhbhum reported 182 cases against 600 recoveries, which brought the active caseload there down to 2,616, the NHM stated in its bulletin. The state on Thursday tested swab samples of 50,504 residents and less than 5 per cent of them were found infected by Coronavirus. So far, the state has tested almost 80 lakh residents for Covid-19 and 3.24 lakh of them were found infected. Meanwhile, Jharkhand administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 48,259 residents and more than 41,000 of them were in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. So far, the state has administered the first dose of vaccine to over 31 lakh beneficiaries and around 2.71 lakh of them were in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. The second jab was administered to 1954 beneficiaries on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-47
21-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand govt taps Nepal embassy to bring back stranded workers||The Jharkhand government has started talks with the Nepal embassy in New Delhi for bringing back 26 workers from the state stranded in Sindhupalchok district in the neighbouring country. “We got to know about the workers who are stranded in Nepal on Thursday morning and immediately started discussion with authorities at the Nepal embassy. We have written to the Nepal embassy to arrange for bringing back the workers till the Indian border. From there, the Jharkhand government will bring them back to their home district, Dumka, by a special bus. The entire cost of bringing back the workers would be borne by the Jharkhand government. Dumka deputy commissioner B. Rajeshwari would be coordinating the arrangements to bring back the workers from the Indo-Nepal border,” said Johnson Topno, who heads the state migrant workers’ Covid control room in Ranchi. The official said that they had spoken to a few of the workers. “We held talks with a few of the workers and came to learn that they were facing payment issues and most of them were ill. We have also asked the embassy officials to ensure that they were given proper medication before arranging for their return to India,” added Topno. Narayan Das from Simra village in Jama block of Dumka district said that they had gone to work at an under-construction hydropower plant and were staying in Gauri village under Bagmati block in Sindhupalchok district of Nepal since February this year. “Most of the workers are from Simra and Ramgarh areas under Jama block of Dumka. We had come here for work last year too before the pandemic struck but had returned after the lockdown. We had some pending wages. This year we were promised that our arrears would be paid as well. However, after a lockdown was imposed in Nepal since March this year, we had not been paid our wages. Several of us are suffering from fever, cold and cough and breathing problems. The health centre is nearly 7km from our camp site,” said Narayan. The workers have arranged saline drips and medicines from their wages. “During a video call we informed our relatives about our pathetic condition and requested them to persuade the Jharkhand government to arrange for our return to our home district a few days back,” said Narayan. A few vernacular dailies in Dumka had reported about the stranded workers on Thursday. Dumka MLA Basant Soren, who is the younger brother of Jharkhand chief minister Hemant, tweeted on Thursday morning to the chief minister and Dumka deputy commissioner about the need for arranging the return of the stranded workers. Jama Assembly constituency is represented by Hemant’s sister-in-law Sita Soren. A deadly second wave of the pandemic is sweeping across Nepal, with about 7,000 to 8,000 new cases being reported daily for the past several days, which is quite high for a country of approximately 30 million people. Hospitals are full and running out of essential supplies. Nepal recorded 246 new Covid-19 fatalities in the last 24 hours, pushing the death toll to 5,657, its health ministry said on Wednesday. The total coronavirus tally stands at 480,418 with 8,064 new cases, it said. Additional reporting from PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-47
21-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Caution on online appeal to adopt bereaved kids ||Desperate pleas on social media for helping or adopting children who lost their parents to Covid-19 may make them vulnerable to trafficking and abuse, an NGO has said. The Indian branch of Save the Children, an international non-governmental organisation that works for protecting child rights in 18 Indian states, has appealed to people not to share details of such children online and instead contact the helpline number 1098 for protecting them from falling prey to traffickers. In a release issued on Thursday, Save the Children gave the instance of an online appeal that gave the details of two such children and wanted to know if anyone could adopt them and said that such an action may also encourage illegal adoption. “Children who lost their caregivers and left to fend for themselves are extremely vulnerable to exploitation and abuse,” said Chittapriyo Sadhu, deputy programme director of Save the Children in India. It is an incredibly confusing and difficult time for such children whose mental health may also be a matter of concern, he added. “Under the present circumstances, it is better not to post specific details of such children like their names, photos and locations that may increase their vulnerability,” said Mahadev Hansa, Jharkhand state head of Save the Children. “The Jharkhand government, however, did a praiseworthy job when the chief minister issued helpline numbers and urged people to inform about such Covid orphans for protecting them from being exploited or trafficked,” Hansda further said, referring to the release of helpline numbers by chief minister Hemant Soren on May 13. “The government would help, besides Covid orphans, even those children whose parents are undergoing treatment at hospitals and have no one to look after them,” Soren had said while releasing the helpline numbers. Asked about the response they were receiving, Ranchi’s Child Welfare Committee (CWC) chairperson Roopa Verma said: “We have been receiving a huge number of calls, about a 100 daily, since the chief minister announced the helpline numbers.” “All those may not be related to Covid-orphaned children alone as many didn’t quite understand the purpose and also called for seeking different kinds of help,” she told The Telegraph. We are scrutinising those calls and sending teams to the locations for verification, Verma said. The government would help children who lost their parents to Covid-19 or undergoing treatment at hospitals, besides sponsoring such orphans if any close relative agreed to look after them but the CWC would monitor them, she added. “The CWC will monitor such cases and step in whenever required,” Verma further said. We would keep the Covid orphans at a designated place at present and then decide the next course of action like organising their education at residential schools, etc, she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-47
