22-05-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city sets up 7th jab centre on XLRI campus ||The East Singhbhum district administration will start another vaccination centre at the XLRI campus in the Circuit House Area from next week. It has identified Tata Auditorium in the sprawling XLRI campus for drive that will be conducted for those in the age group of 18 to 44 years. Dhalbhum SDO Nitish Kumar Singh, along with health department officials,  inspected the B-school campus on Saturday. They went around the auditorium which has a centralised AC facility. The waiting area and observation room for those getting vaccinated were also identified. Health officials said the vaccination drive is expected to begin from Tuesday after taking care of all necessary requirements. "The new vaccination centre at the XLRI campus will further help in streamlining the vaccination process. It will benefit a wider section of people as everyday 1,000 vaccinations would be administered at the centre," said the SDO adding that there won't be any spot registration and that only those booking online slots would be eligible for vaccination. With this the Tata Auditorium will become the seventh vaccination centre in the steel city after Loyola School in Bistupur, Tata Workers' Union school in Kadma,  RVS Academy in Mango, Vidya Bharati Chinmaya Vidyalaya in Telco, R..P Patel School in Jugsalai and PJP Cinepolis at Bistupur-based P&M Hi-Tech City Centre Mall, where vaccinations began recently. District surveillance officer Shahir Pal said, "We will try to ensure necessary Covid protocols and a hassle-free vaccination at the new centre."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-45
22-05-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi schools to fund education for Covid orphans||Two English medium schools of Ranchi have announced to fund education at senior secondary level to those children who lost either of their parents during the second of the Covid-19 pandemic and are reeling under financial crisis. Tender Heart Senior Secondary school located at Hatia road and Guru Gobind Singh Public School in Camre have made the announcement along with a helpline for the needy to apply. While Tender Heart has announced free admission and education for both class XI and XII, GGSPS in their notice has decided to do so for class XI initially. Gopalnand Pathak, an official of GGSPS, said that it was their way to contribute to the society so that any deserving student doesn’t feel left out. He said, “The last few months of the ongoing covid-19 pandemic has been very difficult for everyone. Unfortunately many children lost their parent/s in this pandemic. Hence, the school management has now decided to go a step further to help these needy aspiring young minds to pursue their dreams and careers.” He added that for any queries one can call at 978154303 and also drop their details for registering for admission on Whatsapp. “We are expecting queries and applications to flood on our helpline soon. After initial scrutiny of the applications, we shall hold counseling to provide admission into class XI. The management has decided to keep admission, and tuition fee free for such cases,” he said, adding that the scheme applies to both their existing students as well as to those who are from different schools. Tender Heart School has released a number (9204060667) for queries and registration for admission. “The management has decided to provide free education for both class XI and XII to such students, who lost either of their parents due to covid-19 and are poor. Hope this step creates a big impact in their pursuit of education,” said an official. Although, there isn’t any verified data available of such children who were orphaned due to covid-19 mortalities in the state but 4760 people have died due to the virus so far since the outbreak of the virus in March last year. Of this, more than 50 percent fatalities have come during the second wave. Considering the vulnerability of trafficking over children amid the pandemic, Jharkhand government too earlier this week directed all the districts to set up child friendly helpline and issued helpline numbers 181, WhatsApp number 8789833434 and mobile number 9955588871 and 8789370474 for tracking and monitoring of such cases to take corrective steps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-45
22-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad residents spar over water pipeline||Two groups from Dhanbad’s Lodna area were engaged in a violent clash over the shifting of the mine water supply pipeline during which more than six people were injured. A team from Lodna police station and Alkakdiha police outpost reached the site led by officer-in-charge of Lodna police station Sushil Singh brought the situation under control and began an investigation. The injured fled the site fearing police action. They are undergoing treatment at local private clinics. The clash broke out at around 11 am when the residents of different localities of Lodna area including Islampur, Chaar number niche dhaura, Chaar Number upar dhauda, Shiv Mandir Muhalla were shifting a 6 inch water mine pit water supply pipeline from one side of the road to another side along with BCCL workers for ensuring uninterrupted water supply in their area. The residents of Masjid Patti locality on the other hand, apprehending that the shifting of the pipeline will obstruct the water supply in their locality, protested against the move which led to a verbal duel and later culminated into a violent clash during which both sides attacked each other. They pelted stones at each other and beat each other with lathi sticks and iron rods. Md Naushad, a resident of Islampur locality said, “A 6 inch diameter water supply pipeline that connects 1 number tank with the tank of our locality has  developed several illegal water connection Masjid patti locality leading to lack of proper water supply.” “We carried out protests on several occasions after which the BCCL administration agreed to shift the pipeline to other location to prevent illegal connection and today the shifting of pipeline was carried out by BCCL during which the residents of Masjid Patti led by one Imtiyaz Khan, Munna Ansari, Naim Ansari etc attack us due to which several persons of our locality were injured,” said Nausha. Refuting the charges, Imtiyaz Ansari of Masjid Patti locality said, “The residents of Islampur and adjoining localities were carrying out illegal shifting of water supply pipeline today which will affect our water supply and when we protested they attacked us.” Officer in Charge of Lodna, Sushil Singh said, “As the issue is related to BCCL we have called the BCCL local officers of Lodna area and the dispute will be resolved through mutual discussion between both under the mediation of police and BCCL officers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-45
22-05-2021||Jharkhand||Sports fraternity raises vaccine awareness in rural areas||At a time when vaccine hesitancy in rural areas remains a concern in Jharkhand’s hinterlands, sportspersons hailing from rural pockets in the state are increasingly turning up at vaccination centres to take Covid-19 jabs to encourage others. Several players are also creating awareness in their localities to motivate villagers in their hamlet for vaccination. International archer and silver medalist in 2018 Asian Games, Madhumita Kumari, who hails from rural Silli block of Ranchi on Friday conducted an awareness drive along with others visiting different localities on foot, after taking her first dose. “Vaccination is the best way to help governments tackle the Covid-19 pandemic. As a player, I want this pandemic to end at the earliest so that we can return back to our game like earlier days. I am sure others too are equally eager and praying for the pandemic to end. Hence, as a responsible citizen, I thought of encouraging others in Silli to take vaccines without fail. We visited different localities to conduct door to door awareness drives,” she said, adding that it was their way to contribute to the state government’s fight against the pandemic. In Simdega, considered the cradle of hockey, over two dozen national and international hockey players took the jabs at different locations in the last few days. Former national hockey player Subhila Minz said that after taking jabs three days back, she managed to successfully convince 20 others too, who received their doses at Karanguri panchayat bhavan in the last two days. The head of Shaheed Veer Narayan Singh Hockey club in Rengartoli in Simdega, Jaynandan Manjhi and his team motivated 10 people of Gond community for vaccination on Friday. Manoj Konbegi, general secretary of Hockey Simdega said that they are regularly conducting awareness drives in different hockey and centres of other sports in the district to sensitise players to take the vaccine at the earliest. “Unlike urban pockets, word of mouth and person to person publicity plays a key role as a medium of mass communication to create awareness. Therefore, the sports fraternity here is ensuring that all their cadets, both present and past players, are fully vaccinated at the earliest possible. This in turn will automatically encourage their families, neighbours among others in their localities and peer groups to take the vaccine. On an average, our players, and coaches are making at least 10-15 people outside the sports fraternity get the vaccines. While the district administration is conducting different modes of awareness drives to thwart misconceptions regarding vaccines, we too are trying to contribute as a team spirit,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-45
22-05-2021||Jharkhand||Foresters to keep vigil at Dalma sanctuary during hunting festival||The forest department will be maintaining a strict vigil across the Dalma wildlife sanctuary, 30 km from Jamshedpur, from Sunday to Monday evening in view of Sendra, the annual hunting festival. The Bishu Shikar or Sendra is scheduled on May 24. Foresters from Jamshedpur, Chaibasa, Seraikela-Kharsawan, Porahat, Kolhan and Saranda will be on duty at the sprawling sanctuary on the earmarked dates. Divisional forest officers, range officers, foresters, forest guards and other personnel will be maintaining strict vigil at the elephant abode. Local village youths will be recruited as daily wagers to keep watch on animals.  Adequate number of vehicles will also be mobilised for swift patrol. Chief Conservator of Forest Vishwanath Shah will also camp at the sanctuary to monitor the security arrangements. “Around 650 forest personnel will be on duty for two days to prevent the killing of animals. We are aware that the DBSS has put-off the festival and will be only performing customary puja on the foothills but we need to be alert nevertheless to foil any attempt from tribals to enter the sanctuary and kill animals,” a Dalma forest official said. Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra said elaborate security arrangements will be made to prevent killing of animals. “We don’t want a single animal to fall prey. We will be on the job from Sunday morning. We scanned a part of the sanctuary today to seize nets,” he added. The Dolma Buru Sendra Samity chief priest Rakesh Hembrom said they will be performing customary puja at Fadlugora village along NH-33 on Sunday in presence of a few people. “We are aware of the ongoing lockdown and have already called off Sendra,” he added. Hembrom, who lives in Gadra on the outskirts of Jamshedpur, has already reached Fadlugora to supervise puja arrangements. “Around 20 tribals from Jamshedpur will also be present during the puja. I have arranged a vehicle to ferry them to Fadlugora. We have also arranged necessary e-passes,” he added, The DBSS chief priest said their tribal brethrens from Jharkhand, Bengal and Odisha have informed about their inability to come to Fadlura because of the lockdown. The foresters have doubts that tribals living in 85-odd villagers dotting the Dalma sanctuary, may attempt to enter the reserve and hunt animals. “You never know when local village tribals will enter the sanctuary and kill animals in the name of tradition. So, we have to be vigilant enough to foil any such attempts. After all, it is our responsibility to protect the animals from getting killed,” a Dalma forester said. Sendra has been cancelled for the second time. The festival could not be celebrated last year due to the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-46
22-05-2021||Jharkhand||Heavy rain alert over Jharkhand for cyclone Yaas on May 25, 26||IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre has issued an alert of heavy rain in Jharkhand due to a cyclonic storm originating from the Bay of Bengal. IMD officials said on Saturday that a low-pressure area has formed over East Central Bay of Bengal on Saturday. It is likely to concentrate into a depression by tomorrow (May 23) morning. The system will move northwestwards and will intensify into a cyclonic storm Yaas (the name, given by Oman, means disappointment)  by May 24. It islikely to develop into a severe cyclonic storm in the next 24 hours. Satellite pictures and weather models suggest that it  would continue to move northwestwards, intensify further and reach North Bay of Bengal near West Bengal, adjoining north Odisha and Bangladesh coasts around May 26. The cyclone is likely to cross West Bengal and adjoining north Odisha and Bangladesh coasts on the evening of May 26. "This will result in isolated heavy rainfall in south eastern parts of Jharkhand on May 25 and again heavy rain on May 26 in north-eastern, central and southern Jharkhand," said Abhishek Anand, head of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. The Ranchi Met Centre also issued an alert of  moderate thunderstorm and gusty winds blowing at speeds of 40 to 50 kmph on May 25 and 26. Officials at IMD-New Delhi said the South-West monsoon entered the eastern parts of the Bay of Bengal on Friday, around the normal date. "This corresponds with the normal time of arrival of the South-West monsoon over the South-East Bay of Bengal and the South Andaman Sea. The eagerly anticipated onset of the monsoon over mainland India along the Kerala coast is expected to happen around May 31 as per our assessment," said a senior IMD official told The Telegraph Online from New Delhi. On Saturday, however, dry weather prevailed in most parts of Jharkhand with partly cloudy sky. In its forecast, IMD's Ranchi centre predicted dry weather in Jharkhand with mainly clear sky for the next two days with rise in maximum temperature by two to three degree Celsius.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-46
22-05-2021||Jharkhand||Govt to focus on testing, tracking, treatment in rural areas: Hemant||Chief minister Hemant Soren on Saturday said that his government will focus on “testing, tracking and treatment” in rural areas of the state to ensure that the second wave of Covid-19 does not regain its strength after a fall in the active caseload owing to strict restrictions and effective treatment measures. The Covid recovery rate in the state, he said, had crossed 90 per cent and the positivity rate in the past couple of days has been around 4 per cent. While the chief minister thanked doctors, caregivers and the people of Jharkhand for the drop in cases, he admitted that Covid-19 was yet to reach its peak. “Although numbers show a fall in cases and the infection rate, we cannot afford to be complacent at this stage as we are still facing the peak of the second wave of Covid-19,” said Hemant. "Even if one person dies of Covid-19 on day in Jharkhand, the government and the health machinery will neither celebrate its success in curtailing the infection nor show any complacency," he said, indicating that the existing lockdown-like restrictions will be in place for a longer period. As per government data, Jharkhand’s doubling rate was 112.09 days against the national average of 91.28 days. The recovery rate in the state was 91.05 per cent against the national average of 87.20 per cent. However, the Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was still 1.45 per cent against the national Covid mortality rate of 1.10 per cent. “We will intensify testing, tracking and treatment in rural areas of the state and also issue SOPs for the third wave of Covid-19 in order to be prepared for any form of crisis,” Hemant said. The chief minister also admitted that many residents of the state were facing difficulty in registering themselves for vaccination and getting slots for jabs against Covid-19. The government, he said, was working on measures to ease the process of vaccination and residents would soon be able to get a hassle-free vaccination experience. Hemant thanked the Indian Army for treating Covid patients in military hospitals in the state and providing the best possible medical facilities to them. A press communique from the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) on Saturday stated that at least 100 Covid patients have recovered from the deadly viral infection after undergoing treatment at the Military Hospital in Namkum. On April 21, Hemant had sought the support of manpower and health facilities of the Indian Army for treatment of civilians suffering from Covid-19 in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-46
22-05-2021||Jharkhand||Delhi bound trains from Odisha cancelled for Yaas||Four Delhi bound trains which run via Bokaro have been cancelled in view of the safety of passengers amid warnings of cyclonic storm Yaas The trains were among the list of other cancelled trains which originate from Bhubaneswar and Puri districts of Odisha. The cancelled trains – Bhubaneswar-New Delhi Rajdhani Special, Purusottam Special, Neelanchal Special and Anandvihar - Bhubaneswar AVNT Special, said a railway officer at Bokaro Railway Station, after the notification issued by East Coast Railway. According to the East Coast Railway, it has been decided to cancel trains on May 23, 24, 25 and 26 due to the cyclonic storm after a warning was issued in the coastal region of Odisha. According to the India Meteorological Department, a low-pressure area is likely to form over North Andaman Sea and East Central Bay of Bengal on 22 May which can turn into a cyclonic storm within 72 hours. After this, the rains will intensify and this will affect the districts of South Bengal as well as Jharkhand. The met department said that the storm may move northwest and will hit the coast of West Bengal-Odisha by the evening of May 26.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-46
22-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid-19: Active caseload drops below 25k||Jharkhand on Friday reported less than 50 Covid fatalities, but the mortality rate in the state remained above the national average, while the active caseload dropped below the 25,000-mark, figures released by the health department highlighted. As per government data, as many as 4,117 Covid patients recovered on the day while 2,151 were found infected. The state, however, reported 46 Covid casualties, which took the Covid toll in Jharkhand to 4,760, a bulletin from the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. The doubling rate of cases in the state also crossed the 100-day mark on Friday. As per NHM data, Jharkhand’s doubling rate was 112.09 days against the national average of 91.28 days. The recovery rate in the state was 91.05 per cent against the national average of 87.20 per cent. However, the Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was still 1.45 per cent against the national Covid mortality rate of 1.10 per cent, revealed government data. Ranchi, the district which reported the highest number of Covid fatalities so far, accounted for 11 of the 46 casualties on Friday. On the other hand, East Singhbhum accounted for 14 deaths and Bokaro reported five. By the end of Friday, the Covid toll in Ranchi stood at 1,480 while that in East Singhbhum reached 958. Two fresh casualties took the Covid toll in Dhanbad to 360, while that in Bokaro was 253. The active caseload dropped to 5,141 in Ranchi as the district reported 257 cases of infection against 329 recoveries in the past 24 hours. East Singhbhum reported 341 cases against 835 recoveries, which brought the active caseload there down to 2,114. As many as 24,499 state residents were battling the viral infection by the end of Friday. The state on Friday tested swab samples of 50,503 residents and less than 5 per cent of them were found infected. So far, the state has tested almost 80 lakh residents for Covid-19 and 3.27 lakh of them were found infected. Meanwhile, Jharkhand administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 45,512 residents and more than 38,266 of them were in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. So far, the state has administered the first dose of vaccine to over 31.1 lakh beneficiaries and around 3.05 lakh of them were in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. The second jab was administered to 2,109 beneficiaries on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-46
22-05-2021||Jharkhand||Elgaar Parishad case: Father Stan Swamy refuses hospitalisation||Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist Father Stan Swamy, an undertrial in the Bhima-Koregaon-Elgar Parishad case, pleaded with Bombay High Court on Friday to grant him interim bail to go back to his home in Namkum near Ranchi. The 84-year-old, during an interaction with the court’s division bench led by Justice S.J. Kathawalla via videoconference, said he would rather die in jail than get admitted to a hospital in Mumbai. “No I would not want to. I have been there thrice. I know the set-up. I don’t want to be hospitalised there. I would rather suffer, possibility die very shortly if this were to go on. I would prefer this, than be admitted at the JJ Hospital. It is a very difficult moment for me. One thing that I would request the judiciary is to consider for interim bail. That is the only request,” Fr Stan said after Justice Kathawalla asked if he was willing to get admitted to the JJ Hospital for a few days till his general health improved. When Fr Stan’s lawyer Mihir Desai informed the court that the priest might be apprehensive of JJ Hospital as he had seen the set-up there, the court enquired whether he would be willing to get admitted to any other hospital. Fr Stan, however, said he did not want to get admitted to any other hospital. The high court bench had earlier directed the Taloja jail authorities to take Fr Stan to JJ Hospital for a check-up. Fr Stan told the court that when he was brought to Taloja jail eight months ago, he came with a functional body but his health had steadily deteriorated since then. “When I came to Taloja, the whole system of my body was very functional, but during these eight months there has been a steady but slow regression of my body functions. Eight months ago, I would eat by myself, do some writing, walk, but all these are disappearing one after another… I can neither write nor go for a walk by myself. Someone has to feed me… I am requesting you to consider why and how this deterioration happened. Yesterday (Thursday), I was taken to JJ Hospital… but I had no opportunity to explain what I should be given. There are some medicines which the jail authorities gave me, but my deterioration is more powerful than the tablets they are giving me,” he said. Desai said keeping Fr Stan in Taloja jail was not a solution as the prison lacked facilities. “They do not even have MBBS doctors,” he added. Desai asked the court to grant him some time before taking a decision on proceeding with the hearing on interim bail. The court in its order noted: “We have also spoken to Mr Swamy and we have observed that he has severe hearing problem. He is unable to hear even the person sitting next to him... We post the matter for hearing on June 7. Till then, Taloja jail is directed to strictly follow the recommendations of the JJ Hospital committee as well as the facilities mentioned.” Desai told The Telegraph over phone: “I will try to clear any confusion and persuade Fr Stan about the need for hospital admission before pressing for interim bail.” The bench was hearing a plea by Desai against the special NIA court’s decision in October last year to reject an interim bail plea for Fr Stan on medical grounds. Earlier in May, Desai was granted permission by a high court bench led by Justice S.S. Shinde to move the vacation bench, seeking a hearing on Fr Stan’s bail plea. On May 17, Desai submitted a note in the high court stating his client’s poor health and detailing the lack of medical aid at the Taloja prison, the impossibility of social distancing (required during Covid-19) in the overcrowded jail and his deteriorating condition. Fr STan was arrested by the NIA on October 8, 2020, from his Namkum residence in connection with the Bhima-Koregaon-Elgar Parishad case and charged under various sections of the IPC and offences under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for allegedly furthering the cause of the banned CPI (Maoist). Fr Stan is facing charges along with 15 other human rights activists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-46
