23-05-2021||Jharkhand||Before the storm, a sweaty and uneasy calm||Several districts of Jharkhand suffered a dreadfully muggy Sunday because of high humidity caused by heavy moisture in the atmosphere. The sultry weather upped the discomfort index and the bad news is that weathermen warned of another 24-hours of torment . "The weather will continue to be humid for the next  24-hours due to moisture laden easterly winds coming from the Bay of Bengal where a cyclone formation is taking place ," said an officer on duty at IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre. The discomfort index,   which is measured on the basis of temperature, wind and relative humidity, was 64 in Ranchi on Sunday, nine notches above normal, while in Jamshedpur it was 68, 13 points above the normal. In places like Ramgarh, Dhanbad, Bokaro, Deoghar, Daltonganj,  Giridih and Chatra, the index  hovered around 63  on Sunday , eight notches above normal. Hazaribagh, Koderma, Godda and  Pakur recorded a discomfort index of  66 degrees, eleven points above normal. The average discomfort index of the state was as high as 64 degrees, nine degrees above normal. The day's temperature in places like Daltonganj, Jamshedpur , Bokaro and  several  other places in southern Jharkhand was hovering between 36-37 degree Celsius on Sunday  while capital recorded around 34 degree Celsius. Met data suggested that not a single IMD observatory recorded  rain during the past 24 hours while Sahebganj located in the north-eastern part of Jharkhand recorded the highest maximum reading of 37 degree Celsius. Cyclone Yaas update The low-pressure area over the  Bay of Bengal converted into a depression on Sunday . It is very likely to move  northwestwards and  intensify into a cyclonic storm (Yaas) on  May  24 and further into a very severe cyclonic storm during the subsequent 24 hours. It would continue to move northwestwards and intensify further and reach north Bay of Bengal near West Bengal and adjoining north Odisha and Bangladesh coasts on the morning of  May 26. In the wake of the cyclone, IMD's Ranchi Met Centre issued an alert of heavy to very heavy rain in isolated areas, especially in southern, central and north eastern Jharkhand, between May 25 and 27.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-44
23-05-2021||Jharkhand||Railways steps up preparations for Cyclone Yaas||The South Eastern Railway is gearing up with safety measures, concerned over cyclone Yaas, likely to hit West Bengal and Odisha coast on Wednesday. Railway officials at Garden Reach, the headquarters of South Eastern Railway said a close watch is being kept at railway bridges, tracks, yards, signalling system and other vital installations. "Diesel generator sets, diesel drive pump, earth moving equipment etc. have been kept ready to tackle emergency situations," said Sanjay Ghosh, chief public relations officer of SER adding that close coordination is being maintained with state governments of Bengal, Odisha and Jharkhand and that they are also in constant touch with India Meteorological Department and getting weather alerts on hourly basis. Apart from cancellation of several trains in the SER zone patrolling will be carried out at vulnerable locations from Monday. Tree cutting and road clearing teams have been kept on alert at critical locations while the control room and disaster management cell of SER will become active from Sunday night. Hot lines have been established between SER headquarters and the disaster management cell. Vidya Bhushan, general manager, South Eastern Railway has reviewed the preparedness with all the Divisional Railway Managers and principal head of the departments and directed the officials to be on full alert to meet any emergencies. SER has also taken adequate steps by positioning special teams for early restoration of tracks, signaling system and electrification etc. Diesel locomotives have been kept ready at various places under its jurisdiction for utilisation during failure of electricity. As red alert has been sounded in coastal areas, SER is keeping a watchful eye at all the stations in Howrah – Kharagpur-Tatanagar and Panskura-Haldia-Digha and other sections too. The CPRO said instructions have been issued that whenever there is heavy rain, the sectional trackmen will organise patrolling of track on their own to ensure that the track is safe for the passage of trains and ensure protection at all locations where washouts are likely to occur. Arrangements have been made to stock sufficient quantities of track and bridge repair reserve materials like boulders, sand, quarry dust and ballast at identified locations. In the wake of IMD's forecast of the cyclone, trains towards southern India and east coast either originating or terminating have already been suspended and notified.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-44
23-05-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city hospital sets up facility for black fungus cases ||The MGM Medical College Hospital administration has set up a ward for the treatment of mucormycosis or black fungus cases, gradually rising in the East Singhbhum district. Though no cases have come to the MGM Medical College Hospital, the authority has set up a 10-bed ward at the hospital. Nodal officer of MGM Medical College Hospital, Nakul Prashad Chaudhury, said the ward has been set up at the ophthalmology department. "We had a 30-bed ward in the ophthalmology department. Presently, no surgery is being carried out. Keeping the requirements of growing mucormycosis in the district in view, we have set up a separate 10-bed ward for this fatal disease, "said Chaudhury to The Telegraph Online. The nodal officer who is also deputy superintendent of the hospital said that the hospital has adequate stock of Emphoterecin - B, the drug required for the treatment of the black fungus. "Moreover, the state government has plenty of Emphoterecin -B stocks beside other drugs required for the treatment of Covid. We get the supply of these drugs from Ranchi at very short notice," he said. Chaudhury said the hospital will primarily cater to people hailing from rural areas who cannot afford treatment at private facilities. Black fungus is detected in patients during post-Covid treatment. Those who have uncontrolled diabetes among other grievous ailments, and administered excessive steroids during the treatment are prone to mucormycosis. At the Tata Main Hospital, three persons suffering from the mucormycosis have died so far. Presently, four patients suffering from black fungus are undergoing treatment at the Tata Main Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-44
23-05-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant urges Centre not to rush Class 12 exams amid Covid risk||Chief Minister Hemant Soren has urged the Union HRD ministry and the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to take a call on the conduct of Class 12 board examination only after extensive consultations with all stakeholders and a realistic assessment of the ground situation viz-a-viz Covid cases. Hemant, who was speaking at a virtual meeting organised by the ministry, along with CBSE, said he would also send a detailed letter to the Centre on feedback he was collating from students, parents and teachers of Jharkhand. “I believe that exams are an important yardstick to decide the future of our students in their larger interest. But I am firmly of the belief that safety and wellbeing of our young brains is also important. I appreciate the options devised by the Union government for conduct of the exams but we must meet again at a later date with a realistic picture of the ground reality before zeroing on specific dates,” he said. Among those who attended Sunday's meeting were Union ninisters Rajnath Singh (defence), Ramesh Pokhriyal (education), Smriti irani (women and child development) and education ministers from states and board officials. Appreciating his concern, Singh asked Hemant to send his letter of suggestions and expectations within two days for the Centre to dwell on them. He also asked other states to do the same in case they had specifics to communicate. At the meeting, CBSE suggested two options. Under the first one, the board proposed to conduct the examination only for major subjects at designated examinations centres. It proposed a date around July 15. In the second option, the board proposed conducting the examination in 45 days in two phases from the first week of August. Instead of three hours, the papers will be of 90 minutes and students could sit for the major subjects in their own schools. The examinations are proposed to be held on OMR sheets for quick evaluation. In his presentation, Hemant said that while the spread of the virus had to some extent halted in urban areas, his government’s focus was now on villages.“We must consider multifarious aspects before taking a call. To begin with, a realistic picture of the impact of Covid-19 must be ascertained. During this second wave, many students were orphaned. Some were infected themselves. We must take into account the mental condition of students and their families before deciding on exams,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-44
23-05-2021||Jharkhand||Hospitality sector deadlock worsens with lockdown extension||The crisis that gripped the hospitality sector since the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in March last year has further deepened with the second wave with almost negligible footfall at most places. Majority of over 300 hotels and lodges of Dhanbad have had almost zero occupancy of rooms for over a month, while others have temporarily closed operations due to overhead expenses. The oldest three star hotel of the district, Skylark situated at Bank More has already closed operations four days ago. The deputy commissioner Uma Shankar and all relevant offices and departments including, Dhanbad Municipal Corporation, Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited, Goods and Services Tax, labour department were informed of the hotel’s decision recently. Sonotel Hotel, a four star hotel, has stopped taking bookings during the lockdown period and is carrying out maintenance work in the hotel. The hotel’s restaurant is still carrying out delivery services. The other small hotels, lodges situated near the railway station of Dhanbad besides, Jharia main road, Maithon, Chirkunda are also lying vacant and not taking the occasional one or two booking requests for safety of their staff members. Anutosh Bagchi, Senior General Manager of Skylark said, “With no corporate guests due to lockdown in different states including our’s, and no permission for dining  in restaurants we have closed down operations temporarily due to huge overhead expenses involved in operation of vacant hotels.” “We will review the situation and take appropriate decisions if there is any improvement to reopen the hotel,” said Bagchi. Echoing his sentiments, Arka Ghosh, General Manager of Sonotel Hotel, “Due to aggravated Covid situation and resultant lack of guests we have also stopped taking one or two booking offers and rather decided to carry out the complete maintenance of the hotel.” “Although, online delivery of food from our restaurant is going on and it is getting a comparatively better response from last year’s lockdown,” said Ghosh. Sandeep Narang, owner of Hotel 17 degree at Bank More said, “Though we have not closed down the hotel completely, occupancy rate is as low as one room per day out of 30 rooms or ours since a month and further extension of lockdown will cause grievous damage to us.” “Prolonged lockdown besides causing financial loss also leads to wastage of materials in restaurants and bars as we have lost huge quantity of liquor and beer during the last year due as they have short expiry time and this year if the lockdown is extended we are apprehending a similar loss,” Narang said. Amit Sahu, President of Jharia Chamber of Commerce who is also owner of Sahu lodge in Jharia said, “All 25 lodge and hotels in Jharia are lying closed ever since the announcement of lockdown as we are taking the precautions about the safety of our own staff, although the fact remains that we are facing very difficult time due to no business.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-45
23-05-2021||Jharkhand||Police officer in doctor gear for Covid check||Koderma superintendent of police Ehtesham Waquarib is not only ensuring proper law and order during the fourth phase of the state-wide lockdown but also visiting Covid care centres to meet patients and boost their confidence. Waquarib, with an MBBS and MD degree, is also prescribing medicines and keeping a check on the treatment of patients. An alumnus at Aligarh medical college, Waqaurib was seen visiting remote areas of Koderma’s health camps. One of the patients who met the superintendent said he was surprised see a police officer with a stethoscope and checking up on patients. “At first I got confused but soon came to know that he was the top cop of our district,” said the patient. He said Waquarib’s encouragement made him happy and gave him strength to fight the infection. “I have always seen doctors in white aprons but for the first time found a doctor in a police uniform,” said another patient. Waquarib checked the patient’s oxygen level and instructed health workers on how to give better treatment. He asked attendants to remain alert and follow all protocols to remain safe from the infection. Waqaurib said health workers including doctors are giving their best at a difficult time. He said his visit was required to motivate patients. “I will visit here again and continue providing medical guidance to patients,” he said, adding that it brings him satisfaction in helping them. Waquarib had tested positive for Covid-19 on April 17 despite being vaccinated. On May 10, he announced that he tested negative and resumed his duties. He started visiting Covid patients at wards while dispensing his duties as an officer of the law.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-45
23-05-2021||Jharkhand||Third wave may impact 7 lakh children in Jharkhand||It is feared that the third wave of Covid-19 may infect around 7 lakh children and adolescents in Jharkhand and at least 9,000 of them may need intensive care, while about 42,000 may show moderate symptoms, state health secretary Arun Kumar Singh said on Sunday while addressing Jharkhand’s first national level webinar on the pandemic. “We may require around 50,000 beds with oxygen support for children,” said Singh, adding that the state had only 125 child specialists and would need to train other doctors for dealing with cases of infection among children in the third wave. Jharkhand is the first state to have held a webinar to seek guidance from experts and doctors in tackling a possible third wave of Covid-19. The webinar, which also discussed ways to improve the state’s health infrasturcure, was attended by Chief Minister Hemant Soren, Health Minister Banna Gupta, World Health Organisation (WHO) representatives and senior doctors from the top medical facilities in India. Addressing doctors via video conferencing, the chief minister admitted that Jharkhand was lagging behind in terms of health infrastructure in the rural areas and was also dealing with rumours related to Covid-19 and vaccines among the rural population. “We expect this webinar to give us a clearer picture on the situation, so we can prepare accordingly for the third wave. Cases have come down in the state after the enforcement of restrictions, but the mortality rate still remains a concern,” said Hemant. He also expressed concern over the high number of anaemic children in Jharkhand and asked doctors whether Covid-19 could show severe symptoms in anaemic children. “About 43 per cent of children in Jharkhand are anaemic. This is a concern for us amid the fear of the third wave affecting children,” he said. Dr Ashok Deorari, the head of pediatrics at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) New Delhi, said there was no research-based evidence on Covid-19 affecting anaemic children in a more severe way. He, however, admitted that nutrition was an important part of building immunity in children as well as adults. He also said that deaths occurred mostly in children with comorbidities. As per government data, around 1.43 crore of Jharkhand’s population fall in the age bracket of 0 to 18 years. It is feared that about 5 per cent of this population may get infected by Coronavirus in the third wave. The state has already started setting up a 100-bed ICU for children at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi, said health minister Banna Gupta. He admitted that the use of steroids in treating Covid-19 was now leading to cases of black fungus and white fungus. “The quality of water used in liquid medical oxygen also may lead to other infections in patients. We need to ensure that only distilled water is used in oxygen cylinders,” said Gupta. Dr Roderico Ofrin, the WHO representative in India, suggested that the government focus on increasing the testing capacity and pace up vaccinations in a bid to check the impact of future waves of Covid-19. Dr Ofrin also asked the state to follow the three Ws – wash your hands, wear a mask, watch for social distance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-45
23-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: State reports less than 50 deaths for second straight day||Jharkhand reported less than 50 Covid casualties for the second consecutive day on Saturday, while the active caseload dropped close to 22,000 as the state reported around twice as many Covid recoveries as fresh cases of infection in the past 24 hours, figures released by the health department highlighted. A bulletin from the National Health Mission (NHM) stated that as many as 3,929 Covid patients recovered from the viral infection on the day, while at least 2,037 people were found infected in Jharkhand. The active caseload in the state dropped to 22,566 after the day’s findings. Jharkhand on Saturday reported 41 Covid casualties and at least nine of them occurred in Ranchi, taking the toll in the state to 4,801 and that in Ranchi to 1,489, the bulletin further stated. Ranchi reported 210 cases against 301 recoveries on Saturday, which brought the active caseload here down to 5,039. On the other hand, East Singhbhum accounted for 391 of the 2000-odd fresh cases of infection and 596 of the close to 4,000 recoveries on the day. The active caseload in East Singhbhum stood at 1,895. The district also reported seven deaths on the day which took the toll there to 965. Among other districts, Bokaro reported 162 cases against 233 recoveries, while Dhanbad reported 127 cases against 375 recoveries. At least 160 people were found infected by Coronavirus in Palamu and 156 patients recovered there. In Hazaribag, 107 people were found infected and 463 patients recovered from 10 pm on Friday to 10 pm on Saturday. The state on Saturday tested swab samples of 58,347 residents and around 5 per cent of them were found infected. So far, more than 3.29 lakh Jharkhand residents have been infected by the lethal virus and 91.68 per cent of them have recovered, highlights government data. As per NHM data, the growth rate of cases in the state dropped to 0.60 per cent on Saturday against the national average of 0.74 per cent, while the doubling rate of cases in the state reached 115.21 days against the national doubling rate of 93.96 days. The Covid mortality rate in the state, however, stood at 1.45 per cent which was higher than the national average of 1.10 per cent. The state also administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 36,282 residents, including 28,541 in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years, a separate report from the NHM stated. The second jab was administered to only 1,961 residents, mostly above the age of 45 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-45
23-05-2021||Jharkhand||Chhattisgarh govt continues support for farmers amid second wave of Covid||The Chhattisgarh government has continued its support for farmers amid the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic by releasing financial grants which will aid them in cultivation in these trying times. Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Friday transferred the first instalment of Rs 1,500 crore as input subsidy to 22 lakh farmers for the 2020-21 kharif season under the state government’s Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana. The chief minister also transferred Rs 7.17 crore directly to the accounts of villagers and cattle-rearers as payment for cow dung procured from March 15 to May 15 this year under the multi-pronged Godhan Nyay Yojana of the state government. Besides this, Baghel also transferred Rs 3.6 crore to gauthan samitis and women self-help groups. Under the Godhan Nyaya Yojana, which was launched on July 20, 2020, on the occasion of Hareli Parva, a local festival, a total of Rs 88.15 crore has been paid so far to the state’s cattle farmers and villagers to buy cow dung which is converted to vermicompost and fertilisers. Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi sent their congratulatory messages for the disbursal function held to mark the death anniversary of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. Sonia said that while the central government has been implementing anti-farmer policies, the Congress government in Chhattisgarh is working for the interest of peasants. “The Chhattisgarh government is constantly working to strengthen the economic condition of farmers and bring prosperity in their lives. Rajiv Gandhi always kept the common people in his mind and the Chhattisgarh government has taken positive steps and paid a true tribute to Rajiv Gandhi,” Sonia said in a message. “Chhattisgarh government is doing an excellent work and transfer of input subsidy in the bank accounts of farmers during the current tough time indicates the Baghel government’s commitment towards fulfilling the promises made at the time of elections. At a time, when the Centre is continuing with the Central Vista project (the revamp of the central administrative area in New Delhi), the Chhattisgarh government has halted all major construction projects in the state and utilised the money for helping farmers,” Rahul said in a message. The Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana was launched by the Chhattisgarh government on May 21 last year to mark the former Prime Minister’s death anniversary with an aim to encourage crop productivity in the state. Under this scheme, the state government has transferred Rs 5,628 crore to the bank accounts of about 19 lakh farmers (registered in the kharif season of 2019-20) in four instalments as agricultural input subsidy. Baghel also took several important decisions in the interest of farmers at a meeting held on May 19. The input subsidy on the paddy procured from farmers in the kharif season of 2020-21 will be at the rate of Rs 9,000 per acre. The state government has also decided to provide input subsidy of Rs 10,000 per acre instead of Rs 9,000 per acre to the farmers who have sold paddy at minimum support price in 2020-21, if they are cultivating kodo kutki (millets), sugarcane, pigeon pea, maize, soyabean, pulses, oilseeds, aromatic paddy, fortified paddy or plant trees in their paddy fields. Farmers utilising their paddy fields for plantation will be provided this grant for three years. The state government has taken another important decision to provide input subsidy at the rate of Rs 9,000 per acre per year to the producers of all major kharif crops such as maize, soyabean, sugarcane, kodo kutki and arhar, along with paddy, from the kharif season of 2021-22. The state government has also fixed the minimum support price of kodo kutki at Rs 3,000 per quintal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-45
23-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand govt takes steps to mitigate lockdown effect||Jharkhand chief secretary Sukhdev Singh has directed officials to ensure that work under various government schemes are not hampered due to lack of funds and that allotment should be made immediately for their timely completion. Reminding that the whole of the past financial year (2020-21) was spent in managing the Covid-19 pandemic, which is still continuing, Singh advised all the additional chief secretaries, principal secretaries and secretaries to review the position of the state government schemes and take steps accordingly. “The impact of lockdown on livelihood and employment can be mitigated to a great extent by enhancing government spending,” Singh said in a note to the officials on Friday. He advised them to chalk out a plan on how to spend the plan budget allocation wisely during the current fiscal. “Ensure timely payment of wages to MGNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act) workers,” he further said, adding that they should also ensure that sufficient work sites are available for persons seeking employment under the national rural job scheme. Approval for sanction may be obtained from the competent authority in case of new schemes where detailed project reports (DPRs) were already approved, he said, adding that the preparation of DPR and identification of land may be initiated in other cases. Money should be transferred without further delay to the beneficiaries of pension and scholarship schemes through direct bank transfer to their accounts, the chief secretary said. “Timely availability of credit, seeds and fertilisers to the farmers must be ensured for the forthcoming kharif season,” Singh said. Timely allocation and lifting of food grains for public distribution system may also be ensured so that “the poor rural people who are facing the onslaught of Covid-19 may not face starvation”, the chief secretary added. Though schools and ICDS (Integrated Child Development Services) centres are closed, the state government had initiated certain processes for ensuring availability of mid-day meal to eligible beneficiaries which should be implemented, he further said. Availability of drinking water should also be ensured in both the urban and rural areas, he added. The chief secretary also asked his colleagues to send proposals to the Union government for releasing the first instalment of the centrally sponsored schemes that would be running in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-45
