24-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad ramps up preparations ahead of Cyclone Yaas||The Dhanbad district administration has initiated emergency steps to prevent any disruption in Covid treatment across the district during Cyclone Yaas. Deputy Commisioner Uma Shankar Singh on Monday instructed authorities to ensure there is no disruption in supply of oxygen cylinders or medicines because of electricity or water supply disturbances and road blockades. Singh held a virtual meeting with all the officials including , Satyendra Kumar, municipal commissioner, Dileep Kumar, Managing Director of Mineral Area Development Authority (MADA) and Mahesh Kumar , Executive Engineering of Drinking Water and Sanitation department and asked them to remain alert and constitute quick response teams to reach badly hit areas to restore the supply of water, electricity besides clearing  roads in case of possible uprooting of trees, water logging. Municipal commissioner Satyendra Kumar said, “We have kept heavy earth movers, suction machines and recovery vehicles ready to reach different places and also carried out any prior inspection of the possible sites of water logging so that these machines can be rushed there.” The deputy commissioner also instructed the magistrate and block development officers of all ten blocks including Dhanbad, Nirsa, Egarkund, Kalisol, Tundi, Purbi Tundi, Topchanchi, Govindpur, Baliapur and Baghmara to remain on alert mode. There is a high rain alert across Dhanbad on May 26 and 27 during the course of Cyclone Yaas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-43
24-05-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant warns of vaccine crisis, hints at extending lockdown||Jharkhand will have to stop immunising those between 18-44 years in two-three days as vaccine stocks are running out, chief minister Hemant Soren suggested on Monday. Speaking at an online meeting with cabinet ministers on the Covid-19 situation, Hemant said the vaccination campaign was being hampered because of erratic supplies. “Only because of the Union government, we are now struggling to vaccinate our people," he said. "In the 18-plus category, for which the state government is bearing costs, we only have doses available for a maximum two to three days. Similarly, in the 45-plus age group, for which doses are coming from the Centre, we have vaccines left only for 7-10 days. If we don’t get stocks, it will be difficult to sustain the vaccination drive amid the raging pandemic,” he said. As state per health department data, of the 1.57 crore people in the 18-plus category, 3.70 lakh had been administered  vaccines so far. Similarly, among the target of 83.86 lakh in the 45-plus age group, 32.53 lakh had got the first dose and 3.50 lakh the second. The state government had placed orders of 50 lakh vials each of Covishield and Covaxin with the mafucaturers earlier this month. But only a part of that order had reached the state, said the chief minister. "We require about four crore vials to vaccinate our population but we have got only 40 lakh till date. We are now exploring options to directly import from other countries,” he said. Rural Covid task force At another programme, Hemant announced the formation of a dedicated task force to help manange the Covid-19 outbreak in rural areas. Under the programme, titled "Gramin Surakshan evm Survekshan (Village Safety and Survey)", two separate teams will be set up at panchayat levels. One team will undertake door-to-door health surveys to identify suspected Covid cases, while the other will conduct rapid tests on them. The teams will start working in over 4,000 panchayats from Tuesday. “Our entire focus has now shifted to rural areas. In the last one month, we have trained grassroots f frontline workers like sahiyas, ANMs, anganwadi workers, mukhiyas, etc, who will be part of these teams,” Hemant said, adding that panchayat- level Covid care centres were also being set up, in addition to making ambulances available. Another week of lockdown The state government is likely to extend the current lockdown by another week with most cabinet ministers favouring such a decision. Hemant said a formal announcement would be made after evaluating all ground realities, but added that the lockdown had helped to curb the spread of Covid-19. “Cases have drastically fallen compared to April 22 when we first announced the health safety week and went on to extend thrice. But the mortality rate is still at 2.5% which is a concern. Going by figures, we are higher than states like UP in terms of deaths, but we know that unlike data manipulation by others, we are not doing so. In terms of the recovery rate, we are among the best states in the country,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-43
24-05-2021||Jharkhand||Twin road accidents claim two lives in Jamshedpur||A 40-year-old woman and a 24-year-old man were killed in two separate road accidents in the steel city on Monday early morning. The first accident took place at around 1 am when Birju Lohar was returning home along with his relatve Vishwajit Lohar on a bike from Badbil village in Kharsawan. A speeding dumper coming from the opposite direction hit the bike killing Birju on the spot and seriously injuring Vishwajit. Seraikela sub-divisional police officer Rakesh Ranjan said soon after the fatal mishap, villagers from the neighbouring villages gathered at the spot and set up a blockade, protesting against reckless driving by trucks and dumpers at night. "By the time family members of the victims also joined the blockade demanding compensation, we convinced the protesters to withdraw their protest and succeeded in clearing the blockade by paying Rs 10,000 to the bereaved family at around 2.30 am, " said Ranjan to The Telegraph Online. In the second incident that occurred around 6am, a 40-year-old allegedly unstable woman was run over by a loaded dumper near an eatery near Sidheswar Pahad on Jamshedpur-Jadugora road about 25 kms away from the city. The driver had parked the loaded vehicle near the eatery where he had gone to eat breakfast. According to the OC of Jadugora thana, Sunil Kumar Kushbaha, “While the driver was at the eatery, the woman came from somewhere and lay in front of the front wheel of the loaded dumper.” "Soon afterwards, the driver returned and got into it and set the heavy vehicle in motion but stopped the vehicle only after hearing a scream. He got down immediately but it was too late. The woman was already killed," said the OC to The Telegraph Online. Kushbaha said the dumper driver abandoned the vehicle and fled after seeing the woman dead. The police have seized both the body and the dumper and registered a case of reckless driving against the driver.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-43
24-05-2021||Jharkhand||Tribals observe Sendra without harming animals||Sendra, the annual tribal hunting festival, passed off peacefully sans any casualty of animals at Dalma wildlife sanctuary on Monday. The forest department had made elaborate security arrangements to prevent the entry of tribals into the elephant abode. Though a few did manage to slip into the sanctuary, the foresters convinced them not to hunt animals and leave the area. Dalma divisional forest officer Abhishek Kumar confirmed that no animals were killed and the festival was observed in a symbolic manner. "We had tightened the security apparatus across the sanctuary," he added. According to him, they had held a series of meetings at the surrounding villages before Sendra to create awareness and importance of wildlife and forest conservation. An appeal was also made to Dolma Buru Sendra Samity chief priest Rakesh Hembrom to refrain from ritual hunting and undertake only prayers. "We operated in close coordination with the district and police administration. Correspondence with DC, SSP, Commissioner and DIG was also made. A control room was also established as per directives of Principal Chief Conservator of Forest. A recce was done by field staff and foresters on Sunday along sensitive zones and drains and streams for finding nets and and traps. However, no such items were found," Kumar informed. The DFO said they ensured no animals were killed by keeping the sentiments of tribals in mind. "Besides the pandemic, we were also alert over the presence of elephants inside the sanctuary which called for additional precautions, he said, adding patrolling was conducted from Sunday morning till late Monday afternoon.” DBSS chief priest Rakesh Hembrom said they had pledged to not kill innocent animals. "We performed customary puja at Fadlugora village. We had also asked our tribal brethrens to not kill animals and also follow Covid guidelines," he added. Around 650 personnel from forest divisions of Jamshedpur, Chaibasa, Seraikela-Kharsawan, Porahat, Kolhan and Saranda maintained strict vigil across the sprawling 192 sq km sanctuary. Drones were also pressed into service to keep vigil.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-43
24-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand put on red alert for Yaas, southern districs likely to bear brunt ||Ranchi Meteorological Centre has issued a high alert in view of the approaching tropical cyclone, Yaas, warning residents of extremely heavy rainfall in southern Jharkhand comprising the three Kolhan districts of East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Seraikela- Kharsawan on Wednesday and Thursday. The forecast for Wednesday, May 26, also suggested moderate thunderstorm, lightning and gusty winds with speeds of 40kmph to 60 kmph in the day and 110kmph-120 kmph towards the evening in southern Jharkhand. The rest of the state is expected to experience thunderstorms accompanied by gusty winds at speeds of 40kmph to 60 kmph in some places. While isolated heavy (65mm to 115mm) to very heavy (115mm to 204mm) rainfall is predicted in north and central Jharkhand, extremely heavy rainfall (over 205mm in 24 hours) is apprehnded in southern Jharkhand. On May 27, in addition to the extremely heavy rainfall in southern Jharkhand, the Met office also predicted moderate thunderstorm, lightning and gusty winds (speed 50-60kmph)  at isolated places over central and parts of north Jharkhand. Isolated heavy rainfall was also likely in north-western and central parts of the state on May 27. Satellite pictures and weather models indicated that cyclonic storm Yaas, over east-central Bay of Bengal on Monday, moved northwestwards and lay centred over east-central Bay of Bengal, about 620km north-northwest of Port Blair (Andaman Islands), 530km southeast of Paradip (Odisha), 630 km southeast of Balasore (Odisha) and 620km southeast of Digha (West Bengal). It is very likely to move northwestwards and further intensify into a severe cyclonic storm and subsequently into a very severe cyclonic storm. It will continue to move northwestwards and reach northwest Bay of Bengal near north Odisha and West Bengal coasts by the morning of May  26. It is very likely to cross north Odisha-West Bengal coasts between Paradip and Sagar islands around noon of May 26 as a very severe cyclonic storm. Head of Ranchi Met Centre Abhishek Anand said said the impact of the cyclonic storm would be felt in Jharkhand from Tuesday. "Thunderstorm, lightning and gusty winds blowing at a speeds of 40kmph-50kmph are likely to be witnessed at isolated places over Jharkhand on Tuesday. There is also a possibility of heavy rainfall in south-eastern parts of the state due to the impact of the approaching cyclone, "  he said. Kolhan sets up storm shelters The Kolhan administration has also sounded a red alert in all three districts over the approaching cyclone. Special officers of various local civic bodies held a meeting here on Monday evening and decided to make use over 200 buildings as temporary shelters. "People staying in thatched houses and in low lying areas would be evacuated and moved to the temporary shelters. We are taking all necessary measures to cope with the situation," said Deeepak Sahay, special officer of Mango Notified Area Committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-43
24-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad shows downward trend in Covid cases||The Covid graph of Dhanbad started showing a downward trend as a total of 772 people have recovered in the last two days on May 22 and May 23. The highest number of recoveries in the district was registered on Sunday when 397 patients were released from 30 different Covid treatment facilities breaking the Saturday record of 375. On May 21, 198 persons were discharged, 109 on May 20, 136 on May 19, 144 on May 18 and 88 on May 17. The district also registered the lowest number of new cases on Sunday with 93 against 127 cases on May 22, 121 cases on May 21, 193 on May 20, 109 on May 19, 241 on May 18 and 151 on May 17. The cumulative active cases in the district as on Sunday has also decreased to 1115 compared with 1419 of May 22. Dhanbad has registered a total of 15341 Covid cases since the first wave last year with 13845 recoveries and 63 deaths. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner said, “The recovery of 397 persons on a single day gives a pleasant experience.” He further said that a combination of factors, including quality treatment of patients in hospitals, nutritious food offered to them and medical consultation of senior doctors through telemedicine services are helping in the large number of recoveries. Dr Rajkumar Singh, nodal officer of Integrated disease surveillance programme (IDSP) cell of Dhanbad said, “Gradually the Covid situation has started showing improvement and we are working to make the district Covid free at the earliest.” At present, Covid treatment is being carried out at 30 hospitals of the district including 21 private and nine government-owned with a cumulative bed capacity of around 1500 including 272 ICU beds. The district administration has also started preparation for an anticipated third wave, developing a 30 bed paediatric ICU at Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and 150 ICU beds at the same place. The PICU development is being carried as per the recommendation of committee of Paediatricians, headed by assistant professor of Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital Dr Avinash Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-43
24-05-2021||Jharkhand||Idol makers stare at losses for second consecutive year of lockdown curbs||Dhanbad sculptors who were enthusiastic to begin preparations for making idols for this Durga Puja are increasingly becoming sceptical with the second wave of the Covid pandemic. Having suffered huge losses during last year’s lockdown, the sculptors had procured huge quantities of raw material since the situation showed signs of improvement in January and February. Some idols that have been completed are lying at the workshop of a couple of famous sculptors while others are in different stages of preparation. Work is suspended since most artisans have returned to Bengal and the procurement of essential articles required for completion has become difficult with the lockdown in both states. “We at our workshop at Luby Circular Road make 50-60 idols every year during Durga Puja and keep 13 artists of Krishna Nagar in Bengal on our regular salary and started preparations for Durga Puja in January itself,” said Abhishek Paul, son of famous artist Dulal Paul, to The Telegraph Online. “Twenty of our idols are in almost ready condition while the main raw material required for other over 30 pieces are also lying with us,” said Paul and added that work is suspended due to lack of both artists and other materials. “The Bengal artists working with us have left for their respective places since the beginning of lockdown and even as they are willing to come they could not come due to suspension of almost all regular trains running between Dhanbad and Howrah,” said Paul. “We are also in a dilemma over calling them again with the possibility of a third wave affecting the puja this year in case of non sale due to a possibility of a  third wave during Durga Puja and as a result we will have to suffer huge losses,” said Paul. Coal town painter and sculptor Swapan Paul said, “We have also procured raw materials and began some framework in April for around 17 idols, but as soon as we began work the lockdown was imposed and all our artists have returned to Bengal.” “If the situation remains the same as that of last year we will have to face difficulty even to manage the basic necessity for our life,” said the sculptor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-43
24-05-2021||Jharkhand||RIMS told to set up expert panel on black fungus ||Jharkhand government has asked Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi to constitute a technical expert group comprising doctors from different areas of expertise in order to tackle growing cases of mucormycosis in the state and also function as the nodal centre for treatment of the fungal infection. In a letter addressed to RIMS Director Dr Kameshwar Prasad and superintendent Dr Vivek Kashyap late on Sunday late evening, state health secretary Arun Kumar Singh directed the premiere government-run healthcare facility to include microbiologists, internal medicine specialists, intensivists, neurologists, ENT specialists, ophthalmologists, dentists, plastic surgeons, neurosurgeons and biochemists in the TEG for all-round treatment of patients infected by black fungus. “In order to ensure quality of health care services for mucormycosis patients, effective adherence to the best clinical management standards as well as uniform treatment protocol and to reduce morbidity and mortality, RIMS-Ranchi being the centre of excellence for the state, has been identified as nodal centre for the management of mucormycosis patients in the state. This will also help in preventing misuse of the drug used for treatment of the said disease,” the letter, a copy of which is in possession of The Telegraph Online, stated. While cases of Covid-induced mucormycosis have been on the rise in Jharkhand, there are no official records as of now on fatalities and cases occurring every day. Hospitals treating patients of black fungus claim that roughly half a dozen people have died of the fungal infection in Ranchi alone. In order to get a clearer picture of the situation and address cases of black fungus in Jharkhand, the health department has also asked the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) to maintain official records related to mucormycosis cases and fatalities in the state. In a letter addressed to the deputy commissioners and civil surgeons of all the 24 districts, National Health Mission (NHM) Director Ravi Shankar Shukla said that all the private and government hospitals should share details regarding mucormycosis cases with the IDSP by 5pm every day. “As per directions from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, all states have been requested to declare mucormycosis as notifiable disease. In this regard, you are requested to identify suspected cases of Mucormycosis infection for timely clinical management. The daily reporting of cases shall be initiated under IDSP through District Surveillance Unit,” the letter stated. Mucormycosis, also called black fungus, is a rare infection caused by exposure to mucor mould found in soil, plants, manure and decaying fruits and vegetables. This infection usually affects the lungs, the nasal tract and the sinus of the patient and has a fatality rate of 50 per cent, say doctors. Diabetics and people with immunocompromised conditions are at a higher risk of infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-43
24-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand's active caseload drops below 20k as over 4,300 recover from Covid||The active caseload of Covid-19 dropped below the 20,000-mark in Jharkhand and 5000-mark in Ranchi on Sunday as the state reported 4375 Covid recoveries against only 1345 fresh cases of infection, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. However, the Covid toll in Ranchi breached the 1500-mark on the day as the district alone reported 12 of 37 casualties on Sunday, taking the Covid toll here to 1501 and that in Jharkhand to 4838, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. At least 159 people were found infected in Ranchi on the day while 609 Covid patients recovered here. In East Singhbhum, 172 residents were found infected and 335 patients recovered. East Singbhum also reported nine Covid deaths on the day, which took the toll in the district to 974, NHM stated in its bulletin. As per government data, at least 19,499 people were battling Coronavirus infection in Jharkhand by the end of Sunday and 4,580 of them were from Ranchi. In East Singhbhum, the active caseload was 1,725. Barring Ranchi and East Singhbhum, all the remaining 22 districts in Jharkhand reported a spike of less than 100 in the Covid caseload on Sunday. Bokaro reported 81 cases against 173 recoveries, while Dhanbad reported 94 cases against 397 recoveries. In Hazaribag, 73 residents were found infected and 232 patients recovered from 10 pm on Saturday to 10 pm on Sunday, NHM data stated. The state on Sunday tested swab samples of 41,251 people and less than 4 per cent of them were found infected. So far, over 3.30 lakh people have been infected by Coronavirus in Jharkhand and 92.63 per cent of them have recovered, highlighted NHM data. The growth rate of infection in Jharkhand also dropped to 0.55 per cent against the national average of 0.72 per cent on the day, while the doubling rate in the state rose to 126.76 days against the national average of 96.41 days. The Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand, however, was still higher than the national average of 1.10 per cent. As per government data, at least 1.46 per cent of Covid patients have died in Jharkhand so far. The state on Sunday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to at least 42,879 residents and 38110 of them were in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. The second jab was administered to 1732 residents, mostly commoners above the age of 45 years, stated a separate report from NHM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-44
24-05-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Steel initiatives to preserve biodiversity ||Tata Steel has taken steps to preserve biological diversity in its operational areas through various initiatives in the last few years and has stood firm to the UN slogan on International Day of Biological Diversity as “We’re part of the solution# For Nature”. One such initiative of Tata Steel was reclamation of 62 acres of Jugsalai Muck Dump (JMD) as eco-park near Jugsalai in Jamshedpur. “JMD was formed over the years by dumping of cinder and slag, mainly consisting of iron and coal, since the soil texture was such that it was devoid of any organic matter and also has high temperature. Hence, not conducive for sustainable biological growth in normal conditions. Under these circumstances, a soil texture was created to enhance water retention, provide better aeration, improve physical and biological conditions of soil and promote development of root system which also gave strength to dump soil stabilisation,” Tata Steel spokesperson informed. The spokesperson further said, “JMD posed severe environmental, safety and health hazards for the people of Jamshedpur. A comprehensive rehabilitation plan was implemented for slope stabilisation and vegetative growth for biological reclamation of the muck dump. “Eco-restoration approach implemented with 100% biodegradable non-synthetic geotextile coir mat and coir logs on the dump slope and with application of growing media in slurry form of minimum 5 cm thickness, with a ratio of Neo-peat, top soil, and manure with micro nutrients before and after laying of the geotextile coir mat, followed by plantation of grass and shrubs and create environmentally safe and sustainable green cover and suitable ‘geo green blanketing’ to protect side slopes and prevent soil erosion and dust control,” the spokesperson added. Another initiative was transforming the 5-acre municipal solid waste dump into a lush green area at Dalma View Point, a picnic area on the Marine Drive, adjacent to the XLRI Jamshedpur in December 2020. “The existing dump has been converted into a green park by layering the dump with soil and plantation of variety ranging from erosion of soil to stabilisation of slopes. Air and water pollution from the contaminated dump site was affecting the adjoining area. The slopes of the dump have been stabilised by Wadelia trilobata, a plant species which has an extensive root system. These species help in attracting various species of butterflies. The surrounding area to the dump has been converted into a green zone ranging from plantation area, grass lawns and picnic area. The picnic area is attracting species of butterflies, birds and insects by planting trees and shrubs of various nature and importance. “A pond has been developed inside the picnic area to use the run-off water and equipped with a fountain to maintain the dissolved oxygen level and improve the quality of water in the pond,” the spokesperson informed. The other initiative was rejuvenation of the Bara pond in Sidhgora area of Jamshedpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-44
24-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: People join hands to help needy in Jharkhand||The recent oxygen crisis that caused miseries to many Covid patients also helped bring unknown people together who joined hands to help such patients. That was how Arun Roy of Mumbai arranged oxygen concentrators and cylinders that reached some others in Jharkhand not known to him for ensuring their use by the needy Covid patients. “When I heard about the crisis people were facing in arranging an oxygen cylinder for their close ones who were being treated in home isolation, I tried to explore if I could do anything,” Roy, an educator who once successfully ran an institute for coaching IIT aspirants, told The Telegraph from Mumbai. Roy who later also worked among teachers and rural students across the country then contacted his former students, friends and colleagues and got a very positive response. “It was through two such contacts, Reeza Grewal and Miftah Rahman, that I got in touch with the Sikh United, a voluntary organisation run by the Sikh community in Netherlands and some others like Abdul Quadir of Houston (US) who helped,” informed Roy who hails from Ranchi but shifted to Mumbai 27 years ago. That was how he got assurances for 6 oxygen concentrators and also donations worth about Rs 5.25 lakh, he further informed, adding he then contacted Vishnu Rajgarhia and Dr Raj Chandra Jha in Ranchi who helped him locating reliable people for distributing those. “We now have a 20-bed, oxygen-equipped Covid care facility in this rural area and this oxygen concentrator will be very helpful to those in home isolation in case of emergency,” Vinod Singh, CPI-ML MLA from Bagodar in Giridih district, said after receiving one such concentrator. Sudivya Kumar, JMM MLA from Giridih proper, was also thankful for two other oxygen concentrators they got for use in the district town. Of the rest three, one was given to Indian Medical Association while two others to Al-Rahmat Welfare Foundation, both in Ranchi, for using those for needy patients. “We already have 62 oxygen cylinders that we give to needy patients without charging anything and these two concentrators will also be used for the same purpose,” assured Al-Rahmat secretary Nadim Akhtar. “With the cash donation of about Rs 5.25 lakh, we will be sending some oxygen cylinders for use in rural areas of Palamau, Bokaro, Hazaribagh, Koderma and Giridih districts and also about 50,000 masks for use of people of those areas,” Roy further informed, adding the donations received were not routed through him. “I assessed the need, contacted the prospective donors and suppliers. Then I requested the donors to pay the amount straightway to the suppliers who, in turn, dispatched the consignments to the recipient organisations that are in direct touch with the end-users,” Roy explained when asked how his model worked. “That was how we could distribute food packets among migrant workers at various stations in Maharashtra when they were returning home during the lockdown last year and also organise sleeping bags, quilts and tents, besides Hindi books for their libraries, for some farmers who were protesting against the farm laws near Delhi border last winter,” Roy told when asked if his model was tested before.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-44
24-05-2021||Jharkhand||Woman footballer in Dhanbad's brick kiln||When hunger stares, food, not football, become the goal to pursue, though the latter may bring in international recognition. Despite realising this early in life, Sangita Kumari, a 20-year old tribal footballer from Dhanbad who represented both the state and the country, was still trying to strike a balance between the two, unsure if she could reach the goal. “The lockdown has pushed us to a no-income-no-food situation but I’m still practising at Birsa Munda Stadium near Memka More,” Sangita said on Sunday, adding she pedals to and from the stadium that is “at least 7km away from my village (Bansmuri near Bhuli)”. “No tournament is held now but I’m hopeful playing at nationals again once the things get right,” she sounded confident though added the worries of how to survive keep haunting her. “I joined my mother who worked in a near-by brick kiln but that is also closed now and unlikely to reopen as monsoon would set in soon,” Sangita said, adding she had to seek a job as her father, Dube Soren, sits at home because he has partial visual and also hearing impairment and her brother who is a daily-wager also did not get any job. “I worked at the brick kiln for over three months,” said the young footballer who represented India in Under-18 SAFF (South Asia Football Federation) women’s championship in Bhutan in 2018 and also Under-19 in Thailand the same year, besides representing Jharkhand in senior women’s national championship in Cuttack (Odisha) and Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh). After clearing school final examinations from a Bhuli school, Sangita did her intermediate from SSNLT College in Dhanbad, she informed when asked about her education. “No, I have to arrange even a sports shoe on my own,” she replied when asked about any help was being offered to her, adding that “the district administration gave Rs 10,000 and some ration during the lockdown last year”. “I heard about some initiatives but none approached us till now except our MLA Mathura Mahto who met us yesterday (Saturday) and gave some help,” Sangita informed when asked if any help reached them this time. “We also reached around the same time when the MLA went there and gave the family about a month’s ration,” said Dev Kumar Verma who is associated with the Pathshala Foundation that offers free education to children, mostly of slum dwellers and assured they would do more. “Since Sangita wants to remain associated with football we will also try if we can arrange her training at an institution that will help her become a sports teacher later,” he further said, adding they would also try to accommodate her in a suitable capacity at the sports academy run by the Jharkhand State Sports Promotion Society in Ranchi. Such helps as offered by the MLA and Verma may assure Sangita and her family of food for some days but they need a steady source of income so that she can also pursue her passion for football and enhance the skill. Kiren Rijiju, Union minister of state for sports and youth affairs, meanwhile assured financial help would be given to Sangita. In a tweet later in the day, the minister said that he was "informed about Sangita Soren (Kumari) who represented India in international competitions and is in a financial crisis in this pandemic". “Financial help will be extended soon,” Rijiju assured in his tweet, adding “ensuring dignified life for athletes is our priority”. Former Bahragora MLA Kunal Sarangi, in his tweet two days ago, had drawn Rijiju’s attention towards Sangita’s plight, saying “Lockdown has damaged her financially”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-44
24-05-2021||Jharkhand||Sports minister takes note of state football player's financial struggles||Help started pouring in from different quarters for Dhanbad based international women footballer Sangeeta Soren, who is compelled to work at a brick kiln at her native village at Baghmara block due to financial crisis during the Covid-19 pandemic. Kiren Rijiju, Union Minister of State for Youth Affairs, Sports and AYUSH (Independent Charge) on Sunday took note of the 20-year-old player’s condition after former MLA of Baharagora Kunal Sarangi sent a tweet himself describing her plight. Rijiju retweeted Sarandi and said, “I have been informed about footballer Sangeeta Soren, who has represented India in international competitions, and is in a financial crisis during this pandemic. My office has contacted her and financial help will be extended soon. Ensuring a dignified life for athletes is our priority.” Sangeeta played for India Under-18 in 2018 in Bhutan and also at Thailand in 2019 for the Under-19 team. She is presently at home during lockdown since selection trials for the Senior Women Football team is suspended due to the pandemic. Her father Dube Soren is visually challenged and has hearing impairment. Her brother Babuchand Soren works at a construction site but fails to get work opportunities on a daily basis hence she is compelled to work at a brick kiln in her village to support the family income. On Saturday, Dev Kumar Verma, Dhanbad based BCCL officer who runs schools offering free education to the children of coal pickers in Katras, met Sangeeta at her home in Baghmara and extended financial help. Verma who earlier served as the district coordinator for selection trial for prospective trainees for the Hotwar based Sports Academy in 2017, also assured to liaison for the job to her at the Academy. “I visited her home and found the women player so humble but dedicated to work that is unparalleled as despite working to earn for the family she also carries out regular practice at ground,” said Verma to The Telegraph Online. The national commission for women chairperson, Rekha Sharma has also written to the Jharkhand government to extend help and support to women players. A copy of NCW chairperson’s letter has also been sent to All India Football Federation president Prafful Patel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-44
24-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Oxygen concentrators for Dhanbad Railway hospitals||Dhanbad: East Central Railway on Sunday handed over seven oxygen concentrators to Dhanbad Division for installation at Divisional Railway Hospital and sub divisional railway hospitals of Patratu, Gomoh, Chopan, Barwadih, Barkakana and Barawadih. The installation work of the oxygen concentrators has already been completed at Divisional Railway Hospital of Dhanbad and the other six sub divisional hospitals. P.K. Mishra, public relation officer of Dhanbad Division of East Central Railway, said, “During the time of the pandemic, many organisations are extending help for treatment of Covid infected persons and also in preventing the spread of the infection.” The concentrators have been donated at the initiative of Lalit Chandra Trivedi, General Manager of East Central Railway in alliance with Yug Sanskriti Nyas, an NGO in the National Capital Region working in the field of education, healthcare, disaster management, rural development, women empowerment and child welfare since 2008. Singh said, “Each oxygen concentrator can produce five litres of oxygen per minute from air by selectively removing nitrogen from air.” A 120 bed Covid treatment centre has also been established at Divisional Railway Hospital of Dhanbad. Dhanbad division of East Central Railway with its headquarters at Dhanbad has jurisdiction over 140 railway stations and halts spread over Jharkhand, Bihar, Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. (Praduman Choubey) Hazaribagh: A nine-year-old girl, who came to attend the marriage of her uncle at the ancient religious spot of Chunduru Dham, accidentally drowned in the river on Saturday afternoon. Her body was recovered by divers on Saturday evening. Mahi Kumari was the daughter of Rinku Singh, resident of Mayapur village under Nawadiha Bazar police station in Palamau. The family came to popular Chunduru Dham in Tandwa block for marriage of Mahi's uncle Anil Kumar Singh. Mahi and a few others were a taking a bath in Chunduru river when the incident occurred. Tandwa police sent the body for postmortem to Chatra Sadar Hospital. Simaria MLA of BJP, Kishun Das, reached the spot after receiving information about the incident. He termed the incident unfortunate and consoled the grief-stricken family. Mithilesh Gupta, president of Chunduru Dham managing committee, said they had restricted marriages here till May 27. He said the committee will ensure that no marriages take place here till this deadline. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Bokaro: A man died by suicide following which his wife tried to hang herself from the same noose after an argument between them on Sunday at Bhalusa under Chas police station of the district. The police officer, Chanchal Kumar, who investigated the incident, said that the deceased Lakiram Mahto, 66, first died by suicide seeing which his wife Anita Devi, 57, also attempted but survived. She was later rushed to Sadar Hospital and is said to be out of danger. It was Mahto’s son who first saw his body hanging, listening to his scream Devi reached the spot and in shock also attempted suicide. The villagers who reached the spot, seeing Devi gasping, rushed her to hospital. Villagers said that when the woman went to hang herself, she got stuck on the shoulders of the deceased husband. (Our correspondent) Hazaribagh: Two women on their morning walk sustained injuries when two security guards of a private company tried to molest them and threatened to open fire at the duo when they tried to escape. The incident took place in Colony number-42 in Tapin under Charhi police station of the district. Sources said both women named Lalita Devi and Kavita Devi were on morning at 5:30am on Sunday when two security guards of outsourcing company Ramkripal Construction tried to take advantage of the situation. Both women tried to run but hearing a firing sound from behind fell down sustaining serious injuries. The two women have been admitted to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. Charhi police station officer-in-charge Anand Azad said he is investigating the case. “I had visited the place and if incident is found to be true, we will take stern action against the guards,” said Azad. The women have sought immediate justice in the matter. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-44
