25-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad power facilities, Bokaro hospitals gear up for cyclone Yaas||Intended at avoiding any incident of loss of life or property due to inundation in collieries due to impact of heavy rains during cyclone Yaas, Dhanbad based coal major, Bharat Bharat Coking Coal Limited has issued an alert in all its 12 operational areas. Barora, Block II, Govindpur,  Katras, Sijua, Kusuada, Putki Baliari, Bastacoal, Lodna, Eastern Jharia, Chanch Victoria and Western Jharia have been alerted by BCCL in this regard. Area level local control rooms have been set up in every area while a headquarter level control room is operational to keep close watch on the rain situation. The entry of workers in the underground mines has been prohibited for May 26 and 27 . Coal production will take place primarily from open cast mines having lesser possibility of inundation. This apart, motor pumps in all areas have been kept ready to drain out water from the mines during inundation. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, General Manager Safety of BCCL, Dr. AK Singh, said, “We are fully prepared to meet with any exigency and area-level committees have been entrusted with the task of monitoring the situation in all the collieries. We have also received instruction in this regard from the Coal India administration.” BCCL at present has around 48 mines active spread over its 12 operational areas and several motors continuously work in each of mine to drain out the water in the mines on a regular basis as water percolates the adjoining areas in the underground mines even during the general days. Meanwhile, Damodar Valley Corporation, a Public Sector enterprise engaged in thermal and hydel power production through its various power plants situated across, Dhanbad, Bokaro and Bengal has also made extensive preparations to avoid any disruption of electricity generation due to the impact of rain and storm and during the cyclone. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Tuesday, Apurba Saha, Public Relation Officer of DVC said, “We are prepared for flood control as well as electricity generation as all leaves to employees of the electricity generation wing have been cancelled. Equipment has been kept in ready condition to carry repair work  during any damage of towers.” Meanwhile, Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner on Tuesday held a meeting for the second consecutive day to take stock of preparation ahead of the cyclone. He also instructed the officials to ensure alternative power supply arrangements to covid hospitals in view of any disruption of power supply in order to avoid any difficulty in Covid treatment work. Bokaro hospitals gear up The Bokaro administration has issued instructions to all the private and government hospitals to remain alert with power backup and other emergencies, life-saving drugs and equipment in view of the impending cyclone. Deputy Commissioner Rajesh Singh on Tuesday alerted Bokaro General Hospital (BGH), Sadar Hospital, Community Health Centres and all the private hospitals so that patients do not face problems.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-42
25-05-2021||Jharkhand||No respite for Adityapur residents as drinking water crisis continues||Adityapur Municipal Corporation (AMC) failed to keep its commitment to increase drinking water supply by tankers even as the residents are facing an acute water crisis in the Adityapur township this summer. In its board meeting held on March 26, the AMC had passed a resolution to increase the number of water tankers from six to 22 by mid-April so as to cater to the needs of residents. But the municipal body has not increased even a single tanker though two months have lapsed. As a result of the existing situation, each of about 40,000 out of the 50,000 households is being provided tanker water once in three days, that too in a small quantity. Presently, the AMC has only six tankers -- two tankers having 12,000 litres capacity, one with 6,000 litres capacity and three water tankers with just 2,000 litres capacity. Adityapur township has a population of about three lakhs, most of the households depending on the borewell. But as the underground water table has depleted considerably, almost all the borewells have gone defunct since March. About 8,000 households that have the facility of tap-water and about 1,000 households having semi-deep borewells are not affected by the drinking water crisis. "Due to the acute water crisis, I have sent my family to my native place in Bihar and I am somehow managing by bringing drinking water in containers from a public tap in Bistupur locality of the adjoining steel city," said Ankit Kumar, a resident of Majhitola in Adityapur while talking to this website. Like Kumar, many residents come to the Bistupur locality for morning walks and carry the drinking water from the public taps while returning home. AMC mayor, Vinod Srivastav admitted they had passed a resolution for procuring additional 16 water tankers, but it has not been possible as yet. "We had decided to increase the number of water tankers from six to 22 by mid-April to meet the needs of the people. The matter is in process, " said the mayor while talking to The Telegraph. Meanwhile, Jan Kalyan Morcha, a local NGO, has demanded the AMC that it must immediately increase the water tankers keeping in view of the drinking water crisis. "The AMC can hire the water tankers if the civic body has financial problems, but sitting on a problem as grave as the drinking water crisis is inhumane, " said Om Prakash, president of the Jan Kalyan Morcha while talking to this website.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-42
25-05-2021||Jharkhand||Yaas to reach Jharkhand Wednesday night as a severe cyclone ||Three teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) from Bihar reached here on Tuesday to help with rescue and relief operations if and when required in the wake of cyclonic storm Yaas which is expected to make landfall close to Dhamra port in north Odisha coast on Wednesday morning. The NDRF teams _ each has 24 members _ were called in as the three Kolhan districts - East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan _ of southern Jharkhand are likely to face the maximum fury of the cyclonic storm. IMD forecast suggests that the cyclonic storm would approach Jharkhand from the south eastern part (East Singhbhum) as a severe cyclonic storm around 11.30 pm of Wednesday (May 26 ) and gradually reach Khunti district with decreased intensity as a deep  depression by the night of Thursday (May 27). It would further move north-west, gradually decreasing in intensity, and reach Gumla district as a depression the same night (May 27). Later, the system would move further northwards and gradually become weak. IMD's Ranchi Met Centre forecast  widespread heavy rain in several districts, including East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum, Seraikela-Kharsawan, Simdega, Gumla, Khunti, Ranchi, Latehar, Lohardaga, Ramgarh, Hazaribagh and  Chatra, in the next 48 hours due to the impact of the cyclone. The forecast also indicated squally winds with speed reaching 40kmph to 50 kmph gusting to 60 Kmph which is likely to prevail over southern Jharkhand from May 26 forenoon and increase gradually becoming 90kmph to 120 kmph gusting to 130 kmph over south-east Jharkhand and 70kmph to 80 Kmph gusting  to 90 Kmph over  southwest Jharkhand by the evening of May 26. But several Jharkhand districts close to Odisha and Bengal borders started feeling the impact of the approaching cyclone from Tuesday afternoon. Dark clouds in Jamshedpur and its adjoining districts were followed by intermittent rain on Tuesday. East Singhbhum's forms team The East Singhbhum district administration constituted an Incident  Response Team in the wake of Yaas cyclone. It has also set up a control room for meeting any exigencies. Apart from evacuating people from low-lying areas and those living in thatched houses to temporary shelter homes, the administration also alerted various departments _ power, forest, fire, road, health and drinking water and sanitization. No vaccination for two days Deputy Commissioner of East Singhbhum Suraj Kumar took stock of the preparedness on Tuesday afternoon. He appealed to people to stay indoors for the next two days and also issued an order for suspending the vaccination drive on May 26 and 27. The DC also appealed to industries to curtail manpower by 30 to 40 per cent for the next two days. Railway helpline Chakradharpur railway division of South Eastern Railway announced several helpline numbers, namely, for Tatanagar: 73523(Rly) and 0657-2290324 (universal); for Chakradharpur: (06587) 238047; for Jharsuguda 9437958935 (WLL no.); for Rourkela: 0661-250172. Earlier, SER had cancelled around a dozen special and other local passenger trains passing through Tatanagar and other stations of Chakradharpur division between May 25 and 28.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-42
25-05-2021||Jharkhand||Gas-operated furnace at steel city cremation ground||The management committee at the Parvati ghat in Jugsalai is set to install an additional furnace operated by gas to cremate bodies soon. A representative from an Ahmedabad-based agency, which specializes in manufacturing gas-operated furnaces, visited Parvati ghat for site inspection on Tuesday. There are two electric furnaces at the crematorium but one is presently non-operational due to some technical glitches. Ghat managing committee general secretary Dipendra Bhatt confirmed the same. “Electric furnaces at our disposal often break down due to some technical reason or the other. One of the furnaces has already broken down which is putting extra load on one which is functioning. Gas-operated furnaces break down very occasionally,” he said. Moreover, the electric furnaces have to be started earlier to generate the required heat for burning bodies. This consumes electricity. According to him, the Ahmedabad agency will submit its quotation and they would subsequently place an order for the furnace. “A gas-operated furnace is the need of the hour. We will no longer be required to depend on electric furnaces once the new unit is in place,” Bhatt added. Funds for the gas furnace will be arranged from well-wishers. Apart from the two electric furnaces, bodies are cremated by adopting traditional methods by using wooden logs on two separate platforms under a tin shed. The ghat management committee has heaved a sigh of relief as the number of bodies coming for cremation daily has come down. “Around 10-12 bodies are coming now for last rites. It’s a big relief for us as earlier nearly 50 bodies used to be cremated at the ghat,” Bhatt said. Wood is not a problem now as social organisations have chipped in with the required support.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-42
25-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid care Jharkhand's top priority amid cyclone worries ||The Jharkhand health department has directed all districts to ensure sufficient back-up for oxygen, electricity, essential drugs at public and private  hospitals for the next few days in the wake of cyclone Yaas which is likely to make landfall near Balasore in Odisha, 250km from Calcutta, on Wednesday. State director of National Health Mission (NHM) Ravi Shankar Shukla has also asked liquid oxygen manufacturers and refillers to ensure uninterrupted supply of oxygen. “Considering the IMD alerts on the cyclone, ensuring uninterrupted medical facilities amid the Covid pandemic is one of the main concerns of the government. Various arms of the government machinery is already at work on this," said an official of the health department, adding that adequate safeguards have to taken at vaccination store rooms to prevent any damage to the vaccine. “At the state-level vaccination storage room in Ranchi, back-up in the form of high powered generrator sets is already in place to ensure 24/7 power so as to maintain the cold chain. Districts have been asked to make similar arrangements,” he said. Various districts, which are bearing the brunt of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, have begun coordinating efforts to minimize loss of lives and property due to to the cyclone. Following an emergent meeting on Tuesday afternoon, deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan announced setting up of a control room (0561-2207784) . “We have activated different cells for focused intervention as per requirement. For example, electricity department officials in the district have been asked to form quick response teams (QRTs) to attend to exigencies, remove snapped wires, restore power supply, etc. Food supply department will take care of distribution of ration to the needy.” On Covid hospitals, he said, “We have already asked all refillers to keep sufficient stocks ready for next few days so that hospitals don’t face problems. This apart, at two hospitals—Sadar and Risaldar Baba _ we have kept 48-hour oxygen back-up ready in store to tackle exigencies. Alternative back-up for electricity has been put in place at government hospitals.” Shelter homes too have been notified at block levels. “People will be kept at respective block-level shelter homes if needed and district food supply department has been asked to make early assessment of the requirements of ration distribution,” said Ranjan.    No vaccination for two days East Singhbhum district administration has made similar arrangements, but it is  suspending Covid vaccinations for the next two days. “Vaccination for 18 plus and 45 plus age groups will be closed for two days from 26 onwards,” read an order issued by the district administration. Communication lines The state disaster management department has issued a series of advisories, asking districts to keep alternative channels of communication ready to prevent loss of time in transmitting curcial information. “Besides the regular standard operating procedure for tackling cyclones, we have asked all the districts to activate satellite phones, wireless communication and other alternative sources in anticipation of damage to regular phone connectivity due to the storm,” read ond of the communiques. As per IMD-Ranchi, Jharkhand too will experience the impact of the cyclone in the form of moderate to heavy rain accompanied by high intensity winds and lightning. All three districts in the Kolhan region—Seraikela-Kharsawan, East Singhbhum and West Singhbhum _ is likely to be affected most.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-42
25-05-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi cracks down on e-passes generated using fake IDs||Ranchi district administration has launched a crackdown on those who obtained e-passes, mandatory permits required for commuting during the lockdown, on dubious credentials. District transport officer Praveen Kumar Prakash said on Tuesday that FIRs had been filed against half a dozen persons so far based on the complaints received from various sources. He added that the district administration had asked law enforcers on the ground to take stringent action against such malpractices. “Last night (Monday), we slapped FIRs against five persons after tracking the IP addresses of computers from where e-passes were generated on fake IDs. We had received complaints about the use fake names and vehicle numbers. Officials checking e-passes on streets have now been asked to be more vigilant to curb such fraudulent activities,” he said, adding that few days ago, the department had arrested one person from Doranda for running a racket in generating fake e-passes for a fee. The Jharkhand government made e-passes mandatory for all intra and inter-district travel since May 16 as a part of lockdown regulations that is scheduled to be in force till Thursday, May 27. Only those undertaking travel within or outside the district for medical reasons or vaccination are exempt from carrying e-passes. The state transport department had launched a portal (epassjharkhand.nin.in) for people to register themselves using their phone numbers and get an e-pass after providing other relevant details. So far, over 10 lakh e-passes have  been generated. But many seems to have been generated using fake names. The e-pass system is likely to be extended further as the state government is expected to extend the lockdown period by another week. Many cabinet ministers, during a meeting with chief minister Hemant Soren on Monday, demanded such an extension citing its positive impact on decreasing cases of Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-42
25-05-2021||Jharkhand||Senior citizens in Dhanbad provide hearse-ambulance services at minimal costs||At a time when private ambulance and hearse operators are fleecing money from families of Covid-19 patients, and bereaved relatives, social workers and a group of senior citizens in Dhanbad have been offering these vehicles at a minimal charge to such people in need of service. Members of the Bengali Welfare Society, a social organisation engaged in a wide range of activities including blood and plasma donation, are offering hearse and ambulance to the needy persons at minimal cost by operating them at no profit or no loss basis. “We were receiving as many as eight calls per day till about a week ago for ambulance and hearse service and have been able to provide it for all needy persons,” Sanjay Kumar Biswas, Secretary of Bengali Welfare Society, told The Telegraph Online on Tuesday. Biswas said that they have made all necessary arrangements to maintain the driver’s as well as the patient’s safety but are not charging extra money for that as the organisation believes in social service and not money. “We had procured the hearse way back in 2012 and since then are operating them on a no-profit and no-loss basis, only charging a minimal amount so that the vehicle maintenance cost and driver’s salary can be maintained,” he added. Kanchan Dey, an executive member of another social organisation, Bangali Kalyan Samiti, a group of relatively young social workers, said they too have been providing such services amid the pandemic. “We had purchased the hearse at a cost of around Rs 3.5 lakhs during last year and never imagined that the vehicle would prove so useful for the needy people during one of the biggest humanitarian crises of our age.” “We are sometimes also offering free service to people belonging to extremely economically backward sections of the society,” said Dey, adding that their members also had driven the vehicle from the hospital to the crematorium carrying the dead bodies when drivers did not show up. “We have given a look of greenery to our hearse in such a manner so that it dispels the feeling of despair among the family members of patients or deceased persons,” said secretary of Bangali Kalayan Samiti Tanmoy gon. Notably, besides these two organisations some other organisations like Bara Gurudwara of Dhanbad also operate the hearse.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-42
25-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand helpline: over 2 lakh consult doctors via audio, video calls ||More than 2 lakh Jharkhand residents have consulted doctors via audio and video calls through the 104 helpline number launched by the state government for providing free online medical assistance related to Covid-19 since the pandemic made it difficult for patients to meet doctors in person, data compiled by the health department highlights. As per data with the National Health Mission (NHM), at least 1,87,525 people consulted doctors over audio calls while 23,995 residents spoke to doctors via video calls for health issues related to Covid-19. “Most of these callers were suffering from Covid-19 and were in home isolation,” said Dr Bhuvnesh Pratap Singh, the nodal officer of the 104 helpline service in Jharkhand. Besides patients, those not infected by the coronavirus can also make calls on the helpline and seek details about bed availability, vaccination slots and register complaints if the required facilities are not provided at any of the government hospitals, an executive working for the helpline said on Tuesday. “We also provided online counselling to people dealing with mental health issues as a result of the pandemic and lockdown,” said the executive, who did not wish to be named citing rules. “We received at least 9,500 distress calls from people suffering from anxiety or depression since March 2020. Many of these callers were either suffering from Covid-19 or had patients at home or in the neighborhood,” he added. The 104 helpline was prompt in responding to callers and addressing their problems. An executive received a phone call made by The Telegraph Online on the helpline number on Tuesday and sought details such as age, district and locality of the caller. The correspondent received a call from a representative of the helpline within the next five minutes. The helpline number was launched in 2014 by the state government. However, it was strengthened after Covid-19 hit Jharkhand in March 2020, officials said. As per government data, around 3.31 lakh people have been infected by the virus in Jharkhand so far and the helpline has received Covid related calls from more than 2 lakh residents. The government was not only providing online consultation to patients in home isolation, but also supplying home isolation kits to them. As per government data, the state has provided 84,921 home isolation kits to Covid patients in Jharkhand since the entry of the virus in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-42
25-05-2021||Jharkhand||State reports 3,291 Covid recoveries against 1,394 fresh cases in a day||Jharkhand on Monday reported at least 3,291 Covid recoveries against 1,394 fresh cases of Coronavirus infection, which brought the active caseload in the state down to 17,569 figures compiled by the health department highlighted. The state, however, reported 33 Covid casualties on the day, which took the Covid toll to 4871 and the Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand remained above the national average, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated, highlighting that Jharkhand’s Covid mortality rate was 1.46 per cent against the national average of 1.10 per cent. With 11 casualties, Ranchi was the only district to report a double-digit-spike in Covid fatalities on the day. As per NHM data, East Singhbhum reported five Covid deaths on Monday, while four patients died in Bokaro. Monday’s findings took the Covid toll in Ranchi to 1512 and that in East Singhbhum to 979. These two districts account for more than half of the close to 5000 Covid deaths reported in the state so far. At least 626 Covid recoveries against 199 cases brought the active caseload in Ranchi down to 4,141, NHM data revealed. The active caseload in East Singhbhum dropped to 1,589 as the district reported 385 recoveries against 258 fresh cases of infection. Among other districts, Dhanbad reported 103 cases against 310 recoveries, while 107 people were found infected in Hazaribag and 216 patients recovered there. At least 93 people were found infected in West Singhbhum and 123 Covid patients recovered there. The state on Monday tested swab samples of 48,088 residents and around 3 per cent of them were found infected. The daily positivity rate in the state, as per government data, has dropped from around 20 per cent in early May to less than 5 per cent now – an improvement the health department attributes to lockdown restrictions. As per NHM data, the growth rate of infection in Jharkhand was 0.48 per cent against the national average of 0.69 per cent, while the doubling rate in the state was 145.57 days against the national average of 100.87 days. As per government data, over 3.31 lakh people have been infected by the mysterious virus in Jharkhand so far and more than 93 per cent of them have recovered. The state on Monday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 47,900 residents and more than 40,000 of them were in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years, stated a separate report from NHM. The second jab was administered to 2780 beneficiaries, mostly above the age of 45 years on the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-42
25-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Police take action after child marriage video goes viral||Hazaribagh: Huntergunj police started an investigation after coming across a viral video of child marriage at a local temple. Both the boy and girl belong to Khuntikewal village. They got married on Sunday. Huntergunj circle officer Mithilesh Kumar will be sending notices to people involved in the matter. Sources said village elders and a local representative played a key role in getting them married. Even new clothes also arranged for 13-year-old bride and 14-year-old groom. However families didn't manage to arrange a priest hence the elderly women took the responsibility to solemnise the marriage. Panchayat's deputy mukhia Sangeeta Devi husband Anuj Yadav and panchayat samiti member Sukani Devi's husband Lalji Bhuiyan played an important role in this matter. The matter reached the police only after the video went viral. Officer-in-charge of Huntergunj police station, Rajeev Ranjan will lodge an FIR against those involved. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Bokaro: State agriculture minister Badal Patralekh announced the establishment of a medical college at the Sadar Hospital campus after inspecting it on Monday. The minister said, "I found that Sadar Hospital holds all the merit of becoming a medical college. I assured that Sadar Hospital will be made medical college". However this is not the first time when any state or central minister has announced to set up a medical college in Bokaro. In the past decade, many ministers and political leaders had announced setting up a medical college in Bokaro. But with every change of government, the project never materialised. Leaders of the Opposition blame the ruling government for not setting up a medical college in Bokaro. Residents view these announcements as attention grabbing tactics by ministers. Durga Charan a resident said, “Every time ministers come and make an announcement of opening of medical college which never becomes reality. They only try to grab our attention.” During the visit, the minister met patients admitted in the Covid ICU and appreciated doctors, nurses and other staff for their courage and hard work in treating patients. (Our correspondent) Bokaro: The district’s K.M. Memorial has claimed to have become the first private hospital in state which has signed a contract with Serum Institute of India for the supply of 20,000 doses of Covishield, the Indian variant of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine against the novel coronavirus. The hospital is also in the process of getting Russia’s Sputnik V Covid vaccines. The inauguration of the vaccination program for 18 years and over was done by assistant Civil Surgeon Dr. NP Singh on Monday. Managing director of K.M. Memorial, Dr Vikas Pandey said, “We are the first to tie-up with SII and received the first lot of 5000 vaccines of Covishield. We began the vaccination drive from today focusing more on vaccinating 18-45 age group.” On the first day of the vaccination drive, 100 residents were inoculated. They have received 600 more bookings in advance for the vaccination. The majority of those who have booked are 18-22 years of age. Dr Vikas Pandey said the vaccines will be procured directly from the SII. The Covishield vaccine has been priced at Rs 1030 at K.M. Memorial. During the inaugural function, Dr N P Singh said, “The K.M. Memorial hospital has taken a good initiative by signing the deal directly with SII for the vaccine. It will help people of the district to get the vaccine.” (Our correspondent) PVKRM Rao, Director (Personnel) of BCCL conducted a review the Covid treatment, awareness and vaccination programme during an online meeting held on Monday with Area General Managers and Area Personnel Managers of different operational areas. Several ongoing activities including awareness drive for Covid-19 safety protocols at collieries and offices, facilitating terminal dues to legitimate dependents of employees dying due to Covid-19 were also discussed during the meeting. Issues like quarter allotment, facilitating plastic engineering training were also touched upon at the meeting. Rao instructed the area general managers to immediately attend to the requirements with regard to Covid-19 as and when the need arises and fulfill them at the earliest. He assured full assistance for all urgent matters related to Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-42
25-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Tata Steel aid for families of deceased employees ||Tata Steel has come on the forefront among the corporate sector in the country to provide relief to the families of the deceased employees by announcing social security schemes. The announcement made in a statement issued on Sunday enables the family of the deceased employees’ nominees to get the last drawn salary till 60 years of age along with medical benefits and housing facilities. “Tata Steel’s best-in-class social security schemes will help ensure an honourable standard of living for their families,” the company said in a statement. In addition to this, for all its frontline employees who as part of their job, met with an unfortunate death due to Covid-19, the company said it would bear all the expenses of their children’s education till graduation in India. “The company has always been a shield of steel, supporting its stakeholders at all times. This time is no different. Tata Steel family stands stoically with all its people, committed to their security and well-being,” the statement said. Company sources said over 70 employees have died in the second wave of the Covid-19 this year across all its operations, including Jharkhand and Odisha. Tata Steel was amongst the first to have introduced trust and outcome based working culture in order to give more flexibility to its employees with the launch of the ‘Agile working models’ from November 2020. Under the new working models, even the officers who required to be based out of a particular location can now work from home for unlimited days in a year, giving the employee the flexibility to operate out of any location in the country. The policy ensured better work-life balance, more flexibility to choose where one lives as the daily work commute shifts out of consideration, provides working opportunities to new parents at their convenience, and ensures continuity of work for Persons with Disabilities in their respective work-enabled environment. Tata Steel had also come up with the Pod concept to keep its workers safe from the Covid-19 across its operating locations, which is multi-layer protection to break the transmission circuit. These measures are beyond the stipulated SOPs. One of the important aspects of the Pod concept is modularisation of the workforce into pods. The idea is to divide the staff seating arrangement into small units, called Pod, thereby restricting the inter-pod movement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-43
25-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Jharkhand health dept proposes marking black fungus as an epidemic||Jharkhand health department has sent a proposal to the cabinet to notify mucormycosis also known as black fungus as an epidemic. Sources in the health department said the state has so far witnessed 27 deaths due to mucormycosis. As soon as the cabinet pass it as an epidemic, all hospitals will have to follow government guidelines for screening, diagnosis, management of mucormycosis. Jharkhand additional chief secretary, health, Arun Kumar Singh has already directed all civil surgeons, director, principals and superintendents of medical colleges, deputy commissioners of all the 24 districts and surveillance officers to strictly adhere to the guidelines for mucormycosis. “The guidelines mention symptoms, signs, risk factors, diagnosis, treatment options for mucormycosis, complications of mucormycosis and preventive measures,” said Singh. The additional chief secretary had on Sunday also announced of making the state’s biggest government hospital Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) at Ranchi as the nodal centre for management of mucormycosis . “This has been done to ensure quality healthcare services for mucormycosis patients, effective adherence to the best clinical management as well as uniform treatment protocols. This will also prevent misuse of drugs used for the treatment of the disease. RIMS has been asked to earmark a ward and constitute a technical expert group (TEG), as team approach is required in the treatment of mucormycosis,” said Singh. “The TEG may comprise  different experts such as microbiologist, internal medicine specialist, intensivist, neurologist, ENT specialist, ophthalmologist, dentist, surgeon/faciomaxillary/plastic surgeon, neurosurgeon, biochemistry etc,” he said. Mission director National Health Mission (NHM) Jharkhand, Ravishankar Shukla, directed all the 24 district’s deputy commissioners and civil surgeons to ensure daily reporting of mucormycosis infection for prevention, control and surveillance at all the private and government health centres. Meanwhile, chief minister Hemant Soren held a virtual meeting with cabinet colleagues on Monday evening and informed about the government’s preparation for third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and also informed about the delay in the arrival of vaccine stock. “We have only two-three days’ stock of vaccine for those in the age group of 18-44 years while stock of vaccine for 45 years and above will last for only a week. We have submitted our demands but are yet to receive the stock,” said Soren. “We have held consultations with senior paediatricians and acting on their suggestions steps are being taken to set up PICU (Pediatric Intensive Care Unit) and  SNCU (Sick Newborn Care Units) at all designated Covid hospitals and Sadar Hospitals across all the 24 districts,” administrative officer of Jharkhand rural health mission, Suman Pathak, said on Saturday. Incidentally, SNCU are units meant primarily to reduce the case fatality among sick children and PICU are units where children are taken when they require the highest level of quality paediatric care. To reduce the time span in getting the RTPCR report especially in rural areas, the government will sign an agreement with a Delhi based firm JITM Skills Private Limited for mobile based RTPCR testing and delivering the reports within 24 hours. “We have selected 12 districts based on the basis of active cases, positivity rate and population density and the Delhi based firms would be deploying mobile testing labs in the districts of Ranchi, Dhanbad, Garhwa, Gumla, Simdega, East Singhbhum (Jamshedpur), Bokaro, Deoghar, Latehar, Sahebganj, Jamtara and Pakur. This would be in addition to the existing eight RTPCR facilities (including four private labs),” said nodal officer sample testing and collection Naman Priyesh Lakra who is also the tribal welfare commissioner. This apart, the state government will launch a massive door-to-door public health survey from May 25 to identify potential Covid patients and ensure medical help at their doorstep involving thousands of health care workers who are being trained for the survey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-43
