26-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Parents protest school fee hike||Bokaro/ Ramgarh: Parents associations across all districts of the state, including Ranchi, on Wednesday organised a virtual dharna against private schools, demanding an immediate implementation of Jharkhand Education Amendment Act 2017. Parents at the virtual event held placards with ‘don’t mentally harass parents’, ‘no school, no fees’ and ‘reduce online fees” messages on them. Parents demanded that all private schools stop re-admission fees from Class XI students, upload the CBSE guidelines on their website and do not deprive children of online classes without fees. President of Bokaro unit of Jharkhand Parents Association, Mahender Rai said “School should not take any additional charge from the students of Class 11. It is seen many schools are charging re-admission fees from Class XI students”.  He added that Supreme Court has also ordered 20% reduction in online fees to be implemented immediately by schools. The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights has also asked the Jharkhand government to take appropriate action against the schools which have increased the tuition fees during the pandemic. The NCPCR has raised a concern regarding 10 private schools of Bokaro increasing their fees by 15-20 per cent in this session. Rai said that despite the orders of the state government, the private schools are charging excessive fees either by increasing or collecting it under various heads which they was opposed. The parents association has the following demands from the state government: 1: - All private schools should implement the Jharkhand Education Amendment Act 2017. 2: - Apply the order issued on Memorandum 13 V12-55 / 2019/1006 dated: 25/05/2020 by the Department of School Education and Literacy (Directorate of Secondary Education), Government of Jharkhand. 3: - The Vidyalaya should upload the guidelines on its website, set by the CBSE, ICSE, State Board. 4- Do not deprive children of online classes due to any school fees! 5: - Stop re-admission of students of your own school in class XI or in any class and the amount taken in the current session should be refunded to them! (Our correspondent) Bokaro: A video has gone viral showing a Punjab National Bank manager turning up for work while on oxygen support. The employee, Arvind Kumar, said “I was suffering from fever for 10 days. Doctors diagnosed it as Covid after seeing the X-Ray and symptoms. Though I recovered, but the lung infection remained and I am on oxygen support due to breathing problem. But my superiors are pressurising me to come for work. They also stopped my salary. I even resigned but they did not approve. So I have come to bank on oxygen support.” He was accompanied by his family members. Bank sources said that Kumar has taken a large loan from the bank, which he is yet to repay. His resignation was not approved due to non-payment of loan, and taking leave without any prior intimation. The bank has set up an inquiry committee to handle Kumar’s issue. Senior bank officials were not avialable for comment. (Our correspondent) Hazaribagh: A two-year-old boy died after accidentally slipping into a dam in Ichak block on Tuesday afternoon. Sources said Sahil Kumar's house is situated close to Cherwa dam in Dangi village where he was playing with his cousin Saurabh Kumar when the incident took place. Sahil's father Mantu Ram is a daily wage labourer and his mother had gone to the nearby forest to collect firewood prior to the accident. Ichak police handed his body to family after post mortem at Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: A woman was beaten up mercilesssly on Tuesday evening in Mandaikala area under Lohsigna police station after she was branded a witch by her neighbours. Pramila Devi’s son rescued and admitted her to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital from a house in the area where four people dragged and beat her. Doctors at the hospital said she had sustained serious injuries on her face, eyes and other parts of the body. Police officials are investigating the case. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-40
26-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dalma sanctuary museum to reopen for tourists in 2 months||The Dalma wildlife sanctuary’s renovated museum will be thrown open to tourists in two months. Construction of the two-storey museum began three years ago but it could not be completed due to various factors like insufficient funds. Located near the main entry point of the sprawling 192sq km jumbo abode at Makulakocha, the museum is being built by the state forest department under the eco-tourism project. Dalma divisional forest officer Abhishek Kumar said things were on track and the museum would be finally opened in about two months time. "The renovation of the museum is an old project which has been hanging for three years. But for the pandemic-induced lockdown, the museum would have been opened to tourists," he added. The museum will be commissioned once the Covid-19 situation improves and the sanctuary reopens for the tourists. The elephant abode is presently closed owing to the pandemic. Kumar, who is also regional director (Elephant Project), said dioramas depicting animals in their natural habitat will be fixed by an Ahmedabad-based designer. "The designer was not able to come due to the lockdown. But we are optimistic that the museum should be commissioned in about two months," he added. The state forest department has roped in Avinesh Chauhan for fixing the dioramas. Apart from dioramas, the museum will be equipped with a library and an interactive audio-visual. While models of animals will be displayed on the ground floor, the library and interactive audio-visual space will be on the first floor. The museum was primarily aimed at educating school and college students who often visit the sanctuary to learn about flora and fauna. Resource persons will be available to educate students and attend to tourists flocking the sanctuary. A forester said power at the museum would be generated by solar panels. "Thirty six solar panels have been fixed at the terrace of the museum. There was need to strengthen the security around the museum because it would host rare and expensive exhibits such as elephant tusks, barking deer antlers and stuffed animals, birds and reptiles," he added on condition of anonymity. According to him, footfall will increase once the renovated museum opens. So, it is necessary to tighten the security apparatus. Forest guards will be deployed round-the-clock. The Dalma range office has an enviable collection of ivory, part of which were seized from poachers. "We find tusks after bullfights between elephants inside the sanctuary. The ivory and antlers have been kept at a locker in the range office," an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-41
26-05-2021||Jharkhand||History professor of Binod Bihari university dies of Covid||The assistant professor at Department of History of Binod Bihari Mahto Koyalanchal University, Dr Raymond Kerketta died on Wednesday during the course of treatment for Covid at a private hospital in Shillong. Karketta, 40, a native of Khunti in Jharkhand, was undergoing treatment for more than a week in Shillong where his wife is posted as a teacher. He has two daughters aged five and two. Karketta, who used to live at JC Mallick road in Dhanbad was a 2008 batch assistant professor and a member of the departmental research council of history department OF BBMKU. “We are stunned at the death of Raymod Karketta,” said Anjani Kumar Srivastava, Vice Chancellor of BBMKU. “Covid has snatched one of the most talented teachers from us,” she added. “The entire university family is in deep shock over this death,” she said adding that the void created in the education sector with Karketta’s demise is unlikely to be filled in the near future. Assistant professor of Department of English, Indrajit Kumar said, “It is unbelievable and deeply shocking and we are feeling saddened over his demise.” “May his soul rest in eternal peace and almighty grant courage to the members of his family to bear this irreparable loss,” said Kumar. The assistant professor at Department of History of Binod Bihari Mahto Koyalanchal University, Dr Raymond Kerketta died on Wednesday during the course of treatment for Covid at a private hospital in Shillong. Karketta, 40, a native of Khunti in Jharkhand, was undergoing treatment for more than a week in Shillong where his wife is posted as a teacher. He has two daughters aged five and two. Karketta, who used to live at JC Mallick road in Dhanbad was a 2008 batch assistant professor and a member of the departmental research council of history department OF BBMKU. “We are stunned at the death of Raymod Karketta,” said Anjani Kumar Srivastava, Vice Chancellor of BBMKU. “Covid has snatched one of the most talented teachers from us,” she added. “The entire university family is in deep shock over this death,” she said adding that the void created in the education sector with Karketta’s demise is unlikely to be filled in the near future. Assistant professor of Department of English, Indrajit Kumar said, “It is unbelievable and deeply shocking and we are feeling saddened over his demise.” “May his soul rest in eternal peace and almighty grant courage to the members of his family to bear this irreparable loss,” said Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-41
26-05-2021||Jharkhand||Heavy rain to batter Jharkhand as Yaas reaches Kolhan, Khunti ||Several places across Jharkhand experienced heavy rain due to the impact of Cyclone Yaas which made landfall on Wednesday morning near Dhamra port in Bhadrak district in neighbouring Odisha. Southern and central Jharkhand comprising East Singhbhum,  West Singhbhum, Seraikela-Kharsawan Simdega, Ranchi, Ramgarh, Dhanbad and Bokaro were affected the most, experiencing gusty winds and intermittent rain throughout the day. Head of Ranchi Met Centre Abhishek Anand said the intensity of the wind and rain would increase as the severe cyclonic storm was expected to cross the Kolhan region as a cyclonic storm past midnight. "The severe cyclonic storm over north coastal Odisha, which had a wind speed of over 130 kmph, is expected to cross the tri-junction of the three Kolhan districts past midnight at wind speeds of 60kmph to 70 kmph gusting to 80 kmph. Heavy rainfall is also expected in the districts of East-Singhbhum, Seraikela-Kharsawan, West-Singhbhum and Simdega in the next 24 hours. Heavy  rainfall is also likely at isolated places of  Gumla, Khunti, Lohardaga, Ramgarh  and Ranchi in the next 24 hours, " he said, adding that most of these would also experience squally wind. According to the Met office head, after Kolhan the storm would move towards Khunti on Thursday, gradually lose steam and move further into northern Jharkhand. IMD's Ranchi Met Centre warned of heavy rain in northern Jharkhand, including Palamau, Garhwa and Hazaribagh, on Thursday and Friday (May 27 and May 28) with gusty winds blowing at speeds of 50kmph to 60kmph. It forecast thunderstorms accompanied with lightning and gusty winds at speeds of 30kmph-40 kmph at isolated places in Jharkhand on Saturday, May 29. Kolhan on high alert The  administration of three Kolhan districts _ East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan _has issued a high alert in view of the approaching cyclone. Deputy commissioner of East Singhbhum  Suraj Kumar reviewed the situation on Wednesday morning and ensured that residents of  low-lying areas were shifted to safer places, including government buildings converted as shelters. The NDRF team was also deployed in various places across Kolhan for rescue and relief operations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-41
26-05-2021||Jharkhand||Raja Talab of Jharia to get a makeover at Rs 2cr||The historic Raja Talab of Jharia developed by the erstwhile King of Jharia estate, Late Durga Prasad Singh, is set for a makeover by the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation after years of lying in a cesspool of garbage and filth due to administrative apathy. The civic body has finalised a tender worth Rs 2crore for beautification of the  pond situated over 8.46 acres of land near the old fort of Jharia estate in the heart of the town. The maintenance work, scheduled to begin in a day or two, will include beautification of ghats, installing pavement blocks, concrete recliners and lights around the pond. The project is being carried out under the National Clean Air Programme in which 102 cities/towns from across the country have been selected for reducing the pollution level by 20-30% by 2024. “Though the agency for the project has already been selected but work award is likely to be completed within a day or two and ground work is scheduled to begin after the cyclone,” said Deepak Kumar, junior engineer of DMC, to The Telegraph Online. “There is also a provision for installation of a sewerage treatment plant in the pond on the lines of Bekar Bandh pond of Dhanbad but the project will be taken up during the second phase of beautification by issuing a separate tender,” said Kumar. At present, the drain water of several adjoining localities flow into the pond, making it one of most polluted in the state. A survey conducted by the Environment Engineering Department of IIT (ISM) of different water bodies of Dhanbad in 2007 indicated that the water of the Raja Talab has turned alkaline and its pH value as high as 8.4 and cations and anions were also beyond the permissible limit of WHO. Several agitations by various citizen groups and local activists were carried out earlier demanding a comprehensive beautification of the pond but all the efforts did not bear any result. Desiltation work of the pond was carried out by the DMC in 2016 at a cost of Rs 55lakh but the pond turned the same in the last five years due to release of waste material and sewage from shops and houses situated on the bank of the river. Expressing happiness, Amit Sahu, President of Jharia Chamber of Commerce said, “We are happy about the pond beautification plan as the it’s water is considered holy during rituals like navpatrika snan or belbharni puja during the Durga Puja besides idol immersions.” “To avoid any disturbances in the work like previous occasions we would appeal to DMC to authorise a monitoring  committee constituted by Jharia residents comprising of members of Royal family of Jharia to keep a surveillance check on the work as earlier due to lack of proper monitoring, the work could not be completed properly,” said Sahu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-41
26-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad traders to protest civic body taxes||Coal town traders are planning a phase wise protest against the multitude of taxes levied by Dhanbad Municipal Corporation at a time of economic distress due to lack of any business activities during the state-wide partial lockdown. The traders are against the prerequisite of having a holding tax receipt for issuance of a trade licence fee by the DMC. They claimed that the civic body was going back on its promise of issuing trade licenses for three months to all applicants irrespective of a holding tax submission receipt. The rule has affected those from Jharia because very few have a holding tax receipt from the civic body as they pay taxes to the Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority. President of Jharia Chamber of Commerce, Amit Sahu said, “When the DMC organised trade license camp at different places across the district including  Jharia in February this year, the traders of Jharia were assured that holding tax payment receipt of DMC  is not required for getting trade license and therefore we participated in camp in large numbers but now when we are demanding trade license, DMC authorities are claiming that trade license can be issued to only those with DMC holding tax receipt.” “Why should we pay the holding tax to DMC when we are already paying the same to JMADA,” said Sahu and added that they would submit a letter of protest to DMC authorities. Prabhat Surolia, president of Bank More Chamber of Commerce said, “Though trade licence fees are only an extra burden on us when we are already paying the GST but we somehow agreed to pay the trade license fee but this precondition of DMC holding tax receipt for trade license fee is not acceptable.” “During the time of holding of trade license camps by DMC we pointed out to DMC authorities that putting precondition of having holding tax receipt is not right as many traders who run their outlets from rented accommodation can’t submit the same as their landlords don’t have holding tax payment receipts,” said Surolia and added that though the DMC authorities promised them that holding tax receipt is not mandatory but they are denying the trade license certificates on account of non payment of holding tax.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-41
26-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand counters Centre data on vaccine wastage||Chief minister Hemant Soren has refuted the Centre’s claim that Jharkhand had registered the highest vaccine wastage at 37.3 per cent, saying that the data on vaccine usage could not be uploaded on the Co-WIN platform due to technical glitches. “As per total vaccine doses availability with Govt of Jharkhand till today, the current vaccine wastage proportion is only 4.65 per cent. Vaccination data could not be fully updated to the central Co-WIN server due to technical glitches,” Hemant tweeted from his official handle soon after the Centre released state-wide data of vaccine wastage. So angry was state health minister Banna Gupta with the Centre’s claim that he accused the Centre of fudging data to defame Jharkhand. Earlier in the day, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare released data of vaccine wastage in states in which it claimed that 37.3 per cent vaccine shots were wasted in Jharkhand – the highest in the country-- against a national average of 6.3 per cent. According to the ministry data, Chhattisgarh, with 30.2 per cent, registered the second highest wastage of the vaccine and Tamil Nadu, with 15.3 per cent, was third. Jammu & Kashmir and Madhya Pradesh also reported more than 10 per cent vaccine wastage. The difference in data compiled by a UPA coalition-ruled Jharkhand and the BJP-ruled Centre comes amid glaring glitches in the Co-WIN app highlighted by residents across the country. As per data shared by the state government on Wednesday, Jharkhand has so far utilised 42,07,128 doses of the vaccine and covered 40,12,142 residents. As many as 4,635 vaccine doses have been wasted in the state so far, government data highlighted. The chief minister added that the state government was fully focused on utilising available vaccine doses in the most prudent manner possible ensuring minimal wastage. “We hope to minimise it further with more focused vaccination awareness campaigns in forested and rural areas of the state,” he said. Minister Banna Gupta was scathing. “Union government is defaming Jharkhand by manipulation of data. We want to know the reason behind releasing such fudged figures. It (centre) must explain if the entire nation is being fooled and duped with similar data manipulation,” the Congress minister tweeted. Jharkhand has been complaining about the Centre’s bias against the state since the second wave of Covid-19 hit the country. The state health minister had earlier released a statement claiming that the Centre was neither providing life-saving drugs to Jharkhand as per demand nor was it supplying enough vaccine doses to immunize those between 18 and 44 year of age in the state. Jharkhand also became the first state in India to seek the Centre’s nod in procuring Remdesivir injections from Bangladesh amid rapidly rising cases of Covid deaths. On Monday, Hemant had expressed concern about the acute shortage of vaccines during a virtual meeting with his cabinet colleagues. He said that Jharkhand would be forced to stop vaccinating people in the 18+ age group as only for two-three days’ stocks remained. Similarly, stocks for 45+ age group would get exhausted in 7-10 days, he had warned and blamed the Centre for mismanagement of the nationwide vaccination drive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-41
26-05-2021||Jharkhand||29 suspected black fungus cases in Jharkhand||As many as 21 confirmed cases of black fungus have been detected in Jharkhand so far of which eight persons have died, state health department formally announced on Tuesday. At present 29 persons are classified as ‘black fungus suspects’ and are undergoing treatment in different hospitals, said officials adding that they comprise both existing and recovered Covid patients. Mucormycosis is a rare infection caused by exposure to mucor mould found in soil, plants, manure and decaying fruits and vegetables. According to medical experts, this infection usually affects the lungs, the nasal tract and the sinus of the patient and has a fatality rate of 50 per cent, say doctors. Diabetes and people with immune compromised conditions are at a higher risk of infection. Health department’s data further stated that Ranchi and East Singhbhum have registered three deaths each while one fatality each was reported from Chatra and Ramgarh since the detection of first case early this month. Among the confirmed cases, East Singbhum has the highest number of 10 cases while two more suspected cases. Other districts with confirmed cases include Ranchi (5), Ramgarh (3), Chatra, Deoghar and Jamtara (one each). Among the suspected cases, Ranchi has maximum of nine followed by three each in Ramgarh and Giridih. Bokaro, Dhanbad, East Singbhum, and Koderma have two each while Chatra, Garhwa, Gumla, Hazaribag, Latehar, and Sahebganj currently have one suspected case each. “All patients are currently admitted in Rims, Medica and Rampyari hospital in Ranchi and MGM and TMH in Jamshedpur,” health department said in a statement. The state which was reeling under the shortage crisis of Amphotericin-B few days back has received fresh stocks of the crucial drug required to treat black fungus cases. “Of 1957 vials of Amphotericin-B on May 21, 1007 were dispatched to all districts by May 24. Currently, we are left with 950 vials. We had received 100 and 60 vials from union government on May 21 and 24 respectively,” said an official. Considering the emergence of black fungus, also known as mucormycosis, as a latest threat to people amid the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, the state government on Sunday night directed Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi to constitute a technical expert group comprising doctors from different areas of expertise in order to tackle growing cases and also function as the nodal centre for treatment of the fungal infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-41
26-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: active cases drop to to 15,641 in Jharkhand with 3155 recoveries in a day ||The active caseload of Covid-19 dropped to 15,641 in Jharkhand and below 4000 in Ranchi as at least 3155 Covid patients recovered in the state on Tuesday while 1247 residents were found infected by Coronavirus, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. The Covid toll drew closer to the 5000-mark as at least 20 more patients, including three from Ranchi and four from East Singhbhum, died during treatment on the day, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. As per the bulletin, as many as 4891 Jharkhand residents have died of Covid-19 so far. Ranchi on Tuesday reported 237 fresh cases of infection against 484 recoveries and the active caseload here dropped to 3919 while the Covid toll reached 1515. On the other hand, the active caseload in East Singhbhum dropped to 1,325 as the district reported 108 fresh cases against 367 recoveries, NHM data highlighted. So far, 983 people have died of Covid-19 in East Singhbhum. These two districts jointly account for more than 30 per cent of the active caseload and over 50 per cent of the Covid deaths in Jharkhand. Among other districts, Hazaribag reported 256 recoveries against 103 cases and two casualties. Bokaro reported 60 cases against 225 recoveries. Two patients died in Bokaro as well on the day. Barring Ranchi, Hazaribag and East Singhbhum, none of the remaining 21 districts reported a triple-digit-spike in cases. Palamu reported only six fresh cases of infection on the day while only 9 people were found infected in Sahegbanj. The state on Tuesday tested swab samples of 58,572 residents and less than 2 per cent of them were found infected. As per government data, over 3.30 lakh people have been infected by Coronavirus in the state so far and close to 94 per cent of them have recovered. The growth rate of infection in the state also dropped to 0.45 per cent against the national average of 0.64 per cent on the day, while the doubling rate in Jharkhand reached 155.52 days against the national average of 108.60 days. The Covid mortality rate in the state, however, was 1.46 per cent against the national average of 1.10 per cent, the NHM stated in its bulletin. Jharkhand administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 35,051 residents on the day and more than 27,000 of the beneficiaries were in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. The second jab was administered to 3165 residents, mostly people above the age of 45 years, on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-41
26-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Partial lockdown extended by a week till June 3||Jharkhand’s partial lockdown, or health safety week, has been extended by a week till 6am on June 3, the state government announced on Tuesday night. The decision was taken after a meeting of the state disaster management authority (SDMA) chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren, a day after he conducted a virtual meeting with all his cabinet ministers. At least four ministers in the 10-member cabinet had demanded for further extension of the lockdown to flatten the covid-19 curve. An Information Public Relations Department (IPRD) press statement said state secretariats will resume work with 33% attendance and officers above the rank of joint secretary are mandated to come to office daily. The state government also tweaked its e-pass rule by further exempting media, government officials, those working in PSUs, corporate and private factories. “Their i-cards or duty passes will serve as e-pass,” read the order, adding that for all others, an e-pass will remain mandatory for any kind of movement within the district or the state. As per a detailed notification issued later at night, judicial staff, students appearing for exams, travellers of train/air, and those with medical requirements are also exempted from e-passes. All such people will have to produce i-cards, travel tickets, admit cards and the like if asked by anyone during checking. Meanwhile, the CM also reviewed the state’s preparedness for cyclone Yaas that is feared to also have a devastating effect in several, namely East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum, Seraikela-Kharsawan, Simdega, Gumla and few others along the borders of Bengal and Orissa. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the cyclone is expected to hit Balasore in Orissa in the early hours of Wednesday. Disaster management authorities informed the CM about multipronged mitigation plans readied across different districts to tackle the cyclone. Officials said that while all covid hospitals are readied with back-up plans for uninterrupted oxygen and power supply, shelter homes are set up at different pockets at block levels in high vulnerable zones to house people after evacuation and rescue. Separate quick response teams are also put on alert to coordinate different activities to minimize the impact. East Singhbhum district administration on the other hand has notified a 24-hour total lockdown from 6am on Wednesday till Thursday in view of cyclone Yaas. Notifying it under different sections of Disaster Management Act, 2005, officials said that the decision was taken to minimize damages. “Only people going for medical emergencies, media, and officials engaged in covid and cyclone work are excluded from the one-day total lockdown,” read the order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-41
26-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Medica adds ECMO machines||The 300-bed Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspeciality Hospital at Ranchi has enhanced its facility for critically ill Covid patients with adding two more extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) machines in addition to its existing one machine. “We are the only hospital to have ECMO machines in Jharkhand, Bihar or Northeast states. It is used for critically ill patients, whose heart and lungs are too weak or diseased to carry out the exchange of gases that is needed to stay alive. It acts as an artificial heart and pair of lungs outside the body which removes carbon dioxide from the patient’s blood and adds oxygen to it,” said Dr Vijay Mishra, head critical care department and medical director Medica Superspeciality Hospital. Sources said that ECMO machines were used for critically ill Covid patients, whose lungs are damaged and require ventilator support. “The ECMO machine works by inserting a plastic tube into a large vein and/or artery through the neck, chest or groin of the patient. This tube allows the patient’s blood to flow out into an oxygenator, or artificial lung. The oxygenator adds oxygen and removes carbon dioxide from the blood, before a pump sends this blood back into the patient through a different tube,” added Dr Mishra. In critically ill patients when oxygen support fails, specialists resort to mechanical ventilation to help maintain oxygenation. However, some patients are no longer able to respond to such intervention as their heart and lungs are too weak or diseased to carry out the exchange of gases that is needed to stay alive and in such extreme cases doctors may resort to ECMO. “ECMO has also been shown to successfully reduce the chances of a cytokine storm — in which the patient’s immune system turns on itself — which can cause a severe inflammatory response and multiple organ failure,” informed Dr Mishra. As on Monday morning, state reported 37 deaths taking the total death to 4,838 while new cases dipped to 1,345 taking the total active case load to 19,499. State had a healthy recovery rate at 92.63 per cent (as against national average of 88.30 per cent). The mortality rate of Jharkhand at 1.46 per cent continued to be higher than the national average of 1.10 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-41
