27-05-2021||Jharkhand||Bridge caves in, 14,000 displaced||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-39
27-05-2021||Jharkhand||Toddler, father die after wall collapse as record rain floods Ranchi||Two persons, including an 11-month-old boy, died in Ranchi on Thursday amid heavy rain triggered by Cyclone Yaas since Wednesday night, the downpour leading to floods and disruptions in power supply. According to the Met office, Ranchi district witnessed 151mm rain in the last 24 hours, breaking the district’s May 17, 1990 record of 72.2 mm rain. The downpour, coupled with strong winds, uprooted trees across different locations, and snapped overhead cables causing widespread power cuts across the state capital. On Thursday morning, the Subernarekha river, which passes through Ranchi city, was flowing above the footbridge at Namkum. Several low-lying areas reported water logging, throwing life out of gear. In Tamar, over 40km from Ranchi, a bridge over the Tajna river connecting Bundu and Sonahatu blocks, caved in disrupting local traffic movement. In Ranchi, the father-son duo of Shankar Ramani and Rishab, died after a portion of a wall of their asbestos-roofed house at Jagannathpur collapsed. The toddler’s mother, Barkha Ramani, was not at home when the incident occurred, according to a neighbour. “The two were asleep when a portion of the wall of the house suddenly collapsed on them leading to severe injuries. We rushed the two to RIMS but they died on the way,” said Ajay. Overnight rains caused water-logging in many low-lying areas of the city, like  Bandhgari, parts of Hindpri and areas around Tender Heart School. “We have been awake since midnight. There is water all over our house because of water logging in the area. With no electricity, we used candles the whole night and stayed awake to safeguard our belongings,” remarked vegetable vendor Dilip Khalko of Bandhgari. At another lane of Bandhgari, water had submerged several parked vehicles. Similar scenes were witnessed at Hindpiri, another congested locality. “Every time it rains, our area gets flooded due to the lack of a proper drainage system,” said Md Khalid. RMC works round-the clock Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) was at work round-the-clock since Wednesday night attending to complaints registered by its control room (0651-2200011/9431104429). Town commissioner Mukesh Kumar said several teams were constituted in the wake of the cyclone, focussed on clearing roads and removing trees, among others, on priority. He said the RMC initiative to clean drains that began last week ahead of the monsoon, ensured flooding was minimal. “Our teams have been working since Wednesday. As a result, in many areas like Harmu, Kanke Road, Khelgaon, Argora and Doranda, we could deploy manpower soon after receiving a complaint.” JBVNL claims damages worth Rs 50 lakh The state electricity department pegged losses to the tune of Rs 50 lakh in Ranchi division due to snapping of cables and uprooting of power poles. Ranchi Circle GM of Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Prabhat Kumar Srivastava said that JBVNL teams acted promptly through the day attending to complaints that came in from areas like Ratu, Brambe, Bero, Kanke, Nagri, Tatisilwai, Angara and Silli. “At least 60 power poles were uprooted due to the cyclone and 15 transformers got defunct in Ranchi. Work began on a war footing. In some places, power was restored within hours,” said. Srivastava said all hospitals in the capital were unaffected. “Power supply was ensured at all hospitals,” he said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-39
27-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad vaccine centres run out of stock for 18+ ||All vaccination centres for the 18 to 44 year age group across the district have suspended operations for the last two days due to shortage in regular supply. The centres vaccinating those above 45 years are functional. “We had to discontinue the vaccination for the 18 plus age group since May 26 due to shortage of vaccine stocks but as new stock normally comes on Sunday every week we are expecting to re-launch the drive from Monday,” said Vikash Rana, district reproductive and child health officer of Dhanbad to The Telegraph Online. “Though we are operating 25 centres for 45 and above age groups,  attendance has been quite low at these centres since May 26 due to bad weather conditions including  rain and storm and many people can’t reach the centres,” elaborated Rana. “We are however getting great response from the 18 to 44 age group beneficiaries and the helpline launched for addressing queries is very busy all the time,” said Rana. “Though I registered on the CoWin portal on April 29 itself to get Covaxin, I am still waiting for my slot,” said Gaurav Dey, a resident of Chiragora in Dhanbad. Ritika Dey a cousin of Gaurav Dey said, “I also registered on the portal on April 29 but could not get the slot till date.” She said they could not go out of the house even for essential work due to being unvaccinated and wanted to get vaccinated as early as possible. Vijaya Tripathi a housemaker of Jharia said, “We also wanted to get vaccinated as early as possible but despite being registered on the Cowin portal we are not getting a slot.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-40
27-05-2021||Jharkhand||Yaas fury leads to widespread rain, floods south Jharkhand areas||Cyclone Yaas, which moved into Jharkhand from Odisha past midnight on Thursday, triggered heavy rainfall across the state causing floods in low-lying areas even as the storm weakened, as forecast, into a depression while moving further north. Two persons, including an 11-month-old boy, died after a wall collapsed on them at their house at Jagannathpur in Ranchi district due to incessant rain. Most rivers of the state, including the Subernarekha, were flowing above the danger mark. In Tamar, over 40km from Ranchi, a bridge over the Tajna river connecting Bundu and Sonahatu blocks, caved in disrupting local traffic movement. In Kolhan, over 1,000 people have had to be evacuated and moved to safe zones, officials said. Head of Ranchi Met Centre, Abhishek Anand said, "The cyclone weakened into a depression as it entered southern Jharkhand from Odisha and moved northwards. This afternoon (Thursday) it was over central parts of Jharkhand, about 20km east of Ranchi and 95km southwest of Jamshedpur. The system was moving northwards and is likely to further weaken in the next 24 hours." Southern Jharkhand bore the brunt of Yaas’s fury on Thursday. At Simdega, an elderly person sustained serious injuries after branches of a tree fell on him on Thursday morning. Medininagar at Daltonganj, the Palamau headquarters, experienced a sudden flash-flood-like situation as the water from the Koel river crossed the danger mark in the afternoon. Officials of the state disaster management department said that in Kolhan around 1,000 people had been evacuated and moved to government buildings used as shelters after water inundated several low-lying areas. "Water levels of both Kharkai and the connecting Subernarekha rivers crossed the danger mark due to the opening of sluice gates at Bankabal dam in Odisha," said an official as reports came in that more Kolhan areas had been flooded by the evening. Electricity cables were snapped in several parts of the state, causing disruption in power supply. The state power board officials said workers were on the job to restore supply as soon as possible. NDRF teams had to be deployed for rescue operations as water from the swollen Subernarekha and Kharkai rivers entered several low-lying areas in the Kolhan region, including Bagbera, Jugsalai, Mango (in East Singhbhum) and Kumardungi and Chakradharpur in West Singhbhum. Officials said water entered over 300 houses, displacing over 14,000 people in East Singhbhum. Deputy commissioner of East Singhbhum Suraj Kumar and his officials inspected the affected areas and planned relief and rehabilitation measures. As the cyclone, which had weakened into a depression, was moving northwards on Thursday, IMD issued a heavy rain alert in Garhwa, Palamau, Chatra, Latehar, Hazaribagh, Koderma and several other districts for the next 24 hours. Till Thursday evening, Chaibasa in West Singhbhum topped the rain chart with 207.8 mm followed by Mandar which witnessed 182.2 mm rainfall. The IMD observatory in capital Ranchi recorded 151mm while Chakradharpur in West Singhbhum saw 133.6 mm rain. Torpa in Ranchi district and Kuru in Lohardaga experienced over 110 mm of rain. The local IMD Met centre in Jamshedpur recorded 109 mm of rain the same as that of adjoining Seraikela-Kharswan. Ramgarh recorded around 95 mm of rain while Chhatra got 82.4 mm. Met data suggests that several other places in Ranchi, Bokaro and Dhanbad districts experienced heavy rainfall between 65 and 85mm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-40
27-05-2021||Jharkhand||Topchanchi getting a makeover as tourist destination||The Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority has stepped up measures to restore the historic Topchanchi and convert it into a major tourist destination in the state by augmenting its facilities. An artificial lake developed during the British Raj in 1924 by tapping the ten different natural channels flowing through the nearby Parasnath group of hills, Topchanchi Lake is a major tourist destination. Besides the lake, a wildlife sanctuary spread across an 8.75 square km area also draws a large number of tourists from across the state and nearby Bengal. The construction work of a 5.5 km road is being carried out around the lake as part of a comprehensive project of Rs 317crore. It includes the laying of new water supply pipelines at Jharia and construction of a water treatment plant at Jamadoba. The civic body has decided to launch a toy train service for visitors similar to the one at Birsa Munda Park of Dhanbad , after the completion of the road work. Executive engineer of JMADA, Indresh Shukla said, “The road construction and launching of toy train service will help the tourists coming from different parts of the state and Bengal to witness the natural beauty of the lake surrounded with a large number of hillocks all around it.” The lake is a favourite destination for a large number of migratory birds including Black Cormorant, Pink Duck, Black winged stilt, common Teal, gadwall, brown headed gull, spoonbill, red crested pochard and common Coot. “The contractor working for the road construction may be entrusted with the task of operating the toy train,” said Shukla. The district administration is yet to approve a proposal to renovate two guest houses situated near the lake including, the Lake house and another guest house called C 1 guest house.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-40
27-05-2021||Jharkhand||Mucormycosis claims another life in Ranchi, state toll 9||Another patient of mucormycosis died during treatment at Ranchi-based Raj Hospital, taking the black fungus death toll in Jharkhand to 9, while six more confirmed cases of the infection and seven suspected cases were reported in the state in the past 48 hours, health officials said on Thursday. As per data shared by the state health department, as many as 27 confirmed cases of mucormycosis and 36 suspected cases of the deadly fungal infection have been reported in Jharkhand so far. The health department on Thursday stated that at least four persons have died of back fungus in Ranchi, while three died in East Singhbhum. The virus has claimed one life each in Ramgarh and Chatra. In a bid to ensure the supply of Amphotericin B – a life-saving drug for patients of Mucormycosis – and prevent its black marketing, the health department has also released an email ID where residents can send patient details and get the anti-fungal injection delivered to the concerned hospital. “All you need to do is write an email to amphojharkhand@gmail.com and share all the details of the patient such as name, age, hospital and the treating doctor in order to get the required doses of Amphotericin B supplied to the hospital,” said National Health Mission (NHM) Director Dr Siddharth Shiv Jaiswal. Mucormycosis patients undergoing treatment in government hospitals will be provided the medicine free of cost, but the ones admitted in private hospitals will have to pay for the drug as per the current government rate, Jaiswal added. Last week, the Drug Control Directorate of Jharkhand wrote to different pharmaceutical companies seeking supply of Amphotericin B in the state. Most of the pharmacies in Ranchi had run out of the anti-fungal drug owing to the sudden rise in demand due to rising cases of Mucormycosis. The ideal dosage of Amphotericin B, doctors say, is 5mg per kilogram weight of the patient. So, doctors would need at least six vials of 50mg each for treating a patient of 60kg weight in a day. Besides, some critical patients may even need double dosage. Mucormycosis, also called black fungus, is a rare infection caused by exposure to mucor mould found in soil, plants, manure and decaying fruits and vegetables. This infection usually affects the lungs, the nasal tract and the sinus of the patient and has a fatality rate of 50 per cent, say doctors. Earlier this week, the government made Mucormycosis a notifiable disease and asked the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) to maintain records related to the lethal fungal infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-40
27-05-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city lakes thriving with fishes after year long curbs||Anglers can look forward to a hefty catch when they get an opportunity to test their patience once the lockdown curbs are relaxed. Lakes in the steel city are teeming with fish with some weighing as much as 50 kg. The Jamshedpur Angling Club had suspended activities at Jayanti sarovar (at Jubilee Park), Beldih lake (near Dhatkidih) and Bara lake (near Sidhgora), for over a year. The club’s general secretary Sukumar Ghoshal said, “The aquatic population at all the lakes had ample time to grow since angling was suspended. We have plans to resume angling once the situation improves completely.” According to him, the Catlas at the lakes weigh between 40-50 kg. Ruis and mirgals weigh around 35-40 kg. “The size and weight are enough to make our members happy,” Ghoshal said. The JAC had released jira (fish fries) at all the three lakes in June-July last year. “We released jira procured from Ramsagar in Bengal,” Ghoshal said, adding they would not release jira this year since there is adequate fish stock at the lakes. “There are several old fish in the lakes which have grown before release of jiras,” the club general secretary added. The Covid-19 pandemic has hit angling hard in the steel city. It forced the  cancellation of two annual events – one on the birth anniversary of doyen of Indian industry JRD Tata on July 29 last year and the day-and- night competition in November. Both these events attract a good number of participants, especially from Calcutta and Kharagpur. The 236-odd members of JAC are anxiously waiting for the pandemic to become normal and the landmark Jubillee Park to reopen. According to the rules of the club, established in 1947, it mentions that angling can be conducted at other lakes only if it is held at Jayanti sarovar. The Jubilee Park has been closed for over a year due to the pandemic. Ghoshal, however, said they would not like to hurry when it comes to resuming angling at the lakes. “We would not like to hurry even if the Jubilee Park reopens and angling resumes at the sarovar since most of our members are aged between 65 and 75. There is a likelihood of our elderly members catching infection. We would wait till the pandemic-related situation normalises completely,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-40
27-05-2021||Jharkhand||State board students of Class 9 and 11 to be promoted without exams||The Jharkhand government on Thursday issued an order to promote all students studying in class nine and 11 without annual examination with immediate effect in the wake of continued closure of schools due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown in the state. Director of state secondary education department has formally issued the directives to all districts, district education departments and state run schools in this regard asking them for compliance without further delay in the interest of students. Harsh Mangla, director of the secondary education department said that the decision was taken to provide students who are being promoted to next class to provide ample time to prepare for their 10th and intermediate board exams next year. “The ongoing lockdown (health safety week) in the state has been further extended till June 3 but there is still no clarity if schools and education institutions will be able to function anytime soon in view of the second wave of Covid-19. The current academic year has already got expired on March 31 and two months have passed for the next session. Any further delays would pose problems for schools and students to prepare for their board examination next year. Therefore, government has finally decided to promote all students of class 9 and 11 to next class without any delay,” he said. Mangla has also asked principals of all the state affiliated schools to finish formalities of promotion in their respective establishments at the earliest and facilitate online classes for the new academic session till the offline mode of schooling could resume. Earlier, the state education department had already promoted all students between standard 1 and 8 to next class and their studies have already resumed. However, there is still ambiguity for those currently in class 10 and intermediate (12th) over their board exams conducted by the Jharkhand Academic Council (JAC). Notably, few days ago, chief minister Hemant Soren invited online views of parents, students and teachers on this issue for taking an informed decision. Also, during a virtual meeting of all states with CBSE and union ministry of education over class 12 boards recently, Soren urged authorities to not rush on taking the examination in view of the prevalent covid-19 situation. Sources said that the state government said that they are likely to hold meeting with all the stakeholders in the first week of June to review the situation before taking any final call. “JAC board’s exam would depend on the schedule of central boards so that we can maintain proper sync. A meeting is slated to be held after June 3 for further discussion with JAC and other partners in this regard,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-40
27-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand's daily Covid caseload drops below 1000 for first time since 2nd wave||Jharkhand on Wednesday reported less than 1000 fresh cases of Covid-19 in a day for the first time since the second wave of the pandemic hit the tribal state in April, figures released by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. The state also reported more than 2400 Covid recoveries in the past 24 hours, which brought the active caseload down to 14,196. As per a bulletin released by the NHM, as many as 977 people were found infected by Coronavirus in Jharkhand on Wednesday while at least 2403 patients recovered from the infection. Ranchi and East Singhbhum were the only two districts to report a triple-digit-spike in cases on the day. At least 120 people were found infected in Ranchi while 453 patients recovered here on Wednesday, the NHM bulletin stated. In East Singhbhum, 160 residents were found infected and 363 patients recovered, bringing the active caseload there down to 1,118. As per government data, the active caseload in Ranchi dropped to 3,547. The state also reported 19 Covid casualties on the day, which took the toll in the state to 4910. As per government data, Ranchi reported seven deaths while East Singhbhum reported five deaths on Wednesday, which took the toll in Ranchi to 1522 and that in East Singhbhum to 988. Among other districts, Bokaro reported 64 cases against 202 recoveries, while Dhanbad reported 73 cases against 178 recoveries. At least 53 people were found infected by Coronavirus in Hazaribag on the day while 151 patients recovered there. The state on Wednesday tested swab samples of 42,453 residents and around 2 per cent of them were found infected. The daily positivity rate for Covid-19 in the state had reached around 20 per cent during the peak earlier this month, and the government attributes the drop in positivity rate to the lockdown-like restrictions enforced to check the spread of the virus. The growth rate of infection also dropped to 0.40 per cent in Jharkhand against the national average of 0.61 per cent on Wednesday, while the doubling rate of cases rose to 174.67 days against the national average of 114.47 days. The doubling rate in Jharkhand, as per government records, had dropped close to 25 days during the peak of the second wave in early May. As per government data, the recovery rate has also improved in the state. At least 94 per cent of the 3.34 lakh people infected by Coronavirus in Jharkhand so far have recovered. The mortality rate in the state, however, was still 1.46 per cent against the national average of 1.10 per cent. The state on Wednesday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 20,821 residents, while the second jab was administered to 2,289 beneficiaries, stated a separate report from NHM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-40
27-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand unit of Congress joins farmers’ protest ||The members of the Jharkhand unit of the Congress hoisted black flags at their houses and also wore black bands on Wednesday to protest against and demand the withdrawal of the three new farms laws. They, like some other Opposition parties, did so in response to the call given by the farmers’ outfit, Sanjukt Kishan Morcha, that wanted to observe completion of six months of the farmers’ agitation against those laws. The party, in a statement issued in Ranchi, criticised the Union government for suppressing the farmers issues and demanded withdrawal of the farm laws. To express their solidarity with the farmers, all the members and leaders including MLAs hoisted black flags on their houses across the state and also wore black badges to lodge their protest and demand withdrawal of the anti- farmers laws, it added. “These laws were actually not required and no one had asked for those,” state Congress president and finance minister Rameshwar Oraon later told the media in Ranchi. “The farmers were never taken into confidence and the people of the country will never accept the way the farm bills were passed in the Rajya Sabha, despite protests,” he further said.  “The Union government actually compromised with the farmers’ interested, just to benefit the industrialists,” the minister alleged. The farmers always preferred the minimum support price system for their produce continued so that they would be financially protected while the industrialist would like to construct warehouses to hoard those for selling at higher prices later, he added. “The Union government was so insensitive that it didn’t take any positive step even after so many farmers died while protesting against those anti-farmer laws,” alleged state agriculture minister Badal Patralekh. “Agriculture is a state subject but the Union government had brought those bills without even consulting the states though most of the states were ruled by the BJP,” he alleged. “We failed to understand the pressure the Union government may have felt so that it had to bring in and pass those bills in such a hurry, particularly when no one had demanded such laws,” the minister further said. They would always continue to support the farmers’ peaceful agitation against those farm laws and demand their withdrawal, Patrakekh reiterated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-40
27-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand government to audit Covid deaths||The Jharkhand government has constituted a state-level committee to conduct an audit of all Covid-19 deaths since April 1 in selected hospitals of five districts which have witnessed a high number of casualties. Additional chief secretary (health) Arun Kumar Singh, who constituted the committee, told The Telegraph that the government felt the audit was necessary to find out the causes for the high numbers of deaths in these districts. “Since the outbreak of the second wave of Covid-19 in our state, the mortality rate has increased from 0.9 per cent to 1.46 per cent. The number of reported deaths is more in Ranchi, Dhanbad, Bokaro, East Singhbhum and Hazaribagh districts. This made us constitute a state-level committee to conduct an audit of all reported Covid deaths since April 1. The committee will conduct the audit in a fixed format and brief about their findings and recommendations to the authorities concerned of the institutions. The recommendations and consolidated report has to be submitted by May 31,” Singh said. The audit would delve into the delay in seeking care or death at home, delay in reaching healthcare facility or transport, delay in referral, delay in care at healthcare facility and quality of care at the healthcare centre. The audit would be carried out at the state’s biggest government health centre —Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi, Bokaro General Hospital (managed by SAIL), Sheikh Bhikhari Medical College, Hazaribagh, Tata Main Hospital (managed by Tata Steel in Jamshedpur) and Shahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College (Dhanbad). The committee which will be conducting the audit at the RIMS, Ranchi, Tata Main Hospital and Hazaribagh Medical College would be led by director of medical education Dr Laxman Lal, Unicef health officer Dr Vanesh Mathur, Dr R.N. Sharma (Ranchi), Dr Sahir Pall (East Singhbhum) Dr S.K. Kant (Hazaribagh), Dr Anoop Rajak (Ranchi), Dr Suman Kandulna (East Singhbhum) and Dr Deepak Kumar (Hazaribagh). The committee which will be carrying out the audit at Bokaro and Dhanbad would be led by deputy director, health, Dr S.N. Jha, Unicef health specialist Dr Rahul Kapse, Dr N.P. Singh (Bokaro), Dr Vikash Rana (Dhanbad), Dr Amol Shinde (Bokaro) and Dr Amit Kumar Tiwary (Dhanbad). The state health department has also constituted an empowered committee as part of efforts to prevent Covid-19 infection in children during the likely third wave of the pandemic and also to ensure infrastructure is in place at hospitals for treatment of infants affected by coronavirus. The committee would be submitting its report and suggestions to the department within seven days. The committee would study the existing infrastructure for the treatment of children and highlight the shortcomings which would be presented to the government so that suitable steps are taken to bridge the gap. The committee would also prepare a guideline for treatment of various age groups of children, including medicines to be used, equipment, manpower requirement and training, if necessary, and submit it to the government. The committee led by Dr Shantanu Agrahari (doctor turned IAS officer), who is also the state nodal officer for hospital and bed management, comprises state home isolation nodal officer Bhubanesh Pratap Singh, state nodal officer for child healthcare Dr Ajit Kumar Prasad and director in chief of medical services Dr Marshal Aind, a member of the state chapter of the Indian Academy of Paediatrics. “The focus would be on setting up high dependency units apart from SNCU (sick newborn care unit) and PICU (pediatric intensive care unit) in all districts along with the constitution of centres of excellence in all blocks,” said a committee member who preferred anonymity. On Tuesday, the state added 1,247 Covid-19 cases taking the active caseload to 15,641 and 20 deaths due to the virus taking the total casualties to 4,891.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-40
