28-05-2021||Jharkhand||Cyclone Yaas disrupts water supply from Damodar to Jharia||More than five lakh Jharia residents are facing disruptions in water supply due to a clogged pipeline at Jamadoba water treatment plant after the water level at Damodar increased in the aftermath of Cyclone Yaas. The residents face a perennial water crisis for various reasons including repeated leakages in water supply pipeline, technical snag in motors and periodic strikes carried out by the employees at the treat plant. A team of senior officials of Jharkhand Mineral Area Developement Authority led by executive engineer and technical member Indresh Shukla on Friday visited the plant to take stock of the problem and instructed the officials of water supply division to fix the problem at the earliest. Anup Sao, former councillor of Ward Number 37 of Jharia, said,“The residents of Jharia are compelled to face water crisis on several pretexts including repeated leakages in water supply pipeline, technical snag in motors of WTP, periodic strike carried out by the employees owing to non payment of salaries and even when the water level increases during monsoon.” “Not only during cyclone but also during monsoon when water level increases in river due to release of water from Tenughat dam of Bokaro, similar problem is faced several times as hyacinth and other plant parts obstruct the inlet of intake well of WTP affecting water treatment and resultant lack of water supply,” said Sao. “Even in this age of technology manual cleaning of inlet pipeline of intake well is carried out with the staff sometimes risking their lives and entering the river to clean the pipe against the strong current of water delaying the fixing of the problem,” said Sao and added that he can’t understand why a mechanical cleaning arrangement has not been made. JMADA Executive Engineer, Indresh Shukla said, “The problem has been fixed now after the cleaning work and water supply is likely to be restored by tonight or tomorrow morning in Jharia.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-38
28-05-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi launches door-to-door vaccine drive||Residents in the state capital can avail vaccination at their doorstep as the Ranchi district administration on Friday launched two mobile vans for inoculation drive on a pilot basis. State health minister Banna Gupta flagged off the vans from Jawahar Nagar club around noon. He said that the vans will target vaccination of people in the age group of 18-44 and 45 plus depending on the demands. District administration officials maintained that the van can be pressed into action in different localities that don’t have nearby vaccination centres, or have sufficient numbers of population who are immobile. Health department officials added that depending on its success, it will gradually be rolled out in other districts too as part of the state government’s plan to increase vaccination coverage. Deputy Commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said that the minimum requirement for sending the van should be availability of at least 20 persons in any area to receive the jabs. “All one needs to do is to call at 7546028221 to avail the services of the mobile vaccination van. We shall also make provisions for on-spot registration of people to vaccination. Besides the existing centres for vaccination, this move will further help in increase the coverage as it can be used in areas where people wish to avail vaccination at their doorstep or are unable to come to the vaccination centre,” he said. Gupta on the other hand dubbed it as a landmark initiative in their efforts towards ensuring seamless vaccination process for people in the state. “Besides working overnight to ensure proper medical facilities for covid patients by improve health infrastructure, state government is equally focused towards vaccinating people to prevent them from the virus. Despite limited resources, the government has been successful in minimizing the crisis amid the second wave of covid-19 to a large extent,” he said, adding that the vans can now be effectively used to address concerns of such vulnerable sections of the society like elderly, physically challenged among others who face problems in coming to vaccination centre. Sources said that focus initially will be to target the 45 plus age group to vaccinate through mobile vans. “The usage of mobile vans will largely depend on the availability of the vaccine stocks. For 18 plus, we currently don’t have enough stocks in the state. Hence, we will focus on increasing second dose coverage for the 45 plus age group which needs a special boost,” he said. On Friday, according to the health department’s records, the state had 1,64,520 doses of vaccine for the 18 plus age group. This includes 62,710 doses of Covaxin, and 1,01,810 Covishield. For other age groups, 7,14,538 total doses of 2,46,360 Covaxin and 4,68,178 Covishield. For the 18 plus age group, the state government is bearing the cost to provide free vaccines from its coffer while Centre is bearing the cost of jabs for the rest of the age groups.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-38
28-05-2021||Jharkhand||Sun peeps out as Cyclone Yaas weakens and moves to Bihar||Weather conditions in most parts of Jharkhand improved considerably on Friday as Cyclone Yaas weakened and moved to Bihar and adjoining east Uttar Pradesh. Weathermen at IMD's Ranchi Met Centre said that on Friday, the cyclone lay centred over Bihar and adjoining east Uttar Pradesh. Data available from IMD's Ranchi Met Centre indicated light to moderate rain at most places, moderate to heavy rain (over 55 mm ) at a few places and extremely heavy rainfall ( over 204 mm ) in  isolated places during the past 24 hours. The highest amount of rainfall was recorded at Rajmahal in Sahebganj district (228.6 mm). The sun was out in most places of Jharkhand after the clouds got cleared. Clear weather prevailed in Jamshedpur, Ranchi, Dhanbad, Bokaro and elsewhere. Water has started receding from low-lying areas and various rivers including the two most affected ones- Subernarekha and Kharkai. The rivers were flowing over the danger mark as water was released from Bankabal dam in neighbouring Odisha and Chandil in adjoining Seraikela- Kharsawan district. On Friday, most places recorded maximum readings seven to eight notches below normal. Civic bodies in Jamshedpur, Ranchi and other parts of Kolhan started clean-up operations by spraying disinfectants and bleaching powder in areas which were inundated. Both IMD's Ranchi and Patna Met centres have, however, forecast thunderstorms, accompanied by lightning and light rain, at isolated places over north and central Jharkhand on Saturday). Similar weather is also expected at isolated places over north-eastern, south-eastern and central Jharkhand for two days beginning Sunday and Monday ( May 30 and 31).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-38
28-05-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city crematorium to add facilities||The crematorium at Salgajhuri on the outskirts of the steel city is set to witness an overhaul with installation of an electric furnace and two additional platforms for cremating bodies. The construction work for setting up platforms, a Kali temple and beautification of the burning ghat is under progress. Funds were being arranged for installing an electric furnace. An old Kali temple already exists within the premises and it will be replaced by a new one. The Subarnarekha and Parvati ghats witnessed an overwhelming number of bodies when Covid cases were high in the steel city. The former burning ghat is also reserved for Covid bodies. The electric furnaces of both these burning ghats often tripped forcing the management committees to make arrangements of extra platforms for cremation of bodies on wood. The load of cremating bodies at Subarnarekha and Parvati ghats would lessen once the amenities are functional at Salgajhuri ghat. At present, the crematorium, run by the Kali temple committee, has a single platform that results in cremation of bodies in very few numbers. “Besides setting up two additional platforms, beautification and construction of a Kali temple, a pond will also be dug up,” said Pradip Guha, president of the Kali temple committee. “We’ll arrange funds from well wishers for installing the electric furnace,” he added. Residents would not have to depend on Subarnarekha, Parvati and Shiv Ghats once the additional facilities are set up at the crematorium at Saljhuri. Those from Parsudih, Rahargora, Bavangora, Barigora, Govidpur, Sopodera, Jemco, Sarjamda, Lakshminagar, Manifit and Gadra are dependent on burning ghats in the steel city. The Salgajhuri management committee issues death certificates to people coming for cremation. Earlier, bodies were cremated under the supervision of a priest till the responsibility was taken over by the panel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-39
28-05-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant orders high-level probe into Kanchi river bridge cave-in||Chief minister Hemant Soren ordered a high-level probe into the cave-in of a bridge over Kanchi river on Ranchi outskirts on Friday, the day after cyclone Yaas battered the state, forcing evacuation of around 20,000 people., most of them belonging to the Kolhan region. As the cyclone weakened and moved towards Bihar in the wee hours on Friday, local authorities got busy in the affected areas, undertaking various rehabilitation activities. Those evacuated from vulnerable zones falling along river banks in East and West Singhbhum began heading back to their homes with the help of local officials. In Ranchi, the state disaster management department and the state agriculture department began assessing damage to property and crops to evaluate the compensation packages for the affected people. As per latest reports, four persons — two in Ranchi and one each in Koderma and Bokaro _ died during the storm on Thursday. Hemant has taken strong objection to the bridge cave-in. “I have ordered for a high-level probe into the incident. The bridge was constructed using public money and my government will not tolerate any corrupt acts and shoddy work,” he tweeted after which state rural development minister Alamgir Alam announced the setting up of a three-member team to probe the incident and fix accountability. Sources said the foundation stone of the bridge was laid in 2011 and was constructed at a cost of Rs 8 crore about three years back. However, it was awaiting formal inauguration even though vehicular movement was on. The bridge connects Tamar-Bundu with Sonahatu and also served as an alternative route to Bengal. Local residents said illegal sand mining as the cause for the damage. “The bridge has 25 pillars and is about 500m long. At least 15,000-20,000 residents here were directly dependent on it for regular commute. However, rampant sand mining led to weakening of one of the pillars causing a cave-in. The government and district administration has remained silent over rampant sand theft all through these years,” rued Baleshar Tudu, a resident of Bundu. Urban development and health minister Banna Gupta said that in the three key districts of Kolhan, which bore the brunt of the cyclone,  there had been no reports of deaths or losses to livestock. "But we have asked all districts to assess damages in their regions and send reports so that the state government can decide on compensation,” he said on the sideline of a function to flag off mobile vaccination vans. East Singhbhum, which witnessed the largest ever evacuation since the formation of Jharkhand in 2000, is cruising back to normalcy, deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar said. “Approximately, 12,037 people were evacuated across 460 villages in view of flooding dangers. They were kept at 316 relief camps across the district. About six lakh people were affected by the cyclone. More than 99 per cent of them have now returned,” he said. As per preliminary assessments, Kumar said 15 thatched houses were fully damaged, 46 partially damaged and two cemented houses were partially damaged. “We have provided tarpaulin sheets, dry ration to all those who have gone back home. Covid safety norms were adhered to at shelter homes. All were made to undertake rapid antigen tests before being allowed to leave,” he said, adding that the administration's focus on ensuring casualties remained successful. In West Singhbhum (Chaibasa), five bridges were identified as partially damaged. “We have stopped movement of vehilces on them for now,” said deputy commissioner Ananya Mittal. As many as 328 camps were set up of which only 89 were used. “The cyclone turned into a deep depression by the time it entered Jharkhand. Around 3,104 were evacuated from danger zones. They have started going back,” he said. Both Kumar and Mittal said that intense clean-up measures had been launched in flooded areas of the districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-39
28-05-2021||Jharkhand||Outsourced Sahid Nirmal hospital employees demand pay parity ||More than 450 outsourced medical staff of Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital serving Covid patients on Friday carried out a protest over their alleged ill-treatment and being deprived of any extra benefit being front line workers. The protesters submitted a memorandum to the hospital superintendent Dr Arun Kumar Chaudhary, demanding one month of extra salary as honorarium for their service in line with the benefits given to permanent medical staff. They sent the copies to the ADM (Law and Order) Chandan Kumar, the outsourcing agency Frontline Business solution and Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha. “The memorandum bearing the signature of altogether 112 employees of private agency, Frontline Business solution was aimed at drawing the attention of the authorities towards the double standard being adopted towards the outsourced staff despite the fact that all the staff bear the similar risk while working among Covid patients during pandemic,” said one of the protesters to The Telegraph Online. “We have communicated our demand verbally both to the SNMMCH authorities and our employer Frontline Business solution several times earlier but both shrugged off their responsibilities on one or other pretext leaving us at the mercy of god compelling us to submit a written demand,” said a protester requesting anonymity. “When we demanded the benefit extra salary as an incentive from SNMMCH administration earlier they claimed that they can’t do anything as we are not their employees and rather the employees of private agency and thus when we turned to private agency they said that there is no provision payment of extra one month’s salary even if we are working during the pandemic and said that they can provide the extra benefit we they get the fund for same from the state government,” said a protester engaged in screening of Covid patients. “We have recently also heard that if any extra benefit as incentive is to provided that will be given to only such staff like nurses working in Cath Lab and PG block based Covid treatment centers to the hospital who are directly exposed to Covid patients,” said an infuriated outsourced employee who took part in the protest today and added that those like them engaged in the screening of suspected Covid victims are no less exposed than the nurses deputed at Covid treatment centres. Around 450 staff members including Operation Theatre Technicians, ward boys, lab workers, dresser, record keeping clerk, USC technicians, CT scan technicians,  X-Ray technicians, anaesthetic technicians of private agency Frontline Business solution are engaged in SNMMCH for the last five years. SNMMCH superintendent didn’t answer calls when he was contacted for his response over the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-39
28-05-2021||Jharkhand||Teacher and social worker delivers rations to students||A Jharia based private tutor Pinaki Roy, engaged in providing free education to around 200 coal picker children of different slums near the collieries, has started distributing food packets at his student’s doorsteps to prevent any drop out during the pandemic. Roy, who also runs an NGO Institution of National Amity, began the distribution drive on May 24 from one of most poverty stricken slums Dipu Dhauda situated near the Golakdih colliery area and later carried out kit distribution at Sahana Pahari locality, Chandmari Colliery. Each packet contains 7 kg of flour, 2kg of pulses, one kg of sugar, ½ kg of mustard oil, 2 kg of potato, one bathing shop and one washable mask. “I started the drive during the first wave of pandemic in June 2020 and distributed around 403 food packets and this year we have distributed 60 food packets during the drive which began on May 24 and around 80 more packets are ready for distribution,” he said. Roy receives help from some of his neighbours in packing and distributing the packets. “As the parents of these children often struggle to keep their body and soul together due to penury, we always struggle to convince them to keep sending their children for tuition classes,” said Roy. “The food distribution being carried out with the financial help of some of my friends, including Dr Horst Schulmayer of Germany and a Delhi based Supreme Court lawyer, and is aimed at helping the family of our students wade through this difficult time,” said Roy an alumnus of Vishva Bharti University. “The occasion, however also provides us opportunity to convince their parents about the significance of education and also to allow their children to spare time for learning instead of compelling their children to work with them,” he said and added that the parents of who remain busy with their work at other times generally sit idle during lockdown and thus listen patiently. “We will be carrying out a similar drive in another slum, Lilori Pathra near Ghanudih area of Jharia this evening,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-39
28-05-2021||Jharkhand||Cyclone Yaas hits vaccination, testing in Jharkhand  ||Cyclone Yaas adversely impacted  Jharkhand's efforts to tackle the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic on Thursday,  causing a drop in the number of people vaccinated against, and tested for, the coronavirus in the state, health officials said. As many as 29,155 residents were tested for Covid-19 on Thursday against the average daily testing of over 50,000 people before the cyclone. As per government data, only 13,119 residents received the first jab of the vaccine against Covid-19, which is less than half of the average vaccination done every day earlier this week. “The cyclonic weather affected immunisation and Covid testing across Jharkhand on the day. But eight districts, including East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum, Lohardaga, Latehar and Khunti, were worst-affected,” said Dr Siddharth Triapthi, the nodal officer of the health department’s IEC wing. Covid recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of infection in Jharkhand on Thursday, bringing the active caseload in the state down to 13,097, while 16 deaths took the Covid toll to 4,926, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As per a bulletin released by NHM, the state reported 1,778 Covid recoveries against 695 fresh cases on Thursday. None of the districts reported a triple-digit-spike on Thursday. Ranchi reported 89 cases – the highest among Jharkhand districts. At least 275 patients recovered from the viral infection in Ranchi, bringing the active caseload here down to 3,354. The district also reported five casualties, which took the Covid toll here to 1,527. East Singhbhum, on the other hand, reported three casualties and 67 cases on the day. The active caseload dropped to 980 as at least 200 Covid patients recovered from the infection in the district. Among other districts, Dhanbad reported 76 cases and two deaths against 169 recoveries, while 32 people were found infected in Bokaro and 100 patients recovered there. Hazaribag reported 42 cases against 137 recoveries, while Pakur did not report fresh cases of infection on the day. As per government data, the growth rate of infection in Jharkhand dropped to 0.33 per cent against the national average of 0.58 per cent on the day, while the doubling rate in the state reached 208.62 days against the national average of 120.40 days. So far, over 3.34 lakh people have been infected by Coronavirus in Jharkhand and 94.61 per cent of them have recovered. The Covid recovery rate in India was 90 per cent on Thursday. The mortality rate, however, was 1.46 per cent in the state against the national average of 1.20 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-39
28-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand panel to tackle Covid rates||The Jharkhand government has initiated the process of bridging gaps in Covid health care with fast declining cases. Two committees have been formed to address the issues of exorbitant rates charged by private hospitals for Covid treatment and another committee to give recommendations for hospital infrastructure upgradation with focus on child care in view of the third wave of Covid likely to hit later this year. “The committees will be led by senior IAS, Shantanu Agrahari and Bhuvnesh Pratap Singh as co-chairpersons (both MBBS, MD). They would be submitting their recommendations to the state health department by May 31,” said state nodal officer health department and senior bureaucrat, Siddharth Tripathi. “Our focus would be to build more HDUs (high dependency units) in almost all the district hospitals having facilities at par with ICUs so that more and more Covid patients are treated at the primary level without putting load on big healthcare institutions. WE are also focussing on upgrading SNCUs and PICUs for children at sadar hospitals and government medical colleges and Hospitals,” said Shantanu Agrahari. The committee comprising members from medical fraternity including Indian Medical Association and representatives of private hospitals will be fixing rates of Covid treatment in private hospitals. “We are studying rate models of private hospitals as adopted by various governments including Tamil Nadu, Kerala and also studying the models of General Insurance Company (GIC) and would be finalising rates for Covid treatments for patients with commodities and other complications,” said Bhuvnesh Pratap Singh. Jharkhand would also be launching mobile vaccination vans initially from the state capital of Ranchi. “We would be pioneering in reaching out to interiors of the state in terms of vaccination campaign. We would be launching two mobile vaccination vans in Ranchi initially and seeing the response we would be introducing similar vans in other districts. The objective is to reach out to such locations, which fall in mobile network shadow area and online registration is not possible. We are primarily catering to the age group of 18-44 but would also be giving vaccines for those above 45 years too. The registration would be offline for both age group. The vans would have rolled out on Thursday but had to be postponed due to the inclement weather,” said Anjanyelu Dodde, nodal officer of state Covid-19 vaccine programme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-39
28-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to seek GST arrears of Rs 1,561 crore ||The Jharkhand government will claim from the Centre Rs 1,561 crore towards payment of arrears in respect of GST (Goods and Services Tax) compensation related to 2020-21. Jharkhand finance minister Rameshwar Oraon said this when asked if the state government would have any specific demand during the 43rd meeting of the GST Council that will be held virtually after a long gap through video conferencing on Friday. Though it is expected to meet at regular intervals, the GST Council, the apex decision making body in respect of GST-related issues, had not met for nearly eight months. This prompted Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra to write to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman for organising it without further delay, resulting in the virtual meeting slated for Friday. “Besides, we will also seek extension of time period for paying GST compensation that will be paid to the states till June 2022,” Oraon told The Telegraph. “The Covid situation has worsened the economy of all states, including ours and there’s a need for extension of five-year compensation period that will expire next year,” the minister further said, adding they would demand an extension for another five years till June 2027. “There will certainly be an alarming shortfall in state’s revenue earning,” Oraon said, adding the state’s scope for earning from taxes was reduced after introduction of GST and the compensation now comprised a major chunk of the state’s total revenue earning. A recent report suggested that the shortfall during 2021-22 was expected to be around Rs 1.56 lakh crore, according to an Union government projection, adding that the Union government may also propose borrowing to meet the shortfall. “No loan, we would rather prefer grants in that case,” minister Oraon categorically said when the issue was raised. “We will also demand exemption of GST on essential Covid drugs and equipments related to treatment of coronavirus patients,” he said while informing about the state government’s another demand to be placed during Friday’s meeting. While saying this, Oraon echoed his Bengal counterpart as Mitra, in his recent letter to Union finance minister, had urged for exemption of GST and customs duty on essential drugs, vaccines and equipments required for the Covid-19 treatment. Favouring zero-rated tax in such cases, the Bengal minister argued there would be no adverse impact on prices for customers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-39
28-05-2021||Jharkhand||Cyclone Yaas prompts Jharkhand’s largest evacuation||Three persons were killed as Cyclone Yaas hit Jharkhand as a depression on Wednesday night. More than 14,000 were evacuated, the largest since the creation of Jharkhand, and over 8 lakh people were impacted as swelling rivers because of heavy rains led to threat of inundation in low-lying areas of three districts of East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan in the southern part of the state. “As per data received from different districts over 14,000 persons have been evacuated to safer locations in the wake of the storm and there have been reports of three deaths (two in Ranchi and one in Bokaro). We are getting it investigated and they will be entitled to receive compensations as per Disaster Management Act norms. Rivers are in spate following heavy rains and people residing in low-lying areas in East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan districts vulnerable to inundation have been evacuated to shelter points by the district administration,” said state disaster management secretary Amitav Kaushal. The father-son duo of Shanker Pandey, 25, and Rishabh Pandey, 1, were sleeping in their house near Bangla School area in Dhurva Sector 5 under Jagannathpur thana in Ranchi when their thatched hut wall collapsed at around 6am on Thursday due to the impact of the wind and rains which had lashed the capital Ranchi since Wednesday. The wife of the deceased who had gone out for some work raised and alarm and locals informed the police which reached the spot and rescued the father and son and rushed them to Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) where they were declared as brought dead. A middle-aged farmer who had gone out of his house died after being struck in lightening at Gomia in Bokaro district. “We have deployed our resources at low-lying areas like Bagbera, Shastrinagar, Bhuiyandih, Mango, Jugsalai after the Kharkai river started flowing above danger mark. Evacuation of vulnerable people has been completed. We have deployed NDRF team at all the vulnerable spots,” said East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar. Kharkai river till the filing of this report was flowing at 132.87 metre much above the danger level of 129 metre. The Kharkai and Subernarekha river are in spate following opening of sluice gates of Bankabal and Silaipath dams in Mayurbhanj district of Odisha since Wednesday. Similarly, three important rivers in West Singhbhum, bordering Odisha, Koina, Roro and Karo were in spate since Wednesday night. “The river level were threatening to touch danger mark and we had carried out evacuation of close to 3,000 persons from low-lying areas. However, on Thursday afternoon the water level have started receding. Roads disrupted due to uprooted trees have been cleared. Several houses which had been partially damaged will be covered for the compensation scheme of the government,” said West Singhbhum deputy commissioner Ananya Mittal. Meanwhile, deputy director IMD Ranchi Abhishek Anand said that the Cyclone Yaas which turned into a depression while hitting Jharkhand has moved northwards. “It moved northwards with a speed of about 9 kmph and weakened further into depression and lay centred over central part of Jharkhand, 20 km east of capital Ranchi. The system is very likely to move nearly northwards and weaken into a well-marked low pressure area during next 12 hours,” said Anand. Due to the influence of the system, moderate to heavy and very heavy rainfall was recorded at many places over Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-39
