29-05-2021||Jharkhand||10-year-old drowns in steel city river||A 10-year-old boy drowned while taking a bath in the Kharkai River along the Kadma thana area on Saturday morning. The Kharkai is one of the major tributaries of the Subarnarekha River. It flows through the Adityapur region of Jamshedpur. The victim, identified as Suraj Pramanik, a resident of Bagey Bustee along the Kadma-Sonari marine drive, was taking a bath in the swollen river with three other boys. A strong current in the water-body swept away Suraj towards the river-meet. Police initially tried to locate the body by pressing local divers but failed to yield any result. An NDRF team was rushed to the spot. Manoj Thakur, OC of Kadma thana, said that three teams of NDRF were deployed at the Ghatsila sub-division of the district as part of rescue operations in the aftermath of Cyclone Yass. "As the NDRF teams were still stationed at Ghatsila sub-division, we requisitioned for one of the teams to locate the body. One team of 24 members reached the spot in the afternoon to carry out the operation," said Thakur while talking to The Telegraph Online. The OC said the incident took place at about 11 am, adding that the body might have been swept away in the Subernarekha River towards Ghatsila. "The current of the water was so strong that the boy was swept away in no time. Otherwise I would have plunged into the river to save the boy, "said Dinesh Gope, a local slum-dweller to The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-37
29-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad IT professional turns organic farmer ||Ravi Nishad, a 31-year-old IT professional from Bhuli,  has expanded his organic farming initiative drastically in four years with a team of over 60 people growing a wide variety of fruits, vegetables and flowers. Ravi, son of a retired BCCl employee, while talking to The Telegraph Online on Saturday said, “After the death of my mother, I started a plantation drive as part of an environmental conservation measure and also constituted  a social organisation Samarpan Seva Samiti with some like minded youths to carry out the massive plantation.” “I soon realised that no movement can sustain in isolation unless it is linked to the socio economic betterment of the beneficiaries so we started organic farming  using natural materials like cow dung as manure, vinegar residue, agricultural waste and jaggery solution to grow the fruits,” said Nishad, a B Sc (IT) degree holder from NIT Noida. The core team members include his close friend, Ranjit Kumar, 30, and a young scientist Amit Mishra, 24, who is the core strategist for the organisation called RPA Farming which carries out organic farming at different places of the district including on 2 acres of land at Bhuli and on around 20 acres near Shakti Chowk of Tetulmari. “Though, we are primarily cultivating papaya and marigold as part of our main activity at Bhuli, only preparatory activity is going on at Telulmari Shakti Chowk on the recently procured land,” said Nishad and added that cultivation of apple, litchi and cheeku has also been carried at Bhuli on an experimental basis. “We have taken the land on lease for cultivation but at same time turning the barren land into fertile one,” said Nishad. Around 60 men and women from the adjoining localities are engaged in their project, plucking fruits, vegetables, cultivating crops and selling them in the market. “Around 100 kg of marigold is plucked every day from every acre of our farming project which in turn is supplied to the local florists,” said Nishad. He said the land has around 2000 papaya trees from which around 50 tonnes of papaya is grown, each weighing 2 to 2 ½ kg each. When asked about marketing strategy he said, “Once our product is ready we upload the information on social media platforms from where buyers come to us.” “We want to send a message to the youth that farming offers enough scope for earning and they can use their education to carry out organised and systematic farming,” said Nishad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-37
29-05-2021||Jharkhand||Husband, mother-in-law arrested in suicide case||The husband and mother-in-law of a deceased 21-year-old woman from Dhansar area was arrested on Saturday following torture allegations after she died by suicide on May 20. Dhanbad police arrested the duo from 24 Pargana district of Bengal and produced them before the court of Chief Judicial Magistrate. They were reprimanded in judicial custody. Komal Patel, daughter of Umesh Prasad dies by suicide at her in-law’s house due to the alleged torture by her husband, Alok Kumar and mother-in-law Manju Devi. Prior to her death, she had made a video accusing both of them of torturing her for dowry. “I trusted him when he promised to reform himself but it was my mistake as he can’t improve himself,” said Komal in the video and further said she made a mistake by not listening to her father’s advice who asked her not to go to her in-law’s place. Komal’s father, in his written complaint to the police, charged her husband and mother-in-law of regularly torturing his daughter for various dowry demands. Alok Kumar, an employee of Indian railways, fled the house after Komal’s death. Ankit Sahu, investigating officer of the case said, “We were conducting raids at different places across Bihar, Bengal and Jharkhand in search for the duo for the last seven days.” “Our team of sub inspectors Robin Oraon and Likhand Hembrom was camping in 24 Pargana district of Bengal for a week and arrested them today and were sent to jail after producing them in court,” said Sahu and added that further action will be taken as per investigation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-37
29-05-2021||Jharkhand||State athletes to take part in software controlled running events ||The Jharkhand Athletics Association is using software to get state athletes, forced to stay indoors in view of the state-wide lockdown, participate in running events. “It is for the first time we are conducting events with the help of a software. We are starting with a trial run in Deogarh on June 10 by conducting 3000 m and 5000 m. The trial is reserved for athletes from Deogarh,” said JAA president Madhukant Pathak. Speaking to The Telegraph Online over phone from Ranchi, he said they were conducting the trial to see how the software works. ”We are using Strava software for the trials. Athletes participating in the trials can download the software from Google,” Pathak added. According to him, the trials will be for athletes (men and women) in the 20-plus age group (for 5000 m) and under-19 (for 3000 m). “The athletes can run on the terrace of their homes or roads near their homes. Since the stadiums are out of bounds owing to the lockdown, this is the only option left with the athletes,” the JAA president said. He said location, distance and timing will be recorded in the software. “The participating athletes can see the distance covered and the timing recorded in the software in their mobile phones. The top three athletes in each event (3000 m and 5000 m) will be awarded certificates and medals,” Pathak, also the treasurer of Athletics Federation of India (AFI), added. The JAA will also monitor the distance covered and timing. “The Covid situation seems to be under control and it is improving,”said Pathak. According to him, the pandemic has snatched precious time from the athletes who are not able to train in the open. “The athletes need adequate training to keep themselves in fine fettle ahead of any competition. But our athletes are unable to train because of the restrictions. So, the events with help of the software would somewhat help them to get back into activity,” Pathak said. Depending on the success of the trials, the state athletic association will conduct more events, including 800 m and 1500 m via the software.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-38
29-05-2021||Jharkhand||Health survey shows only 2.75% Covid positive cases are children ||About 2.75 per cent of the over 750 people found infected by the coronavirus during the ongoing door-to-door Intensive public health survey (IPHS) in Jharkhand were below 18 years – the age group the government fears will be more prone to the viral infection in case of a possible third wave of the pandemic. As per data shared by the health department on Saturday, swab samples of as many as 51, 605 people were tested through Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) for Covid-19 during the survey that started on May 25, and as many as 762 of them were found infected by Novel Coronavirus. Only 21 of the 762 people found Covid positive were in the age bracket of 0 to 18 years, government data highlighted. During the survey, rapid tests were conducted on all residents who showed symptoms of Covid-19 such as cough, fever, body ache or weakness. While directing deputy commissioners about the IPHS, the government had asked them to focus on people above 40 and those with comorbid conditions, as they were likely to show severe symptoms of Covid-19. While Covid-19 was not common among children in the over 16.33 lakh households surveyed since May 25, cases of diabetes and hypertension were a concern even in rural areas, health officials said. As per IPHS data, the government examined 8,27,751 people from different age groups during the survey, and at least 43,766 of them were found to be diabetic while 46,459 of them had abnormalities in blood pressure. Besides, at least 5,990 of the people surveyed showed symptoms of tuberculosis. “The survey is ongoing and figures might change in the days to come. But as of now, our findings show that only 21 of the 762 people found infected during the survey were in the age bracket of 0 to 18 years,” said Dr Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer of the health department’s IEC wing. Health experts across the country have warned that a third wave of the pandemic may infect children in India. The Supreme Court had also asked all the states and the Centre to make necessary arrangements for treatment in case they are infected by the mysterious virus. In the wake of the growing concern about a third wave, the Jharkhand government has set up special Intensive Care Units (ICUs) for children in various government and private hospitals and also strengthened the infrastructure for child care at medical facilities. The state recently held its first national level webinar to prepare for the third wave keeping in mind that it may have a severe impact on children.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-38
29-05-2021||Jharkhand||Congress sets up oxygen bank in Ranchi||State Congress president Rameshwar Oraon on Saturday launched an oxygen bank at party headquarters in Ranchi which will function round the clock and free of cost to help those in need and are battling Covid-19 infection. Oraon said that the idea of setting up the oxygen bank came from his party’s youth wing to which they readily agreed. “The youth wing of the state unit has played a pivotal role in conceptualising and setting up of the oxygen bank. Every party worker will ensure that it runs efficiently to help all those who are in need of it. The oxygen bank will function round the clock and services will be free of cost,” he said. Oraon who is also state’s finance minister added that since the outbreak of the pandemic, the Congress party, which is part of the ruling coalition government led by Hemant Soren, ran numerous public-centric programmes. “During the nationwide lockdown last year, the party through all its district units ran community kitchens, distributed free meals, dry ration to several under privileged and also facilitated different sorts of help including transport to scores of migrant workers,” he claimed, adding that since the outbreak of the second wave in last week of March this year, the party had set up state and district level control room to coordinate help to people. “Through our state control room, we were also running online medical consultancy services to assist people who are in home isolation. Today’s initiative is another addition to our work towards people of this state,” said Oraon. Kumar Gaurav, state president of the youth wing of Congress said that they have sourced sufficient stocks of oxygen cylinders and concentrators for the bank which will be sanctioned free of cost to people approaching them. Even though they have provided the exact number of available cylinders and concentrators, officials said that they will ensure that anyone contacting them isn't let down. “Through this bank, we intend to provide free service of oxygen cylinders, masks, sanitisers, concentrators and the likes to all those who approach us. We have sufficient stocks ready and more will be added up in case of crisis,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-38
29-05-2021||Jharkhand||Monsoon to arrive in Jharkhand by mid-June||IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre has predicted timely advent of the southwest monsoon in Jharkhand. A senior Met analyst said on Saturday that conditions are favourable for the advancement of monsoon currents. "The usual date for rains to  hit Kerala is June 1. This year, the it will hit the southern state one day earlier on May 31. If that happens, monsoon will arrive in Jharkhand by June 15, which is the normal time, " said the weather analyst . He went on to say that the monsoon was expected to be normal in Jharkhand this year. IMD-New Delhi, in its zone-wise forecast, hasalready predicted cent per cent rainfall after the onset of monsoon in Jharkhand, with a model error range of 4 per cent. The forecast applies to the four rainy months — June to September — during which the climate is dominated by the south-west monsoon. Jharkhand's pre-monsoon rain (March to May) has been very impressive this year. Bokaro with 451.4mm cumulative rainfall from March till May 29, topped the chart, followed by 416.8mm recorded by the IMD observatory in Jamshedpur. Ranchi has registered rainfall of 351.2mm between March and May so far . Data suggests that Chaibasa in West Singhbhum during the pre-monsoon months recorded 369.8 mm while Palamau headquarters  Daltonganj recorded around 200mm during the same period. Met officials confirmed that never before in the last five years or so had Jamshedpur and Chaibasa, which are  in southern Jharkhand, recorded such impressive rainfall in the pre-monsoon months. Cyclone Yaas resulted in over 200mm rainfall in Chaibasa and around 140mm in Jamshedpur. According to Met data, day temperatures have been hovering between 30-35 degree Celsius in most parts of the state during the past two days. Day readings witnessed an abrupt fall in Jharkhand since May 25 due to the cyclone, which after crossing the state, has moved to Bihar. Last year (2020) too the south-west monsoon had arrived in Jharkhand within its normal arrival date on May 13. In 2019 and 2018 ,the monsoon was delayed in its arrival.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-38
29-05-2021||Jharkhand||Robbery at 500-year-old Narsingha Sthan temple||Unidentified individuals broke into the inner sanctum of the 500-year-old Bhagawan Narsingha temple situated in Khapariawan village on Saturday early morning stealing more than Rs.50,000 from the donation box. Secretary of the temple committee Ajay Mishra told The Telegraph Online that he received a call from the head priest Upendra Mishra who informed him about the theft. “I went to the temple immediately with the treasurer Anurag Mishra and Vikas Mishra,” he said. Ajay said the thieves had snapped the wires of the CCTV cameras before entering the sanctum sanctorum. Even hexo blades were used to cut the locks of the door. A temple committee member on condition of anonymity said the temple’s donation box was not opened for more than two years. He said the thieves appeared to have information on the donation box and CCTV cameras. The member said the other committee members and officials were denying the large amount of money stolen from the box. An FIR has been lodged by Ajay Mishra. Police officials have not ruled out the involvement of locals in the robbery. “We have started our investigation and soon the thieves will be caught,” said a police officer. The Narsingha Sthan temple is a popular destination for locals as well as those coming from other states too. The temple was built by a local priest Damodar Mishra who had gone to Bhusundi Hill in Nepal and brought back the blackstone idol from there. The ancient dilapidated temple was rebuilt on December 25, 1990, at the initiative of former Barkatha MLA Lambodar Pathak who was also a devotee and a frequent visitor at the shrine. Every year during Kartik Purima, devotees throng this temple and visit the mela which is popular for sugarcane.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-38
29-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Data entry training after Covid vaccine wastage row ||Jamshedpur: Around 100 computer operators in East Singhbhum district were given additional training in data entry for Covid vaccination on Friday following the wastage shortage controversy. Known as Entity Attribute Value, computer operators engaged in data entry of Covid vaccines had already been given training before the vaccination drive started here on February 16, but the additional training was given to them online as a precautionary measure. East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar said that though the wastage of Covid vaccines in the East Singhbhum district is 3.5 per cent, much lower than the national average of 6.3 per cent, they wanted to provide a fresh training session as he did not want to have any scope of anomaly in the data entry. A senior official while talking to this website said the district administration took the initiative for giving fresh training to the computer operators after Jharkhand had drawn flak for wasting one-third of the vaccines given by the Centre. (Kumud Jenamani) Hazaribagh: A middle aged woman residing in Jhumritelaiya town has filed an application addressed to senior administrative and police officers requesting them to arrange for pair of slippers as shops are closed due to the state-wide lockdown. A resident of Jain Road, Deepu Khatuwala, said her house slippers have broken and she has no way to arrange for new ones. Hence she has sought the intervention of officials in the matter. “You are a public servant and so it's your responsibility to help citizens in such time of need,” she said in her application. “Even my milkman, driver and others are struggling for such articles due to closure of shops,” she added. Deepa met Telaiya police station officer-in-charge Dwarika Ram but he said he was not competent to take action in this regard. She gave her application to the office of Koderma subdivisional officer Manish Kumar. “I have requested him to look into this issue and if possible allow cobblers to resume work so that she can get her slippers repaired.” Deepa said she got a call from a senior JMM functionary of the district and a senior leader of the state wanted to help her by sending a pair of slippers. “I refused as this will not solve the trouble of others for whom I have raised the voice, “she added. A senior officer on condition of anonymity said what Deepa demanded was not possible. The lockdown decision is taken by the state government and he asked her to wait for relaxation of the curbs. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: Acclaimed agriculture scientist Pramod Kumar Sinha known for developing the best varieties of paddy in the country died on Thursday night at a Ranchi hospital after 36 days of undergoing treatment for an illness. Sinha, a resident of Shivpuri mohalla was retired from the post of director at Central Rainfed Upland Rice Research Centre situated in Massipiddi in Hazaribagh. His wife R.S. Vanadana is a well known gyencologist and former civil surgeon of Hazaribagh. His elder son Abhishek Kumar is a well known surgeon and younger son Anuvrat Kumar is an orthopaedic in Hong Kong. Agriculture minister Badal Ptralekh termed his death as a big loss for the agriculture sector. BJP Sadar MLA Manish Jaiswal also expressed grief at Sinha’s demise. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Bokaro: Tenughat Dam on Friday opened one sluice gate and two radial gates to discharge water in the Damodar river following heavy rainfall due to Cyclone Yaas. This has raised the water level in the river which enters West Bengal after traversing through various parts of the district and Dhanbad. Tenughat Dam Division’s executive engineer Shyam Kishore said, "The first sluice gate was opened on Wednesday to maintain the water level. On Friday again two more radial gates have been opened to release the water". Incessant rainfall held in past two days has forced Tenughat Dam Division to discharge total 4800 cusec water per second by opening all the three radial gates. There are 10 radial gates and eight sluice gates in Tenughat Dam situated at Gomia Block under Bermo Sub-division of the district. However the dam has a capacity to store 852 feet of water. Deputy commissioner Rajesh Singh said residents should avoid going to the river for bathing, cloth washing, fishing and other activities. Apart from alerting Bokaro administration, the dam authorities have also conveyed messages about releasing of water to Dhanbad and West Bengal government indicating there will be rise in water level in Damodar River. (Our correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-38
29-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Jharkhand left to fend for itself in pandemic, says Hemant||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren has taken a dig at the Narendra Modi-led Union government by claiming that the state ruled by the JMM-UPA alliance is left to fend for itself in the pandemic. “When the whole country is going through this pandemic, state governments are dependent on the Centre for everything. When you (Centre) will not help us, where will we put our grievances? Soren said in an interview with a news channel and posted its clip on his Twitter handle. “It is the duty of the central government who has central agencies to assist it to give timely alert to states on pandemic and other disaster but unfortunately the pandemic is yet to be declared a national disaster.” The chief minister in the interview, which he has retweeted, says:  “In this pandemic it is the responsibility of the Centre and the states to join hand and find out ways from solution. There would be time to take out political animosity not now. The Union government as a guardian should provide medicines, vaccines, oxygen and other resources to the state. Jharkhand should also have been given such aids. But states have been left to fend for themselves.” Soren further adds that Jharkhand is facing politics, as it is a non-BJP ruled state. “We are the top state in supplying oxygen to other states and even to abroad. However, we have to take permission from the Centre to use oxygen produce in our territory through allotment. I had even spoken to Union home minister Amit Shahji but he too talked about allotment. We had sought support from Union defence minister Rajnath Singh and Union road transport minister, Nitin Gadkari in bringing back the bodies of workers in Border Road Organisation (BRO) projects. But we did not receive any help and had to airlift bodies on our own expense,” Soren said. Soren also said Jharkhand got only 1.5 lakh vaccines against a requirement of 12 lakh vaccines doses per month for age group of 18 to 44 years. For above 45 years, the state got only 6 lakh vaccines per month while the requirement is 15 lakh. Hitting out at the Prime Minister, Soren said in the interview: “It seems that the Prime Minister speaks to chief ministers of states on phone just to enhance political TRP as the chief ministers are not given time to speak about problems of their states nor any solution to their state specific problem is given by the Prime Minister himself.” The chief minister had also retweeted a tweet of his party JMM to prove slighting of Opposition ruled states comparing vaccines data of Jharkhand with the BJP-ruled Gujarat and the BJP-JDU ruled Bihar. “Gujarat population – 6.2 crore, vaccine received – 1.62 crore…. Jharkhand population - 3.25 crore, vaccine received - 48 lakh…. Bihar population – 12.8 crore, vaccine received - 1 crore…” the tweet said. Soren also retweeted his party JMM tweet on the Centre admitting technical error in its portal which had inflated the vaccine wastage numbers and that the Centre would be coordinating with states to resolve the issue. On May 26, figures from the Centre put Jharkhand wastage at 6.44 per cent as against the press release issued on the same day by the Union health ministry which had put Jharkhand as top waster of vaccine with a percentage of over 37 per cent. Jharkhand director National Health Mission, Ravishankar Shukla on May 27, had written to additional secretary Union health ministry, Vikash Sheel for correction of the wastage data shown in the PIB release. Soren also expressed concern for not being allowed to speak in the interaction with deputy commissioners of districts. “During the discussion with deputy commissioners of the districts, the chief ministers were also asked to be present depending on their availability. However, the PMO speaking to deputy commissioners and not giving opportunity to CMs to speak will create imbalance in the federal structure of governance and is not a good precedent,” he said. Soren informed on Friday evening that 3,000 oxygen cylinders have been imported from the UAE and handed over to Jharkhand by Tata Steel under the Corporate social responsibility. Another 2,000 cylinders will be arriving in a week and all the cylinders will be dedicated for public use. The chief minister on Friday afternoon directed for constitution of a high-level team to probe into the reason for collapse of the Haradih-Budhadih bridge on the Kanchi river at Tamar near Ranchi. The bridge collapsed on Thursday due to the impact of the cyclonic storm. The bridge was constructed three years ago. Jharkhand rural development minister Alamgir Alam constituted a three-member probe committee on Friday evening comprising road construction department engineer-in-chief, building construction chief engineer and Jharkhand state rural development authority chief engineer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-38
