30-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Torture slur on Koderma police||Hazaribagh: A youth named Neeraj Kumar has charged Koderma police of torturing him in the lockup. Neeraj's mother Bhuvneshwari Devi has shot missives to the National Human Rights Commission, Chief Minister Hemant Soren and director general of police Neeraj Sinha for justice. Bhuvneshwari in her complaint said Neeraj was taken to Domchach police station on May 18 by officer-in-charge Dhaneshwar Kumar to interrogate him in a murder case. Neeraj said a police team tortured him to make him admit his involvement in the case. “The way I was beaten in the police station was barbaric and beyond the imagination of anyone,” he said. Bhuvneshwari said due to the torture, Neeraj can barely walk and talk. “I want justice for my innocent son,” she added. Neeraj is a resident of Buchchitand village, where police had found the body of a 22-year-old Om Kumar Saw from a well. Saw was a resident of neighbouring Dandadih village and came to Buchchitand to attend a marriage. Officer-in-charge Ram admitted that they brought Neeraj for interrogation but termed the charge of beating and torture as false. “We were forced to write a bond that Neeraj was released in good condition,” said Bhuvneshwari. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Bokaro: One person was killed and three injured when the Mahindra Scorpio they were travelling in fell into a 100 feet deep canal at Kurupaniya under Gandhinagar police station of the district on Sunday. It is believed that the car was at a high speed and lost control on the turn and fell into the canal. The incident occurred at around midnight at the turning of the Main Road No.4. Police sources said the victims are residents of Dhanbad and were returning home after attending a wedding ceremony at Jaridih Bazaar. “The deceased was identified as Rakesh Kumar. Driver Saroj Kumar is seriously injured and was carried in an ambulance to RIMS, Ranchi for better treatment,” said Inder Lal Rai, assistant sub-inspector of Gandhinagar police station. (Our correspondent) Hazaribagh: A family of five sustained burn injuries after the LPG cylinder in the kitchen caught fire gutting their house on Saturday night. The incident took place in Lohadanda area under Jai Nagar police station of the district. Police officials said Najbun Nisha was in the kitchen and as she lit a matchstick to cook food on the LPG stove, the cylinder caught fire all of a sudden. In no time, fire engulfed the entire house with five of the family members also sustaining burn injuries. Local residents ran to help but by the time they reached, the fire gutted the house and maximum of the household item. The locals brought the fire under control after dumping the cylinder in an open area. Officer-in-charge of Jai Nagar police station, Abdullah Khan said fire fighters were not called as local residents managed to douse the flames. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-36
30-05-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town residents to approach Centre to revive hospital||Sindri citizens have decided to approach the central government to initiate the process of reviving the 205-bed FCI hospital, which has been closed since March 2003. Established in 1952 the FCI hospital was inaugurated by the then union health minister Rajkumari Amrit Kaur. The hospital was one of the biggest in the coal belt and used to serve as the referral hospital for several other hospitals of surrounding areas like Chasnala Hospital of BCCL. The hospital having a large major operation theatre and a minor operation theatre and other facilities like a pathological laboratory, radiological facilities and physiotherapy centre besides other facilities had also separate OPDs of different departments like Pediatrics, Maternity, Dental, dermatology, medicine, ENT, Ophthalmology was closed down in March 2003 two months after the closure of the Sindri Fertilizer factory on December 31,2002. The district administration has decided to re-launch the hospital. D.N. Singh, a former employee of FCI Sindri who is also the vice president of FCI VSS Employee’s Association, said, “The hospital was the one of the largest and most trusted health care destination of the region during the heydays of Sindri which catered to the health care requirement of entire Sindri, Baliapur, Jharia, Govindpur, Nirsa besides some adjoining parts of Bokaro and Bengal.” “If reopened again it will prove to be very useful for around 4 lakh residents of Baliapur and Sindri besides the residents of Sindri town as they will not have to rush to distant Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College of Dhanbad or Central Hospital of BCCL for any emergency situation,” said Singh. Recalling the earlier days of steps taken by the representatives of the state, Singh said, “When the sword of retrenchment was lurking over several employees of Sindri Fertilizer Factory in 1986 due to recurrent losses then the former chief minister of undivided Bihar, Late Bindeshwari Dubey on our request took our cause and paraded around 44 MPs of Bihar before the then prime minister Rajiv Gandhi requesting him on our behalf and the retrenchment plan was shelved.” Uma Shankar Singh, a former Colleague of D.N. Singh in FCI Sindri said, “We are grateful to Dhanbad MP P.N. Singh who has raised issues before the administration following the Dhanbad DC, Uma Shankar Singh also wrote to the state, Health Medical Education and Family Welfare department authorities in Ranchi demanding steps for the revival of the hospital.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-36
30-05-2021||Jharkhand||Cyclonic circulation triggers rain, thunderstorms across Jharkhand||A cyclonic circulation hovering over Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and neighbouring Chhattisgarh triggered widespread thunderstorm and rain across Jharkhand on Sunday. Weathermen said the cyclonic circulation extending 1.5km above the mean sea level, coupled with a trough stretched from eastern Uttar Pradesh to Vidarbha, resulted in widespread rain accompanied by thunder and lightning. Jamshedpur and its adjoining areas in Kolhan recorded over 15mm rain on Sunday evening while Ranchi witnessed about 5mm. Several other districts, including Hazaribagh, Koderma, Deoghar, Pakur, Garhwa, Lohardaga, Ramgarh, Bokaro, Khunti, Gumla and Simdega, also experienced rain on Sunday. IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre forecast thunderstorm and lightning to conitue for the next four days till Thursday, June 3. The Met department also predicted a generally cloudy sky with light to moderate rain at isolated places over north-east, central and south-east Jharkhand till Thursday. Met data suggested that the maximum temperature was below normal in most parts of the state on Sunday. Ranchi and Daltonganj  recorded maximum temperature of 33 degree Celsius, while Jamshedpur recorded a day's reading of 35 degree Celsius. The day's reading in Dhanbad, Bokaro, Hazaribagh and elsewhere were much below normal. Weathermen at IMD's Regional Meteorological Centre at Alipore in Calcutta said the cyclonic circulation was resulting in heavy moisture incursion and cloud formation over Jharkhand. " Satellite pictures and wind chart analysis indicated thunderstorm and rainfall activity over Jharkhand for the next three to four days," said a duty officer at the Calcutta Met Centre, adding that they have also issued an alert of moderate to heavy lightning over Jharkhand for the next 72 hours or so.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-36
30-05-2021||Jharkhand||Government hospital in steel city gets ICU facilty ||A seven-bed ICU facility is set to become functional at the Sadar Hospital at Khaasmahal in the eastern fringe Parsudih locality of the steel city. The construction of the unit is almost comple and necessary medical equipment has been installed. The facility will start functioning after Chief Minister Hemant Soren inaugurates it. District civil surgeon, A.K. Lal said that the facility is meant for the treatment of general patients, but if can also be extended for the treatment of Covid patients. "The ICU facility has been set up at the Sadar Hospital keeping in view of the critical patients hailing from the eastern fringe of the city. But witht the prevailing situation we may provide the facility for the Covid patients, "said the civil surgeon while talking to The Telegraph Online. Lal informed that besides the ICU facility, they are also setting up a dialysis unit at the Sadar Hospital. He pointed out that the construction work is likely to be completed by the end of June. The 100-bed Sadar Hospital caters to patients including accident victims from the densely-populated Parsudih, Sundarnagar, Bagbera and Govindpur. People having medical emergency from far off Hata and Haldipokhar areas of the district also get admitted here. But due to absence of the ICU facility, critical patients are referred to either Tata Main Hospital or MGM Medical College Hospital located about seven km away in the city. At present, the Sadar Hospital has been converted into a Covid hospital and a large number of patients coming from the eastern fringes of the city are being treated during the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-36
30-05-2021||Jharkhand||Beauty industry takes a beating with lockdown curbs||The beauty and personal health sector is one of the worst affected industries in the Covid induced state-wide lockdown. Some beauty salons have permanently closed their outlets due to various reasons including bank loans, rent, electricity charges and staff salaries. Home services being given to customers by private practitioners like hairdressers and beauticians has further affected the future of beauty salon operators. Sangeeta Verma, owner of a beauty parlour with multiple branches, who has also closed of one of her unit at Chiragora in Dhanbad said,“Ours was the last sector which was given permission to resume operations last year, but barely after six months we were again compelled to close down with the beginning of the second phase of lockdown.” “Even during the reopening after five and a half months on September 1, 2020, we faced dull business for intial two to three months due to various kinds of apprehensions among the customers about safety in visiting the parlours/saloons,” said Verma and added that had to invest double to ensure increased safety using disposable hair cutting sheets instead of towels to avoid infection. Anish Singh, franchisee owner of Habib’s Saloon in Bartand in Dhanbad said, “Due to the burden of huge rent, fixed electricity charges and staff salary besides the loan EMIs we have turned into a vicious cycle of debt.” “There is no ray of hope of betterment in the situation in near future as soon after the reopening there will be insurmountable pressure of clearing of all debts with no income as majority of our customers are accustomed to practice of home service by freelance technicians etc and it will be difficult task to bring back to our units,” said Singh. Md Tabrez, owner of Jawed Habib Parlour at Bank More said, “We have demanded waiver of rents, electricity charges during the first phase of lockdown but none of our demands were met by the government and we are also not hopeful after the reopening after second phase.” “Our humble demand is that that the government at least allow us to operate our unit even if it can’t help us by waiving off rents and fixed electricity charges and we assure that we will follow all the guidelines in strictest sense,” said Tabrez and added that many of their technicians have already left the profession which they will find difficult to rope in after reopening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-37
30-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to prioritise vaccination of street vendors, delivery boys||Jharkhand has decided to prioritise vaccination of street vendors, newspaper hawkers, food delivery boys, railway and airport staff and those who work in 17 other segments that carry a high risk of exposure to the coronavirus, health officials said on Sunday. Dr. Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer for the IEC wing of the health department, said on  that people working in oxygen manufacturing plants, drivers of vehicles used for oxygen supply, staff working at grocery stores, hotels and toll booths will also be included in the list of high-risk individuals. “Besides, lawyers and their clerks, cab drivers and auto drivers, and also volunteers of NGOs working in the fight against Covid-19 will get priority in vaccination,” Tripathi said. The directive regarding prioritizing high-risk individuals for vaccination against Covid-19 has already been passed on to deputy commissioners and civil surgeons of all 24 districts of the state. The government had been contemplating vaccination on priority  for high-risk individuals, which officials maintain,  will not only provide safety to such people but also help  break the chain of infection. “Even during the lockdown, people mostly come in close contact with vegetable vendors, ration shop staff, Swiggy or Zomato delivery boys and petrol pump employees. The idea is to vaccinate them on  priority  in order to ensure that they are safe as they are regularly meeting people even during lockdown,” said an official from the National Health Mission (NHM). Some districts, officials said, may hold special vaccination campaigns for high-risk individuals falling in the 22 categories fixed by the government. However, the districts will take measures at their own level to ensure vaccination of such high-risk individuals. People falling in these categories have to move out of their houses for work even during the lockdown and were more likely to get infected due to daily exposure to a large number of people. As per government data, the state on Sunday had 139,700 doses of vaccine for beneficiaries in the age bracket of 18 to 44 years and 724,390 doses for residents above the age of 45 years. So far, Jharkhand has administered the first dose of the vaccine to 34.26 lakh people and the second jab to over 7 lakh people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-37
30-05-2021||Jharkhand||Palamau hospital blood bank faces shortage amid Covid crisis||The Medinirai medical college hospital’s blood bank is going dry in the face of the Covid induced state-wide lockdown. At present, the Daltonganj hospital, with a capacity to store 300 units a day, has 30 units. All blood donation camps across the district are suspended due to the pandemic. Civil surgeon of Palamau, Anil Kumar Srivastav, said there is not a single day when he is not made to hear harsh and ugly things from people who say they need blood. Dr Srivastav said that people exert all kinds of pressure for units of blood but when it comes to its replacement, everyone backs out. Blood bank in-charge at Medinirai medical college hospital, Dr Jitendra Kumar said, “Our blood bank is drying up because of the coronavirus fear as no one is ready to donate blood.” “Our regular blood donors were CRPF jawans, NGOs, college students and civil society activists etc but these days no one is coming forward for the blood donation camps for the fear of the pandemic,” he said. Jitendra Kumar said anemia and thalassemia patients require around fifty to sixty units a month. According to sources, road accidents have gone down considerably due to lockdown curbs on transportation. Accident cases would have added an extra burden to the already depleted resources. Asked if a blood donor has to undergo tests for Covid, hepatitis, malaria and other communicable diseases, Jitendra Kumar said the state government has sent a new guideline which prohibits any test to be done on the donor. “We are to collect blood without putting the donor through any burden of tests,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-37
30-05-2021||Jharkhand||South Eastern Railway runs 158 Oxygen Express trains||The Chakradharpur division of South Eastern Railway (SER) is continuing to spread hope in the form of  delivering liquid medical oxygen (LMO) for Covid patients, having sent, as of Sunday, 110 Oxygen Express trains  to various parts of the country. Records available with SER's headquarters at Garden Reach, Calcutta, suggested that so far, Chakradharpur division  has dispatched more than 8,996 metric tonne (MT) liquid medical oxygen in more than 575 tankers/containers to various states across the country. "It is the endeavor of South Eastern Railway to deliver as much as possible liquid medical oxygen in the shortest time to fulfill requirements of various states. Till Sunday noon, SER as a whole has dispatched 158 Oxygen Express trains. Out of three main liquid medical oxygen  loading points under SER’s jurisdiction, Tatanagar dispatched 5,343 MT, Rourkela 3,773 MT and Bokaro 2,094 MT, " said Sanjay Ghosh, chief public relations officer of SER. From the South Eastern Railway zone,Oxygen Express trains moved out to 12 states -  Uttarakhand, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Haryana, Telangana, Punjab, Kerala, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Assam. "Indian Railways has mapped different routes with oxygen supply locations and keeps itself ready with any emerging need of the states, " said the CPRO. Notably, in order to ensure that oxygen relief reaches in the fastest time possible, railways is creating new standards and unprecedented benchmarking in running  Oxygen Express trains by high-priority green corridor with a highest sense of urgency. Operational teams of this zone are working round-the-clock in most challenging circumstances to ensure that oxygen reaches in fastest possible time frame. Rajdhani Express cancellation The Railway Board on Sunday notified extension of cancellation of Bhubaneswar- New Delhi Rajdhani special train ( 02823/ 02824) which goes via Tatanagar. The Up train ( 02823 ) will remain cancelled on June 3, 4, 7 and 10 while the return train ( 02824) will remain cancelled on June 3, 5, 8 and 10. Railway officials said the train will remain cancelled till further notice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-37
30-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand records 823 new infections, 1,647 recoveries||The active caseload in Ranchi dropped below 3,000 while that in Jharkhand dipped close to the 10,000-mark on Saturday, as the state reported twice as many Covid recoveries as fresh cases of infection on the day, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As many as 1,647 Covid patients recovered from the viral infection on Saturday, while 823 residents were found infected, a bulletin from the NHM stated. The positivity rate also dropped below 2 per cent on the day as only 800-odd of the 54,289 people tested for Covid-19 were found infected. The positivity rate in Jharkhand has dropped below 2 per cent for the first time in the past two months, a health official said, adding that the figures indicate a drop in the transmission rate. Strict lockdown restrictions, he said, played a major role in bringing the positivity rate down in the state. The growth rate of cases dropped while Covid recovery rate improved in the state on Saturday. However, the mortality rate remained above the national average as 13 more patients died. As per government data, the Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 1.47 per cent against the national average of 1.20 per cent. The growth rate in the state was 0.25 per cent against the national growth rate of 0.51 per cent. Ranchi reported 104 fresh cases of infection against 334 recoveries, which brought the active caseload here down to 2,891 – the highest among the 24 districts in the state. East Singhbhum, as per government data, also reported a triple-digit-spike in cases, but recoveries outnumbered cases there as well. The district reported 245 recoveries against 101 cases and the active caseload dropped to 733. Ranchi and East Singhbhum jointly accounted for almost half of the 13 casualties on the day. Ranchi reported four deaths, which took the Covid toll there to 1539. East Singhbhum reported three deaths, which took the toll there to 997. All the remaining 22 districts reported less than 100 fresh cases of infection and less than two deaths on the day. As per government data, over 3.36 lakh people have been infected by Coronavirus in Jharkhand so far and 95.27 per cent of them have recovered. As many as 4,958 patients could not survive the infection, NHM data highlights. The state on Saturday administered the first dose of vaccine to 30,935 residents and 21,664 of them were in the age bracket of 18 to 44 years. The second jab was administered to 6,317 beneficiaries, mostly those above the age of 45 years on the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-37
30-05-2021||Jharkhand||Cyclone Yaas: Corruption charge after Jharkhand bridge falls||Villagers, who are worst hit by the collapse of the Haradih-Budhadih bridge, blame rampant illegal sand mining and poor quality of construction by the contractor who enjoyed political patronage for the incident. The bridge over Kanchi river, which connects two Assembly constituencies of Tamar and Silli (both in Ranchi district), was sanctioned in 2013-14. Construction began in 2014-15 and got completed in 2018 during the tenure of the Raghubar Das-led BJP government. The nearly 600-metre-long and over 12-foot-high bridge was built at a cost of Rs 13 crore. Its one pier (out of the total 25 piers) collapsed on Thursday and two adjoining piers got damaged by heavy rain during Cyclone Yaas. Villagers of Tamar block told The Telegraph that another bridge over the same river — Bamladih Ghat bridge — connecting Sonahatu (in Silli) with Tamar also met the same fate during the monsoon of July 2019. “Both the bridges are hardly 10km from each other and were built by the same contractor A.N. Pandey from Ranchi. We have information that he had the patronage of former road construction minister and current Silli MLA Sudesh Mahato (president of Ajsu, an alliance partner of the erstwhile BJP government). We have been raising our voice against the poor quality of construction materials used in the bridge and this was compounded by illegal sand mining, which disturbed the river topography and increased the water load on the bridge span leading to its collapse,” said Sufal Mahato, a CPI leader in Rahe village under Sonahatu block of Silli. Mahato has written a letter to the Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren for a high level probe into the bridge collapse, citing it as an example of corruption. “We have seen Bamladih Ghat bridge also meeting the same fate once in July 2017 and again in July 2019 (before the Assembly polls). However, no action was initiated by the then BJP government against the contractor. If the probe is done in the right manner, things will become clearer,” Mahato said. Tamar MLA and JMM leader Vikas Munda (who was earlier with the Ajsu) also hinted at corruption in the construction of the bridges. “It is true that both the bridges were built by the same contractor and there should be a probe into the quality of materials used in the construction. In fact, I had written to the rural development secretary, complaining about the poor quality of materials used in the bridge construction in 2014. But no action was taken,” Munda said. Several attempts to contact Sudesh Mahato till 7.30pm received the response “mobile is not reachable”. However, Ajsu state spokesperson Deosharan Bhagat denied the allegation of political patronage. “We want a thorough probe into the reason behind the collapse of both the bridges. Merely making baseless allegations against our leader would not do. Every aspect should be looked into during the probe. Sudesh Mahatoji has always been with the people and is known for setting up infrastructure for the people of his constituency and the state,” Bhagat said. State rural development secretary Aradhana Patnaik (who was transferred on Friday evening) told said that a three-member probe committee had been directed to submit their findings at the earliest. “The three-member probe team, comprising engineer-in-chief of the road construction department Murari Bhagat, engineer-in-chief of building construction Sanjay Kumar Singh and engineer-in-chief of Jharkhand State Rural Development Authority Jai Prakash Singh, has been directed to complete the probe and submit findings at the earliest,” Patnaik said. Hemant on Friday afternoon directed the constitution of a high-level team to probe the reason behind the collapse of the Haradih-Budhadih bridge. “Corruption and loot of the public exchequer will not be tolerated at any cost during my tenure,” Hemant tweeted in Hindi. Baidyanath Mahato, a school teacher and a resident of Tamar, said they would now have to go to Sonahatu by covering a circuitous route of over 30km and would also have to touch NH-33 to reach Bundu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-37
30-05-2021||Jharkhand|| Elgaar Parishad case: Stan Swamy put on oxygen support||Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist Father Stan Swamy is on oxygen support at Holy Family Hospital in Mumbai. Director of the Bangalore-based Indian Social Institute, Father Joe Xavier, who is coordinating with the Jesuits on Father Swamy, told The Telegraph that the octogenarian was admitted to the hospital around 9.50pm on Friday. “He was admitted to the hospital following Bombay High Court’s intervention. We are happy that the court has understood his health condition and the need for urgent medical treatment. He has been put on oxygen support as he was having problem in breathing and is currently in the ICU. He is stable, but could not recognise even persons who had been closely associated with him. The hospital authorities will issue a bulletin about his health condition after a detailed examination on Saturday,” Father Xavier said. In a videoconference with the judges of Bombay High Court, Father Swamy had refused hospitalisation and pleaded for interim bail to go to Ranchi to be with his people. However, as his health condition deteriorated, Father Swamy agreed to be hospitalised after his lawyer and senior advocate of Bombay High Court Mihir Desai, with the court’s permission, spoke to him through the counsel call facility. “He is unable to stand, walk and eat without helpers,” Father Xavier added. Earlier on Friday, the court directed the Maharashtra government to transfer Father Swamy, an accused in the Bhima Koregaon violence case, to the Holy Family Hospital from Taloja Central Jail. In an urgent hearing, Desai told a division bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and N.R. Borkar that Father Swamy’s condition was not improving. In a call made by Father Swamy to his close associate Father Joseph Xavier he had said his blood pressure was dropping and he continued to feel weak. Desai told the court that Father Swamy had agreed to move to a private hospital and would bear his own expenses. “We will press for the interim bail after the high court reopens in June,” Desai told The Telegraph. On May 21, another bench of the high court suggested that Father Swamy be admitted to the government-managed JJ Hospital for a few days. However, after his general condition worsened, the court directed that he be sent to the Holy Family Hospital for two weeks. Father Swamy was arrested on October 8, 2020 by a team of National Investigation Agency from his home in Namkum, Ranchi, and taken to Mumbai’s Taloja Central Jail. Father Swamy along with 15 others have been arrested under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act of 1967 in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-37
