31-05-2021||Jharkhand||Door-to-door vaccine drive in Dhanbad for 45 and above ||A door-to-door mobile vaccination drive for the 45 and above age group will begin in Jharia and Dhanbad blocks from Tuesday. All necessary preparations have been completed for the programme. District reproductive and child health officer of Dhanbad , Dr Vikash Kumar Rana said the vaccination by a  mobile team of a nurse and a computer operator will be carried out every day from 10 am to 4 pm. “We have constituted two teams including one for Dhanbad and other for Jharia, each consisting of a computer operator and nurse,” said Rana. “We have also established a control room for the purpose and people can call on the helpline number 6287593836 to demand vaccination in their respective area,” said Rana and added that the vaccination will  be carried out at localities where at least 20 beneficiaries have registered. He further said that the van will be opened at the site only after the congregation of 10 beneficiaries at a time. “The prospective beneficiaries will have to inform a day in advance for vaccination by mobile team by calling on the helpline number of the control room and the team at the site as per information,” said Rana. “All necessary arrangements for cleanliness, besides seating of beneficiaries at least two yards away from each other will have to be made at the vaccination site of the mobile vaccination team,” said Rana and added that the beneficiaries will also have to keep their Aadhar Card and mobile phone for on-site registration. The vaccination for 18 years and above in the district remained suspended for the sixth consecutive day due to lack of sufficient stock. The vaccination for 45 years and above continued at 34 centres, including nine at Dhanbad Sadar, six at Jharia,  five at Baghmara, four at Nirsa, three at special institutions, two each at Govindpur-Tundi and Topchanchi  and 1 at Baliapur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-35
31-05-2021||Jharkhand||JHALSA, Arjun Munda launch initiatives for Covid orphans||Jharkhand Legal Services Authority (JHALSA) rolled out Project Shishu Sadaiv Twaya Sah on Monday to help in the rehabilitation of children who were orphaned due to Covid-19. High court judge and JHALSA executive chairman Aparesh Kumar Singh launched the programme online. As per the project, district affiliates of JHALSA will act as a bridge to ensure that government schemes meant for children are implemented properly.  JHALSA and its district units will also identify such children through its network and connect them with the government programmes, said officials. JHALSA secretary Muhammad Shakir told reporters that their units will regularly coordinate with different government and non-government bodies to map such kids to extend relevant assistance. “Efforts will be put in place to ensure proper care, schooling and all other needsof such children like, for instance, keeping them in shelter homes, under foster care or with their extended dependents. JHALSA will keep a tab on their progress and well being,” he said. Awareness rath Union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda also flagged off a Jagrukta Rath (Awareness Rath) in Khunti district, his parliamentary constituency, to identify and help orphaned kids. The ceremony was held virtually. The chariot will move across the Kolhan region and Ranchi to create awareness about child trafficking and identify vulnerable children. The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), Asia Foundation and Khunti district administration have jointly initiated a move to launch a survey of orphaned children. Khunti deputy commissioner Sashi Ranjan said the administration was sensitive towards such children and efforts were on to provide a congenial environment to them. “The plan is to survey, identify, trace and provide such kids proper rehabilitation besides thwarting any potential threats of child trafficking,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-35
31-05-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city faces encroachment menace during lockdown||A number of places in and around the steel city are facing encroachment on government owned land during the lockdown, imposed here since April 22. The Circus Maidaan in Golmuri along the Golmuri-Telco Road One is one such encroached site. Spread across around three acres, the Circus Maidaan is used for holding circuses and also for facilitating sale of woolen goods and garments by the Tibetan traders during the winter. The Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee which looks after the land in the city had put up a new boundary wall as the previous one was worn out and damaged in January this year. But after the second wave of the Coronavirus pandemic and the resultant lockdown, a section of slum-dwellers broke a portion of the boundary wall and started setting up thatched houses at the Circus Maidaan. The encroachers, mostly hailing from Golmuri area, have set up dozens of thatched houses. The district administration officials were engaged in curbing Covid cases across the city. "We are aware about the encroachment at the Circus Maidaan and elsewhere in the city during the lockdown. Let the lockdown be lifted, we will raze the unauthorised houses and clear the encroachment, "said JNAC city manager Ravi Bharti to The Telegraph Online. Bharti said as the administration is giving utmost priority to curb the pandemic, it did not have time to deal with the encroachment issue, but it is aware of what is going on at Circus Maidaan in Golmuri and elsewhere in the city. Other places where government land has been encroached upon include Nurse Hostel in Baradwari and Golpahadi area in Parsudih.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-35
31-05-2021||Jharkhand||Over 30% black fungus patients of Jharkhand could not survive ||Jharkhand has registered a fatality rate of over 30 per cent and a recovery rate of nearly 25 per cent in mucormycosis cases reported in the state so far, while as many as 15 confirmed patients of the fungal infection and 46 suspected patients were undergoing treatment in various hospitals on Monday, health officials said. As per government data on Monday, the state has so far reported 33 confirmed cases of mucormycosis, or black fungus, and at least 10 of these patients could not survive. On the other hand, as many as eight patients have recovered from the infection and have been discharged. While Ranchi and East Singhbhum have reported three deaths each, two patients died in Ramgarh and one each in Dumka and Chatra. Ranchi also accounted for five of the eight recoveries so far, while East Singhbhum, Palamau and Ramgrah reported one recovery each, as per data released by the state government on Monday. However, the state did not report any fresh deaths caused by mucormycosis since May 26. Besides, most of the eight recoveries were reported during this period from May 26 to Monday. In the past two days, the state did not find fresh confirmed cases of the fungal infection, but two patients were suspected to have developed the infection and were under observation. Doctors claim that murocmycosis, common among those with diabetese and immunocompromised conditions, has a fatality rate of 50 per cent. This means the fatality rate in Jharkhand was lower than the average fatality rate of mucormycosis in general. “Quick diagnosis and treatment were the key to check the fatality rate in patients,” said Dr Anindya Anuradha, an ophthalmologist treating mucormycosis patients at Ranchi-based Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital. Mucormycosis, also called black fungus, is a rare infection caused by exposure to mucor mould found in soil, plants, manure and decaying fruits and vegetables. The line of treatment includes surgery and administering anti-fungal drugs, mostly Amphotericin B. Several thousand cases of Covid-induced mucormycosis were reported in India in the past one month and doctors claimed that use of high dosage steroids for treatment of severely-ill Covid patients was one of the reasons for the spike. Last week, the government made Mucormycosis a notifiable disease and asked the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) to maintain records related to the lethal fungal infection. The civil surgeons of all the districts have been asked to report fresh confirmed and suspected cases of Mucormycosis to the IDSP every day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-35
31-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid health drive at remote village in Latehar||Rapid antigen tests and vaccinations were carried out at Bhokha Kharn in Latehar district’s Lundi village occupied by the Aind community, more than 110km from Ranchi on Sunday. A team of eight including doctors Khalso Hansda and Rajesh Kumar, two ANMs, two sahiyas, SDO Rajesh Kumar and BDO Latehar Ganesh Rajak reached a hamlet of 25 households of the Aind tribal on the hillock of Bhokha Kharn with test and vaccination kits. Around 38 were tested and 21 vaccinated. Among the 21 vaccinated, the majority belonged to the age group of 18 to 44. BDO of Latehar, Ganesh Rajak said all tests were negative. The tribal villagers cooperated with the team putting aside all apprehensions. According to sources, the deputy commissioner of Latehar, Abu Imran had asked the health and civil officials to carry out the programme at the hamlet since it has recorded two Covid deaths. Rajak said a 45-year-old woman of this hamlet had died on Saturday of Covid while undergoing treatment at a centre in Latehar. Twenty five households were given medical kits and the daughter of the deceased woman was given a CM Rahat Packet consisting of dry rations and Rs 2000 as compensation. “Our chief minister has directed us to intensify health safety drives in the interiors of the state and so our officials trekked on foot braving all odds,” said Abu Imran “The tribals waited eagerly for their turns to get tested and vaccinated,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-35
31-05-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town traders demand opening of shops in phased manner||Coal town traders facing the economic brunt of lockdown have suggested reopening of all shops for a limited time period with strict observance of Covid guidelines. The suggestions for reopening shops till 2 pm came after chief minister Hemant Soren invited suggestions from citizens about the ways of proceeding towards unlock with focus on livelihood. Chetan Goenka, president of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry said, ``We have earlier also demanded allowing reopening of all kinds of shops and reiterated our demand today to the chief minister to allow opening of all shops up to 2 pm.” “As we have achieved considerable success in controlling Covid some relaxation on trade front is necessary so that the common traders reeling under the impact of Covid can have some relief,” said Goenka and added that shops opening up to 2 pm should be allowed for 15 days and depending on the situation government can take future course of action. “The traders are ready to observe the Covid protocols in the strictest sense. We are hopeful that the customers have also become quite sensitive about covid and ready to follow all covid guidelines in the strictest sense,” said Goenka. Echoing sentiments with Goenka, President of Jharia Chamber of Commerce, Amit Sahu said, “The second wave of Covid came when the traders were yet to recover from the severe jolt received during the first wave, so the impact of second phase of lockdown was more on common people including small traders so it is imperative now to provide some relaxation in order to ensure provision of livelihood for common people.” “We welcome the chief minister’s move to proceed towards lockdown and at the same time demand no let up in the Covid protocol observance given the severity of pandemic,” said Sahu. Umesh Heliwal, a garment trader of Karkend Bazar of Dhanabd who is also the president of Vastra Vyavsai Sangh, said,“The administration should ensure strict monitoring of Covid protocols by deputing policemen in every market area but all kinds of shop opening including the opening of garment shops should be allowed,” said Heliwal and added that garment traders faced the brunt of first phase of lockdown the most as they were among the last sectors which was allowed to reopen. Secretary of Dhanbad Motor Dealers Association, Prem Prakash Gangesaria also tweeted to the chief minister demanding all kinds of shops opening till 2 pm with strict monitoring rules. “We were demanding the opening of motor parts shops for as long as it was ironic that while the vehicle repairing shops were allowed to open even during lockdown the motor parts shops  were not allowed to open causing difficulties for the mechanics to repair the vehicle in absence of crucial parts,” said Gangesaria.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-36
31-05-2021||Jharkhand||With 21 wet days, May was the coolest for Jharkhand in years ||With 21 wet days and the maximum temperature remaining below normal on most days the peak summer month of May has been the coolest in recent years. Statistics revealed that apart from the three districts of Kolhan (East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan) several other districts in central, north-eastern and north-western parts of the state _ like Ranchi, Ramgarh, Pakur, Sahibganj, Dumka, Deoghar, Jamtara, Godda, Daltonganj and Garhwa -- recorded 21 wet days in May 2021. Frequent Nor'westers, coupled with last week's cyclone Yaas, resulted in an impressive rain in Jharkhand throughout in the month. Jamshedpur topped the rainfall chart. Statistics revealed that steel city recorded over 300mm rain alone in the month of May while the  total cumulative rainfall in three pre-monsoon months (March to May) was 601mm, which is a record in itself. Notably, past-midnight till the small hours of Monday, Jamshedpur experienced very heavy rainfall, accompanied by thunder and heavy lightning, with the local IMD observatory recording 170.2 mm. Weathermen said the heavy rain and thunder was due to the impact of a cyclonic circulation prevailing over eastern Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and neighbouring Bihar. Last year, Jamshedpur had recorded 135mm rain in May while the cumulative rain of March to May was 349mm. Data revealed that Ranchi's rain count in the month of May was 230mm out of its cumulative total of 365.2 mm. May's rainfall in Bokaro was also very impressive. Data revealed that like Jamshedpur, Bokaro too recorded over 300 mm of rain in May. Bokaro's cumulative rain in the pre-monsoon months (March to May) as per IMD records stood at 451.4 mm. Daltonganj, the Palamau headquarters located in north-western part of the state, also witnessed a good shower show in May.Known as the heat-chamber of Jharkhand, Daltonganj recorded 155mm rain in May this year. The cumulative rainfall between March and May stood at an impressive 187.6mm Last year, May had as many as 19 wet days in Jharkhand. The state witnessed widespread rain after May 20 due to the impact of cyclone Amphan which left behind a trail of destruction in neighbouring Bengal. The number of Nor'westers, which is an April-May phenomenon that results in widespread rain and thunderstorm, was also a contributing factor. This year, May saw eight such low and high-intensity storms. IMD's Ranchi Met Centre has predicted more showers in the next four days till June 4 due to the impact of the eastern Uttar Pradesh cyclonic circulation coupled with a low-pressure trough. "Frequent Nor'wester activity and Cyclone Yaas also played a role in taming the cruel May sun this year. The day's readinging throughout May was below the oppressive 40 degree Celsius. May hasn't been so cool in the recent few years," said Abhishek Anand, the head of Ranchi Meteorological Center. Anand said the maximum reading in Ranchi, Daltonganj and a few other places in north-western Jharkhand was on the higher side in the fourth week of May last year when some places witnessed heatwave conditions. "But this year May failed to see heatwave conditions," he added. Weathermen at Regional Meteorological Centre in Alipore, Calcutta  said  the cyclonic circulation over Jharkhand will result in rainfall in the next few days. "The prevailing wind pattern is resulting in moisture incursion into the atmosphere which is a good sign for rainfall activity," said a duty officer at the Calcutta Met centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-36
31-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid cases down, Hemant seeks suggestions on 'unlocking'  ||Chief minister Hemant Soren has sought the views of the people on the kind of Covid restictrions they wanted withdrawn, indicating that the state government was thinking of partial relaxations in current lockdown norms that are in place till June 3, given that the number of cases and fatalities show a downward trend. Issuing an appeal from his twitter handle on Monday, Hemant asked, "Sathiyon, kaisa hona chahiye unlock? Swastha Suraksha Saptha mein aapke diye sahyog se humne corona ke dusre leher par kabu pa liya. Jeevan and Jeevika ke sangharsh mein ab humara dhyan jeevika pe hai. Esiliye aap apne bahumulya vichar comment kar sajha kare ki kaisa hona chahiye unlock ki prakiya. (Friends, what should be the nature of unlock ? I thank everyone for their support during the health safety week because of which we have succeeded in controlling the second wave of Covid-19. In the fight between lives and livelihoods, our focus now is on the latter. Therefore, I want to know your precious suggestions on ways for unlock).” Concerned about the massive surge in cases and fatalities, the state government had imposed a partial lockdown, termed as health safety week, on April 22 for a week. Gradually, the timeline was extended and more restrictions were added. During the current phase of the lockdown, which is in force till June 3, the state government had curbed movement of inter and intra-state buses while shops and business establishments selling essentials are allowed to function till 2pm. It also introduced e-passes for those who needed to be outdoors for valid reasons. But those travelling for medical reasons, and members of the media government services were exempt. All educational institutions have been closed and there is a blanket ban on social & religious gatherings, avenues of amusement & entertainment etc. Reacting to Hemant's call for suggestions, political parties, trade bodies and residents supported the mve to "unlock gradullay" but all advised great caution. In a statement, former chief minister and BJP’s national vice president Raghubar Das said, “Sector-wise shops should now be allowed to function full swing at least for two days a week. While online classes are on, many students are facing problems in getting stationery, phone/mobile purchase or repair, etc. Similarly, with clothes shops closed, many are facing problems getting garments/footwear for daily use. In order to streamline livelihoods, I would advise reopening of shops by two days a week to begin with.” Former president of Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI) Kunal Ajmani suggested that vaccination certificates be treated as movement passes and industries/entities where everyone is fully vaccinated must be allowed to resume. “All those who have got both their doses must be able to move freely without e-passes and their vaccination certificate be treated as their passes,” he said. Jharkhand Olympic Association suggested night lockdown. “Unlock should be from 6am-8pm only,” said the sports body. As per Sunday night's Covid bulletin, the number of active cases have come down below 10,000 in the state. Currently, there are 9,906 active cases while total deaths stand at 4,977. In the last 24 hours, Jharkhand reported 703 new cases and 19 deaths, much lower than the numbers recorded weeks back.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-36
31-05-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi reports 13 of 19 Covid casualties in Jharkhand||Ranchi accounted for 13 of 19 Covid casualties reported in Jharkhand on Sunday, which took the Covid toll in the state closer to the 5000-mark and that in Ranchi to 1552, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. However, the decline in the active caseload continued on Sunday as the state reported at least 1724 Covid recoveries against 703 fresh cases of infection. As per a bulletin released by the NHM, the active caseload dropped to 9906 in Jharkhand on Sunday. With 96 fresh cases, East Singhbhum accounted for the highest number of cases among Jharkhand districts on the day. The active caseload in the district, however, dropped to 446 as at least 380 Covid patients recovered from the infection there. As many as two patients died in the districts on Sunday, taking the toll there to 999. As per NHM data, Ranchi reported 72 cases against 268 recoveries and the active caseload here dropped to 2,691 on Sunday. Health officials said that a higher number of casualties were reported in Ranchi as many critical patients were referred to hospitals here from different parts of the state and some of them could not survive. Hazaribag was the only district to report a triple-digit-spike in cases on the day. The district reported 105 cases of infection against 93 recoveries and saw a rise in the active caseload there to 469, the NHM stated in its bulletin. Barring Ranchi, East Singhbhum and Hazaribag, all the remaining 21 districts reported a spike of less than 50 in the Covid caseload. The government on Sunday tested swab samples of 44,553 residents and close to 2 per cent of them were found infected. So far, the state has tested 84.34 lakh people for Covid-19 and 3.36 lakh of them were found infected by the virus. Over 95.58 per cent of these patients have recovered so far, highlights government data. The growth rate of infection in Jharkhand also dropped to 0.22 per cent against the national average of 0.49 per cent on Sunday, while the doubling rate rose to 316.12 days against the national average of 140.64 days. The Covid mortality rate in the state, however, was 1.47 per cent, which is higher than the national average of 1.20 per cent. Jharkhand on Sunday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 23958 residents and more than 16500 of them were in the age bracket of 18 to 44 years. As many as 3664 residents received the second jab on the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-36
31-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jhumri Telaiya businesswoman requests police to open footwear store||Time was when most song requests to the popular radio programme Binaca Geetmala would seem to come from the mysterious but lyrical-sounding town of “Jhumri Telaiya”, leaving the rest of India wondering whether the place really existed or it was all a huge set-up. Dwarika Ram had no such doubts about Jhumri Telaiya — he is the officer in charge of the police station in the small mica town in Jharkhand’s Koderma district. But last Tuesday, it was his turn to stare in disbelief at a written request handed to him by a lockdown-hit Jhumri Telaiya resident. The writer wanted not oxygen or medicines, not even a hospital bed. All she wanted was a pair of new slippers — and Ram’s help in buying them. “My slippers are torn and I find it very difficult to move around in the house,” Deepa Khatuwala, a businesswoman dealing in mica, wrote in the letter. She had shoes but needed a pair of slippers or flip-flops for indoor use, she stressed in her letter, which she handed personally to the OC on May 25, requesting he get a footwear store opened for her. “Not only that, my maid needs an umbrella and many others like my driver need other stuff, and these should be made easily available,” Khatuwala, who appeared to be in her early 40s, told The Telegraph. The OC “regretted his inability saying he was not competent to open the relevant store during the lockdown”, she said. An undaunted Khatuwala drove to Koderma town, about 12km away, to meet the sub-divisional officer the same day. She had to leave a letter at the office as the SDO was “away on a field visit”. Khatuwala then called up ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha politician and former chairperson of the state women’s commission, Mahua Majee, for help. Majee told this newspaper: “It was an unusual request as we are normally approached for hospital beds, medicines and oxygen around this time.” She said she had nevertheless arranged to send a pair of slippers to Khatuwala. “Yes, the district president of her party contacted me but I declined their offer as it’s a problem also faced by many others,” Khatuwala said, implying her readiness to put herself in others’ shoes. She emphasised the public-spiritedness of her act when asked why she hadn’t used an online delivery platform. She said she could do so personally but many others were not proficient with the system and could get their stuff only when the markets opened. “Some people even said I was not interested in solving my problem and instead wanted to make it an issue,” Khatuwala complained. Her new slippers will have to wait at least till June 3 when the state government will review the lockdown, in force since April 22, and decided whether to relax or extend it. Khatuwala’s persistence perhaps carries echoes of the 1950s when, in the heyday of the radio, Jhumri Telaiya residents would send tons of postcards to Radio Ceylon and All India Radio’s Vividh Bharati, requesting them to play their favourite Bollywood songs. Sometimes almost every song in a particular broadcast would be preceded by the announcement that it had been requested by “Jhumri Telaiya se... so-and-so”. At the time, many residents of the town — named after the folk dance form Jhumar and the local lake (telaiya) — had suddenly turned rich from mica mining. They lived in mansions and rode Mercs and Porsches in their backward hinterland — as much an incongruity as the little-known town’s dominance over the airwaves. It was believed that the local tycoons competed with one another to have their names announced on these popular music programmes and paid people to inundate the radio stations with song requests in their names.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-36
31-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand faces dengue threat after rains||Jharkhand health department has riveted attention on carrying out larval surveillance for vector borne diseases especially in the wake of water inundation in several districts due to impact of Cyclone Yaas with the state witnessing only 16 Covid deaths and adding 695 cases on Thursday and registering a better recovery rate of 94.61 per cent (national average is 90 per cent). Additional chief secretary (health) Arun Kumar Singh has directed civil surgeons and deputy commissioners of all the 24 districts to prepare action for the larval surveillance and prevention of vector borne diseases like dengue and chikungunya. They have been asked to submit by June 10 to the health department and start door-to-door surveillance work for containing the diseases from June 15. He said that because of heavy rains in almost all districts of the state there have been instances of water inundation which might aid breeding of Aedes Aegypti mosquitoes, the vector of dengue and chikungunya virus. “We are taking several steps to contain the spread of Covid-19 and if there is spread of other viral diseases like dengue and chikungunya then the situation would become grimmer,” the letter warns. Incidentally, larval surveillance and control is a critical component of any effective integrated mosquito management programme when mosquitoes are eliminated prior to becoming adults and in the process cannot pose disease problems. “Trained field technicians inspect known source of standing water and newly discovered standing water in house-to-house survey and use standard dipping techniques to sample the water for the immature mosquitoes and undertake physical control (destruction or removal of water accumulation points) and chemical control (through spraying of larvicides),” said a source in the National Vector Borne Disease Control Program (NVBDCP) unit of Jharkhand. The source further said that 2021 is critical in view of the cyclic pattern of malaria, dengue and other vector borne diseases. “We need to note that malaria and dengue tend to have cyclic patterns and show a trend to spike after 5-6 years and 2-3 years respectively. We have been fortunately witnessing a decline in malaria since 2015 and hence this year may be critical in the given cyclic trend. “We need to prepare for effective prevention and control of various vector borne diseases throughout the country,” the health official said. The letter had directed for surveillance against vector borne diseases to be combined with Covid-19 activities in the containment zone, buffer zone and areas outside buffer zone and also creating community awareness on dengue breeding spots. The areas in Jharkhand which are dengue endemic include Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Dhanbad, Hazaribagh, Giridih, Gumla, Pakur and Sahebganj. “We have prepared an entomological survey format and the health department and municipal department will work together in all the districts as part of the survey,” said state entomology officer Sagya Singh. On Friday evening, mission director National Health Mission Ravishankar Shukla issued a letter to all municipal officials to help health department in carrying out larval surveillance in their respective command areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-36
