04-05-2020||US President Donald Trump has been advancing a theory that the novel coronavirus originated in a laboratory in Wuhan||‘Accidental’ contagion||The politics of naming the coronavirus is something that Beijing is sensitive to. As the news about the new virus spread, it was called Wuhan flu, Wuhan coronavirus, 2019-nCoV etc, till the WHO named the disease Covid-19, which was a contraction of the coronavirus disease-2019. Even as the reference to the city of origin was removed by the WHO, President Trump, also sensitive to the naming game, began aggressively calling it the China virus. He has also announced his administration’s plans to punish China over the pandemic outbreak. In this, he is not alone, other countries too are at loggerheads with Beijing, including Australia. Aggressive Chinese pushback has not helped its case.The US has an unfortunate history of asking intelligence officials to look for evidence that pushes a politically convenient agenda. The infamous example is one of finding Saddam Hussein’s weapons of mass destruction, which could never be proved, but provided the justification sought to invade Iraq. The intelligence agencies have promised to continue looking. They can be assured that a sceptical international community will scrutinise their conclusions. In any case, President Trump’s endorsement has pushed the hitherto fringe theory that the pandemic, that has swept through the world, spread from a Chinese lab, not a market to the forefront. Now the world will seek answers, and it remains to be seen if the President’s assertion will be validated or will remain another of the many statements he makes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/accidental-contagion-80061
04-05-2020||The movement of stranded migrant workers is finally getting the government’s attention it deserved all along. The strain of being away from their homes amid the uncertainty made them travel in concrete mixers||Putting return on track||Bringing students back from Kota, a coaching hub in Rajasthan, also shows how the governments have prioritised the return of stranded residents. The Centre has devised ways to make the movement possible with special trains being provided for the students stuck in Kota. But it is for the state concerned and the section affected to take a call. The government had earlier evacuated Indian nationals from other countries. A protocol would ensure it is done for all citizens — students, NRIs and poor migrant labourers.In Punjab, movement is slated to begin this week. Those wishing to leave have to provide details and then a token will be issued, followed by medical screening and a certificate. With health experts suggesting home quarantine in not-so-severe cases, checking transmission should not be tough. It will also take the pressure off hotspots. Retaining workers will depend on initiatives taken to restore the business. Some signs of it are now visible. But till this happens, it is the government that will have to step in like Punjab has done with its Shahpur Kandi project. Jharkhand, a mineral-rich state, too should find a way out. Migrants are among the frontline workers of the economy and gainful engagement serves a system based on interdependence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/putting-return-on-track-80060
