08-05-2020||Humanity dies when hospitals deny treatment to terminally ill patients. And it died several deaths Tuesday night when a Covid-stricken police constable gasping for breath was made to run from one hospital to another in the national capital. Indian bureaucracy is known to make taxpayers with legitimate grievances go around in circles||Death of a Covid-positive cop||Amit Kumar, a constable attached to Bharat Nagar police station of north Delhi, most probably contracted the disease while on duty. When Kumar fell sick — with his wife and three-year-old child away at his hometown Sonepat in Haryana — he shifted to a colleague’s house, who in turn took Kumar first to a Covid centre Tuesday 7.30 am. The concept of a Covid centre ought to be to have a place to receive a patient with symptoms, test him and to further transfer him to a proper facility for treatment. But the Haiderpur centre shooed Kumar away to Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Government Hospital, where they waited two and a half hours in vain. Then they moved to Deep Chand Bandhu Government Hospital, which pushed Kumar out again to a Covid centre at Ashok Vihar, where he was tested and sent back. All through the day, Kumar’s colleague could not get a single hospital to admit the patient, till a senior officer intervened and directed him to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital in the night. But Kumar died on the way to the hospital at 8.30 pm.A 32-year-old physically fit cop dying due to lack of medical attention in the seat of national power exemplifies all that is wrong with India’s public health system. In the recently held polls, the Delhi Chief Minister swept back to power claiming, among other things, the dramatic improvement in the city-state’s healthcare system with the launch of Mohalla Clinics. Well, Arun Kumar’s death is a reminder of what it is to be poor and sick in Delhi, dependent on Government Hospitals. A crisis is an opportunity to reform those systems that come under the maximum strain; but, alas, not for us.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/death-of-a-covid-positive-cop-81851
08-05-2020||If the sight of migrant labourers sweating it out||Let migrants decide||The Karnataka Government may have stolen a march over the Centre by finally announcing a relief package, but refusing public transport strikes at the very heart of basic rights. Out of work, without money, uncertainties mounting by the day, and pretty much left to figure out for themselves what the future holds, that has been the lot of migrant labourers during the past month-and-a-half. If, following the financial and psychological blow they have suffered, all they crave for is the safety net of a caring environment that a home provides, that should not be hard to understand. Who is to take the judgement call on what is right for them, and what is not? Obviously, only an employee can take a decision on where and when to work. If the conditions are conducive enough, logically the labourers are bound to return.Probably reflecting the government’s thinking, Bengaluru-South MP Tejasvi Surya had hailed the stoppage of inter-state trains as a bold and necessary move. Since the young parliamentarian, often in news for the wrong reasons, has such foresight, he may have the answer to where those in charge were when the migrant labourers needed them the most. That bold and necessary move to make them feel at home never came.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/let-migrants-decide-81850
