15-05-2020||Pensions account for about 30 per cent of India’s defence budget. A proposal to raise the retirement age of troops of the three armed forces is aimed not only at reducing the burgeoning post-retiral bill||Troops’ retirement age||Rs 1.33 lakh crore, up from Rs 1.1 lakh crore in 2019-20.As per another proposal, the Army is considering the ‘Tour of Duty’ (ToD) model to take in officers for only three years of service. With at least 90 per cent of the officers opting for permanent commission after doing 14 years’ service, the Short Service Commission (SSC) scheme’s purpose of keeping the Army lean is getting defeated. The cost incurred on an SSC officer — right from pre-commission training to the payment of gratuity — is as high as Rs 5-7 crore.Unlike Israel’s mandatory conscription model, which dates back to 1948, ToD would be voluntary. Fighting-fit Israelis have been making the most of military service, lasting about three years, to subsequently excel in other professions. It’s a moot point to what extent unemployment and a ‘resurgence of nationalism and patriotism’, as cited by the Indian Army, can spur the youth to have a feel of military professionalism and then move on. Again, the focus is largely on reducing the payouts. The intended reforms would be worthwhile if they result in considerable savings that can facilitate much-needed modernisation of the forces.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/troops-retirement-age-84945
15-05-2020||Like many other economic activities||Box office at home||In the light of the backlog of releases and unpredictability looming over the reopening of cinema halls, the decision to stream films makes financial sense. The technological facilitation is likely to bail out at least mid-range films. Rather, the current arrangement seems like a win-win for both makers and audiences, who have become used to getting entertained from the comfort of their homes. But, filmmaking is not a standalone business. From a spot boy to makeup man to hordes of extras, thousands of daily-wage earners are dependent on cinema for their livelihood. The Cine and TV Artistes’ Association has been doing its bit for those working on the sets. But is anyone sparing a thought for those indirectly connected with cinema halls? The ushers, ticket-sellers and cleaners, the list of those doing odd jobs is long.Exhibitors’ plea to the Prime Minister to hold back the release of movies on OTT may not hold much water. Yet, the concerns of cinema halls and those associated with it can’t be overlooked. As things stand, it will take a long time to draw audiences. Experts are already anticipating a 50 per cent drop in multiplex footfall. While readjusting its balance sheet, the film industry, which as a rule rakes in crores, must factor in the last man standing. Not just those who stand in queues to buy tickets, but all those who make cinema viewing a fulfilling theatrical experience.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/box-office-at-home-84946
