18-05-2020||THE Centre’s decision to amend the Essential Commodities Act (ECA) is being billed as the 1991 liberalisation moment for Indian agriculture. The marketing reform||Major agriculture reform||Enacted in 1955 when the economy was dealing with food shortage and famine, the ECA gives the Centre and state governments the power to regulate the production, supply, distribution and prices of commodities. NITI Aayog has termed it a hindrance to farm exports and the Economic Survey called it an anachronistic legislation. Some experts feel it disincentivises investment in warehouses and storage facilities. The changes hold promise for a big push in private investment in farm infrastructure and purchase of food processing stocks. A legal framework to allow farmers to fix their own fair price, the government believes, would result in an increase in their incomes.To remove barriers to inter-state trade, a Central law is proposed to not bind farmers to sell their crop only to licensed traders in their district Agricultural Produce Market Committee mandis. In short, farmers can sell to anyone and anywhere, and traders can freely buy, stock and move any quantity of agri-produce within the country. To compete, private mandis would demand subsidised credit and land. Any proposal that helps growers needs to be welcomed. However, there has been a long history of government intervention when prices surge — of onion, for instance. Its removal from the ECA is a bold move. Will consumers feel the pinch in the long run? Maybe yes, but they will not mind as long as the increase is pocketed by the farmers and not a new middleman.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/major-agriculture-reform-86269
18-05-2020||The Allahabad High Court’s decision to allow azan during the extant lockdown has provided judicial clarity to a matter that should not have been in the court in the first place. There is no doubt that the azan is ‘an essential and integral part of Islam’||Of sounds divine||The use of loudspeakers for religious and cultural functions has assumed the dimensions of a menace to society. From time to time, voices have been raised by concerned citizens about the disturbance caused by the loudspeakers blaring at night or other times. The egregious conduct transcends religious denominations and cultural groupings. Unfortunately, it rises to intolerable levels as competitive religiosity and cultural one-upmanship fuel a race to deploy increasingly powerful sound systems at various venues, and even in the streets.The noise levels should not exceed 55 decibels in residential localities during the day and 45 at night, but the implementation of such laws often takes a back seat. Uniformity in the enforcement of rules is a fundamental requirement of all modern democracies. The spirit of the High Court’s judgment demands that loudspeakers should be used in a manner that their noise outside the boundaries of the place of worship does not exceed the limits prescribed by noise pollution laws. Indeed, such is the law in many nations, and it has to be applicable to everyone — all religious denominations and cultural events.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/of-sounds-divine-86272
