20-05-2020||Chief Ministers Mamata Banerjee and Nitish Kumar||Two states in disarray||True to her nature, Mamata has been indulging in one-upmanship with the NDA government since the outbreak of the pandemic. In her latest salvo, she has decided not to impose night curfew in the state, shooting down the Centre’s proposal. The TMC government has also been accused of adopting a pick-and-choose approach for bringing back migrants, virtually pitting one community against another.Nitish, whose JD(U) has an uneasy alliance with the BJP, took an unreasonably tough stand after the migrants’ exodus began in the last week of March. Citing fears of faster spread of Covid-19, he was quick to wash his hands of the responsibility of ensuring the safe return not only of migrants stuck in other states but also of Bihari students stranded in Kota (Rajasthan). His unsavoury tussle with the Centre ended only when the latter decided to run Shramik trains from May 1. However, it was as late as May 16 that trains carrying thousands of stranded migrants back to Bihar and West Bengal left from Mumbai after Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray sought his counterparts’ much-needed cooperation. The two CMs’ ill-timed power play has aggravated the humanitarian and health crisis. With both states going to the polls over the next year or so, time is running out for Nitish and Mamata to get their act together.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/two-states-in-disarray-87209
20-05-2020||The fields of cricket are littered with promising careers destroyed by corruption — Virat Kohli managed to escape such a fate due to his hard work. The Indian captain has said he was ‘broken’ when||Paying to get into cricket team||Virender Sehwag, another Delhi boy, learnt bitter lessons as a teenager when he was not given opportunities — but like Kohli after him, Sehwag smashed so many runs that it became too scandalous to ignore him. But players who are not mentally strong like Kohli and Sehwag simply fall by the wayside. Cricket needs urgent cleansing — this, in fact, has been the theme in Indian cricket for the past seven years, since the betting and spot-fixing scandal came to light in the IPL in 2013.The Supreme Court got deeply interested in the issue and spared no effort to set up a system of accountability and transparency in cricket’s administration. However, the wily old administrators refused to budge, installing relatives or friends in positions of power in state associations. With that ended the possibility of a grassroots change — at the district level, the selectors could also be running a cricket academy, resulting in favouritism. Men such as Kohli and Sehwag managed to rise despite the system, but many others continue to fall and perish. Will the Supreme Court’s efforts be in vain?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/paying-to-get-into-cricket-team-87142
