21-05-2020||The World Health Organisation (WHO) has been receiving more brickbats than bouquets for its handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. The UN health body finds itself caught in the crossfire between superpowers China and the US. China has called on the international community to increase political and financial support to the WHO||Covid-19 probe||In a development particularly significant for India, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan is set to take charge as the chairman of the WHO’s 34-member Executive Board. India, which has recorded more than 1 lakh Covid cases and over 3,000 deaths so far, is poised to play a bigger role on the world stage in dealing with the disease. The promptness in extending a helping hand to other countries by supplying medicines and medical equipment has earned New Delhi diplomatic goodwill. The new responsibility will test the country’s mettle as it strives to strengthen its healthcare infrastructure.It will also be critical for India to hold its ground and steer clear of the US-China slanging match. Only the WHO has the wherewithal to spearhead the global fight against Covid-19. India has a chance to rise to the occasion by advising and assisting the world body in performing its operations efficiently and autonomously. The top priority should be to contain the virus unitedly, rising above geopolitical rivalries. It’s also vital to fast-track the probe so that course correction can be done and the world becomes better prepared to handle such pandemics.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/covid-19-probe-87672
21-05-2020||A recent report in The Tribune on a wider investigation being launched into units manufacturing fake international liquor brands in a Ludhiana village attracted much attention. The audacity of the operation||Illicit liquor trade||While the Chief Minister was batting for opening of liquor vends during the lockdown, citing huge revenue losses, the illicit liquor mafia and bootleggers had a field day. Huge seizures during the period point to an active machinery, and also how big the business is, and those behind it. The massive shortfall in excise collections has led to a bitter war of words not only between the Congress and the Opposition, but also within the ruling party. The demand for an in-depth inquiry into the functioning of the excise department, complicity, illegal distilleries and cross-border smuggling is not out of place. It will serve little purpose, however, if no attempt is made to find a way around over why Punjab finds it so difficult to manage the quality and sale of the one product that fills its depleted coffers.Zero tolerance to shortchanging the consumer is but a dream. Not even making a concerted statewide effort to take to task those increasing their capacity to hoodwink is criminal negligence. Punjab cannot afford to treat it as business as usual. A crackdown is called for, along with a stern message from the top.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/illicit-liquor-trade-87669
