25-05-2020||Housing societies and colonies form resident welfare associations (RWAs) to administer common requirements and facilitate collective wellbeing. The lockdown has allowed them to play an oversized role. Naturally||Demonising workers||As the lockdown eases, and more and more people are allowed to work, there has been an avoidable confrontation in a few cities. Many RWAs have taken an unfortunate stand of blocking the entry of domestic helps into homes. Not only this, even when such entry is allowed, they have also demanded that such workers not use lifts, benches, parks or water coolers! More pernicious is the demand that the workers take a Covid test and bring a certificate. While this would cost around Rs 4,000 per person, by the same logic, the workers could also demand that the members of the households they work in also get tested. Taking this absurd argument a step further, would social interaction between residents be permitted only if each had a ‘corona negative’ certification in hand?While the government-mandated instructions must be followed, the RWAs should not add their restrictions on top of those. Local administrations need to work with them and sensitise them to the rights of the workers, who have been without work for such a long period. If RWAs still prove intransigent, the authorities would need to step in. Unfortunately, the RWAs are not alone in their intractability. Such is the fear of coronavirus that people returning to their villages have even found their brethren hostile. Families have refused to cremate their dead. At such times, scientific reasoning and cool heads should form the basis of all decisions, not arbitrary diktats.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/demonising-workers-89608
25-05-2020||One of the most enabling aspects of Lockdown 4.0 that began on May 17 has been the partial restoration of public transport. The nationwide lockdown||Ease of travel||However, sadly, the conditional opening of public transport has not translated into a smooth transition to an ease of movement for the common man, who has been counting his days to return home or to work. There is confusion galore as people grapple with travel permits from not only the state/district of exit, but also those of entry as rules vary at every border. Official apathy marked the flip-flop on initially restarting passenger trains and then revoking the decision, before announcing it again a few days later. Scant regard for the citizens’ desperation gave a fertile ground to unscrupulous elements, who had a field day fleecing passengers pining for space to sit even in a cement mixer.Thankfully, as travel norms continue to be relaxed, more and more people are being accommodated. The latest to benefit are some categories of OCI card holders stranded abroad. As they ready to embark on their journey home, ‘Vande Bharat Mission’officials need to direct their attention to the domestic sector. The millions marooned within the country too must be facilitated. It’s time to do away with the travel curbs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/ease-of-travel-89605
