26-05-2020||India now has the dubious distinction of being the Asian nation with the highest number of coronavirus cases. At a time when the country ought to be devoting all its energies to containing the pandemic||Chinese posturing||A former Foreign Secretary, who also served as the chairman of the National Security Advisory Board, has stated that the Chinese actions could be a three-pronged warning to India: don’t join US-led China-bashing over Covid-19; refrain from backing the restoration of observer status to Taiwan in the World Health Organisation (WHO); and desist from steps that harm China’s economic interests. With India now heading the WHO’s Executive Board, and an inquiry into the origin of the lethal virus imminent, China seems keen on browbeating its neighbour into toeing the line rather than acknowledging the latter’s growing clout in the international arena.The onus is on New Delhi to exercise restraint. Yet, this is also the time for resolute assertion of India’s interests. India’s priority is to tackle the unprecedented health and humanitarian crisis. In the tug-of-war between the US and China, India is merely guarding its own sovereignty. At the same time, it would be naïve of China to assume that it can plough a lonely furrow in the post-pandemic world. That’s where India has a chance to build on the success of the Wuhan and Mamallapuram summits and make China see reason. Bilateral cooperation, not one-upmanship, should be the way forward.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/chinese-posturing-90014
26-05-2020||The glory days of Balbir Singh||Death of a sporting hero||Singh added two more Olympics gold to his bag with the Indian teams in 1952 and 1956; in 1952, he scored a hat-trick against Great Britain in the semifinals and six goals in the gold medal match against the Netherlands — this remains a record in a final of the Olympics. In the 1956 final, in which India beat Pakistan, Singh played despite carrying an injury — the team fielded him in order to draw Pakistani defenders due to his formidable reputation as a goal-scorer. Singh hoped to captain the team in the 1960 Olympics as well but, to his surprise, was made a selector instead. India went on to lose the final to Pakistan.Singh noted in his biography that he, along with Gurcharan Singh, trained the team for the 1964 Olympics for six weeks; again, to his surprise, the team was handed to someone ‘who had nothing to do with it’. However, it was under Singh that India won their sole World Cup title, in 1975. One of the greatest centre-forwards of the sport, Singh is considered second only to Dhyan Chand in the Indian hockey pantheon. Singh had the term ‘Senior’ appended to his name to distinguish him from other hockey stars with the same name — that senior, the last link to the team that won gold in London in 1948, is now gone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/death-of-a-sporting-hero-90002
