03-12-2020||News||Navigating Trudeau’s unacceptable intrusion and diaspora diplomacy||Canada’s Prime Minister, Justin Trudeau, participated in a virtual event on Guruparb organised by a Sikh minister in his cabinet. It was attended by other Sikh ministers and Sikh members of the Canadian parliament. Trudeau chose to use the occasion to deliberately refer to the farm agitation in India and said: “The situation is concerning and we are all very worried about family and friends and I know that is the reality about many of you. Let me remind you, Canada will always be there to defend the right of peaceful protests. We believe in the value of dialogue and that is why we have reached out by multiple means directly to the Indian authorities to highlight our concerns.”These remarks about a domestic issue in India are inexcusable. That Trudeau made them to pander to his closely-aligned political, sectional opinion neither diminishes their intrusiveness nor provides a veneer of justification. Indian nationals may have relatives in Canada as elsewhere, but a foreign leader must always remember that it is inherently inappropriate to refer to their situation unless they are facing systemic discrimination or violence. This has not been the case with the current protests.India correctly called Trudeau’s comment “unwarranted”, but it would seem from the formulation used by the ministry of external affairs spokesperson that it was diplomatically engaged with Canada on this issue. He said, “It is best that diplomatic conversations are not misrepresented for political purposes”. It is intriguing that instead of engaging in diplomatic conversations, India did not dismiss Canadian demarches on the protests out of hand and refuse to entertain them.That is the way to deal with friend or foe in such a context. It is all the more with a country that has traditionally shown little concern for India’s territorial integrity. Canada has Khalistani sympathisers among its political class. It has taken no action to restrain those who openly espouse its cause. Its excuse has been its laws guaranteeing freedom of expression. And, all this when it has denied visas to members of the Indian security forces who combat terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir. This is an occasion when Canada’s sanctimonious attitude needs to called out. The spokesperson’s reaction is not enough. The Canadian high commissioner should be summoned to South Block and India’s displeasure forcefully conveyed to him. India’s interest in attracting investments should not inhibit these actions for boardrooms are largely persuaded by returns on investments and profits.While the situation arising from Trudeau’s comments is sui generis, there is a factor arising out of the government’s activist diaspora policy which deserves consideration. The Narendra Modi government has emphasised the importance of Indian-origin communities in India’s bilateral ties with many countries, particularly in western democracies. It has extolled their constructive role in fostering these relations. In the past too, on some critical issues, these communities have used their heft in engaging significant sections of political opinion in their countries to convey India’s positions. This has been particularly so in the United States (US). The India-US nuclear deal is relevant in this context.The political leaderships of these countries have recognised the growing importance of these communities in their domestic politics. Instead of taking umbrage at their ties with India, they have sought to use them to promote their party’s or their own interests. An extreme example of this phenomenon was President Donald Trump’s participation in the “Howdy Modi” event in the US in 2019. During Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Canada in 2015, Trudeau’s predecessor, Stephen Harper, accompanied him to a temple and a gurudwara. Harper was obviously seeking to enhance his popularity with the Indian community on the eve of a difficult election which he lost. As the Indian community becomes a political force in these countries, its attitudes on domestic Indian issues will inevitably become factors in bilateral ties. But, these will have to handled adroitly both by India and the governments concerned. Certainly, Trudeau’s intrusive manner is not the way forward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/navigating-trudeau-s-unacceptable-intrusion-and-diaspora-diplomacy/story-Cb7FF2hLFa9Z9aTZKay7BK.html
03-12-2020||Mumbai||Surge in demand for autos, taxis and cabs in Mumbai||With the easing of restrictions and opening up of offices, the autorickshaws, black and yellow taxis and mobile app-based cabs have witnessed an increase in the number of passengers in the city.App-based cab services including Ola and Uber have claimed that they witnessed a surge in demand for cabs in the city.The mobile cab aggregators, however, refused to share the figures saying the statistics of increase after easing of restrictions and before lockdown data is not maintained.“Our mobility business is recovering strongly after the resumption of our operations in 83 Indian cities. Our business is stronger now than it was in June. One of the key drivers of Uber’s business recovery is low-cost services like autorickshaws. With cities like Delhi and Mumbai, around 80% demand as compared to pre-Covid era, has been met, followed by cities like Jaipur and Chandigarh returning to almost 50% of pre-Covid levels,” said an Uber spokesperson.Ola has witnessed an increase in demand for cabs and autorickshaws in metro cities including Mumbai, Delhi, Bengaluru and Hyderabad.“We continue to see a surge in demand, with a positive growth trend over the past few weeks in cities that we operate in. Demand is recovering faster in metro cities like Bengaluru, Mumbai, Delhi and Hyderabad, with the opening up of offices and increased leisure travel. We continue to strictly adhere to our hygiene and safety protocols with industry-leading initiatives, thereby enabling every ride to be safe for both our customers and driver-partners.” said an Ola spokesperson.Black and yellow taxis and autorickshaws operating in the city have also seen an increase in the number of passengers and improved business since June.However, they have demanded a fare hike to boost the earnings of drivers who suffered losses during the lockdown.“There has been an increase in business after opening up offices, railway stations and airports. However, the demand is not enough for the drivers to sustain. We are hoping for a hike in fares and increased minimum fares. This would help the drivers.” said AL Quadros, leader, Mumbai Taximen’s Union.Further, autorickshaw drivers in the city have stated that as the activities in the city are resuming, passengers prefer travelling in autorickshaws with plastic dividers over buses due to minimal contact exposures.“We have seen many passengers not travelling in autorickshaws that are without plastic covers. The covers provide safety to the passengers and the drivers as well. As offices are slowly opening the demand for autorickshaws have increased across the city. As local train services are shut for the general public, people are opting for autorickshaws over buses as they come in less contact with other people,” said Raju Patil, an autorickshaw driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/surge-in-demand-for-autos-taxis-and-cabs-in-mumbai/story-TgQbyuicoEKai92vD8pBBL.html
03-12-2020||City||Two forest officials among 4 booked for embezzling ₹26 lakh of Panchkula dam project||Four persons, including two forest officials, have been booked for allegedly embezzling Rs 26.14 lakh meant for the construction of a dam in Kajiana village, Panchkula.The accused – forest divisional officer Sunil Kundu, forest inspector Angrej Singh, forest guard Anil Kumar and supplier Gurdarshan Singh – were booked following an investigation by the crime investigation department (CID), Haryana, and the chief minister’s flying squad.Police said as per the probe, Rs 92.25 lakh were sanctioned for the construction of Kajiana dam. For the purchase of material and care of the dam, a committee was constituted, including Sunil, Angrej, deputy forest officer Devender Singh and forest guards Anil Kumar and Ravinder Singh.However, on inspection of the record maintained by Anil, it was found that the committee members, along with the supplier embezzled Rs 26.14 lakh by reflecting purchases of higher amounts through fake bills.The material for the dam was instead purchased through locals, who were into illegal sand mining.Following a complaint by CID, Sunil, Angrej, Anil and Gurdarshan were booked under Sections 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant), 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will), 471 (whoever uses as genuine a forged document) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 21 and 4 of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-forest-officials-among-4-booked-for-embezzling-26-lakh-of-panchkula-dam-project/story-lezadkXWCKxgnUNQBLspOI.html
03-12-2020||Mumbai||Bhima-Koregaon case: Bombay HC extends P Varvara Rao’s stay at Nanavati Hospital till December 15||A division bench of the Bombay high court (HC) extended 82-year-old Telugu poet and activist P Varavara Rao’s stay at Nanavati Hospital till December 15. Rao’s wife, P Hemlatha, told the court that Rao’s family is happy with the progress in his health, but needed to study the medical report before they could argue for his bail on medical grounds. The court accepted this and restrained the state and National Investigation Agency (NIA) from discharging Rao without informing the court. Rao is among the accused in the case of violence at Bhima-Koregaon case. On November 18, the court had directed the state to shift Rao to Nanavati Hospital for treatment. Rao has been in the hospital since November 19. On Thursday, Hemlatha’s petition regarding Rao’s medical condition came up for hearing and the state submitted Nanavati Hospital’s medical report on Rao before the division bench of justices SS Shinde and MS Karnik in a sealed envelope.After seeing Rao’s report, the bench observed there had been some improvements in Rao’s condition, which Hemlatha’s legal team, comprising advocates Indira Jaising, Anand Grover and R Satyanarayan, confirmed. Jaising requested the court to give the family a copy of the report and to allow them time to study it so that they may argue further. She also requested the court to restrain the state and NIA from discharging Rao and returning him to Taloja Jail. The court acceded to the request and noted in its order, “Pursuant to the order passed by court on November 19, Rao is in Nanavati Hospital. Since the matter is adjourned to December 15, Rao may not be discharged from Nanavati Hospital without informing this court. The earlier order dated November 18 (related to visit of family members) shall continue.” Chief public prosecutor Deepak Thakare and additional solicitor general Anil Singh for NIA informed the court they had no objection to the defence’s request. The court will hear the matter next on December 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bhima-koregaon-case-bombay-hc-extends-p-varvara-rao-s-stay-at-nanavati-hospital-till-december-15/story-LPKuDdgzXgRsa4myRIWYTJ.html
03-12-2020||Mumbai||Domestic flights can now operate at 80% of pre-Covid capacity: Aviation Ministry||More domestic passengers will be able to fly at a time, as the civil aviation ministry has increased the cap on the number of domestic flights permitted to operate from 70% to 80% of their pre-Covid levels on Thursday. Civil aviation minister Hardip Singh Puri’s tweet read, “Domestic operations recommenced with 30K passengers on 25 May & have now touched a high of 2.52 lakhs on 30 Nov 2020. Ministry of Civil Aviation is now allowing domestic carriers to increase their operations from the existing 70% to 80% of pre-Covid approved capacity.” Puri had in early November allowed Indian airlines to operate up to 70% of their pre-Covid domestic passenger flights due to the prevailing demand amid the coronavirus situation. Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) had resumed commercial domestic services on (after completely shut down for two months due to nationwide lockdown) May 25. However, as a precautionary measure, airlines were allowed to operate a total of 33% of their pre-Covid domestic flights. The cap was however increased to 45% on June 26 and 60% on September 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/domestic-flights-can-now-operate-at-80-of-pre-covid-capacity-aviation-ministry/story-XW4yIdy84bZvumjveCJ8kK.html
03-12-2020||Chandigarh||Terminal exams in Chandigarh’s govt schools to start from December 15||The UT district education officer (DEO) has directed all government schools to start terminal exams for Classes 3 to 12 for academic session 2020-2021 within the next two weeks.The letter, whose copy is with HT, asks all schools to conduct examinations and compile the results by December 30. Although no fixed date has been given, schools have been asked to tentatively start the exams by December 15.The exams for Classes 3 to 8 will be held online only, while students of Classes 9 to 12, who have been going to school, will be allowed to give the exams online or in the classroom. Parents’ consent will be needed for students, who wish to appear for the exams in school, and all Covid protocols related to schools will have to be followed. The schools have been asked to compile the datesheets at their level, and the principal or head of the school will be tasked with ensuring compliance of all MHRD guidelines and Covid protocols.Education department officials confirmed that clearing these exams isn’t mandatory for passing the grade and those facing difficulties will be accommodated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/terminal-exams-in-chandigarh-s-govt-schools-to-start-from-december-15/story-V8ameSwAZP0MfEdbmXw3dI.html
03-12-2020||Delhi||UP farmers leave Burari ground, those from Punjab stay put||A group of farmers from Uttar Pradesh, who were camping at the Burari ground in north-east Delhi for the past few days, left the site on Thursday but a few hundred farmers from Punjab are continuing to stay put to mark their protest against the three new farm laws.The Nirankari Samagam ground in Burari was provided by the Delhi Police in order to entice the farmers away frm the border blockades. However, only a few hundred farmers agreed to move to the ground while the others are continuing their protest at the borders of Delhi.On Thursday, the number of farmers at the ground further reduced. Harpal Singh, manager of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee, said that the farmers from Uttar Pradesh, who were staying put in the camps set up by the government, were not to be seen. “They were there for four days, but it appears that they left on Wednesday night and did not inform anyone before leaving,” he said.The Delhi government has set up makeshift tents, food stalls, toilets and medical camps for farmers at the ground, but farmers have refused all government favours. All the tents, which can accommodate thousands of people, are lying empty. Binder Singh, district president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Faridkot), said, “We do not need anything from the government. We just request the Centre to revoke the three black laws that it has imposed on us. We are living in our tractors and trucks and cooking our food. We have rations for over three to four months.”Malkeet Singh, a farmer from Punjab’s Faridkot district, said they are representing their fellow farmers protesting at the Delhi borders. “The government is not allowing them to enter the capital. But some of us have to represent them inside the capital as well. We are doing that and we will not leave till the government accepts all our demands,” he said.The farmers said some of them make daily visits to ongoing protest sites at the Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri border points of Delhi. “We go there and meet our brothers daily. We have been asked by our leaders to stay put. We will leave and join them at the border if they ask us to do so,” Binder Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/up-farmers-leave-burari-ground-those-from-punjab-stay-put/story-JTo698ehgV6l5xVZWkgRdO.html
03-12-2020||Noida||Airport at Jewar to have 5 runways||NOIDA: The proposed international airport at Jewar will have five runways as the apex committee monitoring the project on Thursday approved a proposal in this regard.The project monitoring and implementation committee (PMIC), headed by UP chief secretary RK Tiwari, is authorised to make critical recommendations to the government on the airport.On Thursday, PMIC held a meeting in Lucknow, in which Noida International Airport Limited (NIAL) chief executive officer Arun Vir Singh, along with consultant agency PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC), also took part. NIAL is the nodal agency to develop the airport project.Earlier, there were reports that the airport could have eight runways, but a PwC report on feasibility recommended five.The PwC gave a presentation about its survey on whether two runways project can be developed into six runways project.NIAL chief Arun Vir Singh proposed that this project can have five runways as per the technical survey.After a brain storming session, the state chief secretary approved five runways airport project at Jewar. The PMIC also said that the land acquisition can start at the site for second phase whenever the required funds are available.“In first phase, the airport will have two runways and the work on first phase will start by mid-2021. Zurich International AG will develop the first phase and make it operational by 2023-24. Now, we need to acquire land for three more runways,” said Singh.The PMIC also approved the land acquisition plan. Under phase-I, the government has acquired 1,334 hectares of land, and in total the government needs to acquire 5,000 hectares.Now, 1365 hectares of land will be acquired in phase 2, 1318 hectares in phase 3 while phase 4 will witness land acquisition of 735 hectares, the officials said. The Yamuna Expressway authority had already sought permission from the state government that the land acquisition for the second phase of the airport should be started.Switzerland company Zurich International AG will invest Rs30,000 crore in the project and it gets 40 years to fully develop it. Under PPP model, Zurich will design, build, finance, operate and transfer the project to the government after 40 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/airport-at-jewar-to-have-5-runways/story-NSN3lOiFVDfzuYeVnLJV0O.html
03-12-2020||Noida||Class 10 student shot dead in Jewar, three booked||Greater Noida: A 16-year-old boy was shot dead allegedly by three persons in Jewar on Thursday morning. The victim, identified as Ashish Singh, was a student of class 10 in a government school, the police said. Ashish, a resident of Malpara mohalla in Jewar, was rushed to a private hospital where doctors declared him brought dead at 10:30am, the police said. In a police complaint, victim’s uncle Dharmendra Singh stated that Ashish had gone to feed cattle in the shelter located at some distance from his home. “There were three persons – Ravi, his brother Ajay and one Alim Khan – at Ravi’s under construction house in the neighbourhood. They called Ashish and he went to meet them. The three suspects had a heated argument with Ashish over some issues. Ajay and Khan held Ashish, while Ravi took out a countrymade gun and opened fire,” he said in the complaint. Dharmendra said that Ashish received a bullet injury in his head and collapsed on the ground. The suspect fled the spot after the crime, he said. The police have registered a case against the suspects.Umesh Bahadur, SHO, Jewar police station, said that Ravi is a distant relative of Ashish. “Ravi is a native of Haryana, and was presently living at his maternal grandparents’ house in Jewar. When a police team reached the spot, the suspects had fled. We have registered a case of murder under Section 302 (murder) of IPC against three persons. We have launched a search to arrest the suspects,” he said.The police said that Ravi’s father was murdered by some criminals a few years ago. It is suspected the boy’s murder may be linked to the past incident. The body has been sent for a post-mortem and the report is awaited, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/class-10-student-shot-dead-in-jewar-three-booked/story-J7clyDDwSPHXq4WLVUiAqN.html
03-12-2020||Noida||Truck driver held after woman killed in road accident||Noida Police on Thursday arrested a dumper truck driver in connection with an accident the previous day in which a 55-year-old woman was killed.The accident happened near the sector 51 metro station around noon.According to police, couple Janak and Anil Chopra, residents of a highrise in sector 78, were on their way home on their scooter.“A dumper truck hit them from behind. The woman, who was riding pillion, was seriously injured,” said Sushir Kumar, station house officer, sector 49 police station.Police said the woman was declared dead on arrival at the hospital, while her husband was under treatment at a private hospital in sector 51.“The driver, 30-year-old Mohabbat from Muzzafarnagar, had fled the spot after the accident and was nabbed today from near the sector 101 metro station along with his vehicle that was also seized. His vehicle’s license plate number had been captured in the CCTV cameras near the accident site,” said the SHO.Police said that a complaint in the case had been filed by the couple’s son after which an FIR had been registered at the sector 49 police station against the truck driver under sections 279 (Rash driving or riding on a public way), 338 (Causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 304A (Causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code.Mohabbat was produced before a magistrate who later sent him to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/truck-driver-held-after-woman-killed-in-road-accident/story-lpYTEs6IurCcqhHDnHJgjJ.html
03-12-2020||Noida||Woman alleges harassment by neighbour||A 25-year-old woman has filed a sexual harassment complaint against her neighbour in Badalpur village of Greater Noida. “I live with my husband and in-laws in the village. The suspect had been roaming around my house and making indecent gestures for the last three months. Recently, when my husband came to know about this, he ousted me from the house,” she said in the complaint. The woman said that her parents and people of the locality held a meeting and helped resolve the matter last week and she was allowed to return to her husband’s house. However, the suspect allegedly continued to harass her. The victim said that the suspect’s unwanted advancement created a rift between her and her husband, following which a complaint was filed on Sunday. Dharmendra Sharma, in-charge Badalpur police station, said a case has been registered against the suspect under section 354A (sexual harassment) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). “We have launched a search to arrest the suspect. He will be arrested soon,” he said. In another case, Bisrakh police arrested a 26-year-old man for the sexual harassment of a minor girl in Haibatpur village on Thursday. Munish Chauhan, SHO Bisrakh police station, said the suspect was from Hapur. “He had shifted to Greater Noida west in search of job. On Thursday, he molested his 15-year-old girl neighbour and fled,” he said. The victim returned home and told her parents what had happened and they filed a complaint. “We have registered a case against the suspect under Section 354 (sexual harassment) of IPC and also under Section 7,8 of Pocso Act. “The suspect was arrested, produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/woman-alleges-harassment-by-neighbour/story-zq9V9N3NmSbwrnnAm7LKRM.html
03-12-2020||Noida||Noida air quality still ‘very poor’, likely to worsen||Noida: The air quality of Noida on Thursday continued to remain under ‘very poor’ category for three days in a row, while that of Greater Noida and Ghaziabad improved to ‘very poor’ from ‘severe’ a day earlier. However, the air quality of the three cities is likely to worsen again over the weekend due to unfavourable conditions, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data, the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Thursday, on a scale of 0 to 500, was 360 against 394 a day earlier. AQI of Greater Noida was 358 against 406 a day earlier, while that of Ghaziabad also improved from ‘severe’ category to ‘very poor’, with an AQI of 377 against 421 a day earlier. The AQI between 101 to 200 is considered ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 ‘very poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’. According to IMD, the wind direction is still north-westerly but the speed has dropped, leading to lower ventilation of the pollutants. However, the number of stubble fire incidents also dropped, due to which additional pollution mass intrusion into the region was also less, leading to slight improvement in the air quality. The wind speed is likely to drop further on Friday and Saturday, leading to further worsening, the Met department said. “The wind speed on Thursday afternoon reached a maximum of 8 kmph, but the fire incidents would have dropped leading to a little ventilation. A western disturbance approaches the Himalayan region on Friday that will lead to the change in the wind directions from north-westerly to the easterly. The wind directions, when change, tend to slow down the wind speed. So, for Friday and Saturday, the maximum wind speed would be around 5 kmph, which will lower the ventilation and increase the pollution levels,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. The fine particles or pollutants also saw marginal drop on Thursday, yet the PM2.5 levels were three times the safe limit. PM2.5 level for past 24 hours in Noida was recorded at 199 microgrammes per cubic metres (µg/m³) against 255.66 µg/m³ a day earlier. The PM2.5 for Greater Noida was 198.31 µg/m³ against 269.52 a day earlier. The PM2.5 for Ghaziabad was 225.04 µg/m³ against 302.79 a day earlier. The safe limit for PM2.5 is 60 µg/m³. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), AQI is likely to suffer on Friday. “Air quality is likely to marginally deteriorate for the next two days within the Very Poor owing to calm wind condition. AQI is likely to marginally improve on December 6 due to better ventilation,” said the SAFAR statement on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-air-quality-still-very-poor-likely-to-worsen/story-pNbkkKUNpkHpXILkIPKVFJ.html
03-12-2020||Noida||Farmers continue sit-in at Chilla border for third day in a row||Noida: Vehicular traffic from Noida to Delhi via the Chilla border remained obstructed on Thursday as around 250 farmers from various districts of western Uttar Pradesh continued to sit in there for the third consecutive day.Police officials said that commuters coming from Delhi have been allowed to go to Noida as one of the two carriageways on the Noida Link road that passes through Chilla area was opened since Wednesday afternoon. The other side of the road (from Noida to Delhi) where the protesting farmers are staying put remained closed on Thursday, they said.The farmers from districts like Gautam Budh Nagar, Etah, Mainpuri, Firozabad, and Bulandshahr, on their way to Delhi to protest the Centre’s new farm laws, had been stopped at the Chilla border on December 1. They have set up camps since then, and continued to stay there ahead of talks between their representatives and the central government in Delhi on Thursday.“Our next course of action will depend entirely on how the talks go today. A delegation has gone from here as well and we are waiting to hear from them. If our demands are met, we will disperse, else we will continue to stay here for as long as it is needed,” said Satveer Bhanu, a farmer from Jewar.The farmers have spent two consecutive nights at the border, sleeping on their tractors or on footpaths. However, on Thursday, they were provided with drinking water and mobile washrooms, the officials said.“Some amenities have been provided by the Delhi and Noida police. A few representatives were even allowed to go to Krishi Bhawan today, but most of them are still camped here,” said Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, zone 1.A group of farmers trying to reach the DND border on Wednesday were moved to the Dalit Prerna Sthal where they have been camped since then, the officials said.Police presence is heavy at the border. On Thursday there were no law and order issues, said the DCP.The Noida traffic police department had issued an advisory on Wednesday night urging commuters to use DND and Kalindi Kunj routes.“Traffic along these routes was slightly heavier as there were diversions from Ghaziabad as well. But there weren’t any snarls. We are constantly monitoring the situation and issuing updates fro the public,” said Ganesh Saha, DCP (traffic).The officials also said that they are in talks with the farmers to reach an understanding so that the Chilla border can be opened as soon as possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/farmers-continue-sit-in-at-chilla-border-for-third-day-in-a-row/story-VLppgYESNePVMrrJDsv7hK.html
03-12-2020||Noida||As NH-9 blockade continues, traffic police announce diversion, ask commuters to avoid highway||Ghaziabad: In the wake of blockade of one side of the National Highway-9 on Thursday, the Ghaziabad traffic police have advised commuters to avoid the highway and also come up with diversions. Several groups of farmers protesting at the UP Gate on Thursday morning blocked the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway of the highway and it is likely to continue further, police officials said. In its advisory, the traffic police have stated that vehicles coming from Chijrasi, Vijay Nagar, Khoda, among others, will be diverted to routes in Noida while commuters from Indirapuram, Vaishali and Vasundhara, etc, should take the Kaushambi-Anand Vihar border to reach Delhi. The police also said that traffic coming from Moradabad and Hapur will be diverted through the Dasna flyover and then towards Raj Nagar Extension in order to move to Bhopra border near Delhi. “The traffic diversions will be in place till the farmers are at the protest site on the highway. So, diversions have been announced to avoid inconvenience to commuters on Friday,” said Ramanand Kushwaha, superintendent of police (traffic). The district officials said that they were in continuous talks with the farmers and even got opened one lane of the blocked section of NH-9, but the farmers again opposed the move. “It was after talks with them, we got opened one lane of the blocked part of the highway. But the farmers again started opposing despite giving assurance for opening. Still, we acted with restraint,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. With diversions already in place since Thursday morning, there was huge traffic flow at Kaushambi border with Anand Vihar. “The inner lanes of Kaushambi were packed to capacity with vehicles which were diverted to Delhi through the EDM Mall road. On Thursday evening, the main border road was again jam-packed and vehicles started coming on inside lanes of Kaushambi. In such a situation, we will face issues in coming days,” said VK Mittal, president of Kushambi Apartments RWA. Many commuters were left stranded on NH-9 as the blockade was sudden and the police could not get clues to it. “Commuters were left stranded on NH-9 near UP Gate as the highway was suddenly blocked. Thereafter, all the vehicles had to return back and take other roads in Indirapuram to move to Delhi. The Delhi-Ghaziabad side of the highway was running smooth on Thursday evening, but we will avoid the highway altogether on Friday,” said Kuldeep Saxena, a commuter and resident of Indirapuram. The number of protesters below the UP Gate flyover has swelled considerably and dozens of tractor-trolleys also came in from western UP areas like Bulandshahr with farmers to support the protest led by the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU). Apart from the BKU, farmers from Uttarakhand and Punjab have also come in and are staging protest at the blocked section of the highway, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/as-nh-9-blockade-continues-traffic-police-announce-diversion-ask-commuters-to-avoid-highway/story-ppTOv926yoi5X39srUCI5H.html
03-12-2020||Gurugram||Traffic police draws plan to divert protesters in case of snarl||The Gurugram traffic police have made diversion plans for eight stretches where farmers planning to join the ongoing protest in Delhi will be diverted to prevent congestion. DK Bharadwaj, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), said, “The diversion will kick in only when farmers protest causes any blockades and jam in the city otherwise traffic flow will be normal.” Police on Thursday said that extra force had been deployed at Kherki Daula Toll Plaza, Hero Honda Chowk, Rajiv Chowk, Shankar Chowk, Kapriwas Border, Bilaspur Chowk, Panchgaon Chowk and Manesar Chowk to implement the plan. Regular traffic movement, however, will not be restricted, police said.As per the traffic plan, protesters headed towards Delhi will be diverted at Bilaspur, Panchgaon and Hero Honda Chowk towards Farrukh Nagar-Jhajjar Road to reach the Capital. Similarly, those reaching Rajiv and Shankar Chowk would be diverted towards Hero Honda Chowk to go to Sector 38. The protesters reaching Manesar Chowk and Kherki Daula toll plaza will be diverted to Kundli-Manesar-Palwal expressway. Those headed towards Delhi from Kapriwas border will be diverted to Pataudi-Jhajjar Road. Barricades have been placed on the diverted route, said police.Bhardwaj said the police is ready with the plan to deal with law and order situation or any obstruction to traffic by farmer groups. “There was no obstruction in any of the routes and no vehicles of farmers crossed any of the stretch in the city,” he said. On Thursday, commuters said they were stuck on Southern Peripheral Road (SPR) after taking U-turn from Kherki Daula road and at Pachgaon Chowk due to movement of heavy vehicles and checking.Dhruv Uppal, a resident of Malibu Towne in Sector 49, however, said that he took a U-turn before Kherki Daula toll plaza and got stuck in a jam. “I took this route thinking there would be no congestion but due to movement of heavy vehicles, it took half an hour to reach Vatika Crossing in the morning,” he said. Farmers from Punjab are sitting in protest against three farms laws at certain border points in the NCR with supporters from other states driving down over the last few days to join them. However, they have been stopped outside the district at several occasions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/traffic-police-draws-plan-to-divert-protesters-in-case-of-snarl/story-xjgBykCVqQ4owQ9uzWYjJM.html
03-12-2020||Gurugram||Bhondsi Jail inmate tries to kill self, rescued||A 43-year-old inmate of Bhondsi Jail allegedly tried to kill himself by hanging from an iron grille of the ventilation window of his prison cell, using a a bedsheet on Wednesday morning, the police said. The jail warder, during routine check, noticed him and raised the alarm. He was rescued and sent to the hospital. According to the police, his condition is stable and he is currently undergoing treatment at the prison hospital. A case was registered against the inmate under sections 309 (attempt to commit suicide), 120 B (conspiracy) and 107 (abetment of a thing) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Bhondsi police station on Wednesday. The inmate has been lodged in Bhondsi jail since October 24, 2017. He has been convicted in four murder cases and acquitted in 11 cases out of the 31 cases registered against him. Harinder Singh, superintendent of Bhondsi Jail, said the jail warder had spotted him around 9.30am and alerted other staff members. “The inmate, along with four others, made a rope from bedsheet to hang himself. We are investigating the reason behind it or if it was done to create pressure on the authorities to move him from the current barrack. Alert jail warden Ramesh Chand along with security guards Subhash and Dharambir rescued him and took him to the hospital on the jail premises for treatment,” he said. Singh said they took the CCTV footage of the area and a special team was formed on Wednesday to analyse the footage. “It was seen that the inmate, with the help of four other inmates, made the rope. They all seemed happy and there was no sign of distress,” he said. Earlier on November 29, a smartphone was recovered from his possession during a surprise check and a case was registered against him at Bhondsi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/bhondsi-jail-inmate-tries-to-kill-self-rescued/story-BbslfSk8vOLjdQWEQzCRNM.html
03-12-2020||Gurugram||Nikita Tomar murder: 2018 abduction case of student who was shot dead reopened||The police have reopened a two-year-old abduction case pertaining to Nikita Tomar, a student who was shot dead by a former classmate outside her college in Faridabad on October 26. The woman’s family alleged that the accused in the shooting incident had kidnapped her in August 2018 and held her hostage at a place in Sohna, threatening her to convert to his religion and marry him.The police on Wednesday summoned five family members, including parents of the accused, Touseef Ahmad, asking them to join the investigation, as the woman’s family alleged that they had played a major role in threatening them to compromise in the abduction case.Adal Singh Rawat, a maternal uncle of Tomar, alleged that she was abducted for three days in August 2018. “She was abducted and was threatened for life. Not only the suspect, but his relatives and parents also had forced her to marry him and were forcing her to convert (her religion). Later, the family used their political powers and forced us to withdraw the complaint. She was scared for her life and knew the suspect would harm her,” he said.Javed Ahmad, Touseef’s uncle, refuted the allegations of conversion and said that they have received a summons from the Faridabad Police despite having no involvement in the incident. “Both of them wanted to get married and there was no pressure on Tomar. Both the families had mutually resolved the issue and had asked both of them not to be in touch any longer. If we had used powers and forced her to change religion, then why did a wedding never took place?” he said. The testimonies of three witnesses — Tomar’s brother, cousin and a friend — were recorded on Tuesday and Wednesday at the district and sessions court, in presence of judge Sartaj Baswan. The friend was with her at the time of the murder, the police said on Thursday.After the murder, a special investigation team (SIT) was formed on October 27, led by Anil Kumar Yadav, assistant commissioner of police (crime), to probe the case.On November 6, the SIT filed a 700-page chargesheet in the murder case. Police said the chargesheet, which lists 60 witnesses, was prepared on the basis of technical, forensic and material evidence recovered during the investigation and was submitted to the court in less than two weeks after the murder.The charges against the suspects were framed on November 23 and the trial in the case began on December 1. Statements of three of the 60 witnesses listed by the police have been recorded so far.The police said statements of 15 more witnesses will be recorded between December 7 and 9.The police said the chargesheet is based on scientific forensic evidence, CCTV camera footage, call detail record (CDR) locations, and swabs collected from the shirt of the suspect, his car and gunpowder swab from his hand.Fingerprints were matched from three samples — from the car, pistol and the woman’s arm — the police said.Tomar was shot dead by Touseef, a resident of Kabeer Nagar in Sohna, in the presence of his friend, Rehaan, a resident of Riwasan in Nuh. Footage of the incident purportedly shows the two trying to force Tomar, a BCom final-year student, into their vehicle when she exits Aggarwal College after writing an exam, the police said.Anil Yadav, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that in the chargesheet, the motive behind the murder has been mentioned as personal enmity, as Tomar had stopped talking to Touseef after the abduction incident and a case her family had registered against him.The police said he had conducted a recce of the college and her residence twice in the week before the murder. He had bought a countrymade gun for Rs 7,000 from one Mohammad Azruddin, of Nuh. The police said Azruddin is a close aide of Touseef’s uncle, who is in Bhondsi jail for abducting a Gurugram police inspector.Yadav said that the countrymade pistol had only one bullet and he intended to shoot her at point-blank range in the chest. He had come with the intention to murder her, he said. “Touseef had allegedly borrowed his brother’s mobile phone a few days ago and was enraged to find that he was in touch with a woman named Nikita. But that woman was from another city in Uttar Pradesh and it was just a coincidence that the two had similar names,” said Yadav. OP Singh, commissioner of police said that they are investigating the case from all angles and have ensured the safety and security of Tomar’s family members. “We have deployed personnel at Tomar’s residence and an arms licence has also been provided to the brother. We have already submitted the chargesheet and if required, a supplementary chargesheet will be submitted. The investigation conducted by SIT has enough witnesses and evidence to prove the suspect guilty,” he said.He said that the family members of Touseef, who have been issued a summons, should join the investigation and if found clean, will be given clean chit. We are following all protocols, Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/nikita-tomar-murder-2018-abduction-case-of-student-who-was-shot-dead-reopened/story-Jz8CAaBLyXOn8mXnvEr8GM.html
03-12-2020||City||Delhi govt to give tablets to 1,900 students for online classes||New Delhi: More than 1,900 class 11 students of Delhi government schools will receive tablets to assist them in their online education during the Covid-19 pandemic. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia personally handed over tablets to 50 students on Thursday.Sisodia said the Delhi government’s revenue significantly reduced due to a slowdown of economic activities. “This is why we urged companies to help the students under their CSR initiatives. We are happy that Tata Power- DDL has given 1,059, BSES Rajdhani Power Limited (BRPL) 543 and BSES Yamuna Power Limited (BYPL) 300 tablets, respectively, to the schools,” he said.“Soon, the corona vaccine will be released around the world, and this pandemic would be a matter of history. But the loss of education that our students are facing today cannot be compensated by any vaccine. To minimise this loss, the Delhi government is consistently working on solutions,” Sisodia said, adding more such companies should come forward and help students.The education minister asked students to use these tabs for their studies and return it to their school after their examinations so other students in need can also benefit from it.Satyam, a government school student in Ashok Vihar Phase 2, said their family just has one phone. “Everyone uses that phone. If the phone stops working, I end up missing my classes. We have to ask others for help but receiving these tabs will help us a lot,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-to-give-tablets-to-1-900-students-for-online-classes/story-tvpAdcfvdMJh9NX7k9v6IL.html
03-12-2020||Gurugram||Death rate up despite dip in positivity rate||Despite a steady decline in the test positivity rate of Covid-19 cases in Gurugram, an indicator of a deceleration in the growth rate of new infections, the district has continued to see an uptick in the number of the Covid-related deaths over the past four weeks, health department data shows.Official data also reveals the frequency of deaths to be increasing — from about one death per day in September to now nearly five deaths each day — in spite of apparent improvements in Gurugram’s test-positivity rate, which indicates a slowdown in the spread of the virus.Between November 20 and November 26, the district registered over 4,500 new Covid-19 cases, with a test positivity rate of 11%. With 18 deaths occurring during the same period, the death rate for the week was 0.4%.However, the death rate over the next seven-day period, between November 27 and December 3, shot up to 0.9%, despite the test positivity rate dipping to 6%. During this period, close to 3,000 new cases were registered, along with 28 deaths.Acknowledging the increase in the death rate (or the ratio of new deaths to new cases, taken as a weekly aggregate), health department officials speculated that unfavourable weather, coupled with poor air quality, maybe aggravating patients’ symptoms to a greater degree than witnessed earlier in the outbreak.Moreover, Gurugram has also noted an increase in the death rate among patients who do not have comorbidities. Between November 20 and December 3, for instance, a total of 13 deaths without comorbidities were reported, a spike from the six deaths reported over the preceding fortnight.“This trend requires a little more investigation because we typically see mortality increase alongside the growth of new cases, whereas presently, the death rate has been trending upward in spite of new cases slowing down,” said Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, district surveillance officer, Gurugram.Addressing the ongoing spurt in Covid deaths, Sharma said, “We have just been through a third wave, in terms of new daily infections, so an increase in deaths was to be expected. If past experience is any indicator, then daily deaths will reduce over the next week along with a further slowing down in daily cases. If that doesn’t happen, then we can say with a little more certainty that air pollution and cold weather are responsible for exacerbating symptoms among some patients.”The district had last seen such frequent mortality in June, when 93 deaths were recorded over 30 days. At the time, experts and officials attributed the spike in mortality to under-preparedness of healthcare systems. Presently, though, they said that the spurt in deaths was to be expected, given the extent of Covid-19 spread over the past two months.“On a hopeful note, our positivity rate has come down significantly over the past two weeks, and has remained under 10% for a few days. From about 800 cases per day in mid-November, we are now getting fewer than 500 new cases daily and testing numbers have been consistent,” Sharma said.However, given that Gurugram has also begun seeing more deaths among healthy individuals, Sharma said the role of extant environmental conditions cannot be ruled out.“Overall though, we are responding well and the situation is under control. Gurugram’s cumulative mortality rate is 0.6%, which is far better than neighbouring cities and districts. We also have enough beds and ventilators and there is no shortage of resources. We are stringently monitoring clinical symptoms among hospitalised patients so that we can make quicker interventions in case complications arise,” said Dr Ram Prakash, district epidemiologist, Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/death-rate-up-despite-dip-in-positivity-rate/story-rY6SZ5yjTMrmtOWjsp7MLL.html
03-12-2020||Gurugram||Most Covid-19 deaths among people aged above 60, shows data||Almost two-thirds of the patients who succumbed to the SARS-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, since the outbreak of the pandemic were aged above 60, according to the district health department data. A majority of them were on ventilator support at the time of death, the numbers show.On December 2, the Covid-19 toll of Gurugram crossed 300, of which 193 were senior citizens. As per the data, 82 (27.3%) of the 193 were in their sixties, while 73 were in their seventies and 38 in their eighties. Also, 46 aged 51 to 60 succumbed to the disease.In comparison, 28 deaths occurred among the patients aged 21 to 40, while 29 aged 41 to 50 succumbed to the disease, as per the data, which reiterates that older adults having underlying health conditions are at an increased risk, as Covid-19 burdens their immune system.As per the data, people having multiple co-morbidities, such as diabetes, hypertension and other illnesses, are highly impacted after contracting the virus. These account for almost 30% of the deaths, which has increased from 27.5% share, when the district recorded 200 deaths on October 25. Likewise, deaths due to single co-morbid conditions has also spiked from 22% to around 20%.The maximum surge was seen under the miscellaneous category, which takes into account diseases other than diabetes, hypertension, diseases of liver, kidney or any neurological illness. The category has shown a drastic spike of 21% from the share of 14% recorded in October.“In the miscellaneous category, other diseases like tuberculosis, pneumonia, septicemia, other auto-immune and influenza-like illness are counted,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.“The death audit committee constituted at the district level keeps a record of these deaths to study the cause. Overall in Gurugram, death numbers are controlled due to early referrals and management of home isolated patients.”Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head of community medicine and public health, PGIMER-Chandigarh, said that in the miscellaneous/other category, unclassified deaths are also included. “In many cases, it is difficult to ascertain the cause of death due to which it remains unclassified.”Deaths among patients having diabetes accounts for 10% of the total toll, the same as it was when 200 deaths were recorded, despite an increase in active cases. Likewise, deaths due to liver, kidney or neurological disorders stood at 1.5%-2%, accounting for a similar share previously. Deaths among patients with heart conditions showed a minor increase — from 8.5% in October to 9.6% in December.As per the data, almost 97% of those who died had been hospitalised, with at least 209, which is almost 70%, put on ventilator support. As many as 76 were on oxygen support, with six on non-invasive ventilation (NIV). In the last nine months, as many as nine people were brought dead, indicating they have not received access to health care at the right time or late diagnosis, as per the data.The occupation-wise break up of the data points out that 59 people had private jobs or business, two were self-employed and three were unemployed. As many as 34 were homemakers while three were labourers/farmers. Also, one health care worker and a government employee died due to illness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/most-covid-19-deaths-among-people-aged-above-60-shows-data/story-FjN6gNWeiXRYXJBCr4UKcN.html
03-12-2020||Noida||Farmers’ group blocks Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway of NH-9||A section of farmers, who had been so far protesting below the UP Gate flyover near the Delhi border, shifted base to the National Highway-9 (NH-9) that connects to the flyover, and blocked the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway. UP Gate in Ghaziabad is one of the major borders with Delhi and had been witness to the farmer protests under the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) banner since Saturday. The BKU on Thursday had given a call for a “mahapanchayat” under the flyover and the numbers of farmers in the area swelled as more arrived from the Terai belt and even from states like Punjab and Harayana. Soon after, a smaller group of farmers moved ahead and blocked the highway section, while BKU leaders remained under the flyover. The farmers are protesting the Centre’s new farm laws, which they say are against their interests. The association of farmers are in talks with the government representatives who met for the second time at Vigyan Bhawan on Thursday. Some of the senior leaders in the BKU said that the farmers had blocked the highway despite calls that it would create issues for commuters. “There are lot of groups of farmers who had come to the UP Gate site and some went to block the highway. It is likely that it (the blockade) will continue if the government doesn’t decide soon. The decision can be taken in two minutes but the government seems not willing. If talks are prolonged, we will also be forced to continue our agitation,” said Naresh Tikait, national president of the BKU. The Ghaziabad traffic police on Thursday evening announced diversions and advised commuters to avoid NH-9. The highway, as per official estimates, caters to about 120,000 passenger car units per day and part of the Delhi Meerut Expressway project linking Delhi to Meerut. It caters to local commuters of Delhi, Ghaziabad, Noida and other nearby areas while it is also used majorly by commuters travelling to Moradabad, Bareilly and Lucknow. “We have lot of hopes that talks turn successful and farmers go back to work. We have no intention to create issues for public. We want resolution of sugarcane prices and even electricity issue which farmers are facing. The farmers have already raised demand to roll back the bills which have been brought by the government,” said Tikaid. Tikait was also joined by Dr Udit Raj, national chairman of All India Confederation of SC/ST Organizations, at the protest site below the UP-Gate flyover. “It is the government whose conduct has forced farmers to block the highway and they have also been forced to sit at Singhu-border. Initially, the government termed that the protesting farmers are only from Punjab. So, it is the dictatorial attitude which has forced farmers to take to highways,” said Raj. “If farmers go weak then workers, who are mostly from SC/ST and Dalits, will also face issues as a result and their conditions will also deteriorate. The bills brought by the government are not transparent and will result in exploitation of farmers at the hand of businessmen. It should be rolled back besides the minimum support price should be fixed. This sector needs protection.” Despite heavy deployment and repeated talks with the farmers at UP-Gate, the district officials could not get the highway opened up for commuting till Thursday night. “The one side of the highway is blocked despite our regular talks with the farmers at the site. The police tried to get one lane of the blocked section opened but farmers again resumed protest at the site. Our officers are continuing talks. The farmers however are allowing passage to ambulances,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/farmers-group-blocks-ghaziabad-delhi-carriageway-of-nh-9/story-N8m3KXrPtd8ZCJa7UFDKFM.html
03-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi Dialogue Commission partners with think tank to combat pollution||Delhi government’s policy think tank, Dialogue and Development Commission of Delhi (DDCD), has entered into a “strategic partnership” with Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy (Vidhi) to address the issue of air pollution in the national capital. According to the MoU signed on December 3, both institutions will work closely to suggest and analyse policy and legal reforms to tackle air pollution in Delhi-NCR. Jasmine Shah, vice-chairperson, DDCD, said innovative solutions like odd-even road rationing scheme, the introduction of the EV policy, and the PUSA bio decomposer as an alternative to stubble burning, have been launched by Delhi government to tackle air pollution under chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. She said the CM is hopeful that the present collaboration with Vidhi will attain positive outcomes to address and tackle air pollution. Vidhi is an independent think-tank doing legal research to make better laws and improve governance for the public good.“Vidhi will also be helping the DDCD in the analysis of various directions passed by courts and authorities on air pollution,” Shah said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-dialogue-commission-partners-with-think-tank-to-combat-pollution/story-5LSP5ST2UPbsYOpEz6B0UP.html
03-12-2020||Chandigarh||Private schools agree to 8% fee hike, UT admin to take final call||Even as private schools have been urging the Chandigarh administration to allow them to go in for a 16% fee hike in the 2021-22 session as the regular hike of 8% was not permitted this year due to the Covid-19 lockdown, the Independent Schools Association (ISA) has announced it will ask private schools to go stick to an 8% increase next year according to the Fee Regulation Act 2016.The administration, however, will take a final call on the matter. “We had a meeting with the UT education secretary and the UT director of school education (DSE) on Thursday after which we have decided that instead of our previous demand to hike school fees by 16% this year, we will settle for 8% as per the provisions of the Fee Regulation Act,” said HS Mamik, ISA president.Parents not convincedParents’ associations, however, are not convinced. “It is very unfortunate that schools want to increase their fees after the year everyone’s had. School expenditure on electricity and water have gone down. They haven’t been paying their bus drivers and their maintenance staff, so why the need for a hike? Due to online classes parents’ expenditure has gone up. Many parents had to buy phones and high speed internet connections. Schools need to cut them some slack,” said Nitin Goyal, president of the Chandigarh Parents’ Association.A principal wishing to remain anonymous said fee hikes were necessary as many schools had slashed teachers’ salaries and their arrears during the lockdown period had not been cleared. “A fee hike according to regulations is needed,” he said.The ISA will hold another meeting with the authorities in the next 10 days to discuss other issues that include making NCERT books mandatory for students and the EWS reimbursement,allegedly not paid for the last nine years. “The fee hike issue from our end has been resolved and we will ask the other 75 schools which are a part of the ISA to settle for a hike of up to 8%,” said Mamik.Admin to take final callCommenting on the matter, Rubinderjit Singh Brar, DSE, said, “After detailed discussions with the ISA we have put forward suggestions to the senior officers of the administration. They will take the final call.”Private unaided schools that aren’t a part of the association are likely to follow the ISA’s directions.Kavita Das, principal of St John’s High School in Sector 26, said, “This is a decision that will be taken by the management of the school. However, we will be complying with the regulations and not hike the fee by more than 8%.” Anuja Sharma, principal of DAV Model School in Sector 15, said her school hiked the fee by a bare minimum even before the Covid-19 outbreak. “This year also the bare minimum has been done for the running costs of the school.”In June this year the Chandigarh administration had used provisions of Disaster Management Act to not allow private unaided schools to hike the fees by 8%. Parents were asked to only pay the tuition fees according to the 2019-2020 session guidelines. The ISA had then asked for a clarification from the education department if the pending 8% could be ‘adjusted’ later. Schools had earlier challenged the administration in the Punjab and Haryana high court for stopping them from imposing the fee hike. The matter is pending.Meanwhile, the admission process for entry level classes in schools has started and will continue till December 16. Most schools have not put up their fee details yet on their websites. DSE Brar said that since the matter had not been sorted out, schools did not have to upload details as yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/private-schools-agree-to-8-fee-hike-ut-admin-to-take-final-call/story-VRiJ1GVRwlCQEAgkWOBs5J.html
03-12-2020||Bhopal||‘People in possession of agriculture land up to 2 acres for 50 years to become owners’: CM Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced on Thursday that the families in possession of agriculture land up to 2 acres for the past 50 years will be awarded patta (lease) for their ownership of the land, as per the state government’s official communiqué.Chouhan’s announcement came during a programme held at Nasrullahganj in Sehore district, his home district. The CM transferred Rs 100 crore to the bank accounts of about 5 lakh farmers under Mukhya Mantri Kisan Kalyan Yojana. Under the scheme, a farmer is supposed to get Rs 4,000 every year in two instalments of Rs 2,000 each in addition to Rs 6,000 under Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi, as per the communiqué.Chouhan said, “I decide in this farmers panchayat that those who own agriculture land for 50 years whether they are brahmins, kshatriya, vaishyas or from the backward classes, they all will be made owners of the land by awarding lease (patta) to them.”Chouhan said, “the speculations about the closure of mandis and discontinuation of support price system are misleading and untrue. Farmers should not pay attention to such speculations.”Also read: Cyclone Burevi - Thiruvananthapuram airport to remain closed on FridayHe said the farm laws introduced by the central government would bring revolutionary changes in the lives of lakhs of farmers in the state and will double their income by 2022.He said, “With the new farm laws, farmers will have the freedom to sell their produce anywhere. The speculations of closure of mandis are misleading and utter nonsense. Farmers are being misguided that the support price system will be discontinued. As long as I am alive, support price system will not be discontinued.”He said, “my government is the government of farmers and in the last 8 months more than Rs 25,000 crores have been deposited in the bank accounts of farmers under various government schemes. Copies related to farming, et cetera., will now be available online and invitation by the revenue board management system for appearing in revenue courts, including mutation, will be made online.”He said, “my government has resumed the welfare schemes for the poor, which were discontinued by the previous government and now budget will be given for the schemes as per the population of the poor in the state. Many farmers are in debt due to the previous government’s loan waiver scheme. Such farmers need not worry. The state government will pay the interest for that period and farmers will be freed of the burden of interest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/people-in-possession-of-agriculture-land-up-to-2-acres-for-50-years-to-become-owners-cm-chouhan/story-VhYwfj7ntLW2cIAyCX7PeN.html
03-12-2020||Chandigarh||You could be flying in for a bite at this restaurant in Chandigarh||Imagine getting high before a drink! If the Chandigarh administration has its way your restaurant experience could be at a different level altogether: 165 feet in the air to be exact, suspended from a crane, with a 180 degree view of the city and the Shivalik Hills.Proposals have been made to set up or “hang up” a restaurant with a capacity for 24 persons offering five course lunches and dinners with mocktails and later, beer and wine, if permissions are granted.“The project is being considered to give a fillip to the tourism industry in the city. Sukhna Lake, Leisure valley, or Kaimbwala village are the options where the project can be started. The administration will take a call on the location and other terms and conditions of the project at a meeting scheduled on Friday,” said a senior UT official on condition of anonymity as he’s not authorised to speak to the media. Daman Kapoor, MD, DSH Bliss Adventures Pvt Ltd, which aims to bring the flying restaurant concept to the city, said, “This is a unique restaurant. Other places offering such concepts include Agra and Bengaluru.” All safety measures will be in place, assures Kapoor. “The structure will be secured by aircraft standard safety belts on comfortable seats which can rotate a complete 180 degrees.” Visitors will be allowed in batches of 25 with a 40 minute stay. It will take around one and a half minutes both ways for the ‘restaurant’ to be lifted 65m and to return to terra firma. Visitors will have to book the seats online on a given website and mobile app. Ticket prices are yet to be finalised and are likely to range between Rs2,500 to Rs4,000. The restaurant will have age and height restrictions for the visitors. “If approvals are given we will start the restaurant by Lohri 2021,” said Kapoor. Earlier, in 2009, an experiment with sky dining was launched at the Chandigarh National Crafts Mela in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/you-could-be-flying-in-for-a-bite-at-this-restaurant-in-chandigarh/story-5pL07jL0jBjpF0xA2U3OcP.html
03-12-2020||Pune||NCP chief Pawar cites concerns over Rahul Gandhi’s lack of ‘consistency’||Pune, Dec 3 (PTI) Commenting on Rahul Gandhi’s credentials as national leader, NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Thursday said that he seems to lack “consistency” to some extent.Pawar, an ally of the Congress, however, took exception to Barack Obama’s unflattering comments on the Congress leader.Pawar was being interviewed by Lokmat Media chairman and former MP Vijay Darda.When asked if the country was ready to accept Rahul Gandhi as leader, Pawar said, “There are some questions in this regard. There seems to be less consistency.Obama, in his recently published memoir, has said that the Congress leader appeared to be like a student eager to impress the teacher but lacking aptitude and passion to master the subject.Asked about this, Pawar said it was not necessary that we should accept everybody’s view.“I can say anything about the leadership in our country. But I will not talk about the leadership in another country. One should maintain that limit....I think Obama crossed that limit,” he said.Asked about the Congress’s future and if Rahul Gandhi was becoming a “hurdle” for the party, Pawar said the leadership of any party depends on what kind of acceptance he or she has within the organisation.“Though I had differences with (Congress chief) Sonia Gandhi and the family, even today Congressmen have a sense of affection for the Gandhi-Nehru family,” the NCP chief, who quit the Congress over the leadership issue two decades ago, said. PTI SPK KRK KRK||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ncp-chief-pawar-cites-concerns-over-rahul-gandhi-s-lack-of-consistency/story-jiDXpsEuCMkbXDAuIbd7gK.html
03-12-2020||Chandigarh||Five illegal constructions demolished in Ludhiana; another sealed||The building branch of the municipal corporation (MC) took action against six illegal constructions in different parts of the city on Thursday.While MC Zone A officials sealed an under-construction building in Dal Bazar, the Zone D team demolished four illegal constructions in Haibowal Kalan, Sarabha Nagar and Durgapuri. Also, The Zone B team demolished an under- construction labour quarters in Railway Colony near Sherpur.Assistant town planner (ATP), Zone A, Mohan Singh, said, “We have sealed an under-construction building in Dal Bazar as the owner was constructing the third floor illegally.”ATP, Zone B, Pardeep Sehgal, said that MC has demolished an under-construction building in which the owner was establishing a labour quarters in Railway Colony.Zone D building inspector, Jagdep Singh, said, “Commercial halls were being established in two buildings situated in residential area of Haibowal Kalan. In Sarabha Nagar and Durgapuri, the owners had covered the house line area while taking up construction. All four illegal constructions have been demolished.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/five-illegal-constructions-demolished-in-ludhiana-another-sealed/story-PZaM3fh11pa5jnlyLWq4hP.html
03-12-2020||Chandigarh||Mist reduces visibility to 3,000 metres in Chandigarh||After clear weather on Thursday, visibility dropped to 3,000 metres at night, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD). This mist is likely to continue in the coming days as well. Visibility between 5,000 to 10,000 indicates clear weather, and conversion of mist into fog when it drops below 1,000.As per IMD officials, there was still some time for fog to appear in the city. “Mist forms when humidity is high and the temperature starts falling. Even on Wednesday, visibility reduced to 2,000 metres. Some snowfall is expected later this week in Himachal Pradesh, so temperature can drop further in the coming days and mist can be expected in the mornings and evenings,” said an official at IMD.Besides, partly cloudy skies are likely on Saturday, which will help the night temperature rise.Meanwhile, the maximum temperature went up from 24.6°C on Wednesday to 25.1°C on Thursday and the minimum temperature also rose slightly from 9.4°C to 9.6°C. The next three days are expected to see highs and lows of 26°C and 10°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mist-reduces-visibility-to-3-000-metres-in-chandigarh/story-PqgiXKLJozQcQpXrtOLD6I.html
03-12-2020||City||Land laws: National Conference leader Devender Singh Rana hits out at BJP for betraying Jammuites||National Conference (NC) provincial president Devender Singh Rana on Thursday reminded the BJP about the safeguards to lands and jobs in Himachal Pradesh, saying the latter conveniently hid facts to justify denial of rights to permanent residents here.“It is typical of BJP to mislead and hoodwink the public for furthering their petty political agenda,” Rana said while addressing an impromptu series of election meetings in support of party candidates from Nagrota and Dansal.Rana, however, advised the BJP not to test the sagacity of politically agile people of Jammu, who have understood their game plan of trampling the identity of the people of the largest Dogra state, which the saffron party has dwarfed by bifurcating it into two union territories. “The shell-shocked people of Jammu are feeling disempowered and marginalized and the damage caused to their psyche and pride is beyond repair. The recent measures are going to hit Jammu the most,” he added.He asked the BJP leaders to convince the people of Jammu about their ill-advised decisions like domicile keeping in view the checks and balances available in Himachal Pradesh and several other states. “If safeguarding the rights of the people in Himachal is sacrosanct, how come these are of no consequence in Jammu? This is sheer hypocrisy which exposes the intent of the BJP. The harm caused to the legitimate interests of Jammu is unparalleled and doing so under the garb of hyper-nationalism is an insult to the patriotism of Jammuites, who are suffering the most due to these unpopular political decisions.”Rana exhorted the people to throng the polling stations in large numbers and register concern over usurping of their rights by supporting the right candidates who stand guarantee to their identity and unspooling the glorious Dogra pride.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/land-laws-national-conference-leader-devender-singh-rana-hits-out-at-bjp-for-betraying-jammuites/story-j2thg12KSdQVlD5BaWG8PP.html
03-12-2020||City||BJP raking up Gupkar, Pak issues to hide own failures: J&K Congress||The Congress here on Thursday decried attempts by the BJP to divert the attention of voters from real issues to hide its own failures on various fronts in Jammu and Kashmir.Addressing a press conference here, JKPCC chief spokesperson Ravinder Sharma along with former minister Raman Bhalla flayed the saffron party for betraying the mandate of Jammu by raking up only Gupkar alliance and Pakistan issues instead of discussing failure in providing jobs, depriving the youth and businessmen of 4G mobile internet services for over a year, snatching land rights and statehood.“Instead of addressing the real issues, BJP’s top leaders are indulging in vilification campaign against opponents, ignoring the fundamental fact that participation of all mainstream forces is a direct answer to Pakistan and the gun culture sponsored by it. Such utterances of the top ruling party leaders are highly irresponsible and create hatred and division in the society,” said Sharma.Challenging the BJP to seek votes on its performance and arbitrary decisions in J&K, the Congress leaders said that people would not get hoodwinked by the false promises of the ruling party regarding jobs security and land protection.The senior Congress leaders questioned BJP for its continued alliance with the parties of Gupkar declaration in the Kargil Hill Council. They alleged that BJP leaders were emotionally exploiting voters in Jammu for electoral gains by raking up such issues against their present allies in Kargil, which speaks of the BJP’s politics of deception and falsehood.They also appealed to the people to reject the parties and candidates who are out to divide the voters to the advantage of BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-raking-up-gupkar-pak-issues-to-hide-own-failures-j-k-congress/story-lts7mochUETMQMtZH1gyMK.html
03-12-2020||City||DDC polls in J&K: 33 seats to go to polls tomorrow as third phase begins||After witnessing 51.76% and 48.62% voter turnouts in the first and second phases of the district development council (DDC) elections, the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir is set for the third phase of polling on Friday. State election commissioner KK Sharma said, “A total of 33 DDC constituencies with 305 candidates in the fray will go to polls in the third phase on Friday amid tight security arrangements.” He informed that voting will be held in 16 constituencies with 166 candidates in Kashmir, and 17 constituencies with 139 candidates in Jammu region. “There are 252 male and 53 female candidates in the fray under the phase third. This time, 7,37,648 voters that include 3,85,675 males and 3,51,973 females will exercise their right to franchise,” he said. The election authorities have set up 2,046 polling stations — 1,254 in Kashmir and 792 in Jammu. Kashmir has 3,63,044 voters while Jammu has 3,74,604, the election commissioner said. The polling hours shall remain the same from 7am to 2pm. So far, polling has taken place in around 86 constituencies in the first two phases. The SEC said that all the arrangements regarding elections have been completed including manpower, election material and security cover. Regarding sarpanch by-elections, Sharma said that out of the 126 constituencies, polling shall take place in 66 constituencies and a total of 184 candidates are contesting in the third phase, including 144 male and 40 female candidates. Similarly, in panch by-polls, he informed that there are 1,738 constituencies, and out of them 798 have been elected unopposed. Sharma urged the voters to strictly adhere to Covid guidelines by wearing masks and maintaining six feet distance at the polling stations. He also asked them to participate in maximum numbers to strengthen grassroots democracy in J&K. The DDC elections are the first major electoral exercise taking place in J&K after the revocation of Article 370 in August last year and the bifurcation of the former state into two UTs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ddc-polls-in-j-k-33-seats-to-go-to-polls-tomorrow-as-third-phase-begins/story-ZrweXGB7jAWFH42NLYR9TL.html
03-12-2020||City||Spiti’s Tabo village sheds containment zone tag after 23 days||Known for its rustic surroundings and over a 1,000-year-old monastery, Tabo village, a famous tourist destination in Spiti valley of Lahaul-Spiti district, has been relieved of its containment zone tag after 23 days. Spiti additional district magistrate Gian Sagar Negi on Thursday issued an order to this effect. Tabo was declared a containment zone on November 11 after many residents were found infected with Covid-19. As per the official order, most Covid patients from Tabo village, who were put under home isolation after testing positive, have now recovered as per the tests conducted on December 3. It further recommended the decontainment of the village. While most restrictions imposed earlier have been removed, the one regarding social gathering limit will continue to be in force. The order states that the local panchayati raj members and Nambardar village will discourage social gatherings unless required urgently with minimum persons. Social distancing will be ensured in the village and no person shall move in public places without wearing masks, it adds. If influenza-like Illness (ILI) symptoms are noticed in any resident, the administration has to be informed immediately. Lahaul-Spiti witnessed over 182% rise in Covid cases in the past month. In October end, the remote district had 387 cases which rose to 1,093 by December 2. Lahalu-Spiti was also among the districts with high positivity rate. Besides, six people have died of the contagion in the district so far. The sudden spurt in virus cases was witnessed in the twin-valleys after the Atal Tunnel in Rohtang was opened for vehicular traffic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/spiti-s-tabo-village-sheds-containment-zone-tag-after-23-days/story-NXXJFkxuQa5LfqFHbrqetL.html
03-12-2020||City||18 deaths, 837 new Covid-19 cases in Himachal||Himachal Pradesh on Thursday recorded 837 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the tally of positive cases in the state to 42,697 while the death toll mounted to 685 as 18 more patients succumbed to the virus. Of the new cases, 161 each were reported in Shimla and Kangra, 138 in Mandi, 84 in Solan, 77in Kinnaur, 68 in Chamba, 47 in Hamirpur, 32 in Una, 27 in Bilaspur,23 in Sirmaur and 19 in Kullu. There are 7,837 active cases in the state. Also, 544 more people have been cured, taking overall recoveries to 33,880. A total of 5.51 lakh tests have been conducted. Shimla remains the worst-hit district with 7,792 cases and is followed by Mandi where 6,915 people have been detected positive, till date. Kangra ranks third with 5,631 infections while Solan has 5,203 cases, Kullu 3,744, Sirmaur 2,683 1, Una 2,201, Hamirpur 2,184, Bilaspur 2,178, Lahaul-Spiti 1,093 and Kinnaur 967. Himachal has recorded a total of 20,638 cases in 33 days, a 93% jump in the combined tally since the outbreak in March till October 30. As many as 18,459 cases were reported in November alone while 2,289 cases have been detected in three days of December. The state has about 5,800 confirmed cases per 10 lakh population. Shimla recorded maximum spurt of 5,294 cases during this period, a jump of 188% in the infections. Mandi recorded 3,890 infections while the population wise biggest district Kangra recorded 2,550 cases. Besides, 373 people died in the given period—364 in November and 50 in December. Shimla has recorded maximum 176 deaths till date and is followed by Kangra where 137 people have died. Mandi has recorded 89 fatalities. The case fatality ratio in the state is 1.6% whereas the recovery rate is down to 79.3% as compared to over 86% in October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/18-deaths-837-new-covid-19-cases-in-himachal/story-97lTICKlODkZLGS28UxYDJ.html
03-12-2020||Kolkata||TMC distances itself from Suvendu Adhikari, rebel hits road||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Thursday distanced itself from former minister Suvendu Adhikari by removing him from the party’s employees’ federation, a trade union front where he was the chairman. Adhikari, who headed three important departments, had resigned from the cabinet on Friday. Without even naming Adhikari, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said during a meeting with the federation members at the state secretariat that education minister Partha Chatterjee, who was chairman of the body in the past, will head it again. Adhikari did not attend any meeting of the federation in recent months. Adhikari took part in three back-to-back non-political rallies at different locations in East Midnapore district, his home turf, on Thursday and made significant statements without naming anyone. His followers put up posters in the heart of south Kolkata, a stronghold of the TMC, in the morning. “One does not need posts to serve people,” said the posters that bore large images of Adhikari. “Some people say I do my politics from a comfort zone. Let me remind them that I have always fought for idealism and will continue to do so. I am into people’s struggle and will be in it,” Adhikari said at a programme at Garbeta. TMC leaders, who carefully watched his moves, said it was apparent that Adhikari was organising his people for his next political move. There are speculations that he may join the BJP or form a political outfit of his own with TMC leaders who have grievances against the ruling party. Also read: Our right to build dam on Brahmaputra, says China as experts warn of impactAdhikari led a huge rally in Contai town to mark the birth anniversary of Khudiram Bose, the first freedom fighter hanged by the British in Bengal. When journalists asked him how would he identify himself, Adhikari said, “I am son of Bengal and son of India.”“I led people’s struggle at Jangalmahal, Nandigram and Netai,” said Adhikari. This was a significant statement because countering the Maoists at Jangalmahal, an erstwhile Maoist-controlled zone covering parts of three districts bordering Jharkhand, became an important agenda for Mamata Banerjee after coming to power in 2011. Before that, the violent struggle against the CPI(M) at Nandigram (where Adhikari is now the legislator) and Netai helped Banerjee oust the Left Front government. The TMC faced a crisis on Wednesday afternoon when Adhikari told the leadership that it was not possible for him to work for the party. Adhikari wrote a text message to Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy, saying the problems he was having in the TMC were far from over. This happened barely 14 hours after the TMC informed the media that Adhikari told top leaders at a discreetly held meeting on Tuesday evening that he would not leave the party. Adhikari even talked to the chief minister over phone in the middle of that meeting. Abhishek Banerjee, the chief minister’s nephew, and election strategist Prashant Kishor attended the meeting and held most of the discussion since Adhikari is unhappy with several decisions taken by them, said TMC leaders. Roy replied to Adhikari’s text message late on Wednesday night. TMC leaders aware of the development said the essence of Roy’s message is that the party informed the media about what happened at Tuesday’s meeting and the fact that Adhikari had agreed to the decisions. The rebel leader was also told in the message that if he changes his stand then it is his entirely his business. “The party will not make any public statement on Adhikari anymore,” Roy said on Thursday. Asked whether the TMC would suffer a big loss prior to the polls if Adhikari joined the BJP, Roy said, “TMC is a big party. It does not make much difference if one or two leaders leave. Mukul Roy (now a BJP national vice-president) had left too. The party will face the elections under Banerjee’s leadership.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/tmc-distances-itself-from-suvendu-adhikari-rebel-hits-road/story-B5tORRvUnYbefQfjZg6CTJ.html
03-12-2020||Chandigarh||Covid claims five more lives, 324 fresh cases crop up in Chandigarh tricity area||Mohali and Chandigarh reported three Covid deaths each, while one person succumbed to the virus in Panchkula on Thursday.Meanwhile, in no let-up in cases, the tricity reported 324 fresh infections on Thursday, against the 296 on Wednesday.Mohali led the daily case tally again with 173 people testing positive, while Chandigarh reported 75 cases and Panchkula 76.On Wednesday, Mohali had 149 cases, Chandigarh 105 and Panchkula 42.Chandigarh’s death toll due to Covid-19 rose to 284 with three casualties – a 76-year-old woman from Sector 30, a 74-year-old man from Dhanas and a 65-year-old woman from Sector 41, who died of a head injury at her house and later tested positive. The total cases now stand at 17,717, of which 16,452 patients have been cured and 981 are still infected. As many as 173 patients were discharged on Thursday. In the last 24 hours, 1,509 tests were conducted. The three fatalities in Mohali took the total deaths to 287, while the case tally climbed to 15,919 with 173 fresh cases. Out of these, 123 were from Mohali city, 28 from Gharuan, eight each from Kharar and Lalru, and five from Dera Bassi.Also, on Thursday, 101 patients recovered from the disease, bringing down the number of active patients to 2,147. Till now, 13,485 patients have been cured. In Panchkula, the death toll reached 130 with another fatality and case tally 8,904 after 76 people were found positive.The district still has 494 active cases, while 8,280 have been discharged. As many as 989 samples were collected on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-claims-five-more-lives-324-fresh-cases-crop-up-in-chandigarh-tricity-area/story-H4fjWMn7hqetVW1g1CCUPP.html
03-12-2020||City||Illegal constructions: Building branch staff under political pressure, admit Ludhiana MC ATPs||In an inquiry regarding illegal constructions in the city, assistant town planners (ATP) of all the four zones of the municipal corporation (MC), have admitted that the building branch, working under political pressure, had not taken action against large numbers of building violations in their respective areas.Despite tall claims of mayor Balkar Sandhu that the MC is working without any political interference, the officials, in their reply/report to the senior officials during an ongoing inquiry, have stated that no action has been taken against 10%-12% illegal buildings (mostly residential) constructed in the city in the last three years.Further, they stated that action has not been taken against 10%-12% illegal buildings (mostly residential) in each zone and one of the major reasons is that they are working under the pressure of councillors of ruling and opposition parties. Also, the branch is facing acute shortage of staff.This has come to the fore during the ongoing inquiry of the illegal buildings marked by the municipal commissioner to MC additional Commissioner Rishipal Singh.The inquiry was marked following a complaint submitted by RTI activist Rohit Sabharwal. He had alleged that the MC suffered a revenue loss of around ₹50 crore due to its failure to take against the illegal constructions.A building branch official requesting anonymity said that in the reports it has been stated that action is not taken against residential buildings on the recommendations of councillors and other public representatives. But construction of many commercial and industrial buildings has been allowed under political pressure in the past.Slamming the claims, the mayor said, “The officials are free to work with no political pressure. If any councillor or MLA pressurises any official, then they should submit a complaint to me and I will look into the matter. The officials are only making excuses.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/illegal-constructions-building-branch-staff-under-political-pressure-admit-ludhiana-mc-atps/story-ZZnmZ7GbAg6k400ZWZlZTJ.html
03-12-2020||City||Kidnapping of hotelier’s son: Former sarpanch remanded in 5-day police custody||Former Malluwal Baniya village sarpanch, one of the accused in the kidnapping of the two-year-old son of the owner of Keys Hotels, was produced before a local court on Thursday that sent him to a five-day police custody.Police on Wednesday had arrested former Malluwal Baniya village sarpanch, Rachhpal Singh, for kidnapping the toddler. Police said that the Volkswagen Polo car used in the crime was bearing a fake number plate of a scooter. The police suspected that the other accused had stolen or robbed the car, around 12 days ago before committing the crime and parked it at Singh’s house to hide the vehicle.The police are trying to trace the owner of the car.The toddler’s father, Pankaj Gupta, a hotelier and realtor, informed the police that their driver, Harjinderpal, had taken his son for a spin in their Maruti Suzuki Swift car but had not returned. Later, the kidnappers demanded ₹4 crore for their son’s release.According to the police, the accused had abandoned the Maruti Swift car at the highway near Moga, where Rachhpal Singh was waiting for them in the Volkswagen Polo car. However, after the police launched an intensive search, the kidnappers abandoned the boy in the Volkswagen Polo near Dagru Railway crossing.A hunt is on for the arrest of his brother Lal Singh, driver Harjinderpal Kumar and Sukhdev Singh alias Sukha.The police also revealed that after kidnapping the boy, accused Harjinderpal along with his two accomplices had left for his house in Manakwal village at around 3 pm.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, city 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said that Harjinderpal is the main conspirator and it is suspected that he had procured the Volkswagen Polo car to kidnap the boy.Harjinder was a habitual offender and had been facing trial in five criminal cases — including kidnapping, robberies and forgery in Fazilka, Sirhind, Haryana, and Rajasthan.Pankaj Gupta said that though Harjinderpal was very punctual, he was frequently seen talking to someone over the phone. Gupta said that when asked, he never got a straight answer from him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kidnapping-of-hotelier-s-son-former-sarpanch-remanded-in-5-day-police-custody/story-51fSyY2fKgb7dQngC92UCP.html
03-12-2020||City||Ludhiana MC to set up helpline to report manual scavenging cases||With the municipal corporation (MC) prepping to take part in the Safai Mitra Suraksha Challenge, aimed to ensure that no person needs to enter a sewer or septic tank, it will soon launch a helpline for residents to report manual scavenging and clogged sewer lines.The initiative was launched on November 19.With an eye on the first prize of Rs 12 crore under the category with a population over 10 lakhs, the civic body will encourage mechanised cleaning of sewer lines and special teams will also be formed to deal with emergency cases. Responsible sanitation authority and emergency responsible sanitation authority will work in the city under this competition. The 1,000 marks competition will be based on infrastructure development, innovation and citizen feedback on the cleaning of sewer lines. The MC will also have to bring in more machinery and safety kits and uniforms will also be provided to workers. Training sessions will also be organised.Official requesting anonymity said that the MC has only 18 jetting machines and 24 desilting grab machines for the city for 95 wards. The workers do not have proper safety kits and manual scavenging is done at different parts of the city even when it is completely banned. The civic body will have to develop infrastructure and purchase more machinery. It will be very difficult for the MC to replace manual scavenging with mechanical desilting in old parts of the city, the official said.The initiative was launched on the occasion of World Toilet Day. Monthly evaluation of the work done will be held in February, March, and April on call or by conducting field visits. The civic body will then send an application to the Centre in April and upload the required documents. The results will be announced on August 15. MC Commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “I had conducted a meeting regarding this initiative with MC officials on Wednesday evening and strict directions have been issued to stop manual scavenging. BSNL will issue the helpline number, and an application has been forwarded to them by the civic body. If need be, machinery will also be purchased to promote mechanical desilting. The MC is already getting the major sewer lines cleaned in the city through super suction machines by hiring a contractor.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-to-set-up-helpline-to-report-manual-scavenging-cases/story-JVBQukRF1F1l2jJp5VwqiJ.html
03-12-2020||City||NTSE mock test: Fourteen students score above 90% marks||Of the total 3,083 students in Class 10, 2,993 appeared for the National Talent Search Examination (NTSE) mock test at 232 government schools in the district on Thursday. Around 64 students scored between 80% to 90% and 204 scored between 70% to 80%. Fourteen students scored above 90% marks in the practice test.Nandani and Himani Sharma from Government Senior Secondary School, Cemetery Road, scored 99 out of 100 marks. Both said that now their aim is to score well in the next mock test to be held on December 7 and 8.The two-hour practice test contained 100 questions (50 each from mental ability and scholastic ability) and the majority of students were able to finish the test in the allotted time.School authorities made all necessary arrangements and students were accommodated in classrooms by adhering to social distancing norms.At the government model senior secondary smart school, Punjab Agricultural University, 62 students appeared in the test. To check the OMR sheets, the school principals deputed six teachers so that the result can be compiled in an hour. While teachers of other government schools sent the results to block mentors so that they can be compiled at the district level.A student Jashanpreet Kaur said, “The paper was balanced and I was able to complete it in the allotted time. I have been taking online coaching for quite some time now. To prepare for the exam, I had appeared in all tests conducted by the state and district education department.”NTSE nodal officer, Balwinder Kaur, said, “We have received good response, as the majority of students who have registered for the NTSE exam to be held on December 13, appeared in the mock test. The results have been prepared and students will be informed so that they can work on their weak areas to enhance their score in the next mock test.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ntse-mock-test-fourteen-students-score-above-90-marks/story-Lv4bguxlMtoYiHUrJfvK2O.html
03-12-2020||City||Final year UG, PG students in Ludhiana govt colleges return to class||Director Public Instructions (DPI) on Thursday directed colleges affiliated with Panjab University, Chandigarh, to allow final year undergraduate and postgraduate students to attend in-person classes amid precautionary measures. The DPI office also clarified that as all the PU-affiliated colleges are under the state government so the orders passed by them will be implemented.Following the orders, the government colleges in the city informed the final year students to attend in-person classes. Earlier, on November 20, Panjab University directed colleges to continue with online teaching for the current semester due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation.At Satish Chander Dhawan Government College, 40% of final-year students pursuing undergraduate and postgraduate courses have started attending college.In the postgraduate Hindi department, over 18-20 students are attending online classes for the last two days. Teachers were seen taking the physical and online classes simultaneously. Prof Saurabh Kumar, said, “We are taking online and in-person classes simultaneously for final year students to clear their doubts. We are following all safety protocols including social distancing during offline classes.” A second-year student, Suman said, “I am glad that I am able to visit the college to attend classes. I feel more focused now. While attending online classes, I faced many challenges to attend classes for three to four hours continuously.”Principal of SCD Government College, Dharam Singh Sandhu, said, “In every course, more students have started attending the college and we are abiding by all safety protocols. We are planning to conduct an online monthly test for all students due to fear of contracting the virus.”At Government College for Girls, three to four students are attending offline classes. Teachers are continuing with online classes, however, if a student is allowed to visit the college for doubt clearance.Officiating principal Gurpreet Kaur said, “We have received clarification from the DPI office and we are conducting both online and offline classes. However, the majority of students prefer online classes. We are planning to conduct online mid-term exams and are preparing the schedule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/final-year-ug-pg-students-in-ludhiana-govt-colleges-return-to-class/story-rqfQ5PDG6tN5nUEo9NcZ5H.html
03-12-2020||Bangalore||Congress leader Siddaramaiah slams Karnataka CM Yediyurappa for cabinet reshuffle delay||As the wait for a Cabinet reshuffle in Karnataka continues, senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah called Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa the “most incompetent CM” of the state, stating that the Cabinet has not been expanded even after 1.5 years and not even one program has been implemented till now.In a tweet, Siddaramaiah said: “BS Yediyurappa is the most incompetent CM of Karnataka. The Cabinet has not been expanded even after 1.5 years and not even one program has been implemented till now.”He alleged that marginalised sections are being “threatened by the communal” BJP leaders and said that his party believe in harmony and universal brotherhood. “I had a discussion with progressive thinkers, socialist and secular proponents in Mysore today. All of them are of the opinion that the marginalised sections are being threatened by the communal Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders,” he said in another tweet. On November 29, Yediyurappa had indicated that the Cabinet expansion may take some more time as the higher commands are yet to hold talks regarding the reshuffling and expansion of the Cabinet.While he was leaving for Chitradurga from the authorised residence ‘Cauvery’ to participate in various programs in Chitradurga and Shimoga district. Chief Minister Yediyurappa had said, “We have to wait (for Cabinet expansion).”Earlier on November 19, the Chief Minister had met BJP national president Jagat Prakash Nadda in the national capital.On November 12, a meeting of senior BJP MLAs was held at minister Ramesh Jarakiholi’s residence amid speculations of Karnataka Cabinet reshuffle. More than a dozen aspirants are waiting to be included in seven vacant chairs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/congress-leader-siddaramaiah-slams-karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-for-cabinet-reshuffle-delay/story-jm5VbqvQ7YCVnEbNHmAyjJ.html
03-12-2020||Chandigarh||Mediapersons protest against attack on journalist in Chandigarh||Members of the media fraternity on Thursday staged a dharna to protest against the attack on a senior journalist, outside Punjab Bhavan in Sector 3 on Wednesday.Satender Chauhan, a journalist with a national news channel, was seriously injured on Wednesday, when he, along with other media personnel, were covering the agitation led by Punjab Youth Congress president Birender Singh Dhillon.Mediapersons from various organisations raised slogans against the Youth Congress and demanded an FIR in the matter.Meanwhile, the Chandigarh Press Club demanded strict action against the culprits. Earlier, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and SAD Chief Sukhbir Singh Badal had also condemned the attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mediapersons-protest-against-attack-on-journalist-in-chandigarh/story-7CfNHBeZgIA2iauVs4d2sI.html
03-12-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal slashes cost of RT-PCR test to Rs 950||The West Bengal government slashed the cost of RT-PCR test to Rs 950 on Thursday. “The cost of RT-PCR test in private laboratories and hospitals has been brought down to Rs 950 from Rs 1,250. Earlier it used to cost more. This will allow more people to go for Covid tests,” said chief minister Mamata Banerjee.The Odisha government on Wednesday had capped the price of RT-PCR tests in private laboratories at Rs 400, lowest in the country.Recently, states like Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Delhi reduced the maximum price of RT-PCR tests. While Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat, and Bihar brought it down to Rs 800, UP has fixed it at Rs 700.Till December 2, around 5.9 million Covid-19 tests have been conducted in West Bengal. On Wednesday 42,624 tests were conducted. Also read: India tells China it is concerned about its Brahmaputra hydropower projectWest Bengal has reported 4,90,070 cases till date with 3,271 cases newly reported on December 2. CM Banerjee urged the citizens not to lower their guard against Covid-19. “Avoid crowded places, wear masks and maintain your safety. We have not developed antibodies yet. I thought that I had developed antibodies because I have been going to several hospitals and public meetings, but not yet. Many people want me to die. But I don’t care,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-slashes-cost-of-rt-pcr-test-to-rs-950/story-Dc6EHCoys8hJ5amOA45M6O.html
03-12-2020||Chandigarh||Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational 2020: Day one: Bengaluru’s Joshi on top of the leaderboard||Bengaluru’s Khalin Joshi scored a card of six-under-66 to take the lead on the first day of the Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational 2020, presented by TAKE Sports, at the Chandigarh Golf Club on Thursday.Joshi, 28, who is a winner of four titles, including one on the Asian Tour, had an eventful day as he sank two eagles, five birdies and three bogeys en route his 66 to take a one-shot lead at the Rs 1.5-crore event.Chandigarh golfer Akshay Sharma was placed tied second at five-under-67, along with another Bengalurean, M Dharma.Among the prominent names, Anirban Lahiri (70) was tied 10th, SSP Chawrasia (71) was tied 16th, Gaganjeet Bhullar (72) was tied 33rd, Jyoti Randhawa (74) was tied 53rd while tournament host Jeev Milkha Singh (75) was placed tied 68th.Khalin Joshi, who started from the 10th tee on Thursday, made a 20-feet eagle conversion on the 13th, two birdies and two three-putt bogeys to make the turn at two-under.“My hitting, including my driving and approach shots, stood out today. However, my putting was patchy as I made some good conversions, but also had three three-putts which all resulted in bogeys,” said Joshi, currently ranked 10th on the PGTI merit list.“Importantly, I replaced the three-iron in my bag with a gap wedge for this week as I felt the latter will suit me more for the yardages at this course. The addition of the gap wedge seems to have helped me as it set up a couple of birdies for me today.”Akshay Sharma, the winner in Panchkula last month, endured a poor start as he dropped a bogey on his opening 10th hole. Sharma then rallied with birdie-eagle on the 12th and 13th where he sank 20 and 10 feet putts, respectively.Sharma impressed with long conversions through the day. He went on to drain birdie putts from a range of 20 to 35 feet on the 17th, third and eighth.Akshay, currently fourth on the PGTI Order of Merit, said, “I didn’t have a great start but the eagle on the 13th really lifted my confidence. It was windy and I struggled with my hitting making only 12 greens in regulation. I sank a lot of long putts today but missed as many as three short putts within five feet.”“I’m feeling the momentum since my win last month. Playing on my home course adds to my confidence so I’m looking forward to another good week,” added Sharma, who followed up his win in Panchkula in early November with a third place finish in Chandigarh the following week.Gurugram’s Veer Ahlawat and Noida-based Amardeep Malik were joint fourth with scores of 68.Bengaluru’s Chikkarangappa, the 2018 champion, was tied sixth at 69, along with the Chandigarh duo of Angad Cheema and Shabeg Singh Kooner and Faridabad’s Abhinav Lohan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jeev-milkha-singh-invitational-2020-day-one-bengaluru-s-joshi-on-top-of-the-leaderboard/story-5vo6HYFScbvUs7mm1lRnwK.html
03-12-2020||Chandigarh||How varsity students are lending support to farmers||A 28-year-old research scholar from Punjabi University, Patiala, Jaspreet Kaur, who joined the agitating farmers on November 26, sings revolutionary songs to motivate them as they protest against new three farm laws.Several others from her varsity as well as Panjab University in Chandigarh have joined the likes of her and are showing support and solidarity with the farmers.Jaspreet, who is currently camping at Singhu border, says, “I have been a part of this protest ever since the three farm laws were brought in by the central government. At the border, I sing songs to motivate farmers in their struggle for their rights.”From serving langar to ensuring availability of medicines to farmers, students from Punjab are on the forefront.A Panjab University student, Amrit Somal, 23, from Ludhiana district, along with a group of his friends, had been transporting essentials from his native place to the protest sites.“We have been taking food items from our village in Ludhiana to farmers. I have come back to my village three times ever since the protest started on November 26,” he says.Harnoor Singh Chauhan, 22, a student at Panjab University’s police administration department, says, “I belong to a farmers’ family and we have come here on our own to play our part in the protest. They also need support from the youth in this protest.”“We even clean the roads and serve langar among the farmers every day. We think it is our duty to stand by the farmers at this moment,” says Deepinder Singh Virk, a student of Punjabi University. Twenty-two-year-old Satnam Singh, a student of Panjab University Institute of Open Learning, says, “Not only farmers but we serve meals to policemen as well.”There are also some student leaders who are actively taking part in the farmers’ protest. Former president of Panjab University Campus Students Council (PUCSC), Kanupriya, who was the first female president of the PU’s students’ council, is also a part of the stir.“This is a historic moment and we think that students have an important role to play by supporting the movement and learning from the leaders,” she says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/how-varsity-students-are-lending-support-to-farmers/story-mLYY5xJXGiIgBB3NKbwu8M.html
03-12-2020||City||HC asks Himachal govt to ramp up facilities to tackle Covid-19||The Himachal Pradesh high court on Thursday directed the state government to ramp up facilities at Covid-19 hospitals and manpower hired on temporary or outsourced basis through authorised service providers should be appointed by December 5.The orders were passed by a division bench comprising justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan and Jyotsna Rewal Dua on a petition taken up by the court Suo Moto. The court noted that it considers these directions absolutely necessary.The court directed the state government to ensure that senior doctors in all notified Covid hospitals visit the ward on regular basis. The government shall also consider the feasibility of having liquid oxygen tankers stationed at all notified Covid hospitals, it said. The court also directed that the manpower hired on temporary or outsourced basis will be appointed by December 5 and testing will also be ramped up by adopting approved measures by associating private laboratories or their technicians, or both.The court said sample collecting authorities should have all the contact details of persons whose samples have been taken and report of the same will be supplied in a time-bound manner, not beyond 48 hours. A dedicated helpline in all Covid hospitals be notified so that the family members, near and dear ones of the patients can get in touch to know about his/her wellbeing.“Such patients, who are willing to afford, be permitted to have trained nursing attendant at their own costs as this would be a long way to reduce the burden on the hospital staff,” the bench stated. The court further directed that the wrapping up of bodies of those Covid patients, who succumb to the disease, shall not be done in the ward.“The state may also consider making Covid test mandatory for people entering the state from the outside,” the court directed. The state would consider providing additional incentives to those deployed in Covid-19 duties including the outsourced workers, more particularly, Class-III and IV, who are working in the Covid wards.“The patients undergoing treatment at home will be contacted by dedicated medical personnel at least twice a day over his/her telephone so as to monitor the treatment at home and medicine kits provided to them are of good quality,” the court stated. It also directed the state to consider staggered office time to help reduce overcrowding in buses.The court said all those involved in Covid duties irrespective of their rank and files are restrained from going on strike/dharna. In case, any one of them have any difficulty, then they are at liberty to approach this court individually or through the learned Amicus Curiae for redressal, directed the court. They may be terminated or service provider company will be blacklisted. They will be prosecuted for contempt of court. The court directed that the six ambulances, which are fitted with ventilator, shall be immediately put to use. It also sought the secretary (health) to file a point-wise response to the suggestions and status of make-shift hospitals in open court on the next date of hearing on December 10.Key directions:Asked to consider feasibility of liquid oxygen in all dedicated Covid hospitals.Manpower hired temporarily be appointed by December 5.Dedicated helpline in all Covid hospitals so that family members can enquire about the health of their kin.Staff on Covid duty restrained from going on strike.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-asks-himachal-govt-to-ramp-up-facilities-to-tackle-covid-19/story-1ZGxng4bc54bimITOV3VHO.html
03-12-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand to give 80% subsidy for beekeeping, honey production to promote self-employment||Intending to promote self-employment in the hilly regions of the state, Uttarakhand has started an initiative to give 80 per cent subsidy for beekeeping and honey rearing in boxes to locals. The state government, during its last cabinet meeting earlier this month, had announced to set up ‘madhugram’ in every district to promote apiculture in state. Officials say that Uttarakhand honey has demand in both national and international market as it is organic, therefore increasing productivity will help locals earn a living. HC Tiwari, joint-director for horticulture in Kumaon region in the state, who also looks after the beekeeping project, said that there are approximately 300 nyay panchayats in the state where ‘madhugram’ or honey clusters are being set up by the department. “Production of honey is a process which can give earnings to people throughout the year except during the monsoon. As Uttarakhand’s honey is famous for its organic properties, it is a good source of income and we are trying to promote the same among locals across the state,” said Tiwari. As part of this initiative, the horticulture department has asked district-level officials to identify areas where beekeeping can be done successfully, like Terai regions, agricultural lands in the hilly districts. After the identification of locations, locals will be trained in beekeeping (as the process involves dealing with a live insect), and then they will be given boxes used as beehives. Also read: ‘We brought our own food’ - Farmer leaders at Vigyan Bhawan meetOne box costs Rs 4000 of which Rs 3200 will be paid by the department and Rs 800 will be borne by the beekeeper. The official further said that the locals can earn an amount between Rs 70/kg to around Rs 300-400/kg for honey, depending on the demand and the type of honey being produced. “The type of honey that will get produced after beekeeping depends on the flowers that the bees suck nectar from. During these winter months, mostly mustard honey is produced as that is the crop the bees feed on. In the months of March-April, it is flower-based honey, which has a higher price, thus the earnings vary accordingly,” added Tiwari. He further said that during the months of lockdown, beekeepers earned around Rs 300/kg as the demand for honey increased, “because people were more focused on building immunity to fight Covid-19 and preferred organic honey”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-to-give-80-subsidy-for-beekeeping-honey-production-to-promote-self-employment/story-Hy8oziO1BpfS98146r6E6O.html
03-12-2020||Pune||Iucaa says it wants to settle issue with Pu La family amicably||Following the notice sent by family members of late Marathi author and renowned humourist PL Deshpande, the Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics (Iucaa) has maintained that it is willing to discuss the issue of copyrights and royalty in an amicable manner outside court. The Iucaa was served notice by PL Deshpande’s nephew’s Jayant Deshpande and Hemant Deshpande on November 18 seeking clarity about the royalty of late author and his wife Sunita Purushottam Deshpande. The Iucaa said on Wednesday that there was no need to drag the issue to the courts and that it could be discussed amicably. According to Iucaa officials, will of late Sunita Deshpande has offered all rights of the plays, books and writings by PL Deshpande to the science body. However, Deshpande family has alleged that there are discrepancies in the way Iucaa is handling the will. “There are many discrepancies in the way Iucaa is handling the will and also arbitrarily charging royalty and fees for using our uncle’s literary work,” said Jayant Deshpande, who owns a transport business. The issue came up when younger brother Hemant Deshpande’s son Yash wanted to use a script for a special programme that he was planning as part of the centenary celebrations of PL Deshpande. “We had written to Iucaa and they sent us a long letter asking for minute details of the programme. As part of the Deshpande’s family, at least we have a right to his works too, but not like this,” said Jayant Deshpande. NV Abhyankar, senior administrative officer, Iucaa, said there has been a misunderstanding and he along with others at Iucaa are looking at an amicable discussion in person. “There seems to be some sort of misunderstanding and miscommunication about the rights as implied in the will as well as about the royalty charged. We received the will from Sunita Deshpande while she was alive. She and Pu La had visited Iucaa on Narlikar’s invitation and had loved the fact that this despite being a UGC-run autonomous research facility, offered a lot of insight into science for children too. In fact, PL and Sunita were instrumental in helping build Muktangan building within the Iucaa campus,” said Abhyankar. PL Deshpande, who died on June 12, 2000, was fondly remembered by fans as Pu La. Pu La had great regard and fondness for Iucaa, due to which his wife in her will gave all the rights of his books and other material to the centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/iucaa-says-it-wants-to-settle-issue-with-pu-la-family-amicably/story-EsxmeOvNSTOnD30ES4ufjM.html
03-12-2020||City||CITU, Left parties in Himachal extend support to farmers’ protest||The Centre of Indian Trade Union (CITU), Himachal Kisan Sabha, Janwadi Mahila Samiti, Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI), Students Federation of India (SFI)and Dalit Shoshan Mukti Manch on Thursday staged protests across Himachal Pradesh to support the farmers in their protest against the Centre’s three agriculture laws.CITU state president Vijendra Mehra said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Haryana chief minister ML Khattar’s BJP governments are bent on crushing the farmers, which is highly condemnable. He described the BJP governments at the Centre and state as dictator. He said suppressing the farmer’s movement has exposed the real face of both these BJP governments and now everyone knows they support the capitalists and big corporate houses. Mehra added that the new laws will ruin agricultural institutions like APMC and end the minimum support price to encourage black marketing, hoarding and profiteering of agricultural products.“All this is being done to benefit big corporate houses. Agricultural sector is in great crisis and instead of helping farmers, the Centre is bent on destroying them,” he said.“Neither the agricultural budget and subsidies are being increased nor are farmers provided with agricultural equipments or waive off on loans,” he added.“The recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission have been pending since the last two decades and are not being implemented. Therefore, it has become extremely important that the workers, farmers, women, youth, students, socially and economically weaker sections of the country unite and raise their voices against the government to stop implementation of policies that only benefit corporates and capitalists,” Mehra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/citu-left-parties-in-himachal-extend-support-to-farmers-protest/story-HqUgO3j3UhmlWUnh4hFOKN.html
03-12-2020||Dehradun||Covid negative test reports must for those attending IMA passing out parade in Dehradun||The Indian Military Academy (IMA) has made the Covid-19 negative test reports mandatory for visitors and journalists for attending the passing out parade on December 12 in Dehradun.As many as 392 cadets will graduate on December 12. They include 322 Indians and 70 from friendly foreign countries.IMA’s public relations officer, Lt Col Himani Pant, cited the safety of cadets and staffers and added all the visitors are required to carry their negative real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction test reports with a validity of 72 hours. “Without them, the entry will not be permitted.”Also read | Uttarakhand officer who highlighted interfaith marriage scheme, transferredPant said IMA will make arrangements for the tests for those unable to bring their reports. “We will have Covid testing on December 11, where our health officials will conduct both RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests for those not having their reports. The reports of these tests will be valid for the main event on December 12.” Pani said the cadets will adhere to Covid-19 related precautions during the parade and wear face masks and maintain distance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/covid-negative-test-reports-must-for-those-attending-ima-passing-out-parade-in-dehradun/story-FcMl6GD8mIAryglUZxlByL.html
03-12-2020||Pune||PMC to survey properties for encroachment||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to survey all its properties mainly the vacant ones for encroachment across the city. PMC standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “I have instructed the estate department to check the present status of all the properties owned by the municipal corporation. There are complaints that at many places the PMC properties which are vacant have been encroached.” To increase the revenue for the municipal corporation, the municipal administration is planning to lease these properties and develop with the help of private partners. According to Rasne, the civic body owned thousands of properties which fell under various reservations and amenity schemes. “It is tough to maintain all these properties. With the influence of local leaders, some of the prime properties are getting misused. PMC is not getting any revenue from these properties,” he said. “I am planning to bring a new proposal and very soon to rent out some of the properties. It would help to get good revenue for the municipal corporation. It would be a win-win situation for both the civic body and the citizens. PMC would get more revenue and properties would be saved from encroachments,” Rasne said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-to-survey-properties-for-encroachment/story-AE0f9e1tC59ygAIl90TJhL.html
03-12-2020||Pune||More fire incidents than last year as shortage-of-firemen issue heats up||The eight-month lockdown restrictions because of Covid situation have not eased firefighters workdays. The number of incidents reported by the Pune fire department between January and November outnumbers those registered in 2019. The department saw 750 small and big fire and natural hazard incidents from January till November, 2020, according to officials. The 2019 figure was 650. The department is facing a shortage of over 510 men and requires 12 more fire stations to provide better services to citizens. During the recent fire incident at Lohiyanagar in Bhavani peth slums on November 23, the response time was delayed by more than 25 minutes as trained drivers were unavailable. The shortage of firemen delayed the control of fire by the men on ground. According to the civic activists, manpower crunch is affecting the operational effectiveness of fire department. Civic activist Vihar Durve said, “The fire department does not have the necessary infrastructure to keep pace with rapid urbanisation in the city. Manpower shortage is severely affecting their work. We feel that the department must be run professionally and adequate number of resources must be dedicated to it.” The fire department said that three stations which have been constructed over one year are yet to function due to lack of manpower. “The control room had around 55 persons during the initial years, but now 10-12 staff are managing in shifts. The current manpower of 490 persons is just half of the manpower needed to cover the city requirements,” said Prashant Ranpise, chief fire officer, Pune. Of the 510 vacant posts, 390 are exclusively for firemen, he said. The fire department is also facing shortage of drivers and have to summon those appointed on contractual terms from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) vehicle depot in emergencies . And most of the drivers from PMC vehicle deport are not trained in driving fire engines. The department also needs drivers for quick response vehicles “Devdoot” as it has to depend on contractual drivers. Even fire assistants hired on temporary basis make it difficult for the department to function, states an internal circulation study of the department. Ranpise said, “There are critical issues related to manpower shortage, including trained drivers, assistants, firemen and other skilled staff, and we have conveyed our need to the PMC for swift action. The work is getting affected due to expanding nature of the city and growth in population. New recruitment has been stalled as the state government has not given its approval for the recruitment roster prepared by the PMC in 2014. Hence, neither can new recruitment be done nor can there be promotions. We can’t operationalise the three new fire stations due to lack of manpower and work is suffering.” Pune Mayor Muralidhar Mohol said “All the grievances and demands of the fire brigade will be taken up with the state government and necessary funds will be injected to increase the functioning capability of the fire brigade department.” Fire department expansion, a necessity Info: Manpower crunch is affecting the operational effectiveness of fire the department in Pune 2020: 750 big and small fire hazards in Pune2019: 650 big and small fire hazards in PuneManpower shortage: 510 staff Fire stations needed in Pune: 14 Control room staff earlier: 55 Control room staff now: 10-12 Fire stations non-functional for lack of staff Dhanori Kale Padal Gangadham Spaces reserved for new fire stations Nana peth Tingarenagar Wadgaon Budruk Narhe Response time delayed by 25 minutes in a recent fire due to shortage of workforce||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/more-fire-incidents-than-last-year-as-shortage-of-firemen-issue-heats-up/story-af7fHrW59fbBTC2IagQVLI.html
03-12-2020||Chandigarh||2 wanted for ₹3.4 lakh robbery land in police net in Ludhiana||Two months after a fabric trader’s manager was robbed of ₹3.42 lakh and a scooter, two of the perpetrators were arrested and a pistol and two sharp-edged weapons were recovered from them. The two accused —Shubham of Kakowal Road and Deepak of Sarpanch Colony — had been on the run, while three of their accomplices —Gurpreet Singh of Bawa Colony, Sanjiv Kumar of Anandpuri and Mohit Sharma of Vishwakarma Colony — had already been arrested on October 19.Division Number 6 station house officer inspector Amandeep Singh Brar said Shubham had surrendered himself before the court of judicial magistrate Himanshu Arora on December 1. The court had remanded him two days in police custody. The interrogation led to the arrest of Deepak from his house on Thursday and the seizure of the weapons used to commit the crime that had been buried under a tree near Gurudwara Ganga Ghat. Police said the accused had left the city to evade arrest but had returned shortly after. The accused had committed the robbery at Gill Road near the Advanced Training Institute (ATI) on October 9. The car-borne robbers had hit the victim’s scooter and after he fell, they made away with the scooter containing the cash. They also injured the victim using sharp-edged weapons and threatened him with a pistol before fleeing. A case under Sections 394 (injuring the victim while committing robbery), 201 (hiding evidence), 411 (retaining stolen property), 324 ( voluntarily causing hurt ) of the Indian Penal Code and different sections of the Arms Act was lodged against unidentified robbers at the Division Number 6 Police Station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-wanted-for-3-4-lakh-robbery-land-in-police-net-in-ludhiana/story-f8liDm6Km7vqYZoA8VHgvO.html
03-12-2020||Pune||Daily Covid-19 test target puts additional financial burden on PMC||PUNE The state government’s order of daily Covid-19 test target for all civic bodies in the state has put the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) in a soup as the increased RT-PCR tests mean additional financial burden on the civic body.The PMC which has a population of 35.38 lakh has a target to conduct 5,840 tests daily, according to the target set by the state government. Currently, the PMC conducts about 2,900 tests daily. However, it is now pondering on the expenses it might have to incur to keep up with the target.Rubal Agarwal, additional municipal commissioner, said, “Currently, we have maintained a ratio of about 75:25 RT-PCR and RAT Covid-19 tests which means that we have maintained the proportion as recommended by the state government.”“We have already spoken to the National Institute of Virology and its current capacity is not enough to suffice the new targets and if we speak with private laboratories it will cost the civic body dearly,” she said.As per the target of 5,840 Covid-19 tests daily, the civic body has to conduct at least 75 per cent of the tests through RT-PCR by February 2021. This would mean that the civic body will have to conduct at least 4,380 RT-PCR tests every day and at the cost of Rs 1,000 per test, so it will have to shell out Rs 43,80,000 every day.Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant health officer, PMC, said, “We do not have a bifurcation as such but about 30-35 per cent of the tests are RAT while others are all RT-PCR and we are decreasing our dependence on RAT.”“We have 16 private labs for RT-PCR while five government labs. The civic body sends its samples only to the government facilities which offer services for free. However, due to limited testing capacity at government facilities, the PMC might have to depend on private testing laboratories which may cost dearly,” he said.The state government in its letter wrote that the civic bodies may use their CSR funds or the local funds to meet the expenses due to the increased expenditure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/daily-covid-19-test-target-puts-additional-financial-burden-on-pmc/story-2VwaJKGSfamaJJt7adaigJ.html
03-12-2020||City||Snow, rain likely in higher reaches of Himachal tomorrow||The higher reaches of Himachal Pradesh is very likely to witness snowfall and rain on Friday while the middle hills will receive snow and rain from December 7 onwards, as per the state meteorological department.State MeT director Manmohan Singh said snowfall and rain is very likely in higher hills of the state on December 4 while weather will remain dry in middle and lower hills.He said higher and middle hills will then again witness snowfall and rain at isolated places from December 7 to 9 but weather will remain dry in lower hills and plains.Weather was mostly dry throughout the state during the last 24 hours while minimum and maximum temperatures were one to two degrees above normal.Minimum temperature in Shimla was 8.7°C while it was 7.7°C in Kufri. Manali shivered at 1.8°C while Dharamshala and Dalhousie recorded 9.4°C each. Minimum temperature in Una was 6°C, Solan 4.8°C, Bilaspur 7.5°C, Hamirpur 7.2°C, Nahan 13.3°C, Mandi 4°C and Kalpa 1.8°C. Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district was coldest at minus 6.9°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/snow-rain-likely-in-higher-reaches-of-himachal-tomorrow/story-3sfd14UKkGpZWMsKF6YOWO.html
03-12-2020||Pune||TB treatment could be shortened to four months, shows Sassoon hospital trial||BJ Medical College and Sassoon General Hospital (SGH) has successfully reported through a trial that with better drugs the tuberculosis (TB) treatment trial could be shortened from the current six months course to four months. This will not only be cost effective for patients, but also be less damaging due to the reduced drug usage and the adverse effects caused by the same. The study was conducted over two years and has been found to be effective for mass treatment too. The hospital’s pulmonary department had collaborated with the World Health Organisation and US Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).The SHINE trial or Shorter Treatment for Minimal Tuberculosis in Children was termed as successful during the virtual 51st union conference on lung health which was organised in October. The trial showed that a shortened four-month regiment of the drugs, namely rifampicin, isoniazid, pyrazinamide plus or minus ethambutol in children with smear-negative, non-severe TB was as much effective as the current and standard six-month treatment, with no difference in adverse events. These findings have the potential to change current treatment guidelines for children with drug-susceptible TB. The trial was conducted on 86 participants in SGH. The WHO noted, “Long treatment regimens can result in high costs to families and health services, potentially with added toxicity, risks of drug-drug interactions in children living with HIV, and problems with pill-burden and adherence.” Dr Murlidhar Tambe, dean of BJMC and SGH, said, “India assumes the world’s largest burden of tuberculosis, and the treatment is prolonged and difficult—particularly for children. Our team is proud to have contributed to findings that shorten the length of treatment, and we are grateful to the families who participated in this important effort.” Dr Samir Joshi, who was also involved with the study, said, “We found promising results in a shorter time with changed drugs specifically rifampicin which was earlier expensive but over time has become cheaper. This is time and cost saving for the monitoring doctors and patients too, who do not have to travel repeatedly to the hospital for regular follow up. Also, reduced use of drugs means that it is less damaging to the patients. We would also recommend it for mass treatment, however, it is the call of the government.” The team from India included BJGMC JHU-India SHINE team members, Dr Aarti Kinikar-BJGMC principal investigator; Dr Vidya Mave- JHU Pune principal investigator; Dr Priyanka Raichur- study coordinator; Dr Mandar Paradkar; Savita Kanade; Aparna Nijampurkar; Vandana Kulkarni and Neeta Pradhan.A similar study by BJGMC also found that the four month course of daily TB treatment is as effective as six months in adults. The results of a Phase 3 trial found that a daily regimen of high-dose rifapentine with moxifloxacin administered over four-months is as effective as the current six-month standard of care. With no difference in adverse events, the shortened treatment is just as safe. The study enrolled more than 2,500 participants from clinical sites in 13 countries, including the BJGMC-JHU-India clinical research site in Pune, where 61 participants were enrolled, which was the largest drug-susceptible TB treatment trial ever conducted by CDC or NIAID.Doctors from SGH said that for the adults’ study, the team included Dr Sanjay Gaikwad; Dr Lokhande; Dr Vidya Mave; Dr Nishi Suryavanshi; Dr Neetal Nevrekar; Dr Sandesh Patil; Vandana Kulkarni; Neeta Pradhan; Savita Kanade; Sadaf Inamdar; Sameer Khan; Smita Nimkar and Sapna Adhav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/tb-treatment-could-be-shortened-to-four-months-shows-sassoon-shine-trial/story-I2HZhn2rLWlnUJLC3PKTxI.html
03-12-2020||Chandigarh||HP govt hiding truth about Covid community transmission: Cong leader||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is hiding the truth about community spread of Covid-19 in the state and cancelling the winter session of the assembly reflects its desire to avoid uncomfortable questions on the outbreak , All India Congress Committee secretary and former minister Sudhir Sharma has alleged. Sharma, in a statement here, said health services were in a shambles even as Covid fatalities had increased.“The state cabinet’s decision to cancel the winter session of the Himachal Pradesh assembly reflects this government’s incompetence in dealing with the situation.” More than 200 questions were to be asked about health facilities and related problems during the session. It was important because in the current circumstances when there was community spread of the disease, the government had not revealed plans to deal with the crisis, he added.It should come out with the truth. Every village in the state had reported a spurt in cases, but the government was running away from its responsibility. Hardly any facility existed for Covid patient management in the state hospitals, the Congress leader alleged. Even as the elections for municipal corporations had been cancelled, arrangements were being made for panchayat polls. “How will the government ensure that there is no overcrowding at the polling booths? How many staff are to be employed for a smooth election process?”Sharma asked. “History will remember that during a global pandemic there was incompetent government in the state which was unable to take effective decisions,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hp-govt-hiding-truth-about-covid-community-transmission-cong-leader/story-T21dh3kV4fLRxmGhvfKsWL.html
03-12-2020||Pune||Stone crushing work halts in Gevrai taluka after threat to orphans’ health||Sachin Khade, the tehsildar of Gevrai taluka has issued an order to stop the stone-crushing work at Govindwadi Manyarwadi grampanchayat, Gevrai taluka. The “stop work” order was issued to a stone-crushing machine, following complaints of environmental pollution and illegal digging by the private firm which operates the crusher. The order came following complaints from villagers that orphans staying at the Sahara Balgram orphanage in the vicinity of the stone crushing site were facing serious health issues due to indiscriminate stone crushing activity. Gevrai tehsildar Khade said, “We have issued a written notice to the crusher owner that, if he is found operating without permission his equipment will confiscated. Currently, the crusher is shut.” Sahara Anathalay Parivar, which runs the institute under the aegis of Aai foundation, has been taking care of the orphans for the past 16 years. The stone crusher is located at a distance of one km from the orphanage, where 106 orphans between the ages of six and 18 are cared for by the management. The institute, in a petition dated November 2 addressed to the district collector, states that the orphans were facing serious noise-related issues due to constant blasting at the stone-crushing site. District collector Rahul Rekhawar said, “The crushing site is currently non-functional. It was permitted earlier. Now there is no permission.” The petition also pointed out that pollution emanating from the project is a serious threat to the children’s health. The communication also pointed out that the road which leads to the institution is being populated with heavy traffic. Santosh Garje, president, Sahara Anathalaya Parivar, said, “The future of the orphans is at stake due to illegal crushing going on in the area. The district collector has issued oral instructions for stopping the crusher activity and the local tahsildar has promised action.” “The work is carried out without following any norms stipulated by the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) and must be dealt with strictly,” said Garje.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/stone-crushing-work-halts-in-gevrai-taluka-after-threat-to-orphans-health/story-IqTUwQjmvGovrCTP68AkwN.html
03-12-2020||Pune||Patient’s condition vital in determining CFR: PMC study||PUNE A Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) study, based on data from its internal app tracking critical Covid-19 patients, has found that the baseline severity, or condition in which patients were admitted to hospital, proved to be a major factor in determining the case fatality rate (CFR). While the CFR for those who did not need oxygen on admission was about 3 per cent, it was 75 per cent among patients who needed a ventilator upon admission. It also found that males had a higher CFR than females. The study was concluded based on data filled in by 70 city hospitals and found that of the 4,644 critical patients, 901 died during a hospital stay. A total of 3,743 were discharged. The duration of the hospital stay averaged seven days. It also concluded that the hospital mortality progressively increased from lower to higher age groups. Mortality was 4.1 per cent in patients younger than 30 years of age, but increased to 32.6% in patients aged 61 years or above. Dr Sunil Rao, group medical director of Sahyadri Group of Hospitals, said, “We have found that the recovery time of critical Covid-19 patients is difficult. The oxygen requirement of the patients is too much as the lung damage is extensive. By the time the patient is admitted on the ventilator or in the ICU, the damage to the lungs is so severe that the recovery time exceeds other infections. We do not have many options to treat a Covid-19 patient since it is a new disease.” The study found that early detection of Covid-19 and treatment proved to be critical factor in saving lives. Age groups, gender, baseline severity of admission, history of diabetes, hypertension, obesity, heart disease, lung disease, kidney disease, epilepsy, mental disease, organ transplant and systolic and diastolic blood pressure at the time of admission to hospital were considered as potential predictors of mortality. The model showed that age greater than 60 years, history of hypertension, history of lung disease and history of kidney disease were significant independent predictors of increased hospital mortality, in addition to strong independent effect of baseline severity on admission. In patients less than 30 years of age, and those between 31 to 45 years of age, only severity of illness on admission was an independent predictor of mortality. In the age group 46 to 60, and above 60, in addition to baseline severity of illness, history of hypertension and history of pulmonary disease were significant independent predictors of mortality. In addition to these, higher systolic BP on presentation was a predictor of mortality in the age group 46-60 years, and history of kidney disease was a predictor of mortality in age greater than 60 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/condition-of-patients-when-admitted-to-hops-major-factor-in-determining-cfr-study/story-Kr8fUf10GOtxD1ychTZj0H.html
03-12-2020||Pune||Pune graduates’ and teachers’ constituency polls: Results likely to be delayed, say officials||As the voting turnout was high for Pune graduates’ and teachers’ constituency polls and voting was done through ballot papers the results will be declared only after 24 hours, said officials.The counting will start at Balewadi sports complex on Thursday.An official from the administration on condition of anonymity said that though the counting will start from Thursday, it is likely that the final results will be declared on Friday.The voting went on till late in the evening on Tuesday (December 1) and the final count was recorded at 57.96 per cent and 73.04 per cent for Pune graduates’ and teachers’ constituency respectively. Total 2.47 lakh voters cast their vote in five districts in Pune.Amid the pandemic, the election commission will ensure all the Covid-19 safety measures will be followed at counting centres. Masks, sanitizers and other essentials are provided at counting centres, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-graduates-and-teachers-constituency-polls-results-likely-to-be-delayed-say-officials/story-aRFStogzXJi3Z7EUlSQEvJ.html
03-12-2020||Pune||Overflowing sewage water at Pathwardhan Baug in Pune irks residents||Despite installing closed sewage lines between Gandhi lawns and Saket Society at Pathwardhan Baug, water is now overflowing, civic activist and Sajag Nagrik Manch founder, Vivek Velenkar, pointed out on Wednesday. Velenkar said, “Pune Municipal Corporation in 2017 decided to stop drainage water flowing from nalas and erected drainage lines for it. A total of Rs 56 crore was spent on this work. The sewage line erected between Gandhi lawns and Saket Society located at Pathwardhan Baug was completed in 2018.” Velenkar alleged, “While erecting this pipeline, the contractor did not connect the drainage lines to the chambers. When we raised this issue with the municipal commissioner in November 2019, he instructed the contractor to complete the work, but the work did not get completed.” Sajag Nagrik Manch has now written a letter to municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar demanding action against the contractor and concerned officers. Municipal commissioner Kumar was not available for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/overflowing-sewage-water-at-pathwardhan-baug-in-pune-irks-residents/story-qTsp4Hdg7pH4lNh2x2atYP.html
03-12-2020||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath hard sells UP defence corridor in Mumbai||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said there were tremendous opportunities for investment in the defence corridor during an interaction with entrepreneurs linked to the defence sector in Mumbai on Wednesday. He underlined that UP had IIT-Kanpur and IIT-BHU as knowledge partners for developing the corridor.Inviting investments in the sector, Yogi said there were six nodes in the defence corridor in the state and sufficient land was available in all the six nodes including Jhansi, Chitrakoot, Aligarh, Agra, Kanpur and Lucknow. He said India would not only become self-reliant in the defence sector, but will also become an exporter of defence products with the efforts being made by all.He added that such an endeavour would help in realising “Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat” dream of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Yogi said that the state government welcomed the suggestions of those willing to invest in the defence industrial corridor.Also Read: UP’s Govardhan road expansion projects hits green hurdle in SCHe also said that the Prime Minister had made the announcement about setting up the defence corridor at Uttar Pradesh’s first investor summit in 2018. Uttar Pradesh had the largest number of MSME (ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises) units and the state government had linked 10.50 lakh such units to banks, he claimed.He said the State was creating a supporting infrastructure of expressways, which was a big achievement for the Uttar Pradesh government.Uttar Pradesh Expressways Industrial Development Authority chairman Awanish Kumar Awasthi introduced the entrepreneurs to the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/yogi-adityanath-hard-sells-up-defence-corridor-in-mumbai/story-vFiTcXBMjqkbPPc1yfntPN.html
03-12-2020||Chandigarh||Nigam Bhandari is president and Yadupati Thakur working president of HP Youth Cong||Nigam Bhandari and Yadupati Thakur have been appointed president and the working president, respectively, of the Himachal Pradesh Youth Congress (YC). Both will be holding the leading positions in the state unit of the party for the first time. Bhandari belongs to Kinnaur district and has been a part of the Youth Congress for a number of years in Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu’s group. Thakur, who is from Sarkaghat in Mandi district, has also led the National Students’ Union of India, the student wing of Congress, for quite some time. He is known to be close to former chief minister Virbhadra Singh. Election for the new president was held for the October 30 in which Bhandari polled 40,010, Thakur got 37,375 and another candidate, Amit Pathania, got 5,998 votes. There were 540 NOTA votes. All three leaders of the YC were interviewed on behalf of the All India Youth Congress in Delhi. To have a member of Sukhu’s camp as the state YC president is believed to have dealt a big blow to veteran Congressman Virbhadra Singh’s camp, sources say. However, the Congress high command has tried to reconcile the two factions by appointing Thakur from Virbhadra Singh’s camp as acting president. Bhandari and Nigam later met Rajiv Shukla, who is in-charge of Himachal Congress, in Delhi. Congratulating the new leaders, Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee president Kuldeep Singh Rathore said he hoped the YC would make a concerted effort to strengthen the Congress and connect more youth with the organisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nigam-bhandari-is-president-and-yadupati-thakur-working-president-of-hp-youth-cong/story-9Z6eKHTa9yAFCB5jIURz3H.html
03-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM announces Rs 5 lakh each to families of two farmers who died during farm law protests||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday announced financial assistance of Rs 5 lakh each to the families of the two farmers, Gurjant Singh and Gurbachan Singh, who died while participating in the ongoing protests against the new farm laws. Capt Amarinder extended his condolences to the bereaved families of the two farmers, who belonged to Mansa and Moga districts, respectively. Gurjant Singh was from Bachhoana village in Mansa district and died in Delhi during the agitation against farm laws. Gurbachan Singh, 80, was from Bhinder Khurd in Moga district and died after a heart attack during a protest in Moga on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-cm-announces-rs-5-lakh-each-to-families-of-two-farmers-who-died-during-farm-law-protests/story-ZbM7UP9ViCktMZkSKKi1wN.html
03-12-2020||Bhopal||5 of MP family drown to death after boat capsizes during temple visit||At least five persons, including two women and three children of a family, drowned when their boat capsized in a dam in Agar-Malwa district, 200 km west of Bhopal, while the family was on the way to a temple on Wednesday evening, said police. The deceased were identified as Ramkanya, 35, her daughter Jaya, 13, Sunita, 40, her daughter Alka, 13 and son Abhishek, 9, all residents of Kanad village of the district, said police. Agar-Malwa superintendent of police Rakesh Sagar said, “All the five were going to a temple of goddess Pacheti. They boarded a small boat to cross the dam on Wednesday afternoon. In the middle of the dam, a part of the boat broke off and the boat capsized in the dam.” A state disaster response force (SDRF) team, rushed to the spot for rescue operation, fished out all the five bodies late Wednesday night. Also Read: MP triple murder mystery solved with 3 arrests but serial killer still on the looseMP chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced ex-gratia of Rs 4 lakh each to the next of kin of the deceased. Earlier, in another incident, three sisters drowned in a pond in Shahdol district on Wednesday while bathing. The deceased were identified as Sandhya Singh, 9, Baby Singh, 6, and Neha Singh, all residents of Shyamdeeh village of the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/5-of-mp-family-drown-to-death-after-boat-capsizes-during-temple-visit/story-X9umtiUxttzzF0F8fVBMbM.html
03-12-2020||Dehradun||Elephants attack mining workers’ slums in Uttarakhand, 1 deaf labourer crushed||One worker was killed and two others severely injured when an elephant herd in Uttarakhand’s Nainital district attacked the temporary slums of mining workers on Wednesday night. “There are temporary slums of mining labourers along the Gaula river, which were attacked by wild elephants on Wednesday night. One person was killed and two were severely injured in the incident. A team from the forest department rushed to the spot after the locals informed them about the incident. The injured have been sent to Sushila Tiwari Hospital for treatment,” said Dhruv Singh Martolia, sub-divisional officer (SDO) of Goula region in Terai East forest division.The deceased has been identified as 25-year old Bhuteli Kharwar, a resident of Patna, said forest officials. They added that Kharwar was deaf. “Our department has sanctioned ex-gratia of Rs 3 lakh for the deceased’s family and officials on patrolling have been advised to be more alert regarding elephant movement in the area,” said Martolia. Aniruddh Kharwar, brother of the deceased, who got injured in the attack said, “We were sleeping in our tents when suddenly the elephants attacked, causing a stampede in our slum. My brother was deaf so he couldn’t hear the noise and did not come out of the slum and was crushed by the elephants.” Also Read: Uttarakhand SC-ST scholarship scam: ITI director arrested over 3.46cr swindleThere have been a few deaths due to human-elephant conflicts in the region. On October 20, a wild elephant killed a 70-year-old man in Ramnagar. On September 8, an elephant had killed a 38-year-old man in Ramnagar. Uttarakhand has 2,026 elephants, according to the latest elephant census. The aggression of elephants in Uttarakhand’s Corbett landscape, Rajaji National Park landscape and Tarai areas is becoming a major concern for wildlife officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/elephants-attack-mining-workers-slums-in-uttarakhand-1-deaf-labourer-crushed/story-teb5KIVnjnAzCchrr1xGeM.html
03-12-2020||City||Capt Amarinder meets Amit Shah, appeals to Centre, farmers to find early solution||Reiterating Punjab’s position for an early resolution to the deadlock over the three farm laws, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday urged the Centre to rethink its stand on the legislations while appealing to the farmers to find an early solution to the problem that is adversely impacting the state’s economy and also posing a danger to national security. “The problem needs to be solved quickly,” Amarinder stressed during a meeting in New Delhi with Union home minister Amit Shah, urging him to ensure that the Government of India addresses the concerns of the farmers. The chief minister later told mediapersons that while he and his government were not involved in mediation in any way and the matter had to be resolved between the Centre and the farmers, an early resolution was vital in the interest of both Punjab and the country. Stressing the need to protect the minimum support price (MSP) and continue with the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) based mandi system, Amarinder urged the Union home minister to listen to the farmers with an open mind to resolve the standoff quickly so that farmers from Punjab and other states, including a large number of women, can return to their homes. A solution has to be found at the earliest, he said, adding that he had come to meet the home minister to reiterate Punjab’s stand on the imbroglio and the need to secure the future of the farming community and agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/capt-amarinder-meets-amit-shah-appeals-to-centre-farmers-to-find-early-solution/story-dTz9aFsX2HbU9gvZMhW1hP.html
03-12-2020||Chandigarh||Supreme Court grants anticipatory bail to former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in murder case||The Supreme Court on Thursday granted anticipatory bail to former Punjab director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini in the 1991 disappearance and murder case of a junior engineer. A bench of justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and MR Shah allowed the appeal of Saini against the order of the Punjab and Haryana high court, declining him the pre-arrest bail in the 29-year-old case. The top court directed Punjab Police to release Saini on bail in the event of arrest on furnishing of a personal bond of Rs 1 lakh and two sureties of the like amount. It had reserved the order on the plea of Saini on November 17 in the alleged murder of Balwant Singh Multani. Also read: Five years on, probe into police firing at Faridkot’s Behbal Kalan, Kotkapura still a work in progressSaini was booked in May in connection with the disappearance of Multani when he was working as a junior engineer with the Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation (Citco). The top court had on September 15 granted interim protection from arrest to Saini in the matter and sought the state government’s reply on his plea, challenging the high court order refusing to grant him anticipatory bail. DECORATED OFFICER FACING POLITICAL VENDETTA: ROHATGI During the hearing of the matter, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Saini, submitted that his client had been a decorated officer who rose from the ranks and was a prime target of terrorists for his ruthless handling of the menace in Punjab and that the present case is an example of political vendetta as some FIRs were registered against the present chief minister by him when he was in service. The state government had opposed the plea, saying the grant of anticipatory bail to Saini at this stage would hamper the probe. The top court had asked the state government why the custody of Saini would be needed when almost 30 years have passed since the alleged offence was committed. On September 8, the high court had dismissed Saini’s two pleas, including the one on anticipatory bail in the case. MURDER CHARGE AFTER TWO COPS TURN APPROVER Saini had approached the high court after a Mohali court dismissed his bail plea in this case on September 1. On September 3, Punjab Police claimed that Saini had absconded, while denying his wife’s claims of withdrawal of his security cover. A Mohali court had on August 21 allowed Punjab Police to add the murder charge against him in this case. This came after two former Chandigarh Police personnel, former UT police inspector Jagir Singh and former assistant sub inspector (ASI) Kuldeep Singh, who are also co-accused, turned approver in the case. Multani, who was a resident of Mohali, was picked up by police after a terrorist attack on Saini, who was then the senior superintendent of police in Chandigarh, in 1991. However, the police had later claimed that Multani had escaped from police custody of Qadian police in Gurdaspur. Saini and six others were booked on the complaint of Multani’s brother, Palwinder Singh Multani, who is a resident of Jalandhar. The case was registered against them under Sections 364 (kidnapping or abducting in order to murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence), 344 (wrongful confinement), 330 (voluntarily causes hurt) and 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code at Mataur police station in Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/supreme-court-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-former-punjab-dgp-sumedh-singh-saini-in-murder-case/story-J51WqIagBi2vn904CXkXJK.html
03-12-2020||Patna||Center to bear cost of key stretch of land for Patna outer ring road project||Bihar’s State road construction department’s (RDC) bid to build an outer ring road around the capital city received a boost after the Central government agreed to bear the expense for purchasing the land required to build a 14-km long four-lane road from Ram Nagar to Kachhi Dargah.This was a crucial stretch of the 130km-long ring road project, being executed at the cost of around Rs 15,000 crore, for which the RDC was looking for financial support to acquire the required portion of land.The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is building the ring road, barring the Kachhi Dargah-Bidupur six-lane bridge on the river Ganga. Besides Kachhi Dargah-Bidupur bridge, another four-lane bridge on the river has been proposed near Danapur. While the Central government has decided to bear the civil cost of the entire project, the State government was supposed to bear the expenses for land acquisition.A senior officer of the RCD said that the Central government had agreed to spend Rs 800- Rs 1000 crore on purchasing the land from farmers and other agencies. “As this is a greenfield project, the farmers need to be taken in confidence for selling their land as per the prevalent land acquisition act,” the officer said.The NHAI has already started the process of building 39-km long, four/six lane road between Kanhauli in Bihta and Ram Nagar in southern Patna, which will be the first phase of the ring road project, which has been sanctioned under the PM’s special package to Bihar in 2014. A sum of Rs 823 crore would be spent on the first phase.Also Read: RJD begins probe into poll defeat, focus on Kosi & Seemanchal routAdditional chief secretary, RCD, Amrit Lal Meena said the process of land acquisition between Ram Nagar and Kachhi Dargah would be completed soon, as the modalities for financial support from the Centre had been stipulated for the project.As proposed, the ring road will be connected with Patna-Ara stretch of national highway 30 at Bihta, and those willing to go towards Begusarai or Gaya need not pass through the dense traffic in the capital city, once the ring road is complete in the next three years, said a senior RDC officer.Also Read: Sushil Modi files papers for RS by-poll, Nitish says it’s rare distinctionThe proposed alignment of the ring road passes through Bihta, Naubatpur, Dumri, Beldari Chak, Ram Nagar, Kacchi Dargah (all located in Patna), Bidupur (Vaishali) Asitpur, Nayagaon, Dighwara (Saran), Shepur and Bihta (Patna district).Bihar State Road Development Corporation (BSRDC) managing director Sanjay Agrawal said the construction of the 22.7km-long Kachhi Dargah-Bidupur bridge connecting Patna to Vaishali was going on in full swing. “The project would be complete by the end of next year, if everything goes well with the plan,” said Agrawal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/center-to-bear-cost-of-key-stretch-of-land-for-patna-outer-ring-road-project/story-D61u1OZhhmt39ueTnQOSOM.html
03-12-2020||Kolkata||Phase 3 trial of Covaxin launched in Kolkata; state minister Firhad Hakim takes the first shot||West Bengal minister Firhad Hakim became the first volunteer for the phase-3 trial of Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin, which was launched in Kolkata on Wednesday. “I am quite lucky to be part of the trial. I am absolutely fine. I do not care even if I die while undertaking this trial,” Hakim said.Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, who launched the trial, has also expressed his interest to volunteer. Covaxin, the first indigenously-developed Covid-19 vaccine, is being developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Also read | Vaccines won’t prevent short-term coronavirus surge: WHOKolkata’s National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases (ICMR-NICED) is one of the institutes selected to conduct the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation-approved regulatory trials. The results of the phase-3 trial of Covaxin will be available in November 2021, ICMR-NICED officials said. An interim report may be available by May 2021. “The analysis will take a year. An interim analysis may be done after six months. If it is found that the vaccine has sufficient protective efficacy, the results would be shared with the policymakers. The government will take the final call thereafter,” said Shanta Dutta, director of NICED.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/phase-3-trial-of-covaxin-launched-in-kolkata-state-minister-firhad-hakim-takes-the-first-shot/story-Fo4epc7sVE9BvIdjuBCNqL.html
03-12-2020||Mumbai||MOFA doesn’t apply to MMRDA land: Bombay HC on key legal point raised by flat buyers||The Bombay high court has refused to stay the construction of an additional residential-cum commercial wing at Universal Garden-1 at Oshiwara west, observing that the purchasers of flats on land belonging to the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) cannot invoke provisions of the Maharashtra Ownership Flats (Regulation of the Promotion of Construction, Sale, Management and Transfer) Act (MOFA), 1963.The plea was moved by the association of flat purchasers from Oshiwara District Centre (ODC). Justice AK Menon said no relief can be granted to the flat owners’ welfare association and its 97 members by invoking provisions of the 1963 enactment.“On a plain reading of Section 31, with Schedule-II of the MMRDA Act, it becomes clear that MOFA does not apply to MMRDA or any land or building belonging to or lands vested in the authority,” said justice Menon.The association and its members have filed a suit against the developer, Pagarani Universal Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd., for a declaration that the developer had no right over any additional floor space index available on the property and cannot put up any additional construction on the property without their consent.They had moved a plea for urgent interim injunction against the developer for stopping the ongoing construction of an additional wing, a residential-cum commercial building, on the property, after MMRDA issued the commencement certificate for construction of ground plus eight upper floors to the developer.The association and its members contended that the developer had exploited to the fullest the development potential of the land available at the time, and had no right to construct a new building without their consent. They asserted that the permission granted by MMRDA, allowing the developer to utilise additional FSI, was illegal for being without their consent.They insisted that MOFA was applicable to their case, as their agreements with the developer referred to several provisions of the 1963 enactment, although the MMRDA Act, 1986, specifically excluded applicability of MOFA to the lands and properties belonging to the authority.HC refused to accept the argument, holding that the provisions of MOFA, statutorily excluded from applying to MMRDA lands and properties, could not be invoked by the association and its members.The judge rejected the argument advanced on behalf of the association that the developer was bound by the obligation under MOFA because of the terms of their contract with the developer.Also Read: 15-week transformation for Navi Mumbai mangroves: 7,000kg trash removedHC also noted that there were clauses in the agreement, clearly indicating that the consumption of future FSI would not be affected by terms of the agreement and the developer will have an absolute right to additional construction or consume any balance FSI or TDR on the property.Prima facie, the judge said, these clauses may appear to be contrary to the settled legal position, as contemplated under section 7 of MOFA, that once flat purchasers are put in possession and the time for formation of society is expired, developer cannot exploit the land over and above what is disclosed to the flat purchasers, without their consent.“These are aspects which would come into play only if provisions of MOFA are applicable,” said justice Menon.The single judge bench was also of the opinion that perhaps there was no contravention of section 7 of MOFA in this case, as some clauses in flat purchasers agreements with the developer showed that he was constructing wing A and intended to make further construction in future.“Each of the agreements for sale are said to make reference to buildings that are yet to be constructed,” said the court. “The construction now underway is therefore clearly fitting the description of the further construction that was contemplated in the said annexure which forms part of the agreements for sale,” the judge noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mofa-doesn-t-apply-to-mmrda-land-bombay-hc-settles-key-legal-point-raised-by-flat-buyers/story-XWQtEaM9SqawSTvyF4X3YL.html
03-12-2020||Mumbai||15-week transformation for Navi Mumbai mangroves: 7,000kg trash removed||An environmental group has removed 7,000kg of trash from an 8,000 square metre mangrove patch in Navi Mumbai since August 15 with the help of the government and citizens. Trash was removed every Sunday for two hours as part of the initiative over the last 15 weeks.Environment Life, the group, on Wednesday shared images before and after the trash removal.Also read | Meadows, grassland pastures the size of Pune city to be developed across Maharashtra forests by 2024: Forest MinisterOrganisers said footwear, medical waste, mercury bulbs, tube lights, liquor bottles, plastic, spoons, packaged water bottles, wafers packets had made their way through the creek and got stuck in the breathing roots of mangrove trees. Some of the waste was being recycled.“We, as citizens, need to take responsibility and ownership to take care of our own waste or step up and clean our natural areas. What we have managed to remove is not even 1% of the waste stuck in mangrove areas and microplastic daily entering our oceans,” said Dharmesh Barai, founder, Environment Life.Babasaheb Rajale, deputy municipal commissioner who participated in the initiative, said it is a perfect example of public initiation. He added all stakeholders including the government, citizens, and even students came together for freeing mangrove forests of waste. “All support was given to this team by providing staff, treating trash, providing gloves, and other accessories to volunteers. We appeal to other groups to come forward and work with us for similar results.”Rajale said they will now raise awareness about the importance of natural areas. “We are now planning similar clean-up efforts across other Navi Mumbai mangroves.”Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (Mangrove cell), said the initiative in Navi Mumbai is an example of how citizens can draw the focus towards protecting marine biodiversity and showcase the importance of an ecosystem which is the first line of defense against extreme weather and rising seas.According to the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board, 80-110 metric tons of plastic waste is dumped into drains and water channels daily in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. Sewage and trash enter the sea and gets stuck within the mangrove ecosystem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/15-week-transformation-for-navi-mumbai-mangroves-7-000kg-trash-removed/story-fp2aWoE8Rn6PcpC0f0ok9O.html
03-12-2020||Bhopal||MP triple murder mystery solved with 3 arrests but serial killer still on the loose||Police in Ratlam district in Madhya Pradesh claims to have solved a triple murder case, about a week after the heinous crime took place, with the arrest of three of the four accused. The main accused, a Gujarat resident, is a serial killer involved in at least six murders including two in Gujarat and the remaining in Madhya Pradesh. 38-year-old Dilip Dewal, the mastermind behind the killings, is known for looting homes and killing the occupants, who are mostly women to ensure less resistance leaving no evidence behind, the police said. In Ratlam, three members of a family namely Govind Solanki, his wife Sharda Solanki and his daughter Divya Solanki were shot dead in their house at Rajeev Nagar on the intervening night of November 25 and 26 when people were busy celebrating chhoti Diwali (Dev Uthani Gyaras) festival with firecrackers drowning out the gun shots fired by the assailants. Police said the occasion was chosen carefully for this purpose. “During the investigation, police found that serial killer Dilip Dewal, a resident of Dahod Gujarat, killed them with the help of three persons--Anurag alias Bobby, Gaurav Bilwal alias Golu, both residents of Ratlam and Lala Bhabor, a resident of Dahod, Gujarat. The accused entered the house to loot valuables, said Gaurav Tiwari, superintendent of police, Ratlam. Police have arrested Anurag, Gaurav and Lala while Dilip is still absconding. The latter was awarded life imprisonment in Dahod for killing a businessman but he jumped parole two years back. Since then, he had been staying in Ratlam with a changed name. Police have seized at least two fake Aaddhar cards used by the serial killer, said the SP. According to the police, Dilip decided to rob Solanki, who used to run a saloon, after learning that he had recently sold a piece of land. “Govind Solanki used to run a salon in his house. Dilip came in contact with Govind on the pretext of a haircut to see the location of rooms in the house. After all the planning and recce, Dilip entered his house on the night of November 25 along with Anurag and Gaurav. He first shot Sharda who was watching a television programme followed by her daughter, who rushed out of her room after hearing the gunfire. Both died on the spot. The accused looted cash and jewellery and were about to leave when they saw Govind Solanki enter the house around 9 pm. They waited for him to enter the house and then shot him dead,” said the police officer. Also Read: 36th Bhopal gas tragedy anniversary- Mere lip service ritual, says survivorSeveral teams totalling 100 police personnel were engaged in the investigation and footage from about 200 CCTV cameras were examined to get to the killers. Police also arrested Dileep’s cousin brothers, 21-years old Sumit Singh Chauhan, who hails from Ratlam and 27-years old Himmat Singh Dawal, resident of Dahod, Gujarat, for looting a house and killing a woman in Ratlam in a similar fashion. They have been remanded in custody for 10 days for further interrogation. Police have also made an appeal asking people to share any information which may help it nab the serial killer. (With input from Sudhir Jain in Ratlam)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/mp-triple-murder-mystery-solved-with-3-arrests-but-serial-killer-still-on-the-loose/story-nGmuUo9Lgy797NBfOOd3WI.html
03-12-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand SC-ST scholarship scam: ITI director arrested over 3.46cr swindle||The special investigation team (SIT), investigating the multi-crore scheduled caste (SC) and scheduled tribe (ST) scholarship scam in Uttarakhand, has arrested the director of four private Industrial Training Institutes (ITI)s for allegedly drawing Rs 3.46 crore from the state social welfare department through fraudulent means. According to the SIT officials probing the scam in Haridwar and Dehradun districts, the accused, arrested on Wednesday from Saharanpur, Uttar Pradesh, is identified as one Anil Kumar. “During the investigation of the fraud, it was found that Kumar, the director of four ITIs including three in Haridwar and one in Dehradun, had shown fake admissions in the institutes,” said superintendent of police, Manjunath TC, who is heading the SIT. “Showing the fake admissions, he had drawn Rs 3.46 crore from the state social welfare department as scholarship money. Cases were then registered against him, three in Haridwar and one in Dehradun,” Manjunath added. The police officer said that Kumar had however got a stay from the high court in the case. Also Read: Uttarakhand farmers to join anti-farm laws protests in Delhi, ready for long siege“The SIT, however, filed the charge-sheet in the court on June 26 this year. Soon after that, the court issued a non-bailable warrant against him. He was then finally arrested on Wednesday and produced before the court which later sent him to jail,” said Manjunath. As per the directions of the Uttarakhand high court, there are two SITs of the Uttarakhand police probing the scam. One of them is headed by inspector general Sanjay Gunjyal, who is investigating the cases in 11 of the total 13 districts except Dehradun and Haridwar. The other SIT headed by Manjunath is investigating the alleged scam in Haridwar and Dehradun districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-sc-st-scholarship-scam-iti-director-arrested-over-3-46cr-swindle/story-lVW20zcU50Fu6NQnGhIzAN.html
03-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s AQI improves marginally but remains in very poor category||Delhi’s air quality continued to remain in the very poor category though showing a marginal improvement on Thursday morning. At 7am, the air quality index (AQI) was 345, as per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The average AQI on Wednesday was 373. However, government agencies have forecast a deterioration in air quality from December 4 onwards, as winds are going to turn calm. At the same time, a change is likely in wind pattern from north-westerly to easterly, which may bring moisture allowing accumulation of pollutants close to the ground. On a scale of 0 to 500, an AQI value between 300 and 400 is considered very poor, and that above 400 is considered severe. Also read | Why Delhi may be on right track in Covid-19 fightAccording to India Meteorological Department (IMD), the air is likely to remain in the very poor zone on Friday, but from Saturday, wind speeds will slow down and there will be further deterioration of air quality. They warned that on December 6 and December 7, the AQI might even slip to the severe zone, scientists said. “From December 4, the winds will slow down again. Our forecast says that on December 6 and December 7, the air quality will be at its worst and is even likely to slip into the latter end of very poor or severe,” a senior IMD scientist said. He added that the change in direction is due to a western disturbance that will affect Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh from the night of December 3, which will also have an impact on Delhi. “Whenever there is a change in wind pattern, winds turn calm and trap pollutants,” he said. IMD also said that there is a forecast of shallow fog on December 4 or 5. The minimum temperature will go up and settle at 10-11 degrees Celsius in the next two days. On Wednesday, the Safdarjung Observatory, which is considered the official reading for the city’s weather, recorded a minimum temperature of 8.2 degrees Celsius, a point below normal. The maximum settled at 26.7 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-aqi-improves-marginally-but-remains-in-very-poor-category/story-F4ACPgAmrUpvJyPILgShIL.html
03-12-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: The best staircase chai||Arpit Kakar always has trouble getting home. Ever since he set up a tea stall by filling up his staircase with everything from boxes of tea leaves to a hot plate.“I lost my job so decided to set up my own tea stall back in July,” says Mr Kakar, flashing his dazzling smile laced with too much kindness and hospitality. This unnamed stall here on a central Delhi pavement is just across the road from Daryaganj police station and caters to a good number of surrounding shopkeepers.The stall is extraordinary to look at—just where else would you come across a chai place rustled out of a flight of steep but narrow staircase? It is so cramped that the tea man can’t even sit down. But, then, customers keep Mr Kakar busy. This evening the nearby watch repair shop needs four cups of his tea right away, please, even as a passerby asks for chai: with Mr Kakar chatting with him in perfect English.“I was working as a data entry operator in a government hospital but then the contract ended and the (coronavirus-triggered) lockdown started,” explains Mr Kakar, in his 20s. “No way I could find a new job.” He credits the idea of starting the stall to “my loving mom, Anshu Kakar.” His father, who was bedridden for 20 years, died last month.Every few minutes Mr Kakar needs to tour the lane with his thermos, personally serving piping hot chai in each of the shops he’s made arrangements with. “I’m a one-man army,” he says, laughing. But the true pleasure of his ginger-flavoured tea is secured by drinking it right in front of his stall. Every little inch of the staircase has been converted to cater to stall requirements: this extreme utilisation of all the possible free spots of space is evocative of cramped cities like Mumbai.Pursuing his grad studies through correspondence, Mr Kakar opens the shop every day around 9.30am to—“whenever I run out of milk!” He’ll then head up the stairs to the apartment shared with his mother and Madhu bua (aunt), and doggie Boxer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-best-staircase-chai/story-XYFGfY3Z3XXtnBcTjDpnaP.html
03-12-2020||Mumbai||Pratt & Whitney maintenance facility to be set up in Mumbai see slow progress due to GST issue?||Pratt & Whitney’s (P&W) first-ever engine maintenance repair and overhaul (MRO) facility (in association with Air India Engineering Services Ltd) that is to be set up in Mumbai is seeing slow progress due to Goods and Service Tax (GST) issue. P&W has been seeking 5% GST on engine parts as the current tax rate of 18% is not viable for their business. However, the government has not yet officially responded to its demand. This has resulted in the MRO failing to take off, even a year after the two parties signed an agreement to establish this facility.AIESL, Air India Ltd’s engineering wing, along with aircraft engine P&W had announced their decision to work together for maintaining engines, including the problematic ones fitted on Airbus A320neos. This had come amidst glitches in P&W engines, resulting in several mid-air scares.Pratt & Whitney spokesperson did not clarify if there was a slow down due to GST related issues. “Our collaboration with Air India Engineering Services Limited (AIESL) remains strong, despite the challenges faced by the industry due to the pandemic and we continue to work with them to progress our MRO partnership.”Sources close to the development said the government levying 18% GST on engines has been a concern for the engine maker, due to which the process of coming up with the facility has slowed down. Another source close to the matter said, “Recently, the GST issue is being worked out but nothing has been made official yet. As of now, it is decided that every MRO work except the ones related to the engine of an aircraft will be performed by AIESL. Both the parties are however scheduled to discuss the details in a meeting this week. The signing of the contract between the two parties is expected to take place in the coming few days.”“Pratt & Whitney encouraging the establishment an aircraft engine MRO in India offers more than one benefit: it brings our engine support in closer proximity to our customers in the region, it supports the government’s vision of developing India as a major regional MRO hub, and it also makes business sense for the company to leverage India’s skills – to add to our advanced and competitive global MRO capabilities. For these reasons in 2020, we expanded our global network of MRO providers for the Pratt & Whitney GTF™ engine, to include AIESL in India,” P&W spokesperson added.Since January 2019, there have been several incidents in India involving the new Airbus A320neos fitted with P&W engines; in many of these cases, the aircraft was forced to turn around. The New Engine Option (neo) is an upgrade carried out by European aircraft maker Airbus on its aircraft such as A320, A319 and A321 from the CEO (current engine option). Neo engines are more fuel-efficient, which in turn reduces the total cost of operations.P&W powers more than 700 aircraft in service in India, including more than 150 GTF-powered A320neo family aircraft. Hyderabad is home to P&W’s state of the art customer training centre, which provides maintenance training to India’s growing aviation workforce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pratt-whitney-maintenance-facility-to-be-set-up-in-mumbai-see-slow-progress-due-to-gst-issue/story-7MoLVKMFPUN87jhuGR43oM.html
03-12-2020||Mumbai||Meadows, grassland pastures the size of Pune city to be developed across Maharashtra forests by 2024: Forest Minister||To reduce forest fragmentation, increased carnivore prey base, have an abundant food source for herbivores, provide zones for agriculture and animal husbandry, the state has decided to cultivate 8,300-hectare (ha) land as meadows and grasslands within forest areas in 2021.Over the next four years, the state plans to cover 33,200 ha (8,300 ha per year) under the Forest Meadow and Fodder Area Development Program said forest minister Sanjay Rathod on Wednesday. The area is equivalent to the size of Pune city (331.2 sq km).“This approach has different dimensions with the main idea to reduce the stress on forests. We have to consider the food chain, which is in danger due to lack of food or space for wildlife. To increase wildlife numbers, we want to ensure there is enough fodder availability for herbivores, and in turn, build good prey availability for carnivores. At the same time we have to ensure herbivores do not stray outside forests in search of food,” said Rathod, adding that for the first time in the state, such a massive forest meadow and fodder area development program was being done.Grassland patches in Maharashtra are found across Marathwada, Vidarbha, Solapur, Satara and other isolated patches along the Western Ghats. According to the Forest Survey of India, permanent pastures, grazing lands, and fallow land account for just 8% of the state’s geographical area. However, there is no estimation or study on how much of this falls within forest areas.Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on August 7 during the 15th meeting of the State Board of Wildlife (SBWL) had instructed the implementation of the scheme to increase wildlife in Maharashtra.According to a survey conducted by the Department of Land Resources under the Ministry of Rural Development with the help from the National Sensitivity System, Maharashtra has a total geographical area of 3.07 lakh square kilometres, of which 61,579 sq. km is recorded forest area while 53,484 sq. km is fallow land (17%). “The Maharashtra government has reserved 2,000 sq. km or 2 lakh ha for meadow and fodder grazing area development in the state over the next 10 years,” said Rathod further explaining that the scheme would benefit large areas of the state that are drought-prone and aid animal husbandry through the availability of fodder for livestock and overall livelihood of tribal farmers. “Due to intense cattle grazing in forest and non-forest areas, some zones have become barren and unproductive. Grasslands will not only be useful for cattle and herbivores but also water and soil conservation. It will provide further protection to large biodiversity within and outside forest areas,” said Rathod.While Rs. 50 crore has been earmarked for 2021 under the program by the Maharashtra wing of the Centre’s Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority (CAMPA), ₹200 crore has been allocated for the next four years (Rs.50 crore per year).Shailesh Tembhurnikar, chief executive officer, Maharashtra CAMPA, said part of the 2021 fund had already been disbursed and nurseries for grass seed collection would start from December. The scheme implementation would commence from February 2021. “We will be tackling this in phases. The first phase will be across at Yavatmal, Buldhana, Wardha, and Aurangabad followed by other zones in subsequent phases. With the availability of these grasses, there will be a fillip for dairy development across villages. This pattern will be followed after four years to reach the 2,000 sq km mark,” he said.Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), said “Areas where villages have been rehabilitated from within forest areas and tiger reserves need to be converted into meadows. This will increase herbivore population for prey base and curtail animal movement to farmlands by minimizing forest fragmentation. These grasslands are also important habitats for migratory and resident birds.”Independent experts said grasslands or pastures were important ecosystems of Maharashtra. “They used to be an important source of fodder grasses. Our study has shown that over the years due to constant burning and overgrazing, palatable species are replaced by unpalatable grasses leading to a decline in their fodder potential. Community protections by some groups like Vasudha and Samvedana helped establish good fodder grass in the Khandesh and Vidarbha regions,” said Dr Mandar Datar, scientist, Agharkar Research Institute, Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/meadows-grassland-pastures-the-size-of-pune-city-to-be-developed-across-maharashtra-forests-by-2024-forest-minister/story-fWQZJMeLzqKxk85nI2NEJL.html
03-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s public bike-sharing now popular, 9,772 trips made in November||The newly-introduced electric bike sharing scheme in Bandra Kurla complex (BKC) is gaining popularity, said the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) is gaining momentum. According to data shared by MMRDA, 2,967 new users registered for Yulu Bikes’ service in November. The electric bikes were launched on August 31 to facilitate last-mile connectivity between office complexes and the suburban train stations in Bandra and Kurla. As per data shared on Tuesday, 9,772 trips were registered in November, covering a total distance of more than 66,000 kms. MMRDA said, “We’re delighted to announce that since the @YuluBike services were launched in BKC, we have added 7000+ new users, 27000+ trips, 1.62 lakh+ kms & have saved 16+ tonnes of carbon emissions! (sic).” MMRDA expects numbers to rise steadily as more businesses open in BKC in the coming months. Officials said they predicted a spike in numbers once the suburban railway network resumes services for everyone. At present, the rail network is only partially open and footfall is still low in BKC, compared to pre-lockdown times. On August 31, MMRDA had launched the public electric bike-sharing facility in BKC. Currently, there are around 18 zones of docks in and around BKC from where commuters can access the bikes. While Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had inaugurated the bikes in January, the launch was postponed owing to lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-public-bike-sharing-now-popular-9-772-trips-made-in-november/story-p97yL0g1XUowmx7ysBvtxN.html
03-12-2020||City||Explain power-sharing with NC, PDP in Kargil Hill Council, Cong asks BJP||Calling out the BJP’s double standards for sharing power with the PDP and NC in the Kargil Hill Council, Congress leadership in J&K on Wednesday accused the ruling party of vitiating the political atmosphere with “cheapest political tactics”.JKPCC chief spokesperson Ravinder Sharma said that instead of encouraging and welcoming the participation of all mainstream political forces in the electoral exercise, despite sharp political difference and divergent ideas within our vibrant democracy, the BJP has stooped so low to target its political rivals as anti-national just for electoral gains, which is most unfortunate and against the broader national interests.BJP should explain its position and should have come out of the coalition government before questioning other parties especially Congress, which is only limited to electoral seat sharing at few places in J&K without being part of the alliance, Sharma said.He said that the BJP always befools and exploit people for electoral gains while reminding in 2014 elections the saffron party not only mainly campaigned to stop PDP from coming to power and secured mandate from Jammu at this slogan, but later shared power with the same party for almost over three years, betraying the mandate of the people.Sharma appealed to the people to see through the political opportunism of the BJP and its mastery to hoodwink them during elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/explain-power-sharing-with-nc-pdp-in-kargil-hill-council-cong-asks-bjp/story-QwSl1adrNLpoPMZHj9iuOI.html
03-12-2020||Mumbai||Organisations from Maharashtra to launch state-wide protest in support of farmers on Wednesday||Jan Andolananchi Sangharsha Samiti (JASS) is set to demonstrate and participate in the state-wide farmers’ protests to be held at different timings throughout the state on Thursday. In Mumbai, the protest will be held at Bharat Mata Cinema at 12 noon. However, leaders of the Samiti said this will not affect the functioning of banks, industries, and any services that employ labour class, and no traffic blockades will take place, and no urban routine life will be disrupted for any citizens. The Congress, too, will stage state-wide protest to support farmers’ agitation. The demonstrations organised by JASS, where 48 mass organisations of labourers, social activists, bank employees, trade union organisations, and farmers’ organisations have come together to extend support to farmers, will be held as token protests. All employees, such as bank employees and essential service workers, will report to work wearing badges in support of the farmers’ cause. A day-long fast has also been planned as part of the protest, and any member wishing to participate can fast at their own convenience. Vishwas Utagi, convener of JASS, said, “It is not a bandh or a state-wide strike. We have the support of many intellectuals, journalists, writers, and members of political parties who will participate in the protest. It will be held across all 400 tehsils, and 36 districts of Maharashtra at different timings throughout Thursday.” The group has formed a Trade Unions Joint Action Committee to coordinate the protests. This committee consists of Maharashtra units of INTUC, AITUC, HMS, CITU, AICCTU, AIUTUC and Bharatiya Kamgar Sena MahaSangh, NTUI, TUCI, state government employees’ union, Shramik Ekta Mahasangh (Pune). Meanwhile, state Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat on Wednesday announced that the party will hold a state-wide agitation on Thursday to support to the cause of the farmers protesting in Delhi. In a press statement on Wednesday, the Congress said, “The Congress has opposed the anti-farmer laws of the BJP government from the very beginning. The Maharashtra pradesh Congress has been protesting for the past two months with various agitations demanding repeal of these black laws. A large number of people will also participate in tomorrow’s agitation and express their opposition.” “The demands of the farmers are right and we stand firmly behind them,” Thorat said.Utagi said agriculture is a state subject, and the group is urging the Maharashtra government to introduce a bill to safeguard the interests of farmers in the state in the next Assembly session. “The Centre cannot encroach on state subjects, so we are fighting for preserving the state’s autonomy as well,” Utagi said. He added, “The NCP, Congress, and Sena have supported the cause of farmers earlier as well, and have assured us support this time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/organisations-from-maharashtra-to-launch-state-wide-protest-in-support-of-farmers-on-wednesday/story-AsXrKsdE22s4x86SCtXOCI.html
03-12-2020||City||Displaced by calamity 15 years ago, Kupwara’s fringe villagers face eviction from temporary settlements||After dozens of houses in Rangwar, a fringe hamlet of the district, got razed to the ground in the 2005 earthquake, the villagers were forced to descend nearly three kilometres to the Chowkibal-Tangdhar main road to find shelter.Though a harsh winter was upon them, they could only manage to get settled in tin and wood sheds on a vacant plot near the road.Fifteen years down the line, these displaced villagers have received eviction notices from the J&K forest department and threats of forcible demolition of their temporary settlements set up along the banks of Drangyari stream, which they have also named Rangwar.The original Rangwar village, which is surrounded by snow-capped mountains and dense forests, has remained a frequent witness to natural disasters and the ensuing destruction. Its natives say that the village had been declared dangerous by the geology and mining department after they had conducted a survey there.As per their accounts, floods that had struck the hamlet in August 1992 washed away many houses. This was followed by a landslide in March 1995 which damaged over a dozen houses and another flood that caused similar havoc. However, they say, the 2005 earthquake brought ultimate devastation compelling them to vacate their village entirely.Officials had then directed them to settle on a vacant plot close to the forests, the villagers said. “Rangwar was always at risk due to landslides and floods and when we had to leave it after the earthquake in 2005, the officials asked us to construct temporary sheds till they could rehabilitate us properly,” said Afsar Khan, a member of the Halqa panchayat.“The floods in the Khemil stream washed away almost all the plain land of the village and the land that was meant for us was taken over by the army. The government should either give us substitute land or shift the army camp from the place which was actually meant for us. Till then, we won’t vacate the temporary settlements,” a villager said.After witnessing the eviction of tribal people from forest areas in various parts of J&K as the Roshni Act was scrapped, Rangwar natives are more worried.Holding the eviction notice in his hands, Imran Ahmad, who was six years old when his family settled here, said the officials threatened to bulldoze their temporary houses. “Where will we go in this cold winter? We will die here but won’t allow anybody to touch our shelters. We are poor; our only source of income is working with the army as porters and taking their items to the LoC or in the fields of local villagers. This is great injustice,” he lamented.“Two years ago, my husband died and now I am living alone here. Where will I go if they (officials) will dismantle my shelter,” asked Saleema Begum.Villager Alam Khan said even this place is not safe for them as it becomes a frequent target during India-Pakistan shelling along the LoC. “In August, three persons sustained injuries when shells fired from across the LoC landed close to houses. We will move if alternative land is given to us.”Divisional forest officer (Khemil) Mohammad Ayub confirmed that notices were served to the people who have set up shelters on the forest land. “They (villagers) have occupied two hectares of forest land. Notices have been served to them and the department is waiting for orders from higher authorities. The area is already under snow.”When asked if similar notices were issued to the army for occupying five to six hectares of forest land a few hundred metres away, the officer said the department hadn’t done so.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/displaced-by-calamity-15-years-ago-kupwara-s-fringe-villagers-face-eviction-from-temporary-settlements/story-8Cmq4xbxdIwe3Gte4gFjYN.html
03-12-2020||City||Gangster Shubham orchestrated murder of rival’s brother in Amritsar from Faridkot jail, say police||Notorious gangster Shubham orchestrated the killing of his rival’s brother in Amritsar city from the Faridkot jail to avenge the murder of his father, the police claimed on Wednesday. Shubham, who is facing several criminal cases, including one of killing a Hindu Sangharsh Sena leader in Amritsar, had even got a video of the recce in his mobile phone in the jail through his henchman Rishu, alias Gift, the police said. Rishu was arrested on Wednesday on the instance of Shubham was brought to Amritsar on production warrant a couple of days back. Munish (28), a resident of Gopal Nagar locality in the city, was shot dead by two bike-borne assailants in broad daylight on November 27. They pumped seven bullets in the body of Munish, who worked in a scooter repair shop. He was the brother of Sunny, alias Gorilla, a jailed gangster who is also facing several criminal cases. The police claim to have identified the two assailants as Jaswinder Singh, alias Jassi and Ranjit Singh, alias Prince, who are absconding.Gorilla is a close associate of Shubham’s old rival and notorious gangster Simran Singh. Simran is accused of killing Shubham’s father Baljinder Singh, alias Kalu, a Punjab Police constable, in 2017. Also, Shubam is accused of killing Simran’s father Hardev Singh, who ran a dhabha in Amritsar, in 2016. Addressing a press conference, assistant commissioner of police (ACP-detective) Harminder Singh said, “During his questioning, Shubham told us that Munish’s brother Sunny Gorilla along with some others had killed his father. He used a foreign-based number to call his henchmen from the jail to get the killing done. Shubham asked Rishu to conduct a recce of the spot before committing the crime. Rishu even sent a video of the recce on Shubham’s mobile.” Shubham further sent the clip to his aides Jassi and Prince to commit the crime, the ACP said. “We have also seized Rishu’s mobile which was used for making the video. Shubham also called his other accomplice Gurbhej Singh, alias Bheja of Tarn Taran to provide firearms to Jassi and Prince. We have found that it was Rishu and Bheja who made a Facebook page in the name of Shubham to spread fear,” he added. The police got extended Shubham’s remand from a local court.Raids were being conducted to arrest the three absconders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gangster-shubham-orchestrated-murder-of-rival-s-brother-in-amritsar-from-faridkot-jail-say-police/story-hN5y4lwdmD0jwjYRrnipyN.html
03-12-2020||City||Dalit labour unions joining farmers’ stir on Delhi border||Sangrur Dalits hailing from Balad Kalan, Jhaloor and Dhandiwal villages have joined hands with protesting farmers at New Delhi’s Singhu border over the past three-four days. These and residents of Sherpur, Longowal, Kheri, Namol and other villages are also participating in farmers’ protests under the banners of Zameen Prapti Sangharsh Committee (ZPSC) and Krantikari Pendu Mazdoor Union (KPMU). The leaders and cadre of these left-leaning dalit-labour unions joined the protest with red flags, raising slogans of farmers-labourers’ unity. Around 50 members of ZPSC had started for Delhi on Tuesday night, and over 100 members of KPMU have already joined the protests. Farmers and dalits, however, have been known to clash over the issue of 33% share of dalits in common reserved panchayat land in villages of Sangrur district over the past five years. “The three farm laws will not just ruin the farming community; these will snatch bread from the hands of the labourers as well. The concept of contract farming is anti-farmer and anti-labour class. Agriculture is the base of Punjab’s economy and the black laws will not spare dalits,” Lakhvir Longowal, state general secretary, KPMU, told HT over phone. State chief of ZPSC Mukesh Malaudh said, “The fight is against fascism. It is the need of the hour that farmers, labourers and minorities along with other marginalised sections should join hands to defeat a fascist government that the BJP is leading.” He added, “The new agriculture laws will affect people from all walks of life. We support farmers’ agitation and will oppose these laws.” SANGRUR SAD WORKERS MARCH TO DELHIOver 500 workers of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) started for the Tikri border to extend support to farmers via Khanauri border of Sangrur on Wednesday. “We are going to join the protests as farmers, not as party workers. A batch of around 500 people from Dirba, Sunam, Dhuri, Malerkotla and other parts of the district marched in 100 vehicles,” said Winnerjit Singh Khadial, SAD spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dalit-labour-unions-joining-farmers-stir-on-delhi-border/story-NFOWNFyve87MfLMDp7jg6K.html
03-12-2020||Mumbai||Mini Assembly polls in Maharashtra may see mega drama in MVA parties||As the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government of the Shiv Sena, Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) completed a year in office last week, the focus of all prominent political parties in the state is now on the elections to 15 civic bodies and 27 zilla parishads scheduled in 2022. Touted as mini Assembly elections in political circles as they would be held across the state, the polls will be seen as people’s response to the performance of the MVA government. However, the ruling partners of the MVA don’t seem to be on the same page about these elections. Twenty-seven zilla parishad or district councils (out of 34), which govern the rural parts of any district, are scheduled to face polls in 2022, while 15 of the 27 municipal corporations will have elections in the next two years. Many of these local bodies are currently ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which was in power from 2014 to 2019. When the MVA was formed to claim the power in the state last year, it was unanimously decided to fight all legislative Council and local body elections together. In line with it, Shiv Sena chief and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in his recent interview said all MVA partners will contest all local body elections, including to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), together as an alliance. “Three parties have come together as the MVA to form the government. Let anybody say anything, we will fight all local body elections, including BMC, together,” Thackeray had said. However, recently, leaders from the Mumbai Congress, during their meeting with HK Patil, party in-charge for Maharashtra, said the party should fight the BMC elections separately to keep its voter base strong in the city, where it was born 135 years ago. The leaders said that it will be further decimated if workers do not get sufficient seats to contest. The 2017 BMC elections had witnessed a lot of drama, as the Sena and BJP had contested the polls separately, snapping 25-year-old ties and despite being in power in the state government. The Sena and BJP launched sharp personal attacks on each other and ended up winning 84 and 82 seats, respectively. The Sena currently has 97 seats, BJP 83, Congress 29, NCP 8, Samajwadi Party 6, All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen 2 and MNS 1. The Sena had poached a few corporators from other parties including MNS to widen the gap after the results. Leaders from the ruling parties feel for a few local bodies like Mumbai, sharing the traditional vote banks could be a major hurdle in fighting the polls together. “With 96 corporators in its fold, the Shiv Sena would want to fight at least 130 seats, while the NCP would vie for at least 30 seats, leaving us with hardly 65 seats. It will be too little for us, as our seat tally was 52 in the 2012 elections, although we did poorly in the last election. Secondly, there is always a fear of losing Muslim and north Indian votes if we forge an alliance with the Sena in Mumbai,” said a Congress leader from its Mumbai unit. Eknath Gaikwad, Mumbai Congress chief, said “These are the things to be decided during the elections, but we have been preparing ourselves for both the possibilities. We are ready to fight in all wards, if need be. There would be no issue with an alliance if we get respectful treatment and the seats we want. After all, every party has right to spread its wings, and we are not exception. I feel that the three ruling parties should stand united during the BMC elections.” An NCP leader said, “Seat-sharing would not be a problem for three parties if all of us amicably decide to come together to keep the BJP out of power. The Congress and NCP can fight 75 and 20 seats and go for a better strike rate.” With a population of 13 million, Mumbai accounts for roughly one-third Marathi speaking voters, 30% north Indians and Muslim voters and 15% Gujaratis and Marwaris. The BMC is one of the richest civic bodies, with an annual budget of ₹33,441 crore for the current financial year. Power in BMC is crucial for the Shiv Sena, while the BJP is determined to wrest power from its former ally. North Indian Hindu voters are believed to be inclined towards the BJP, while the Sena banks on Marathi voters. The Congress counts Muslim and Dalit among its traditional voters. Pratap Asbe, political analyst, said a strong fight by the three-party alliance will help polarise anti-BJP voters. “The Congress and NCP will have to compromise on seat-sharing in BMC elections in larger interest of the alliance. Only elections cannot be the platform to widen the party base if the party has not put in any efforts throughout five years. The Congress should understand this, at least from the lesson given by the Bihar polls. It would be wrong to say that Muslim voters will move away from the Congress because of joining hands with communal Sena, it is not true. In fact, Muslims may stand by MVA to keep the BJP out of power,” he said. There is a buzz that the BJP will forge an alliance with Raj Thackeray-led Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) for the civic polls in Mumbai. However, the BJP leaders say their party would benefit more if the MNS fights independently, as it will damage the Shiv Sena. Atul Bhatkhalkar, BJP legislator and party’s poll in-charge for BMC elections, said his party was all set to take on the alliance. “Three parties have come together because they have accepted defeat. The alliance will face anti-incumbency, for the Sena’s corrupt rule of more than two decades and also for the MVA’s failed rule in the state. Against it, Mumbai has witnessed how many of its infrastructure projects, including Metro, MTHL, coastal road, sewerage projects, BDD chawl development, got a push during the Devendra Fadnavis government. We are not allying with the MNS, as we are confident about winning more than 115 seats in the Mumbai civic body. We are not bothered about religious or caste equations in the city, as we firmly believe in development plank,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mini-assembly-polls-in-maharashtra-may-see-mega-drama-in-mva-parties/story-feGKvNUd560Qb2GucFQiLJ.html
03-12-2020||City||BSF pays tributes to deceased officer||The BSF, on Wednesday, paid respects to officer Paotinsat Guite from Manipur, who died in Pak firing in Rajouri sector on Tuesday.“A wreath-laying ceremony was organised at the BSF headquarters in Paloura to pay their respects to deceased BSF sub-inspector Paotinsat Guite,” said a BSF spokesperson.Tributes were paid by BSF Jammu IG NS Jamwal at the war memorial at the frontier headquarters. Jamwal assured that all service benefits applicable to deceased officers will be given to the next of kin of the deceased soldier in a fast-track manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bsf-pays-tributes-to-deceased-officer/story-655gYlpCvSV80fGF4mtnWK.html
03-12-2020||City||HP urban development minister to review progress of various schemes||A meeting of the urban development and town and country planning departments will be held on Thursday in which all the major schemes being run by the former will be reviewed, urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj said here on Wednesday.Officials of both the departments will attend the meeting and submit status reports besides discussing the roadmap for the next six months, Bhardwaj said.The minister revealed that a different approach has been adopted for each scheme.“Every scheme will be monitored and status will be reviewed fortnightly,” he said. The department is looking for ways to provide relief to the people affected by the National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) rulings regarding the number of floors in the planning areas.He said that the government has decided to approach the high court seeking relief. “I will review the progress and the matter will be expedited,” he added.The minister added that during the meeting, Shimla Smart City Limited will give a presentation on the ongoing projects and the targets set for the next six months.Bhardwaj said Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation, Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana National Urban Livelihood Mission, Rajiv Awas Yojna, Pradhan Mantri Street Vendors Aatma Nirbhar Nidhi, Swachh Bharat Mission are the ambitious schemes launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“The state government is determined to successfully implement these schemes,” the minister said adding that it has rolled out Mukhya Mantri Shahari Ajeevika Guarantee Yojana along the lines of Urban MNREGA.“This could be an urban form of job guarantee scheme. So far, more than 2,500 people have been given jobs in 54 urban local bodies under the scheme,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-urban-development-minister-to-review-progress-of-various-schemes/story-m3KMOCHmGcKGcB2cmx9IMP.html
03-12-2020||Mumbai||Ripping off minor’s clothes in rage without sexual intent does not fall under Pocso Act: Bombay HC||The Bombay high court (HC) last week observed that the charge of sexual assault under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012 is not attracted unless it is shown that the act was committed with sexual intent and granted anticipatory bail to a Pune resident, accused of tearing off clothes of a minor and touching her inappropriately while physically assaulting her.Justice Bharati Dangre granted pre-arrest bail to Omkar Gaikwad primarily on the grounds that nothing in the first information report (FIR), registered with Chaturshringi police station at Pune on October 20, indicated that the accused had committed the acts with sexual intent.The complainant, a 20-year-old woman, alleged that her family had a dispute with Gaikwad over leave and license agreement with respect to a shop and had exchanged legal notices over the same. In this backdrop, the complainant alleged that Gaikwad barged in their house along with his wife and two others on October 19, and started assaulting her parents. Later, she alleged, Gaikwad also assaulted her and her younger sister, a 17-year-old. She further alleged that during the assault, the accused ripped off her and her minor sister’s clothes and touched them inappropriately.In view of these allegations, police had applied section 7 of Pocso Act under which a person is booked for committing sexual assault with sexual intent and touching private parts of a child or making the child touch the private part of such person.With regards to the charge under the section, justice Dangre said so far as the complainant’s younger sister was concerned, Gaikwad was accused of assaulting her during which he touched her chest and private part and made her fell on the ground.“Prima facie, the offence under section 7 and the punishment under Section 8 of the Pocso Act would not be attracted unless and until sexual intent is specifically proven,” said the judge. “This is a matter of trial, since FIR does not make out any sexual intent,” she added. The court granted anticipatory bail to the Pune resident, observing that “prima facie, in absence of the sexual intent being exhibited by the applicant and in the backdrop of the agreement, which possibly is a point of discord between the parties, the applicant is entitled for protection in anticipation of his arrest.”In case of arrest, he has been ordered to be released on furnishing personal bond in the sum of ₹25,000 and one or two sureties in the same amount.Noted lawyer Abha Singh said the HC rightly granted pre-arrest bail to accused. She asserted that there was a dispute with regards the shop which was the bone of contention and the assault was a result of the dispute. In a fit of rage the accused might have pushed, pulled or assaulted the minor. This does not appear to be sexual assault as the acts are not committed with sexual intent. This can at the most be “affray” as contemplated under the Indian Penal Code, but certainly not a sexual assault, she said adding that “sexual intent” is a specific requirement of section 7 of Pocso Act, and in such cases, police have to be extra cautious.Agreeing with the view, advocate Wahab Khan said that in cases like this, intention plays a crucial part. “There have been cases where Pocso Act is misused whereby false cases are registered to settle in other disputes. Pocso Act is majorly misused in matrimonial disputes. In such circumstances, the court is required to see if there was an intention to sexually abuse the girl or an incident happened because of an accident,” he added.Intention to sexually abuse minor is an important ingredient of the offence in question, said advocate Prakash Salsingekar who has handled several cases under Pocso Act.“For instance, if a man and a minor are walking along and he touches the minor, every such touch will not be punishable under section 7. It will be a punishable offence only when the touch or the act is done with sexual intent,” said Salsingekar. “If the man accidentally touches the minor because of rush or inadequate space etc., it would not be considered as an offense,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ripping-off-minor-s-clothes-in-rage-without-sexual-intent-does-not-fall-under-pocso-act-bombay-hc/story-oyoP2EFvwwONQWaeb62JjJ.html
03-12-2020||Mumbai||LLM entrance test: Postgraduate law aspirants for courses under Mumbai university complain of technical glitch||Postgraduate law aspirants for courses under the University of Mumbai (MU) on Wednesday faced trouble as they appeared for their entrance exam. Several students complained about not being able to access the exam site for anywhere between 20 to 40 minutes. “At my centre, the exam started 20 minutes late. Instead of 1pm, we managed to log only at 1:20pm. What’s worse is that no technical support was provided as well,” said a student. Some students ended up calling the university helpline number when the exam didn’t begin on time but failed to get any response or clarity. Everyone, however, was awarded extra time to finish the paper.An official from the varsity’s LLM department told HT that all applicants were informed about the glitches on time. “Intimation was given to students that in case if students logging in late due to technical error or electricity problem then they will be awarded extra time. Accordingly, one hour time was granted to candidates,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/llm-entrance-test-postgraduate-law-aspirants-for-courses-under-mumbai-university-complain-of-technical-glitch/story-FpOQHjvL85fGByw59yPxDM.html
03-12-2020||City||Honey trap racket busted in Kullu||Kullu police have busted a honey trap racket with the arrest of two women and five men who were active in Kullu district for the last few years.The accused used to lure people by calling them home on pretext of sale or purchase of land, befriending the victims by using social media platforms and other ways.The accused would seduce the victims and then threaten them. Wife of one of the victims had recently filed an FIR against the accused after which police took action and immediately arrested the accused.Kullu superintendent of police (SP) Gaurav Singh said police are conducting investigation and a cases has been registered under Sections 364A, 388, 342, 506, and 120B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/honey-trap-racket-busted-in-kullu/story-8MasMdPIFoDyX6gyvF8b9O.html
03-12-2020||City||Himachal: Dissension in BJP’s Bhoranj unit irks party leadership||Dissensions have surfaced in the Bhoranj unit of BJP and the party leadership, which is aimed at forming the government again in 2022, is rather displeased about it.During the fourth death anniversary of former BJP minister ID Dhiman at his Diyalri residence in Bhoranj two days ago, his son Anil Dhiman signalled to his father’s friends and followers that he was intending to contest the next elections from Bhoranj. While hundreds of party members and even Congress leaders were present on the occasion, BJP’s Bhoranj MLA Kamlesh Kumari was not invited.This has irked the party’s top leaders who have decided to hold meetings with the party cadre of the constituency seeking reconciliation among them.The BJP has been winning the Bhoranj seat, earlier known as Mewa (reserve) seat, outclassing the Congress every time.However, the signal of revolt by former MLA Anil Dhiman has revealed that all is not well in BJP’s Bhoranj unit.Anil Dhiman had won the by-election after the death of his father by a margin of 8,290 votes. He had defeated Promila Devi of Congress. However, he was denied the party ticket in the general elections and Kamlesh Kumari was elected. She had won the election defeating Suresh Kumar of Congress by more than 6,900 votes.Sources in the BJP say that the confidants of Dhiman family and senior BJP workers are unhappy with the party leadership for ignoring their leader, Anil Dhiman. There are also indications that a powerful Congress lobby is trying to bring Dhiman into its fold and field him from the Bhoranj seat in the 2022 elections.Infighting flares up in Cong over PRI polls Supporters of senior Congress leaders Suresh Kumar and Prem Kaushal of Bhoranj assembly segment virtually came to blows when Kaushal was delivering a speech during the party meeting in Hamirpur on Wednesday. Kaushal said that wrong allotment of tickets was the main reason for the party’s defeat in all elections including the last Panchayati Raj Institution (PRI) elections. This infuriated his old rival Suresh Kumar and both exchanged words while their supporters too entered the arena. However, Inder Dutt Lakhanpal, MLA from Badsar assembly constituency, intervened and prevented the groups from fighting. He told them to behave in a decent manner and not make a mockery of the party discipline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dissension-in-bjp-s-bhoranj-unit-irks-party-leadership/story-2lV0ShPcDUleCYrogpr5OP.html
03-12-2020||Mumbai||Firm moves Bombay HC seeking ₹10,000-crore in damages from Maharashtra govt for cancelling Dharavi revamp project tender||Seclink Technology Corporation (STC), a United Arab Emirated-based firm and the highest bidder for the ₹28,500-crore Dharavi redevelopment project whose tender was scrapped recently, has filed a suit in the Bombay high court (HC) seeking damages of ₹10,000 crore from the Maharashtra government for its decision to cancel the tender. STC has also moved the International Court of Arbitration at Geneva on the same grounds. STC contended that it was forced to approach the HC and the Arbitration Court due to the injustice meted on it. “We were the highest bidders when the tender was opened in 2019 and should have been rightfully awarded the contract. We had kept aside ₹28,572 crore in our escrow account which has been lying in there from the two years. We could have deployed this fund elsewhere,” said a spokesperson of the STC who did not want to be named. “We were denied the opportunity on flimsy grounds for which we have sought the compensation,” he added. Another reason for this move was the new tender which tailor-made to deprive them of the project, he alleged. “The upcoming tender is being manipulated to ensure that the favoured company gets the project,” he said.In February 2019, STC emerged as the highest bidder to transform India’s largest slum pocket outbidding Adani Infrastructure and Developers Private Limited. STC had quoted ₹7,200 crore while its competitor Adani Infrastructure and Developers Pvt Ltd had bid at ₹4,539 crore. STC’s problem began when the then Devendra Fadnavis-led BJP government decided to use railway land near Dharavi for rehabilitation of slum-dwellers and to acquire it by paying ₹800 crore to the railways. The State government sought the AG’s views as the railway land was an added component to the project and as such it changed the project specifications. AG Ashutosh Kumbhakoni advised that fresh tenders needed to be called for, as the costs of the railway land and rehabilitation was added later and not incorporated in the original tender document. However, the government changed by then. The AG’s opinion was accepted by the Uddhav Thackeray-led government which cancelled the tender and is in the process of issuing fresh one.STC has assailed the state for cancelling the project on the railway land issue. “We had agreed to pay the state three times the amount — ₹2,400 crore — for this railway land, but our pleas fell on deaf ears as they wanted to snatch the project from us,” said the spokesperson. State housing minister Jitendra Awhad said he was unaware of any case being filed in the Dharavi issue. “I am unaware of any such suit being filed by Seclink. I will get the details from our officials,” said Awhad.The development has added another chapter to Dharavi makeover project which is stuck for almost two decades now. Pankaj Kapoor, managing director of Liases Foras, a real estate research firm, said the whole project is flawed and unlikely to succeed. “Dharavi is a mini-township with a bustling cottage industry. Majority of the Dharavi residents work in this place itself and this aspect is being ignored. The whole focus is on constructing a concrete township instead of ensuring their livelihood,” said Kapoor. The Dharavi revamp project commenced on February 4, 2004, but has been marred with controversies with one of the key issues being the eligibility for the redeveloped flats, as it was found that majority of the present residents did not qualify for new houses. The constant flip-flops by the successive governments have only caused large scale hardships to the local population. The state intends to revamp 601 acres of Dharavi and plans to rehouse 59,165 residents in plush new houses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/firm-moves-bombay-hc-seeking-10-000-crore-in-damages-from-maharashtra-govt-for-cancelling-dharavi-revamp-project-tender/story-Of3m7ZFIYnyy0Fs1aSQvIO.html
03-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Need clarity on SSC, HSC exam dates, test pattern, says parents||A few days after state education minister Varsha Gaikwad announced that state secondary certificate (SSC) and higher secondary certificate (HSC) exams are likely to be pushed to May, schools and parents have written to the department, seeking clarity on tentative dates and exam paper pattern. With a 25% reduction in syllabus across classes, schools said they are unsure about the paper pattern. “This year, learning is online and children are under tremendous pressure due to Covid-19 and the resultant lockdown. Class 10 and 12 board exams are really important as marks determine the future of these children. We are hoping the board simplifies the paper pattern this time,” said a principal of a suburban school. A senior official from the state board said the paper pattern is unlikely to be changed. “The syllabus and paper pattern for Class 10 and 12 have undergone changes in the recent years, and it is not expected to change this year,” said the official. Parents said they want the department to, at the very minimum, release a tentative exam schedule and a blueprint of the question papers to help students. “We understand that planning anything in the current situation is tricky, but students are really worried because there is a lot of uncertainty. We just hope that whatever the department plans is announced well in advance,” said Sandhya Ranade, a city-based parent. In early November, Gaikwad had said that exams for SSC and HSC are unlikely before May due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation conditions in Maharashtra. However, the department and the state board are yet make the announcement official..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-need-clarity-on-ssc-hsc-exam-dates-test-pattern-says-parents/story-e3JlURo3WwF2xsCifh9orO.html
03-12-2020||City||Hamirpur DC asks farmers to get crops insured by December 15||Deputy commissioner Debasweta Banik has urged the district’s farmers to get their crops insured under the Prime Minister Fasal Bima Yojana so that they may get its benefits in case of damage to their crops due to calamities.She said on Wednesday that the insurance scheme has been launched to compensate for crop loss due to floods, droughts, hailstorms, waterlogging and other natural calamities. Under this scheme, this season, farmers of all the areas of the district will be insured for the wheat crop. Farmers of the district can insure their wheat crops by December 15.She said that the Agriculture Insurance Company of India Limited has been notified for the Rabi season 2020-21 in Hamirpur district. Farmers can get insurance for their wheat crop by paying a premium of Rs 450 per hectare i.e. Rs 18 per canal. They will get an insured amount of Rs 30,000 per hectare in case of crop loss due to natural calamities.The DC added that the indebted farmers will be automatically insured by the respective financial institutions. If a debtor farmer does not want to avail this scheme, he can submit his declaration in this regard to the concerned bank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hamirpur-dc-asks-farmers-to-get-crops-insured-by-december-15/story-MqaUILg1qfhyYSFQuu3wIM.html
03-12-2020||City||Higher reaches of HP to receive snowfall in coming days||Higher reaches of Himachal Pradesh are likely to receive another spell of snow on December 4, 7 and 8. However, weather will remain dry on middle and lower hills, and plains in state.State’s meteorological department director Manmohan Singh said the weather is likely to remain dry throughout the state for the next few days with only isolated places in Kinnaur, Chamba, Kullu and Lahaul-Spiti districts witnessing snowfall and rain on December 4, 7 and 8.The weather was mostly dry throughout Himachal in the last 24 hours, the minimum and maximum temperatures were one to two degrees above normal.Minimum temperature in Shimla was 11.4°C while Kufri recorded 9.4°C minimum temperature. Tourist destinations Manali, Dharamshala and Dalhousie recorded 3°C, 9.2°C and 9.9°C minimum temperature, respectively.Minimum temperature in Una was 6.6°C, Solan 5°C, Bilaspur 7°C, Hamirpur 6.9°C, Nahan 12.4°C, Mandi 5.1°C and 1.4°C in Kalpa, while Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district is the coldest place in state as it recorded -4°C minimum temperature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/higher-reaches-of-hp-to-receive-snowfall-in-coming-days/story-SdRySdrAZB4Mm0VgsgFmgK.html
03-12-2020||Mumbai||MSC Bank fraud: ED neither complainant nor a victim, can’t be heard on closure report, says court||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) is neither the complainant nor a victim, the special anti-corruption bureau (ACB) court has said, while rejecting a plea of the agency seeking permission to intervene and oppose the Mumbai Police’s report seeking to close the Maharashtra State Cooperative (MSC) Bank fraud case.“One investigation agency being not happy with the work of other investigation agency and therefore wants to intervene, this itself is foreign to criminal law,” observed the special court.The economic offences wing (EOW) of the Mumbai Police has, in September, filed a closure report in the alleged ₹25,000-crore fraud at MSC Bank. EOW filed a C-summary report before the special anti-corruption bureau (ACB) court after its special investigation team (SIT) found no criminal aspects to be investigated in the case.ED, which started investigation into money laundering aspects of the purported fraud, had approached the special court seeking permission to intervene and oppose the closure report. The agency claimed that as the high court (HC) has directed to register an FIR, no contrary report can be filed by the agency.The plea was rejected by the special court on November 26. However, the detailed order was released on Tuesday.The special court held, “It was not expected that the investigation to get influenced by the findings given by the Hon’ble High Court and [Mumbai Police] was expected to carry out investigation in fair manner in accordance with the law. Accordingly, it was open for the investigation officer to submit report under section 173 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC); same can be a charge sheet or can be closure report in the form of summaries (sic).”“It is only the person lodging the complaint, or injured or aggrieved person who is entitled for hearing in the proceeding for dropping of a case. The intervener (ED) does not fall in any of the above categories,” said the court.The complaint pertained to thousands of crores obtained in loans by sugar cooperatives, spinning mills and other processing units from district and cooperative banks.MSC Bank, the apex bank that controlled credit to the co-operative sector in the state, was handled by then ruling politicians. It landed in trouble in 2011 after an inquiry report by National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) found the bank was in red with a negative of ₹144 crore. The report indicted the board of directors of the bank for financial mismanagement that led to ballooning of non-performing assets. This was largely due to handing out of loans to sugar co-operatives and spinning mills in violation of all norms.The Mumbai Police in its closure report, however, justified the actions and claimed no case was made out. ED, then, questioned the probe.In its plea, ED had claimed that during their investigation they referred to reports of NABARD available since 2000-01. “On perusal of the said reports, it is found that NABARD has pointed out various irregularities in its every inspection report from the period 2000-01 onwards. The said irregularities pertain to working of the Board of Directors (BoD) of the bank, size of the various committees of the bank, documentation and proposing of loan proposal, sanctioning of the loan proposals, non-compliance of various RBI circulars and directions from NABARD, etc,” ED claimed.The central agency has further claimed, “During the course of investigation, it was found that loans were given to the sugar mills/companies controlled by relatives of the directors of the bank without assessing loan repayment capacity of the sugar mills/companies.”The agency also alleged that the bank did not follow the process stated under the SARFAESI Act, 2002 while auctioning defaulting Sugar Sahkari Kharkhana (SSK).“It is also found that though the reserve price was decided based on the valuation of the valuers, the same was not disclosed in the advertisement as well as in the tender form of the above said 5 SSKs. Therefore, the offer amounts were received well below the reserve price and the SSKs were sold below the reserve price,” the agency claimed.ED further alleged that, “Some SSKs were indirectly sold to the then director/office-bearers of the bank and the financial investigation in this regard raises suspicion about transparency in the auction proceedings conducted for sale of the said SSKs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/msc-bank-fraud-ed-neither-complainant-nor-a-victim-can-t-be-heard-on-closure-report-says-court/story-eP9pyEahunRyf09JBtTbfP.html
03-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Stir on Western Railway to get pre-Covid timetable on track||After passengers’ agitation on the tracks on Wednesday morning, the Western Railway (WR) has decided to revoke the plan to go back to the pre-Covid timetable from December 3 and will continue with the schedule for Dahanu-Churchgate services which was introduced after the curbs were lifted. In the pre-Covid schedule, the first train from Dahanu starts at 5.40am and reaches Churchgate at 7.34am. The schedule introduced as part of the unlocking slotted the first train at 4.40am from Dahanu, which would reach Churchgate at 7.04am. Miffed with the change as it would lead to crowding on platform, passengers, mainly essential services workers, staged a rail roko at Palghar, Kelwe Road and Saphale railway stations at 5.30am, disrupting local as well as outstation train services. The services were resumed only at 6.58am, after the Railway Protection Force (RPF) and WR staff convinced the protesters that their demand would be looked into. “The notification of restoration of Dahanu Road suburban services as per suburban working timetable has been cancelled. Therefore, the local train services scheduled to depart from Dahanu Road at 4.40am to Churchgate for essential staff and permitted categories will continue to run,” said Sumit Thankur, chief public relation officer, Western Railway. Currently, the trains carry only essential service employees such as civic nurses, technicians, ward boys, medicos, pharmacists, besides employees of Mazgaon Dock, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), Mantralaya, police and other services. Sarita Sankhe, a resident of Boisar and a staff nurse at Shatabdi Hospital, Kandivli, said, “Earlier I used to reach my workplace around 6.30am and relieve the night duty staff. If the timing changes, the night duty staff will have to stay put for at least 30 more minutes. Also, earlier, there was no bio-metric attendance system at my workplace, but from mid-December, it will resume and I will be marked as latecomer.” “We have registered a first information report (FIR) against unidentified protesters under sections 142, 143, 149 (unlawful assembly) of the Indian Penal Code, Disaster Management Act, 2005 and State Covid-19 Regulation Act, 2020 and also section 174 (obstructing running of train) of the Railways Act, 1989. We are going through the video clips of the accused who were protesting at the railway station and we will arrest them,” said sub-inspector Vishwasrao Mudavatkar of Palghar government railway police (GRP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-stir-on-western-railway-to-get-pre-covid-timetable-on-track/story-keL98ldi78gyWmBuzovkJL.html
03-12-2020||City||1,027 more people recover from Covid in Himachal||Himachal Pradesh recorded 633 fresh Covid-19 infections on Wednesday taking the state’s tally to 41,860; the death toll mounted to 667 as eleven more patients succumbed to the contagion; and the recoveries have reached 33,336 as a record 1,027 people were cured on Thursday. Of the new cases, 175 were reported in Shimla, 80 in Mandi, 78 in Kangra, 59 in Solan, 47 in Kullu, 43 in Bilaspur, 41 in Kinnaur, 38 in Chamba, 34 in Hamirpur, 19 in Sirmaur, 13 in Una and six in Lahaul-Spiti. Shimla remains the worst-hit district with 7,631 cases and is followed by Mandi where 6,777 people have tested positive till date. Kangra has 5,470 cases, Solan 5,119, Kullu 3,725, Sirmaur 2,660, Una 2,169, Bilaspur 2,151, Hamirpur 2,137, Chamba 2,038, Lahaul-Spiti 1,093, and Kinnaur 890. A total of 5.43 lakh tests have been conducted in the state.BJP legislator, family test positiveBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator from Bhattiyat assembly segment Bikram Singh Jaryal, his wife, son and nephew have been tested positive for the virus.The MLA has urged people who came in their contact in the past few days to get tested for Covid-19. The legislator and his family are in home isolated as per protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-027-more-people-recover-from-covid-in-himachal/story-8m7WWce8QfJsYrSI8VkpOM.html
03-12-2020||Mumbai||Sanjay Raut admitted to Lilavati Hospital in Mumbai; will undergo angioplasty||Senior Shiv Sena leader and its chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut was admitted to Lilavati Hospital in Bandra on Wednesday evening and is scheduled to undergo angioplasty, his brother and legislator Sunil Raut said. The Sena leader first underwent angioplasty in November 2019, when the state was witnessing the height of the political drama following the Assembly elections. According to people close to the Rajya Sabha MP, he was supposed to undergo another angiography in April-May but decided against it due to the pandemic situation. Raut had visited Lilavati Hospital on Saturday and Tuesday for a check-up, fuelling speculation about his health. However, his health is stable, Sunil Raut confirmed. “He has been admitted to Lilavati Hospital and will undergo angioplasty after angiography on Thursday afternoon,” Sunil Raut said. In his previous angioplasty, two stents were placed to remove an arterial blockage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sanjay-raut-admitted-to-lilavati-hospital-in-mumbai-will-undergo-angioplasty/story-sS3RVBIG1cBC30uia36mWO.html
03-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s only medical college put on notice for not granting OBC reservation in professional courses||The National Commission For Backward Classes (NCBC) has put the authorities at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Sector 32 on notice for not granting reservation in admissions to professional courses offered by the UT’s only medical college.NCBC was acting in response to a complaint filed by a city-based organisation.The notice addressed to the director-principal of the college has directed an in-person appearance before the Commission on December 8, failing which the Commission will be at liberty to exercise the powers of a civil court under Clause (8) of Article 33B of the Constitution for enforcing the attendance.The letter dated November 27 stated that NCBC chairman Dr Bhagwan Lal Saini and member Kaushalendra Singh Patel had fixed the hearing for investigation, inquiry, action to be taken in a matter regarding the non-allotment of seats in GMCH-32 to OBC students.“In the prospectus published by the college for various courses, no seat has been reserved for the students belonging to other backward classes, therefore in October the Commission had sought a reply from them. However, the authorities did not pay heed and no response was provided, due to which the NCBC is taking a strict action,” said complainant Ajay Prajapati, coordinator of Bhartiya Prajapati Heroes Organisation, Chandigarh.In response to a letter by this organisation, requesting GMCH-32 authorities to include reservation for OBC candidates on the pattern for SC/ST candidates, a response was received from the registrar stating that the request had been looked into, but not acceded to without specifying any reasons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-only-medical-college-put-on-notice-for-not-granting-obc-reservation-in-professional-courses/story-bMsTw1uqH9ndL4gNcwHQfJ.html
03-12-2020||City||BJP, Cong spar over no winter assembly session||A war of words has erupted between the opposition Congress and ruling BJP over the Himachal cabinet’s decision to cancel the winter session of the state assembly.The cabinet in its meeting held on Tuesday had recommended against convening the winter session in the wake of recent spurt in Covid-19 cases in the state.While Congress accused the government of running away from discussions on important issues, the BJP defended the move.Hitting out at the Jai Ram Thakur-led administration, Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore said the state government takes a decision in the morning and changes it by the evening amid the Covid-19 pandemic.“It reflects the state government’s incompetence. It has completely failed to deal with the crisis,” he said.He said Covid-related deaths were on a constant rise in the state while health services were in bad shape. There is complete chaos at the hospitals and people are scared of visiting the health institutions, said Rathore.“The government has run away from facing the opposition’s questions by cancelling the winter session of the assembly as we were seeking answers for the mismanagement in dealing with the Covid situation,” he added.Meanwhile, BJP chief spokesperson Randhi Sharma hit back accusing the opposition party of playing politics during the pandemic. Sharma said that due to the rising virus cases, the government has imposed many restrictions in the state. Night curfew has been implemented in four districts and only 50 people are allowed in social gatherings.“All these steps were taken to curb the virus spread. In such a situation it was not appropriate to hold the winter session of the assembly and so it was deferred. BJP supports this decision,” he said.Former chief minister and senior BJP leader PK Dhumal also hailed the government’s call terming it timely and in the larger interest of the people. He argued that saving the lives of citizens was more important than holding the session and all the parties should show cooperation. Dhumal also appealed to the people to abide by the government’s instructions on Covid safety.Cancelling session to do no good: CPI (M)Meanwhile, lone CPI (M) legislator Rakesh Singha has shot off a letter to the chief minister expressing displeasure over the government’s decision to cancel the session and asked to reconsider the move.Singha said he was surprised that the government suddenly called a cabinet meeting and decided to cancel the session. “However, the government seems to be losing the battle against Covid-19 and has left the people to their fate,” he alleged.The Theog legislator said the decision to cancel the session was beyond comprehension and would to do no good as virus cases were likely to surge in the coming months.‘Conduct assembly meets online’Social media chairman of Himachal Congress, Abhishek Rana, on Wednesday suggested holding of the winter session online rather than in the Vidhan Sabha complex to avoid the risk of virus spread among the legislators and other attendees. Rana clarified that in the era of technology when educational institutions and even the Supreme Court were conducting their work online through video conferencing, there should be no hitch in holding the state assembly session in a similar manner.Forest minister flays CLP leader’s ‘political rant’As the exchange of words continued over the winter session issue, forest minister Rakesh Pathania flayed Congress Legislative Party (CLP) leader Mukesh Agnihotri stating that though the government recognized him as the leader of opposition, it seemed that his own party MLAs didn’t consider him their leader. “If the government takes a decision and later changes it keeping in mind the public interest, no one should play cheap politics over it,” said Pathania.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-cong-spar-over-no-winter-assembly-session/story-8u44AxvFFR8kwwmJQapAcK.html
03-12-2020||Chandigarh||10 SHOs reshuffled in Ludhiana||In a major reshuffle, Ludhiana commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal transferred 10 station house officers (SHO) here on Wednesday. Basti Jodhewal station house officer sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur Grewal has been replaced by inspector Goldy Virdi, Focal Point SHO inspector Mohammad Jameel has been transferred to the Tibba Police station. Jameel has been replaced by Koom Kalan SHO inspector Davinder Sharma. Meanwhile, Security Branch in-charge inspector Pawan Kumar has become Koomkalan SHO. Inspector Parmod Kumar, who was posted at police lines is the new Moti Nagar SHO, while sub-inspector Simarjit Kaur has been transferred from Moti Nagar to Meharban. Similarly, Meharban SHO inspector Kulwant Singh has been transferred to the Jamalpur police station. Sahnewal SHO inspector Inderjit Singh has been transferred to the Shimlapuri police station while Shimlapuri SHO sub-Inspector Balwinder Singh has become the Sahnewal SHO. Sub-inspector Jagpal Singh, who was posted at Police Lines has been transferred to police station Haibowal as additional SHO.The police chief said the transfers had been on administrative grounds and the officers had been asked to join their new postings with immediate effect.Around 30 sub-inspectors from Ludhiana, Ludhiana rural, Khanna and Shaheed Bhagat Singh (SBS) Nagar (Nawanshahr) have been transferred to other districts. The officers had been posted in their home districts for a long time. Fourteen sub-inspectors were transferred from Ludhiana to other districts on November 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/10-shos-reshuffled-in-ludhiana/story-eznXPiqh90OwsAiJeBRlAP.html
03-12-2020||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay placements Day 2: 16 firms offer 64 jobs in first half of session||Placements at Indian Institutes of Technology (IIT) continued the trend of higher domestic packages compared to 2019. On the first day at IIT-Bombay (IIT-B), international job offers had come in from Sony Japan, Honda Japan and NEC Japan while the most domestic offers were made by Texas Instruments, Google, Microsoft, Qualcomm, MasterCard and Boston Consulting Group. A statement issued by IIT-B’s placement cell on day two said, “Sixteen companies have made over 64 job offers in the first half of day two of placements, in various sectors. Prominent international offers were made by Sysmex Corporation (Japan). For domestic jobs, the highest number of offers were offered by Oracle, American Express and Bajaj Auto.” According to the placement report for the first half of the day, shared by IIT-B, 18 companies offered jobs across sectors and the highest annual package of ₹46.41 lakh was offered by Qualcomm. Last year the highest domestic package for an IIT-B student ₹32.59 lakhs, by the same company. At IIT-Roorkee, the annual package for a domestic role saw a rise with a student of the institute being offered ₹80 lakh per annum, compared to last year’s highest annual package offer of ₹62.2 lakh. So far, students of IIT-Roorkee have received over 395 job offers, including pre-placement offers (PPOs), over two days of placements. “Thirty-five companies participated in the first two slots and the job offers keep getting better,” said an IIT-Roorkee spokesperson.IIT-Delhi issued a statement saying its students had seen over 300 job offers and more than 150 PPOs this year. “Top recruiters in terms of students recruited included Microsoft, Intel and Goodman Sachs,” IIT-Delhi said in its statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/iit-bombay-placements-day-2-16-firms-offer-64-jobs-in-first-half-of-session/story-TCN7HbqNoEKT2vqTNaURnI.html
03-12-2020||Chandigarh||2-year-old kidnapped for ₹4 crore ransom rescued from Moga, 1 held||The two-year-old son of the owner of Keys Hotels who was kidnapped from his house in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar Colony was rescued from Moga on Wednesday, a day after the family’s driver abducted him and demanded ₹4 crore as ransom. The police have arrested former Malluwal Baniya village (Zira, Ferozepur) sarpanch Rachpal Singh, while three other co-conspirators — Harjinderpal Kumar of Manakwal village, Ludhiana; Lal Singh of Amargarh Badiyan village, Zira and Sukhdev Singh alias Sukha of Jhotian Wali village, Fazikla, are on the run. All the accused are already facing trial in several criminal cases, including murder and kidnapping.On Tuesday, the toddler’s father, Pankaj Gupta, a hotelier and realtor, informed the police that their driver, Harjinderpal, had taken his son for a spin in their Maruti Suzuki Swift car but had not returned. Later, the kidnappers demanded ₹4 crore for their son’s release, said commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal. Punjab director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta sounded an alert in all districts of the state and pressed around 2,000 police personnel to trace the child. “We were keeping tabs on the location of the driver Harjinderpal who had switched off his phone in Moga. We dispatched several police teams to Moga and conducted multiple raids with help of the local police. Meanwhile, Gupta’s Maruti Swift car was found abandoned in Ludhiana,” Agrawal said. After the police launched an intensive search, the kidnappers abandoned the boy in a Volkswagen Polo near Dagru Railway crossing. “Around 8am, the kidnappers called Mukta Gupta, the boy’s mother, and informed her of the child’s whereabouts. We recovered the child safely with the help of the Moga police,”said Agrawal.A case was registered under Sections 364A (kidnapping for ransom), 369 (abducting a child under ten years), 342 (wrongful confinement), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 381 (theft from employer) of the Indian Penal Code at the Dugri Police station.“We arrested one Rachhpal Singh and seized a .32 bore pistol, 35 bullets, .12 bore double-barrel gun, a single-barrel gun, 62 live cartridges and two shells from his possession. A hunt is on for the remaining accused,” the police commissioner said. A fake police uniform and a fake identification were also recovered from him. Conspiracy hatched over two years Agrawal said the accused had been hatching the conspiracy for two years. “Harjinderpal had joined as driver two years ago with the intention of kidnapping any family member for ransom. On Tuesday, he kidnapped the child,” he said.The boy’s father Pankaj said his father Prem Gupta had hired the accused two years ago. However, as his father passed away a year ago, he was not sure whether his father had police verification done but says he has a photocopy of the accused’s Aadhar Card.The police chief said Harjinder was a habitual offender and had been facing trial in five criminal cases — including kidnapping, robberies and forgery in Fazilka, Sirhind, Haryana and Rajasthan. Lal has two cases, including murder and kidnapping, registered against him and Sukha has six cases, including drug peddling and robbery, lodged against him. Interdepartmental credit war The Ludhiana and Moga police have indulged in a credit war after the safe recovery of the child. Moga superintendent of police Jagatpreet Singh held a press conference and claimed they had rescued the child with help of Ludhiana police after a long operation. The SP handed over the child to his parents in front of the media.Hours later, the Ludhiana police held a press conference in Ludhiana and handed over the child to his parents again||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-year-old-kidnapped-for-4-crore-ransom-rescued-from-moga-1-held/story-urhiWza9OrsxgKeoZ8NzTM.html
03-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh urban planning department okays drawings of underpass connecting PGIMER, PU||The UT urban planning department has given the go-ahead to the construction of a pedestrian underpass between the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) and Panjab University (PU).The department has approved the drawings of the project, which will connect PGIMER and PU through an underground pathway for pedestrians. The project was given in-principle approval by UT administrator VP Singh Badnore in November last year.After putting it on the backburner in the wake of the pandemic and budget cuts imposed by the Centre, the UT administration has now speed-tracked the project. With drawings and designs in place, the UT engineering department will now initiate the tendering process by first preparing the cost estimates.The administration had come under severe criticism for first constructing the pedestrian underpass between the Rose Garden and Sector 17, which has a very low footfall, rather than adhering to the long-standing demand for an underpass between PU and PGIMER.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-urban-planning-department-okays-drawings-of-underpass-connecting-pgimer-pu/story-n0t7qKOfNb3LQkyqLwGg0K.html
03-12-2020||Chandigarh||Farmer protest: 13 Congress workers including Youth Congress president booked, detained in Chandigarh||The police have booked 13 Congress workers including president of Punjab Youth Congress Barinder Dhillon, after they jumped barricades trying to march to Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s home in Sector 3, Chandigarh, while protesting over the new farm laws.The activists wanted to gherao Haryana CM’s residence to protest against the use of water cannons and tear gas against Punjab farmers last week when the Haryana Police had tried to stop them from entering the state during their “Delhi Chalo” march.A case under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease danger­ous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease danger­ous to life) of the Indian Penal Code was registered. The Congress leaders were later released on bail.The Chandigarh Police first used water cannons against the Congress workers at barricades; despite that some of them managed to reach closer to the CM’s official residence. Police in wake of the protest march had deployed personnel and sealed the roads leading to CM’s house.The protesters had earlier gathered near the Chandigarh headquarters of Punjab Congress and raised slogans against the BJP government at the Centre and in Haryana, calling them “anti-farmer”.Journalist injuredA TV journalist was injured after stones were pelted at journalists during a protest by Indian Youth Congress. Satender Chauhan, a deputy editor at Aaj Tak, suffered a head injury while covering the demonstration against Haryana CM in Sector 15.Chief minister of Punjab Captain Amarinder Singh through a tweet condemned the attack on journalists by Youth Congress workers. “You’ve to lead by example and uphold the law,” the CM said in a tweet tagging Punjab Youth Congress’s Twitter handle.Harsimrat Kaur Badal of the Shiromani Akali Dal also tweeted to condemn the “grievous attack” by Congress “hoodlums” on Chauhan: “@INCIndia has always used repression to crush Freedom of Press”, read a part of the tweet.Press club condemns attackThe Chandigarh Press Club on Wednesday also condemned the attack on journalists who were covering the agitation when some of the Youth Congress workers started pelting stones on them, who were at the other corner of the road.Chandigarh Press Club will be sending a representation to the UT police and to Punjab CM. “A protest will be held outside Punjab Vidhan Sabha on December 3 at 12 noon,” said Saurabh Duggal, secretary general, Chandigarh Press Club.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmer-protest-13-congress-workers-including-youth-congress-president-booked-detained-in-chandigarh/story-H4DX9IDp6mtsx8KbDtkAwI.html
03-12-2020||Chandigarh||Woman, daughter among 3 dead in road mishap in Ludhiana||Three people, including a woman and her daughter, were killed in a road mishap after an over-speeding motorcycle rammed into two pedestrians on the Ludhiana-Chandigarh Road near Haidon village of Samrala on Wednesday. One of the bike-borne men also died in the accident while the other suffered severe injuries and was rushed to the hospital. The victims, Sukhwinder Kaur, 48, of Haidon village and her daughter Harpreet Kaur, 20, were going to fetch fodder for cattle from the fields when the bike rammed into them. The bodied have been sent to the civil hospital for postmortem. Samrala station house officer inspector Kuljinder Singh Grewal said the impact of the collision was such that the women were propelled at least four feet into the air before they hit the ground and died on the spot. The identity of the bike-borne men is yet to be ascertained. An FIR has been lodged against the bike riders for reckless driving and causing death due to negligence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/woman-daughter-among-3-dead-in-road-mishap-in-ludhiana/story-uLVaXuwADIIz5cJzfFVIYM.html
03-12-2020||Chandigarh||Delimitation of Mohali MC wards: HC summons official record from Punjab local bodies dept||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday summoned the record pertaining to delimitation exercise carried out by the Punjab local bodies department to redraw the boundaries of Mohali MC wards.The high court bench of justice Jitendra Chauhan acted on the plea of one Bachan Singh and others who had challenged the exercise. It was argued that the process of delimitation was in violation of the Delimitation of Wards of Municipal Corporation Order of 1995.The court was told that objections were moved on October 29. However, neither the objections were decided by passing a speaking order by the competent authority nor any survey of the population was conducted. The whole process of readjustment was illegal, the court was told.The government counsel had told the court that objections were considered and rejected by a detailed order by the competent authority. In view of this, the court fixed the matter for December 3 and directed that all the documents/material collected during the population survey be made available to the court on Thursday.As per the councillors of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), 70% seats held by them in the previous Mohali municipal corporation House had been re-carved or reserved or deserved to their detriment. The five-year term of the House ended on April 26 this year. Among the 50 wards, 25 have been reserved for women besides five for scheduled castes (including two for women) and two for backward classes (men). As many as 23 of 33 wards previously held by SAD-BJP have been affected, while wards of only two former Congress councillors have been converted to the general category; the remaining 13 have been left untouched.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/delimitation-of-mohali-mc-wards-hc-summons-official-record-from-punjab-local-bodies-dept/story-vuGmI4Z6ZLDE4CWKLW8VbM.html
03-12-2020||City||Mohali traffic police pool money to get patch mended on Airport Road||In a unique initiative, the Mohali traffic police got the patchwork of a badly potholed section of the Airport Road done by contributing funds from their pockets.Superintendent of police (traffic) Gurjot Singh Kaler said that a few days ago it came to their knowledge that the Airport Road near Chhat village in Zirakpur was dotted with potholes, posing a threat to commuters’ lives.Kaler that the Mohali traffic police under the supervision of SSP Satinder Singh was striving hard towards making roads safer and secure for residents.In line with the development, Zirakpur traffic in-charge Ombir Singh and his team also got potholes covered to prevent accidents. Getting the work done through personal contribution till the overhauling of the road wasn’t done by agencies concerned was a voluntary exercise, he said.“We hope that everyone will continue to extend their support to Mohali traffic police by abiding by the traffic rules,” added Kaler.When contacted, executive engineer of GMADA Gurjeet Singh said, “We have handed over the said stretch to National Highways Authority of India and they will repair it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-traffic-police-pool-money-to-get-patch-mended-on-airport-road/story-dxeVTqDvw3x6wiNIOaYWOI.html
03-12-2020||Chandigarh||Admissions for 2021-22 session begin in Chandigarh schools||Admission process for the 2021-2022 academic session will start from Thursday. Amid the pandemic, it is expected that many schools will release the admission forms on their website and accept them online.All 114 government schools, 77 private recognised schools and eight aided schools had to upload the admission information on their website by Wednesday. Forms will be submitted between December 3 and December 16. It is expected that there will be over 3,000 seats up for grabs across various private schools this year.The admissions for entry-level classes will be for children born between April 1, 2017 and March 31, 2018. The forms will be available free of cost, but ₹100 will have to be paid at the time of the submission by general candidates. In government schools, preference will be given to those staying in the institutes’ proximity.In case more applications are received than the number of seats available, a draw of lots will be conducted. One of the principals said it becomes too much of a task to hold draw of lots in both online and offline modes, so for uniformity, most of the schools are opting for online method only.DEO had also written to school heads, asking them to make sure that forms can be obtained from their websites and submitted online. Many schools will be opting for an ‘online-only policy’ for general candidates. Information displayed on the websites of most schools confirmed this. EWS ADMISSIONS MAY TAKE LONGEREven as the admission procedure has already started, parents haven’t been issued required certificates yet, which are necessary for taking admission in EWS category. Director School Education (DSE) Rubinderjit Singh Brar said, “The income certificates will be issued by the office of the UT deputy commissioner. The process will be similar to previous years, and even if there is any delay owing to the pandemic, EWS students can be adjusted later as well.”SCHOOL HEADS TO MEET EDUCATION DEPARTMENT OVER FEESMost schools haven’t uploaded details about the fees yet. The Independent School Association (ISA) will meet UT education secretary and director school education regarding the issue of increasing the fee for the 2021-2022 session on Thursday. ISA president HS Mamik said, “Since fee hike wasn’t allowed for the 2020-2021 session, we should be allowed to increase it by 16%. But whatever the final decision is, we want clarity from the education department.” DSE Brar said till the meeting, schools don’t have to upload their fees information online.Mamik added that they will also discuss other issues, including prescribing only NCERT books and 15% EWS seat reservation in all schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/admissions-for-2021-22-session-begin-in-chandigarh-schools/story-i1Ixj7RsdSwZM6aWTUeqWN.html
03-12-2020||Mumbai||Amid Covid-19 pandemic, water and sanitation still a luxury for many in Mumbai: Report||The Covid-19 pandemic was declared a global health emergency by the World Health Organisation (WHO) on March 11 this year. Since then, various national and international organisations have been emphasising on maintaining personal hygiene and sanitation, of which, washing hands multiple times a day is of utmost importance. But in Mumbai, the financial capital of the country, washing hands regularly and personal hygiene are privileges for close to 20 lakh people living in the slums.According to a recent report released by Mumbai-based Pani Haq Samiti (PHS) and the Centre for Promoting Democracy (CPD), of the 292 households they surveyed in the city, only 9.25% had personal toilet facilities, while 18.15% resorted to open defecation owing to lack of access and 75.34% were dependent on shared toilet facilities despite the fear of the infection. The report, “A ground assessment of Wash realities of Mumbai’s informal settlements during Covid-19” released in November, further revealed that 24.4% of the households did not receive daily water supply, while 19.31% could not access safe potable water during the lockdown.The surveys, conducted in July, included citizens from across settlements like Bhim Nagar, Indira Nagar in the eastern suburbs, Ambedkar Nagar, Siddharth Nagar in the western suburbs, transit camp and Kaula bunder in Mumbai city and even those living on footpaths.The report noted a recommendation by WHO to wash one’s hands for at least 20 seconds, which would require minimum 0.5 litres of water. This meant that, “A family of five living in a notified-slum of Mumbai, receiving less than 60 litres of municipal water supply per family per day, would use 25 litres or over 40% of their water supply just for washing hands. The remaining water would then have to be split between all other domestic uses like drinking, cooking, washing and bathing,” the report quoted.Sitaram Shelar, convenor of PHS, said, “Before Covid-19, the citizens would somehow jostle for water by stepping out, which was made further impossible during the lockdown with several restrictions. We had written to the municipal corporation earlier that we have identified 62 communities in the city that have no access to safe water and must be provided with public taps on humanitarian grounds.” The organisation is now looking at meeting the municipal commissioner to submit the report, Shelar said. “We are also looking at writing to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and prime minister Narendra Modi,” he added.PHS is a collective of community leaders from 54 settlements across 17 wards in the city. It has been working towards equitable distribution of water in Mumbai since 2014. It has also filed a public interest litigation in the Bombay high court (HC), which later gave a judgement upholding the right to water as a precondition to right to life. However, owing to various administrative blocks, including a policy by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) that people must obtain a no-objection certificate (NOC) from respective authorities (where shanties are built for example, central government or collector land) to get access to water, as many as 20 lakh people in Mumbai do not have access to safe drinking water, PHS noted. P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner, BMC, in-charge of the water department said, “As a policy, we provide water connections to everyone. However, it is a dynamic process and we fulfil the requirements as and when the requests come in. There might be procedural issues when it comes to encroached areas such as obtaining permissions that delay the process. However, for slums, we provide water at 70 litres per capita.” A senior civic official from the solid waste management of BMC, who did not wish to be named said, “By March 2021, we are building 21,000 additional toilet seats in slum areas. We have completed more than 50% of the work already. As far as public toilets are concerned, we look at sanitising it at least four-five times a day in wake of the pandemic.” In its report, the organisations have also listed a number of recommendations that can be implemented to improve the situation. It recommends a thorough study by BMC to understand ground realities, adopting an inclusive policy towards water and sanitation, making the centuries-old pyaaus (drinking water fountains) in various locations in the city functional and accessible to people and making sanitation economical and accessible for people.“Water and sanitation must be considered a public good and its basic universal access must be ensured by the state. Universal access to water and sanitation is an imperative step on the way forward to collective health and recovery,” it stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/amid-covid-19-pandemic-water-and-sanitation-still-a-luxury-for-many-in-mumbai-report/story-63oanSUDpJwCkqbhaLG4jN.html
03-12-2020||Chandigarh||₹26.37 lakh looted from Ludhiana ATM||Three masked men cut open an HDFC Bank ATM and fled with ₹26.37 lakh in Lall Kalan village of Samrala on Wednesday. No security guard had been deputed outside the kiosk. Police say the CCTV camera installed in the kiosk recorded two masked men cutting open the ATM with a gas cutter around 3am while one of them stood guard outside. A case has been registered against the unidentified accused. The bank staff had refilled cash in the ATM a day before the robbery. A guard, Rajinder Singh, reported the robbery when he reported to duty outside the kiosk at 6.40am. HDFC bank manager Jatinder Gaur alerted the police. Samrala station house officer inspector Kuljinder Singh Grewal said a vehicle had been captured in the CCTVs and the police were trying to identify the vehicle.He said the bank had no security guard for night shifts at the ATM kiosks.In a similar incident, one year ago, three masked men had uprooted a State Bank of India ATM containing ₹24 lakh in Pakhowal on the intervening night of November 1 and 2. The accused had loaded the ATM onto a vehicle and escaped. However, the accused were arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/26-37-lakh-looted-from-ludhiana-atm/story-c4QqrQfSWxOEelyZiqkGmL.html
03-12-2020||City||Ambala MC elections: BJP receives 80 applications for 20 wards, six for mayor seat||Former state president of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and in-charge of Ambala municipality elections Subhash Barala held a meeting of the party workers at a private school here on Wednesday.Workers said BJP had received nearly 80 applications for 20 wards and six women had applied for the mayoral seat in the upcoming municipal corporation (MC) elections.This was the first such gathering chaired by Barala, who was made the Ambala in-charge last month ahead of the scheduled polls, and was attended by city MLA Aseem Goel, district president Rajesh Batoura, former district president Jagmohan Kumar and other office-bearers.Batoura, who took the responsibility in August and will face his first elections as district president, said that he had received nearly 80 names for 20 wards.“The party has appointed me to receive applications for wards and Barala for the mayor seat. Baralaji has instructed the participants of the meeting to start working in their booths and we’ll soon declare ward-wise candidates,” he said.‘Coalition between BJP, JJP likely’While speaking to the Hindustan Times, Barala said that there could be a coalition between BJP and JJP for the elections and farmers were satisfied with their party as they were able to sell their crops at the best possible prices. “The state election commission will hold a press conference on Thursday, so we can expect the dates to be declared. I have received six applications for the mayor seat (reserved for women),” he said.On the farmers’ stir, he replied, “Farmers are not happy on a particular issue that will be soon resolved, but they are overall satisfied with the party.”State election commissioner Dr Dalip Singh will address a press conference regarding elections of the civic bodies of Ambala, Panchkula, Sonepat and some other municipalities at 12.30pm on Thursday, where he is expected to declare the dates. Deputy commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma has appointed SDM (Ambala city) Sachin Gupta as the nodal officer for the polls. “Gupta has been given the responsibility in the absence of additional deputy commissioner Preeti, who tested positive for coronavirus last month. The final list of all voters under the MC has also been prepared,” Sharma said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ambala-mc-elections-bjp-receives-80-applications-for-20-wards-six-for-mayor-seat/story-bMYJYbVX8bmujw63buPSbL.html
03-12-2020||City||Teachers on way to Haryana CM’s residence brave water cannons||Chandigarh Police resorted to using water cannons on hundreds of primary teachers, who were on their way to Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s residence on Wednesday. As thoroughly drenched teachers didn’t move from their spot on the Panchkula-Chandigarh border, some were finally taken to the CM’s residence for a talk.Chandigarh Police said water cannons were used as the teachers tried to cross barricades.Jitender Kundu, vice-president of association of primary teachers, Rajkiya Prathmik Shikshak Sangh, Haryana, said that hundreds of teachers had sought interdistrict transfer and last year, these teachers were given an option to choose their district online.“On November 15, the Haryana education department had issued an order of interdistrict transfer of 2,544 primary teachers. They were asked to join their new workplace within two days. Many teachers shifted from their places, but on November 27, another order was released by director elementary education, Haryana, wherein he cancelled the previous order,” he added. “The teachers are told that there has been no transfer and asked to join their previous work station,” Kundu said, adding that the next decision will be taken after April 2021.Kundu said teachers were left harassed and the union held a meeting with the director elementary education, Haryana, on December 1, wherein he assured some solution by the evening. “But when we didn’t get any response till today morning, we decided to hold a peaceful protest and walked towards the CM’s residence in Chandigarh,” he added. Over 1,500 primary teachers had come to Panchkula on December 1, Kundu said.As per the Panchkula police, hundreds of primary teachers started a march towards Khattar’s residence around 3pm and were stopped by Chandigarh Police at the border. Water cannons were used around 3.30pm and when the teachers didn’t move by the evening, a representative was taken to the CM’s residence for talks.Tarun Suhag, state president of the organisation, met the OSD to Haryana CM at his residence. “We have been assured that our demands will be met, else we will sit on protest after two days at Jagadhri,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/teachers-on-way-to-haryana-cm-s-residence-brave-water-cannons/story-wAmPlabDDhuSZAmFn0YYzJ.html
03-12-2020||Mumbai||SpiceJet to provide logistical support for Covid-19 vaccine delivery||Low cost carrier SpiceJet will be giving logistical support for delivery of Covid-19 vaccine.The airline’s dedicated cargo arm, SpiceXpress, will be transporting the vaccine through a specialised service called Spice Pharma Pro.SpiceJet spokesperson said the airline has tied up with global leaders in cold chain solutions offering active and passive packaging with dedicated equipment to perform seamless cold chain operations.“SpiceXpress has the capability to transport extremely sensitive drugs and vaccines in controlled temperatures ranging from -40°c to +25°C. SpiceXpress is ready for the enormous task of distributing sensitive goods both domestically and internationally including Covid-19 vaccines that require stringent transportation conditions,” the spokesperson added.Ajay Singh, chairman and managing director, SpiceJet said, “We have been preparing for the humongous task of transporting medicines, vaccines, blood samples and temperature-sensitive cargo by developing end-to-end cold chain logistics solutions. With a dedicated fleet of 17 cargo aircraft, SpiceXpress is capable of flying cargo to both domestic and a wide list of international destinations.”“The airline also offers a plethora of other benefits such as a network of warehouses equipped with deep freezers to enable change of cool packs and ground vehicles and containers to help transport sensitive cargo,” he added.SpiceJet has transported 85,000 tonnes of cargo since the lockdown in March and the airline’s international cargo network now spans over 50 international destinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/spicejet-to-provide-logistical-support-for-covid-19-vaccine-delivery/story-hvC8PPd4C4xjlrStJR8wyJ.html
03-12-2020||City||Mohali District Bar Association extends support to farmers||Members of Mohali District Bar Association on Wednesday extended their support to the farmers agitating in the capital against agricultural laws. In a meeting held under the chairmanship of DBA president Manpreet Singh Chahal, the members felt that it was “highly reprehensible and undemocratic to try to stop the farmers’ agitation and torture them while they were fighting for their legitimate rights”. “If the citizens of India are restrained from entering a state and if the police, at the behest of the government, obstruct the way, then it is disrespect to the people’s mandate and a violation of the federal structure,” he added. The association said that the central government’s attitude towards the farmers was bound to give rise to various doubts and suspicions as to why the government was adamant to implement the controversial laws at any cost. The members passed a resolution in favour of the farmers’ movement and still stand by the farmers and call all the advocates to support the agitation. “We urge the Centre to engage in open dialogue with the farmers and withdraw the agricultural laws or amend them as per the demand of the farmers,” Mohali DBA said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-district-bar-association-extends-support-to-farmers/story-uXkS0F1CaaJQ8CfN0cctFN.html
03-12-2020||City||‘Mohali emerging as leading IT player at global level’||Mohali is rapidly developing into the next big IT hub in Punjab and strong presence of IT giants such as Infosys, Software Technology Park of India, Quark City, Bestech Towers is a testimony to the city’s growing stature as a leading player in the IT sector at global level, said principal secretary, investment promotion, industries and commerce and IT, Alok Shekhar during his visit here on Wednesday. He said the Punjab government was offering plots to the prospective players in Mohali IT City through Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA). “IT City is very strategically located in close proximity to the International Airport and surrounded by existing Aerocity, World Trade Centre, and leading research and academic institutes,” he added. Shekhar said the presence of leading institutes of India like IIT Ropar, Indian School of Business, NIPER, IISER, and NABI is helping Mohali develop into a modern technical hub of Punjab. Infosys development centre head Sameer Goel also shared plans to expand their footprint at the IT City.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-emerging-as-leading-it-player-at-global-level/story-QsW45k3lLeKuSXgJAgeZYM.html
03-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai blood banks’ stock may last only for a week: SBTC||When the Assam-based Rehmans landed in Mumbai on November 16 for the treatment of their nine-year-old daughter Fariha Amina Rehman who suffers from leukaemia, a cancer of blood-forming tissues, little did they know that the city’s supply of blood was running dry.Data collated by State Blood Transfusion Council (SBTC) — which monitors the functioning of blood centres in the state — showed that as of November 27, the total units of blood available across the city was around 3500 units, prompting its director Dr Arun Thorat to state Wednesday that the city had barely a week’s stock of blood supply. The average requirement of blood during the pandemic has been up to 600 units a day.“Since the outbreak of the virus, there’s been only a 50% response from the public to blood donation camps. Even though Mumbaiites are stepping out with the gradual relaxation of the lockdown, they refuse to donate blood for a good cause. We have blood stock only for a week,” said Thorat.To be sure, blood banks have still been receiving blood through donations, albeit in a depleted form. However, the Covid-19 pandemic has put a stop to mega blood donation camps as a result of which the stocks are not being replenished as before. An unintended consequence of this is that blood banks are now asking persons in need of blood to arrange for replacement blood — a practice that is in violation of the National Blood Transfusion Council rules.The Rehmans, who had never visited Mumbai before or had any family in this city to help them, had no choice but to find replacement donors for Fariha, a student of Class 3 in Nagaon. And then, another complication struck. Fariha, whose white blood cell count was already low developed haemorrhoids serious enough for her doctors at the Tata Memorial Hospital (TMH) in Parel to consider surgery before starting chemotherapy. Though she is on antibiotics at present, her family has been looking for replacement donors to donate either her blood type — B positive — or any other type in the eventuality that she undergoes surgery. “Her chances of survival are already less, but we are doing everything we can to save the girl. Through my friends, I am trying to contact people in Mumbai to arrange for replacement blood but that’s not enough. We need more to keep her alive,” said Anjum Mehmed, her uncle, who accompanied her father Hizbur Rehman, an inspector at a cooperative society, and her mother Shajina Ahmed, to Mumbai. Mehmed eventually found a list of regular donors and he began to call them, one number at a time. Seven people have donated blood so far. But it’s not enough. Regular blood transfusion is what will keep Fariha alive.When asked whether TMH was asking patients to arrange for replacement blood, Dr Sunil B. Rajadhyaksha, head of the transfusion medicine and SBTC member said that patients were not being forced to arrange for donors. “We have often noticed that the relatives of patients don’t donate blood. So, to encourage the habit of donation, we ask them to donate. But it is not forceful. So, rather than saying replacement blood, we prefer the term relative blood. Many a time, these relatives turn into a regular when their fear of blood donation gets over. It is aimed at developing a good habit among people.”The hospital, which is renowned for its cancer treatment, requires on average 28,000 units of blood annually, and 80 units of blood daily. However, anticipating a crisis soon after the lockdown was declared in March, the hospital turned to residential societies to collect blood.“In the initial days of the pandemic, other hospitals didn’t have to worry about blood shortages as the footfall of patience declined by almost 80%. Whereas at our hospital we had enough number of in-house patients who needed a regular supply of blood. So, we decided to collect blood from nearby residential societies. Our hospital staffers contacted their buildings and arranged for blood camps,” Rajadhyaksha said.TMH is still holding camps at residential complexes, community halls and sports clubs with social distancing measures in place, he said. However, the response remains tepid. “If 75 people register to donate blood, only 30 of them actually come forward for donation. Earlier, at each camps, we used to get around 100 units of blood. But now, it has fallen to around 40 units of blood,” he said.All blood banks, whether in private or government hospitals, or those run by charities, are down to their last few bags. SBTC data from November 27 showed that King Edward Memorial Hospital, Parel, which uses more than 150 units of blood every day had only 90 units of blood components and not a single unit of platelet, while JJ group of hospitals (which includes St George, Cama Maternity and Gokuldas Tejpal Hospital hospitals) which require more than 250 units of blood every day had only 31 units of whole blood, 83 units of blood components and four units of platelets.The various components of blood — plasma, red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets — have different uses for patients. While platelets are essential for persons suffering from cancer, red blood cells are needed during surgeries and white blood cells are needed for transfusion.Officials of the SBTC and the Food and Drugs Administration have been holding regular meetings on the crisis. At a recent meeting held earlier this week, FDA minister Dr Rajendra Shingne appealed to political parties and government servants across the board to celebrate events and festivals by donating blood. “Earlier, corporate companies and religious organisations would hold mass blood donation camps that have stopped due to the pandemic. Housing societies too are no longer conducting blood donation camps. This has affected smooth collection of blood,” he said.“Almost 30% of the blood donated comes from camps held at corporate houses. That source of donation has been cut off completely. Presently, most blood donors are relatives of the patients. Since the pandemic, our blood stock has decreased to 15% capacity. It’s an everyday struggle now,” Dr Devang Shah, a blood bank officer at privately-run Anviksha Blood Bank in Ghatkopar.The worst affected are people who require blood regularly. This includes leukemia patients like Fariha, and those suffering from thalassemia, like the Pushkarnas.“For many years, I have been undergoing transfusion at Dr MB Agarwal day care centre at Dadar TT by arranging blood from JJ Hospital blood bank since my children have SBTC thalassemia cards. But there has been a severe shortage for the past four months, and the blood bank has been unable to help us,” said Sandeep Pushkarna, who along with his teenage children, aged 13 and 18, are thalassemia majors and need blood transfusions every 15 days. They were able to receive blood units from Anvishka Blood Bank once, but are now seeking donors much like Fariha’s family.According to SBTC, there are 2,400 children suffering from thalassemia in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region.Kandivli-resident Abhay More, 34, who has been donating blood regularly for the past 12 years, received an emergency call on November 14 from the Wadia Hospital in Parel to donate AB- blood for a pregnant woman who had been admitted with delivery-related complications. Due to restricted public transport available, More had to request a neighbour to ferry him to the hospital as he couldn’t afford to pay taxi fare. “Earlier, I used to donate blood 2-3 times a year. But since the pandemic, I stopped donating blood as my father is a diabetic and I didn’t want to take the risk [of contracting Covid-19],” he said.According to Vinay Shetty, vice-president of Think Foundation, a non-governmental organization that works for patients suffering from blood-related ailments with the state health department, donation camps need to be made more accessible. “People will donate if we can bring the process of donation at their door steps. For that, we need to focus more on residential buildings,” he said.“Since November, we started organising smaller blood camps in neighbouring areas,” said Dr Arun Ghule, president, Maharashtra Association of Medical Doctors at KEM Hospital. “Every day, medical students are donating blood for patients. They mostly donate blood during their day off. We can’t see patients who die for lack of blood.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-blood-banks-stock-may-last-only-for-a-week-sbtc/story-NZuT4Kuw1oBKNrwH9uRNYO.html
03-12-2020||Chandigarh||Violation of CVC guidelines: Chandigarh police begin shuffling cops posted in 1 unit for over 2 years||Stung by extortion allegations, Chandigarh Police have now started the process of shifting cops posted in a single unit for more than two years. The UT police department has already identified officers posted on sensitive posts for more than two years in violation of the central vigilance commission (CVC) guidelines. “All unit in-charges have been asked to rotate the staff and we, too, would be shuffling the cops in adherence to the CVC guidelines,” said superintendent of police (SP) Manoj Kumar Meena. The move comes after two cops — Anil and Pawan — posted in the crime branch were identified through a clip submitted by a liquor contractor of Sector 40, who had alleged that the duo were extorting money from him. Sources said that one of the accused had been posted in the crime branch for more than two years in violation of the CVC guidelines. In September, SP Meena had issued an order asking the unit heads to prepare list of police officials posted in a unit for more than two years. The order was issued on behalf of the Police Establishment Board (PEB), Chandigarh Police, that mandated to ensure proper shuffling of officers posted on sensitive posts as per the CVC guidelines. All SDPOs and DSP (PCR), DSP (traffic) (administration), DSP (EOW), DSP (crime) and DSP (woman and child safety unit) were then directed to identify such officials and send their names to PEB. This list was prepared after complaints started pouring in about few police officials being posted in one unit for long durations. DSP ASKED TO INQUIRE INTO ACCUSED COPS’ ABSENCE The police department is yet to act against Anil and Pawan, who are seen in the video clip submitted by the liquor contractor along with his complaint alleging extortion. The liquor contractor, who has about eight liquor vends in Chandigarh, had accused policemen of extorting money from him. He claimed that he was paying them ₹96,000 per month for the past few months. The accused cops are alleged to be at large ever since the complaint was lodged. “We are yet to receive written communication about involvement of the policemen posted in crime branch in extortion,” Meena said. “There were news reports that few personnel in crime branch have gone underground. DSP (crime) has been asked to inquire and submit report regarding this absence,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/violation-of-cvc-guidelines-chandigarh-police-begin-shuffling-cops-posted-in-1-unit-for-over-2-years/story-GpBXA1O1PBzp0QPAqaHXGJ.html
03-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra cabinet decides to relabel colonies with caste-based names||The Maharashtra cabinet on Wednesday cleared a proposal to rename colonies and areas that have caste-based names. Instead, it will be named after social workers and leaders or their related work, state social justice minister Dhananjay Munde said.The state cabinet also gave its nod to the proposal of withdrawal of social and political cases registered between November 1, 2014, and December 31, 2019. Most of the cases likely to be withdrawn are those registered against political workers and leaders for their agitations over various issues.Across the state, several rural as well as urban areas are named after castes such as Maharwada, Mangwada, Bhrahmanwada, Mali Galli, Dhorvasti, among others. According to Munde, such names do not suit a “progressive” state like Maharashtra.“Keeping that in mind and to maintain social harmony and goodwill in the state to increase national unity, all caste-based names of areas and localities in rural and urban parts of the state will be changed. They will be named after social workers or something corresponding to their work, for example, Samata Nagar, Bhim Nagar, Jyoti Nagar, Kranti Nagar,” a statement from Munde’s office said.The urban development department will decide on the process in urban areas, while the rural development department will do the same for their areas, the statement added.In 2012, the government changed the name of an award by dropping the word Dalit from it and renamed it Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Samaj Bhushan Award. The state government had already issued a government resolution in September 2019 to drop the use of the word Dalit from all government correspondences and schemes. All correspondences now use scheduled caste and Nav Bouddha instead.On the proposal to withdraw social and political cases, the earlier Devendra Fadnavis government, soon after assuming power, had taken a decision to withdraw such cases registered before November 1, 2014. The current Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government extended the period to December 21, 2019. The government also dissolved the committee appointed under the finance minister by the earlier government to review such cases and has allotted power to the home minister.The process for withdrawal of cases registered against protests by the Maratha community for reservation between 2016 and 2018 and the protests at Aarey colony against the earlier state government’s decision of cutting trees for a Metro car shed at Aarey in October last year has already begun. “Those are not part of the decision taken today, as the process for their withdrawal has already started. We will take a review of the other cases that are political/social in nature and had no loss of life or damage to properties,” said an official from the home department.The officer said that cases are withdrawn under section 321 of the criminal procedure code and only after permission from the courts where they are being tried.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cabinet-decides-to-relabel-colonies-with-caste-based-names/story-UocX9gniZxZIPgoP9sbwSI.html
03-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports 5,600 new Covid-19 cases, tally rises to 1,832,176||Maharashtra on Wednesday recorded 5,600 new Covid-19 cases and 111 fatalities, taking the tally to 1,832,176 (accounting for reconciliation of cases), and toll to 47,357. The case fatality rate (CFR) was 2.58%. The tally of active Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra stood at 88,537. Of the 111 fatalities recorded in the state on Wednesday, 50 deaths were from within the past 48 hours, 25 were from the past week, and 36 were from more than a week ago.Meanwhile, Mumbai on Wednesday recorded 877 new cases, and 20 new fatalities due to Covid-19, taking the tally to 282,818 and deaths to 10,913. The CFR was 3.8%. There are now 14,912 active cases in the city.While Maharashtra is increasingly opening up activities, it was found that approximately 71% of the state’s cases are from the age group of 21 to 60 years, and approximately 17% of the cases are from the age group of 61 years and above. This is as per details available for 1,824,197 Covid-19 cases in the state, according to the daily report published by the medical education and drugs department of the state government. While 61% of the Covid-19 cases are in men, 39% of the reported cases are among women.Among the working age group, the highest percentage of cases are reported in the age group of 31 to 40 years, at 21%, followed by 17% cases in the age group of 41 to 50 years, and 16% cases each, in the age group of 51 to 60 years, and 21 to 30 years.Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, said, “It is expected that the ‘mobile population’ sees higher infections, especially respiratory or air-borne infections, and especially after unlock plans have stated in full swing. The state’s interventions for senior citizens such as door-to-door surveys, and surveys through My Family, My Responsibility have helped us identify senior citizens most prone to catching the infection, and subsequent timely health interventions have helped control the infection in senior citizens to a large extent.” Among the municipal corporations around Mumbai, the Thane municipal corporation recorded 134 new cases, taking the total to 51,483, Navi Mumbai recorded 124 new cases and five deaths, taking the total to 52,088 and toll to 1,017, Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) recorded 143 new cases, taking the total to 58,334, Mira-Bhayander Municipal Corporation (MBMC) recorded 59 new infections, taking the total to 25,406, and Vasai-Virar Municipal Corporation recorded 53 new cases and eight new deaths due to Covid-19, taking the total to 29,211, and the toll to 569.Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) recorded 338 new cases, and five deaths due to Covid-19, taking the total to 181,203, and toll to 4,261. Pune district recorded 895 new cases and 15 deaths, taking the total to 354,905, and toll to 7,494.Maharashtra has a recovery rate of 92.52%, as 5,027 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Wednesday, taking the number of recoveries to 1,695,208. The state has conducted 10,989,496 tests so far, at a positivity rate of 92.52%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-5-600-new-covid-19-cases-tally-rises-to-1-832-176/story-MUaKbT7SQuQV3XdmsFyVDO.html
03-12-2020||Delhi||Won’t budge even an inch, too much at stake for us: Farmers||A day ahead of the next round of talks with the government, farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders said they will not budge an inch till the three new farm laws are not revoked. The farmers said they are under huge debt and that the new laws will make their condition even worse. “I am under huge debt. My family will be on the streets if the government does not revoke the new farming bills,” said Jasdeep Singh from Bahadurpur village in Sungrur district of Punjab, one of the thousands of farmers protesting at the Singhu and Tikri borders for the last six days.Explaining his situation, Singh said his family of six is completely dependent on the five acres land they own and use to produce wheat. “We produce around eight quintals of wheat and sell it at the mandis at a minimum support price (MSP) of Rs1,835 per quintal. Now, with no assurance of MSP in the new farm law, the corporates will not give us more than Rs 900 to Rs 1,000. Our income will be reduced to half. How will we survive and pay our debts in that situation?” he said.Sitting next to him at Singhu border on Wednesday, Singh’s mother Amarjeet Kaur said, “Just four days before we left to participate in the protest, a family committed suicide in our neighbourhood after they failed to pay back their debt to the bank. These incidents will become frequent now.” She says her family has to repay a debt of Rs 8 lakh. The farmers fear the new laws will do away with a guaranteed MSP, enabling private players to procure the produce at much lower rates. The government has been saying the MSP system will not be done away with.Raising similar concerns, Karanweer Singh, a farmer from Charuni Jattan village of Kurukshetra in Haryana, said his family of 12 are dependent on the produce they harvest from their 15-acre land. “A major portion of our produce is consumed at home and the remaining is sold at the mandis on the MSP. What will we earn if there is no MSP? I will have to withdraw my children from schools because I won’t be able to pay their fees,” he said, adding his family has to repay a loan of Rs 4 lakh before the next harvesting season.Balwinder Singh Rana, president of Majja Kisan Sangarsh Committee Punjab, said farmer associations across the country have decided not to accept anything but complete revocation of the three laws. “More than two lakh farmers from Maharashtra, Haryana and Punjab will soon join us in our protest. We won’t accept any amendment in the laws. The government cannot do away with the mandi system and abolish the MSP.”Kunwant Singh Sandhu, general secretary of Jamhuri Kisan Sabha (Punjab), said, “We will go for the meeting called by the Centre on Thursday but we will not accept anything other than complete revocation of the three laws.”Several small farmers feared they will not be able to sell their produce outside the current mandi system. Kulwinder Singh, a farmer from Moga, said he cultivates wheat and rice on a two-acre land for his family of six. “The new laws have opened up the market for corporates. Now, the rich farmers, who have the resources and can sell their produce directly in cities like Delhi or Mumbai, will benefit. Small farmers like me will be in a disadvantaged position,” he said.Pranjeet Singh, 65, a female farmer from Fatehabad in Haryana, said, “We are not sitting on the streets leaving our houses by choice. We are here so that the future generations don’t question us on how we let the government ruin their lives? The government can see smoke coming out of our farms from 500 kms, but they can’t listen to us when we are sitting at their doorstep.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/won-t-budge-an-inch-s-ay-protesting-farmers-on-new-farm-laws/story-zeL7FBQQ0GzqDG0tUZFfLL.html
03-12-2020||Delhi||Traffic hit as Kalindi Kunj is briefly shut to stop farmers from Noida entering Delhi||Wednesday saw attempts by farmers to block another border point to Delhi -- the Kalindi Kunj border that connects Noida with south Delhi -- even as the Singhu and Tikri borders remained completely blocked to traffic for the sixth consecutive day. The police, however, managed to convince farmers at the Chilla border (also between Delhi and Noida) to clear one carriageway for traffic by Wednesday afternoon. This borer point had remained shut since Tuesday.With all the closures and standoffs, traffic and commuting between NCR cities were a nightmare of humongous proportions on Wednesday. The Kalandi Kunj border -- connecting Noida with south Delhi -- had to be briefly shut on Wednesday evening after about a 100 farmers on tractors arrived there from Noida and tried to enter Delhi. The police quickly placed iron barricades and deployed extra personnel to prevent more such attempts. The sudden closure of the Kalandi Kunj border, that too during the evening rush hour, caused heavy jams on both carriageways. The problem was compounded as the Chilla border had remained shut since Tuesday evening and motorists had not alternative but to choose the Kalindi Kunj route. But, by 4.30pm even that was not an option. Kalindi Kunj remained closed only briefly but by then, the tailbacks were long. When the border was reopened, police started stringent checking, which made matter worse as the vehicle queues got longer. While RP Meena, deputy commissioner of police (south-east), said the road was blocked for only five minutes and the farmers were convinced to return to Noida by then, the Delhi traffic police’s Twitter account took over an hour to update that the road was reopened.“We initially closed only the carriageway from Noida to Delhi. But then people started driving on the wrong side, and that caused a jam, so we closed the other carriageway as well. The border was opened and traffic restored after the farmers returned to Noida,” Meena said.As far as the Chilla border was concerned, motorists had a harrowing time till Wednesday afternoon since both carriageways between Noida and Akshardham were closed. Police had opened alternative routes, but even those were congested due to the diverted traffic volume.Around 2pm, the Delhi to Noida carriageway on Chilla border was opened after senior police officers met farmers and apprised them about the jams and the inconvenience to people.“The police officers told us that ambulances as well as private vehicles carrying patients were stuck in jams. Although it was the police who had blocked it, and not us, we shifted ourselves to the carriageway from Noida to Delhi on the instructions of the police. We are here for a peaceful protest and not to cause problems to the public,” said Bhanu Pratap Singh, national president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU).The traffic situation at the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad border, on the other hand, remain the same as over the past few days -- the traffic flow was normal on the elevated Delhi-Meerut expressway and one carriageway going towards Ghaziabad from Delhi.The Singhu and Tikri borders remained out of bounds to motorists for the sixth consecutive day. After a few hundred farmers managed to sneak into Delhi through internal roads near the Singhu border, the police on Tuesday confined them to a segregated area at the Singhu crossing. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/traffic-hit-as-kalindi-kunj-is-briefly-shut-to-stop-farmers-from-noida-entering-delhi/story-rWVnqsBIo3smW1MxnZVjMK.html
03-12-2020||Delhi||Dense areas with less than three Covid -19 cases can be red zones in Delhi||The revised containment policy implemented in Delhi earlier this week allows districts to create containment zones in densely populated areas, even if there are fewer than three cases, if officials assess that there is a high risk of transmission, said a senior government official.The official further said the revised containment policy was implemented on Monday. The revised strategy also requires districts to ensure that all elderly residents, pregnant women and people with comorbidities – collectively referred to as “high risk” individuals – living in containment zones are subjected to RT-PCR tests along with all symptomatic people and contacts of Covid-19 patients.As on Wednesday, Delhi had 5,772 containment zones, of which at least 331 were notified on or after Monday, government data showed.In his meeting with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal, Union home minister Amit Shah had recommended a revised containment policy for the capital to stem the tide of cases.Under the policy, applicable till last week, the districts adhered to a protocol which required them to identify at least three cases for initiating the process of demarcating an area as a containment zone. The zone could range from a single house to an apartment or part of a lane comprising a few houses and shops, as opposed to entire lanes and blocks which were sealed as containment zones till late June.Under the new policy, the government would continue with the micro containment policy (smaller areas) while scaling up testing and surveillance measures. The protocol has been minorly tweaked to allow districts to create containment zones with fewer than three cases on the bases of a risk assessment in a case to case basis, said a senior government official who did not wish to be identified.Delhi’s revenue minister Kailash Gahlot said, “We are leaving no stone unturned to arrest the spread of Covid-19. District teams have been entrusted with assessment of transmission risk and the creation of micro containment zones wherever necessary. It has helped in reducing the number of cases and the positivity rate in recent days. Testing and surveillance in the containment zones have been scaled up.”Delhi recorded 3,944 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday – the first time since October since October 22 when daily cases have fallen below the 4,000-mark. With 78,949 total tests, the positivity rate was 5% -- as against 15.33% recorded on November 15, the government’s daily health bulletin said.Several resident welfare groups, however, pointed out that the containment efforts would not make much of a difference unless the government scales up contact tracing.“Transmission can primarily be controlled only with timely detection and isolation of Covid-19 patients. The government must scale up contact tracing,” said Saurabh Gandhi, general secretary,United Residents of Delhi, an umbrella body of resident groups.BS Vohra, president of the East Delhi resident welfare associations’ front, said, “Containment zones are much smaller now. Also, now posters are not stuck outside the homes of positive persons and so, there are no visible markers for people to know who or where to keep away from. People are totally dependent on the government in terms of contact tracing. Containment and other efforts would yield results only if contact tracing is done appropriately.”The government, however, said currently around 15 contacts per Covid-19 patient are being identified and tested – as against two contacts per Covid-19 patient till late September.Gahlot said, “Contract tracing was scaled up before the festive season and, currently, around 15 contacts per Covid-19 patient are being identified and tested.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dense-areas-with-less-than-three-cases-can-be-red-zones-in-delhi/story-D4MlCCOKwTEfHqGSdD77eN.html
03-12-2020||Chandigarh||OP Chautala admitted to hospital in Gurugram||Former Haryana chief minister and Indian National Lok Dal president Om Prakash Chautala was admitted to a private hospital in Gurgaon on Wednesday after he caught a cold and fell sick, a party spokesperson said here.Chautala, 85, caught a cold a few days ago and had recently attended the wedding functions of his grandsons, the spokesperson said.“INLD president Chaudhary Om Prakash Chautala has been admitted to Gurgaon’s Medanta hospital,” he said, adding his condition was stable.Chautala will undergo a test for Covid-19 as he also has a cough.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/inld-chief-op-chautala-admitted-to-hospital-due-to-cough-cold/story-ShvYihMoCnAT8hBijzt6EM.html
03-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi runs record 78,949 tests, positivity rate drops to 5%||Delhi on Wednesday created a new record, conducting more than 70,000 tests for the viral Covid-19 in a day, almost half of which were done using the more accurate RT-PCR method. The daily state bulletin on Wednesday said that the city had conducted 78,949 tests in a day, including the highest number of RT-PCR tests at 36,370.The state reported 3,944 new cases and 82 deaths due to Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the total number of people affected by the viral infection in the city to more than 578,000 . At least 9,342 people have succumbed to the virus, so far. So far, the highest number of tests conducted in a day in the city was 69,051 on November 28. The government had planned to scale up testing to between 100,000 and 120,000 tests a day in mid-November after a meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah. Despite the high number of tests, the positivity rate — proportion of samples that return positive among those tested — dipped to 5%. The positivity rate in the city has dropped below the current 5% only once so far.It was 4.99% on October 6.During the “third wave” of cases, the daily positivity rate in the city had shot up to a high of 15.33% on November 15. “Positivity declined to 5% today from 15.26% on November 7. Highest total tests 78949 and highest RT-PCR tests (36,370) ever with lowest RT-PCR positivity of 8.99%. Steadily corona cases and positivity coming down. Hope this will continue. Please observe all precautions,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain in a tweet. On November 7, the positivity rate as per RT PCR tests had touched 30%, the highest so far. Experts believe that the spread of the infection has been controlled if a positivity rate of 5% or less is maintained for two weeks. During the month of November, there was a difference of almost 16% on average in positivity rate of RT-PCR tests and rapid antigen tests conducted, data shared by the health minister shows. For Tuesday, the positivity rate of samples tested using RT-PCR and other molecular tests was 8.9% as compared to 1.6% among those tested using rapid antigen test. “The current peak in the number of cases was driven by the interaction of people during the festive season and the high levels of pollution. Now, both have gone down – people are stepping out but there is no mad rush at the markets and the pollution levels are also much better. With such a huge number of cases, I think at least 40% or even more of Delhi’s population may have been exposed to the infection. This means we are unlikely to see huge surge in number of cases again; now fewer number of infections would persist,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of microbiology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences. With the decrease in the number of cases being reported daily, the number of hospitalisations has also gone down. For the first time since November first week, the number of people admitted to hospitals across the city with the infection came down to 7,366. This is still higher than the peak number of hospitalisation – just over 7,000 – seen during the second surge in the number of cases Delhi had seen in September. As for the first wave of infections, at its peak just over 6,200 people were in hospitals. The rising number of hospitalisations, especially those in need of critical care, had prompted the Delhi government to increase 663 ICU beds in its own hospitals and ask around 75 private hospitals to reserve 80% of their total ICU beds for the treatment of Covid-19. “Bed vacancy for Covid patients in Delhi hospitals increased to 11,341 from 7,973 since Nov 11 (more than 60% Covid beds are now vacant). During the same period, ICU bed vacancy increased to 1,732 from 518. Since Nov 7 Covid severity is coming down. Please observe all precautions,” said Jain in a tweet. As on Wednesday evening, almost 39% of the hospital beds earmarked for Covid-19 were occupied and just about 65% of the ICU beds were occupied, according to the data on government’s Delhi corona app. The ICU occupancy had gone up to 86% during the current surge in infections. Despite fewer hospitalisations, ventilator beds in big hospitals like Sir Ganga Ram, Indraprastha Apollo, Max, and Fortis continue to be completely full. “Our ICUs are still running at capacity and even the wards are full. This is because we had long waiting lists of people and we get patients referred to from smaller centres as well. However, seeing that the number of cases in the city are on the decline, it is likely that we will start seeing a decline in some says,” said Dr Vikas Maurya, director and head of the department of pulmonology at Fortis, Shalimar Bagh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-runs-record-78k-tests-positivity-rate-drops-to-5/story-rQez12ukoEl8E4FevszgjI.html
03-12-2020||Delhi||National Green Tribunal extends ban on firecrackers||The National Green Tribunal on Wednesday extended the ban on the sale and use of all firecrackers during the Covid-19 pandemic in Delhi-NCR and other cities, where the ambient air quality is in the poor category or worse. The green court said that during Christmas and on New Year, the use of green crackers will be allowed between 11:55 pm to 12:30 am, but only at places where air quality is in the moderate zone or better. A bench headed by NGT chairperson Adarsh Kumar Goel, said its direction to restrict the use of firecrackers in places where air quality is ‘moderate’ or below for green crackers and for the duration of not more than two hours, will continue. “There will be a total ban on the sale and use of all kinds of firecrackers during Covid-19 pandemic in the NCR and all cities/towns in the country where the ambient air quality falls under the ‘poor’ and above category,” the bench said. The NGT also directed all district magistrates to ensure that firecrackers are not sold in Delhi-NCR and ordered strict compliance of the ban. The bench said that if individuals face problems due to burning of firecrackers they can consult the district magistrate for compensation. It said, “Any victim of pollution, apart from other remedies, can approach the district magistrate for compensation.” The air quality in Delhi remained in the very poor category on Wednesday, and the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that with temperatures and wind speeds reducing, the pollution levels are likely to become worse in the coming weeks. Last month, ahead of Diwali, the NGT had imposed a complete ban on the sale and use of all kinds of firecrackers from November 9 midnight to November 30 midnight in not only Delhi and NCR, but well as in places which had recorded ‘poor’ air quality levels in 2019. The NGT had then attached a list of 122 places across the country, which had recorded poor air quality levels in November 2019. Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said that a cracker ban can only be successful if its enforcement is ensured efficiently. “Firecrackers were banned even during Diwali, but across neighbourhoods in Delhi and even in NCR towns, we heard cracker bursting and its impact was also seen in the air quality on Diwali night and a day later. Bans can only be successful with effective enforcement and awareness among citizens. They need to be made aware of the side effects of large scale cracker bursting on their and their family’s health,” said Roychowdhury said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/national-green-tribunal-extends-ban-on-firecrackers/story-zkgiEHNozKcMRq3JWqJWJL.html
03-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality to worsen from Dec 4, may be severe on Dec 6, says Met dept||Delhi’s air quality continued to remain in the very poor category on Wednesday as wind speed was negligible through the day. India Meteorological Department (IMD), however, said the worst is yet to come and the air quality is likely to deteriorate even further from December 4. As per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) on Wednesday was 373, categorised as very poor. This was a marginal deterioration from Tuesday’s was 367, and quite worse than Monday’s 318, though both are in the very poor category. On a scale of 0 to 500, an AQI value between 300 and 400 is considered very poor, and those above 400 are considered severe. According to the IMD, the air quality is likely to remain in the very poor zone till Friday and is likely to nosedive more from Saturday as the wind speed slows down further. The met agency warned that on December 6 and December 7, the AQI might even slip to the severe zone. VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment monitoring research centre, said the reduction in wind speed from November 4 will lead to an accumulation of pollutants. “Friday, the wind speed will still be ample, but from December 4, it will slow down again. Our forecast says that on December 6 and December 7, the air quality will be at its worst and may even slip into the severe zone,” Soni said. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that currently, Delhi is receiving north-westerly winds but it the next few days, the wind direction will change to easterlies. “The speed will slow down and there will also be an increase in moisture in the air, which will also lead to pollution particles sticking closer to the ground,” Srivastava said. He continued, “The change in direction is due to a western disturbance that will affect Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh from the night of December 3, which will also have an impact on Delhi. Whenever there is a change in wind pattern, winds turn calm and trap pollutants.” IMD also said there is a forecast of shallow fog on December 4 or 5. The forecast added that the minimum temperature will go up and settle at 10-11 degrees Celsius, over the next two days. On Wednesday, the Safdarjung observatory --- the official marker for the city’s weather --- recorded a minimum temperature of 8.2 degrees Celsius, a point below normal. The maximum settled at 26.7 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/air-quality-to-worsen-from-dec-4-may-be-severe-on-dec-6-says-met-dept/story-9hy1YnGntq9mQkJO7x7a1O.html
03-12-2020||Delhi||Field trials of Pusa’s stubble solution show mixed results||Deepak Yadav, a farmer in Jhuljhuli village of south-west Delhi’s Najafgarh, picks up and displays the stubble of a late variety of Basmati strewn on his two-acre farm. It’s in the same form it was in more than a month ago when district officials sprayed the Pusa bio-decomposer on the farm, they had told him the post-harvest stubble would turn into manure in 15 to 20 days.For some reason, the bio-decomposer doesn’t quite seem to be effective on the post-harvest stubble of the fine-grained rice.“We had got the bio-decomposer sprayed on our field on October 23 and it has been a month and the stubble has not shown any sign of melting,” said Yadav, 33 . He quickly added: “We are not nitpicking. The Delhi government’s initiative could be a good solution for farmers cultivating mota chawal (non-basmati rice), but we have not benefitted much.”The Pusa bio-decomposer has been developed by scientists at the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI) in New Delhi to turn post-harvest crop residue into manure, and has been plugged by Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal as a potential solution to the annual practice of stubble burning in neighbouring agrarian states such as Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh that covers the national capital in a blanket of smoky haze every winter.In the capital, the bio-decomposer was sprayed free in 25 villages between October 11 and November 20. Hindustan Times visited some villages in the rural pockets of Delhi to find out how effective it had been. Some farmers found the solution to be useful in converting stubble into manure, some said that it was taking much longer than the 15-20 days the Delhi government said the process would take.The free spraying was not done everywhere, but interested farmers could contact the district administration and get their farms sprayed if they wanted to. The government survey was limited to 2,000 acres of non-basmati fields. In the same village where Deepak Yadav grows basmati, three farmers cultivate non-basmati varieties. Two of them said they seen noticeable results in their fields where the bio-decomposer successfully turned the sturdy stubble into manure. “The stubble from non-basmati varieties is thicker and coarser, and when we use harvesting machines, the remains of the straw requires some kind of intervention. It took around 22 days for the stubble to turn into manure. It is good that the government is coming up with solutions for farmers and providing this free of cost,” said Kushal Singh, who owns eight acres in Najafgarh.The early response for the decomposer may be mixed, but most farmers say the solution could be a viable option. Farmers should be told how exactly the solution works, under what circumstances it could take longer than the promised 15-to-20 days to turn stubble into manure, and what the farmers need to do to ensure the process is faster and more effective, they said.How the solution worksThe bio-decomposer is being tested in the fields of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab and factors such as temperature and quality of stubble plays a role in the impact of solution, said Dr AK Singh, director of IARI . He said the process takes at least 25 days, but could last as long as two months.He said that bio-decomposer works on stubble after it has been cut into small pieces by the Super Straw Management System (SMS). SMS is a machine attached to a combine harvester, which chops the stubble remains into pieces. The solution is then sprinkled over the stubble.“Once the field is harvested, the solution has to be sprayed in the field after which the field should be plowed with a rotavator machine so that the solution is mixed with the soil. The field should then be irrigated and left for 25 days. When left for 25 days, we have seen that the effectiveness of the decomposer was as much as 90%,” Singh said.He said that for the decomposition to be effective, a minimum 25 days is needed between paddy harvesting and sowing of the wheat crop. When the temperatures are lower or when the bio-decomposer is used after machines such as Happy Seeder are put to use, the time for decomposition was around two months, Singh said. The Happy Seeder is a machine that cuts and lifts rice straw, sows wheat, and deposits the straw over the sown area as mulch.A senior official of the Punjab agriculture department said that in the agricultural demography of Delhi, such simple solutions could be easier, but Punjab has nearly 2.7 million hectares of land under paddy cultivation, of which 600,00 hectares is used to grow basmati varieties.“It is great that the Delhi government is taking the initiative and wants to find a solution for the problem of stubble burning, but agrarian states such as Punjab, Haryana and even UP have been experimenting with solutions for years now, and if things were this simple, then we would be the first to implement it. We are not denying that a certain bio-decomposer could be yielding better results, but the result depends on multiple factors,” the official said, requesting anonymity.Farmers who harvested their fields in the latter part of October or early November, when the temperatures start falling, would have possibly seen that the process takes longer, said a Delhi government spokesperson.“I don’t know which farmers are finding it to not be effective, but it could possibly be because in lower temperature the fungal growth takes time. The field should also be irrigated, because the fungus needs that to grow. But the non-basmati farmers that we have surveyed have seen a tremendous result from the Pusa bio-decomposer,” the spokesperson said.Delhi is differentTribhuvan Singh, a farmer in Daryapur village of Najafgarh, said the practice of setting fire to stubble to clear the fields has been almost done away with in Delhi. He said that because of small landholdings, it is easier for farmers here to hire labour and manually get rid of the stubble.“There are two problems. Since the fields are smaller, the use of mechanised harvesting is neither a feasible option, nor a very popular one here. Another reason is that when you harvest some fine basmati varieties by machines, the grain tends to split and this fetches lower prices in the market. So the need for such a bio-decomposer is barely there in Delhi,” said Singh.The Delhi government had on November 5 announced the formation of a 15-member impact assessment committee to study the effectiveness of the Pusa bio-decomposer in 2,000 acres (810 hectares) of Delhi. Based on the committee’s report, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai had written to the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in Delhi and adjoining areas, calling the bio-decomposer a “success” in Delhi and suggested that the new body direct states such as Punjab and Haryana to use the technique.The Basmati Survey Report, 2018-2019, by the Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) showed that Delhi had a total of 1.58 hectares of land under rice cultivation, out of which in 1.2 hectares basmati varieties were being grown.Similarly, in states such as Punjab and Haryana there was a consistent shift towards the cultivation of basmati varieties, instead of non-basmati ones. The APEDA report shows that in Punjab, between 2018 and 2019, 549.19 hectares of land was under basmati cultivation, compared to the total of 2863.08 hectares under rice cultivation. In Haryana, out of 1278.79 hectares of land under rice cultivation, 631.75 hectares were under basmati.Latest data also shows that the area under basmati this year in Punjab was the highest in five years, a 4% increase compared to last year.“In Delhi, the practice of stubble burning is not prevalent. That is also because the city has a major packaging industry, so the stubble from paddy is sold off at a good price, without having to burn it. This was just an experiment. We need to send out the message that this is a feasible solution. Happy seeders, etc have not worked because those are not practical solutions,” the Delhi government spokesperson said.She added, “These machines are hardly used for 20 days in the whole year. Even if all the subsidies were working perfectly and reaching the farmers in time, it is very expensive. No one will invest that much for its use for just 20 days in a year. The bio-decomposer is a great alternative.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/field-trials-of-pusa-s-stubble-solution-show-mixed-results/story-bebas4zBCsPAOJWZGth89M.html
03-12-2020||Delhi||North MCD plans to allow open-air dining at restaurants||In a bid to boost its revenue, the North Delhi Municipal Corporation has decided to allow open-air dining at restaurants in its jurisdiction in tune with a similar policy passed by its south Delhi counterpart in September-October this year. A proposal approved by the civic body’s standing committee now needs a nod from the House.The draft policy says open-air dining would be allowed only at those restaurants where the open areas or terraces are privately owned, which means there should be no encroachments on public land or footpaths.A senior official of the north corporation said the proposal was mooted after representatives of the National Restaurants Association of India (NRAI) had in September requested it to allow open-air dining at restaurants.“The policy to allow open-air dining at restaurants was passed in a standing committee meeting last month. We will send it to the house meeting of the municipality for a final nod later this month. The draft policy is similar to the one passed by SDMC, so most terms and conditions are likely to remain same,” the official said.The draft policy approved by the north corporation said barbecue or cooking of food will not be allowed in the open area and it will be limited to only serving food. The policy said liquor will be permitted only at licensed terraces or other open spaces available with restaurants. “To serve liquor, restaurant owners will have to install view cutters and high parapet grilles (at least 1.5 metre high) so passerby do not face inconvenience. The open space should not have a direct opening to the main road,” the policy proposal read.Jai Prakash, mayor north corporation, said restaurant owners will have to produce a structural safety certificate, procure a NOC from the fire department and pay a licence fee to the civic body to avail of the benefit. “The fee is likely to remain the same as the policy approved by SDMC. Such innovative moves are required to boost revenue, especially when the civic body is undergoing a severe financial crisis,” Prakash said.The licence fee will be Rs 100 per square feet for normal restaurants and Rs 200 per square feet for star rated (4-star and above) dining restaurants and hotels. The draft policy also says light music can be played but should not be beyond permissible decibel levels. Sandeep Anand Goyle, member managing committee of NRAI, said that the decision would benefit the industry and help the cash-strapped civic body to generate more revenue.“There are many restaurants with open space available in areas such as Civil Lines, Kamla Nagar, Rohini, Karol Bagh among others. Such a practice is already in place in many cities. SDMC had already approved this policy and now we hope other municipalities such as NDMC and EDMC will allow open-air dining facility,” Goyle said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/north-mcd-plans-to-allow-open-air-dining-at-restaurants/story-7OtlpuMoLu6kFWA4u9AbQK.html
03-12-2020||Delhi||Jamia Millia Islamia to hold semesters in monitored online mode||Keeping in mind the Covid-19 pandemic, Jamia Millia Islamia will hold its semester exams in December in the online mode using the “proctored ” method, which uses technology to monitor a user computer’s webcam and audio to check for unfair means. The decision was taken after a meeting of university officials with vice-chancellor Najma Akhtar and deans of all faculties on Wednesday.“The concern of travelling during the pandemic is genuine as there has been a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi and other states. Since calling them here for offline exams during such a scenario would not be safe, we have decided to hold proctored exams for the students,” Akhtar told HT.Following the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown in March, institutes in the national capital – including Jamia – have been closed for regular classes and exams. During the last semester, the university evaluated its students based on multiple assignments. Following the University Grants Commission guidelines over conducting exams, the varsity decided to conduct exams this time instead of doing assessments.“Students will be provided the schedule beforehand. They would have to sit in front of their computers, download the question paper, write it without using any unfair means on a sheet of paper, and send it to us by either scanning it or taking a photograph,” Akhtar said. The university plans to rope in agencies that conduct such exams.Controller of examinations and registrar Nazim Hussain Jafri said, “Online exams can be conducted in three ways such as centre-based, open book, or the proctored way. We found that the proctored way would be most feasible as it would help to check against unfair means. There will be cameras which will help us determine if students are looking here and there for help.”Akhtar said students without access to laptops and computers will be able to use their phones for the exams. “If the computer software detects any movement or hint of unfair means, it will alert the systems and our teachers, who will be overseeing the exams as invigilators, will check that student,” she said.The decision is likely to bring relief to students who had been concerned over the fate of their papers following the November 26 notification that said exams would be held from December 29 without any other details.Laraib Ahmad Neyazi, a postgraduate student at the university, said, “The recent surge in Covid-19 cases in Delhi, having entered its third wave, has become a major issue of concern, especially for outstation students. Since there was no official notification over how exams will be conducted, it had been unsettling. If the authorities had decided to conduct offline exams, booking tickets during a pandemic would require time and will be subject to availability.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jamia-millia-islamia-to-hold-semesters-in-monitored-online-mode/story-RX2AU8BrNXHbf5zL9Th9jO.html
03-12-2020||Pune||Four booked for misbehaving with woman constable in Sahakarnagar||Four persons have been booked by the Sahakarnagar police for abusing and threatening a woman police head constable on duty near Padmavati temple on December 1.The woman constable was returning to the police station after getting medical treatment organised for another colleague, when the main accused grazed past them on a speeding bike. The woman constable objected to his rash and negligent driving and asked him go slow as a precaution. Later, he called his associate and together they abused her and prevented her from discharging her official duty, the complaint stated. The police have invoked Indian Penal Code Sections 143 (unlawful assembly), 147 (rioting), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty, 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 341 (wrongful restraint) , 332 (voluntary hut), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation) against the accused.No arrests have been made so far. Assitant police inspector (API) SP Patil, who is the investigating officer in the case, said that the woman constable was abused and harassed through unlawful assembly by the accused. A case has been lodged and the accused will be arrested soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/four-booked-for-misbehaving-with-woman-constable-in-sahakarnagar/story-0OAdDiA0jZmuGGG1n5atCI.html
03-12-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 in Mumbai: BMC relies more on antigen tests since September||Amid the fear of a second Covid-19 wave, the city’s civic authorities are relying more on the less-dependable, but quick-result Rapid Antigen Tests (RATs) than the Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) tests, considered the gold standard in detecting the presence of the novel coronavirus, the pathogen responsible for Covid-19.According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) dashboard, of the 3.52 lakh tests conducted in September in Mumbai, 69% were RT-PCR while the remaining were done using RAT kits. In October, of the 4.07 lakh tests, 60% were RT-PCR and 40% RATs. In November, the usage of RT-PCR kits was at its lowest in three months. Of the 3.59 lakh tests in November (up to November 29), 54% were through the RT-PCR method and 46% via rapid antigen kits. While the positivity rate (the number of people that test positive out of every 100 tested) of RT-PCR tests is between 10% and 12%, the positivity rate of antigen tests is only 3% or 4%.Also read: ‘Free’ mask, Rs 200 fine in Mumbai for rule violators: BMCMumbai is testing anywhere between 12,000 to 19,000 samples every day. BMC, however, maintains its RT-PCR testing capacity is around 15,000 samples a day.Civic officials also claim that the actual number of RT-PCR tests has not dropped drastically, although the ratio may have changed, and that every symptomatic citizen testing negative via rapid antigen kits was made to undergo RT-PCR test. Its data substantiates the claim.In 30 days of September, 2.42 lakh tests were performed using RT-PCR and 1.09 lakh using rapid antigen kits. In 31 days of October, the number of RT-PCR tests went up to 2.43 lakh, with 1.64 lakh rapid antigen kits. However, in November (up to November 29) the number of RT-PCR went down to 1.97 lakh, compared to 1.62 lakh rapid antigen kits.Mumbai recorded 58,195 cases and 1,236 deaths in September; 50,006 cases and 1,281 deaths in October, followed by 25,052 cases and 535 deaths in November (up to November 29).Also read: Covid-19 situation under control, need to watch till mid-December: Mumbai civic bodySuresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said, “There is no change in the testing strategy of the BMC. RT-PCR still remains the gold standard, and we are scaling up our capacity of conducting RT-PCR tests. But the overall positivity rate of RT-PCR kits has also gone down to 10-12% now; this was much higher two or three months ago, which helps in reducing the overall positivity rate.”Kakani added, “The ratio proportion for RT-PCR tests may have gone down, but there is no huge fall. We are constantly increasing testing, if you see the overall data. However, in the past two months, a lot of curbs have been lifted. Due to this, we need instant results and rapid antigen kits are preferred. We have set up free testing centres, and are conducting free testing for hawkers, BEST bus drivers and other citizens that have multiple contacts, including passengers coming from Rajasthan, Gujarat, Delhi and Goa. Even here, symptomatic citizens testing negative in rapid antigen kits are being tested via RT-PCR.”Overall, since February 3, over 18.96 lakh samples have been tested, of which, according to BMC, 30% are using rapid antigen kits, as of November 29.The testing figures have drastically increased in the city post July 7, when the BMC liberalised testing.Due to this, any citizen irrespective of being symptomatic or not can get tested for Covid-19. The one-lakh-test mark was crossed on May 6, four lakh on July 14, five lakh on July 29, eight lakh on September 3, and the 10 lakh on September 22. In the next two weeks, Mumbai is set to cross the 20 lakh mark.Also read: Mumbai civic body records 3% positivity rate at free Covid-19 testing centresExperts feel the BMC should focus both on increasing Mumbai’s testing and also ensuring a balance between RT-PCR and rapid antigen kits testing in order to handle the positivity rate and fatality rate better.Dr Rahul Pandit of Fortis Hospital, a member of Covid-19 task force of Maharashtra, said, “As a member of the task force, I strongly feel that maximum testing should be done using the RT-PCR method. Rapid antigen kits should only be used on patients who are in the hospital with symptoms of Covid-19. Rapid antigen kits cannot be used for the general public. However, in Mumbai, the rapid antigen kits ratio at times is around 45-55%, which should not be the case.”Dr Om Shrivastava, a member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force, said, “I feel we should test 10 to 30 times behind every positive case. For example, if we are saying on Monday, the city had around 600 cases, we should be testing at least 25,000 samples daily.”Another member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force, Dr Shashank Joshi, said, “The ratio of rapid antigen testing went up because Mumbai’s capacity to test using RT-PCR method saturated. We need to add more RT-PCR testing facilities in Mumbai. That is the reason why the ratio of RT-PCR to rapid antigen appears to have changed over September, October and November.”“We need to continue testing as we unlock more so that we diagnose and treat faster quicker and reduce our test positivity rate and improve our case fatality rate,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-in-mumbai-bmc-conducting-more-antigen-tests-than-rt-pcr/story-sm8uKhLT6XaqZ5kdFnq0II.html
03-12-2020||Delhi||More DU Colleges come forward to help students in distress amid Covid-19 pandemic||After St Stephen’s College set up a Covid-19 Resilience Fund to support tuition fees of underprivileged pupils, a few other colleges and their alumni associations in Delhi University (DU) have stepped up measures to help students facing financial constraints due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The Old Students Association (OSA) of Hindu College has decided to help students facing challenges in paying their fees. In a statement issued on Friday, Ravi Burman, president of the association said, “The pandemic has created major problems for students from the economically weaker sections and they are facing a huge challenge in paying the college annual fees. The Old Students Association (OSA), Hindu College, has decided to help such students, whose family annual income is below Rs 5 lakh, with a one-time study grant to cover their annual college fees up to rupees twenty thousand only.”Earlier on November 24, St Stephen’s had announced a fund to support tuition fees of 50-100 students facing financial constraints due to the pandemic and urged present students and alumni to donate for the cause.There have been demands for financial support to students from economically weaker families across DU colleges in the wake of the recent death by suicide of a student of Lady Shri Ram College (LSR) due to financial distress and the pressure of online education earlier this month. Hindu College Principal Anju Srivastava issued a statement saying, “All donations intended for the benefit of the students of the College or any other activity or purpose in the College should be through cheques in the name of the Principal, Hindu College, Delhi and sent to the College Office.The College channelises all such assistance through its Students Aid Fund committee.”“The college invites applications from needy students and, on the basis of complete data made available by individual students to the College, takes informed and considered decisions to help all the needy students taking into account the total funds available for this purpose. It goes without saying that with additional funds, the College would be able to meet the financial need of a larger number of applicants,” the statement read.Janaki Devi Memorial College started helping some students in distress with unutilised students’ fees from the last academic session. Principal Swati Pal said the college has a robust system to help students from economically weaker sections. “The number of students who need help has increased this year due to the pandemic. So, the college felt the need to increase the amount we generally use to give fee waiver to students every year. We decided to use some amount of money collected as students’ fees last year and lying unutilised for the purpose. It is students’ money and should only be used to help students. So, around Rs 3 lakh has been added to our students’ assistance fund. Now, the amount we usually give to students has substantially increased,” she said.Rajdhani College has also come up with the initiative named “uthhan”, under which it sends study material through speed post to students who are unable able to access online education. The college has so far helped over 350 students living in different parts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/more-du-colleges-come-forward-to-help-students-in-distress-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-T84eIKJZMxDXS1KoOMtRCL.html
03-12-2020||World||US Senate passes bill to raise country cap on Green Cards, Indians may benefit||The US Senate on Wednesday passed a legislation raising country limits on the annual grant of Green Cards — permanent residencies — that, when enacted, will stand to benefit hundreds of thousands of Indian-origin applicants who currently face a statistical possibility of waiting for decades for their turn.The Fairness for High-Skilled Immigrants Act was passed on Wednesday by unanimous consent. The House of Representatives had passed its own version of the legislation in 2019. The two bills will now go through a reconciliation process to iron out the differences in the House and Senate versions, and a combined legislation must pass both chambers again before being sent to the White House for the president’s signature and enactment.“Ending nationality discrimination and levelling the playing field for high-skilled applicants, our legislation will keep families together while helping American companies retain top talent. I urge my colleagues and the President to take the final steps necessary to make these reforms a reality,” said Raja Krishnamoorthi, the Indian American lawmaker who co-sponsored by the House bill.The US grants some 1 million Green Cards a year. But a country cap limits their numbers to 7% of the total for applicants from every specific nation. The worst affected by this country limit are Indian applicants, with more than 300,000 primary applicants in the backlog. “While not everything that we wanted, it will still clear the existing backlog a lot sooner than the present miserable situation,” Immigration Voice, a group pushing for the removal of the country-limit said to its members in a message.It added: “After working on this bill for over a decade. you can take it from us that the bill is a great and hard-fought first-step towards a fairer more equitable immigration system.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-senate-passes-bill-to-raise-country-cap-on-green-cards-indians-may-benefit/story-9pMOJPUzWQHlTn3luI74mL.html
03-12-2020||World||UK: 4 die after explosion at waste water plant, say police||Four people have died following an explosion at a waste water treatment plant near the southwest England city of Bristol, police said Thursday.Chief Inspector Mark Runacres of Avon and Somerset Police said that a fifth person was injured during the explosion at Avonmouth but that his condition is not thought to be life-threatening.He said the incident was not terror-related but would not speculate on the cause of the blast.Prime Minister Boris Johnson said “our hearts go out” to the victims of the Avonmouth tragedy and their families.“Deeply saddened to learn that four people have lost their lives in the water works explosion in Avonmouth,” he said on Twitter. Deeply saddened to learn that four people have lost their lives in the water works explosion in Avonmouth. Our hearts go out to the victims and their families. Thank you to the emergency services who attended the scene.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/police-4-die-after-explosion-at-uk-waste-water-plant/story-H6OJ4gT5ASLG230srokDaK.html
03-12-2020||World||Mexican president says Trump helped him get Covid-19 vaccine||Mexico’s president said Thursday he plans to give the military a role in distributing coronavirus vaccines, which he says US President Donald Trump helped him get.President Andrés Manuel López Obrador said that on his visit to Washington in July he spoke with Trump and Vice President Mike Pence and they “helped facilitate so that Mexico was taken into account and could get the vaccine.”López Obrador suggested Mexico will probably wait until US regulators approve the Pfizer vaccine later this month before giving it the go-ahead in Mexico.On Wednesday, Mexico’s Health Department signed a contract for 34.4 million doses of that vaccine, and said it hoped to receive 250,000 doses in December. Each person requires two doses.The president said the government is discussing with “the army and the navy, and we are defining the whole operation” to distribute the vaccine. López Obrador has given the military an unprecedented array of responsibilities in his two years in office, including distributing medical supplies and guarding hospitals.López Obrador is one of the few world leaders who has yet to congratulate President-elect Joe Biden.Mexico has suffered the world’s fourth-highest death toll, with over 107,500 test-confirmed deaths. However, the country does very little testing and officials estimate the real death toll is probably closer to 150,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mexican-president-says-trump-helped-him-get-covid-19-vaccine/story-7uHNP2WSzLP2e4WMrH1LjN.html
03-12-2020||World||Multiple casualties in blast at English water recycling centre||A large blast at a water treatment site near Bristol in England on Thursday has caused multiple casualties, with police declaring it a major incident.Emergency services said there had been a large explosion at the site in Avonmouth, southwest England, which was believed to have occurred in one of the chemical tanks at Wessex Water’s Bristol water recycling centre.“We can confirm there are multiple casualties on site,” a spokeswoman for Avon Fire and Rescue Service said, adding that injuries were serious. “It’s very much ongoing,” she said.There were no further details of the casualties. Police said a full investigation into the incident would be conducted.“Officers remain at the scene and are likely to be for some time as we work together with other agencies in dealing with this major incident,” Chief Inspector Mark Runacres said.“Police enquiries into exactly what happened are at a very early stage and are continuing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/multiple-casualties-in-blast-at-english-water-recycling-centre/story-jGZBb7KunRCfIHyng2b8AJ.html
03-12-2020||World||France to investigate dozens of mosques suspected of ‘separatism’||France will on Thursday start investigating dozens of mosques suspected of fomenting Islamist ideology to combat the rising threat of religious extremism, Interior Minister Gerald Darmanin said. The government has launched what it calls an unprecedented action against “separatism” following several Islamist attacks in France this autumn, including the beheading of a teacher who had shown his class caricatures of the Prophet Mohammad.Darmanin said 76 mosques out of the more than 2,600 Muslim places of worship had been flagged as possible threats to France’s Republican values and its security. Where suspicions are confirmed, the mosque will be closed down, he said.“There are in some concentrated areas places of worship which are clearly anti-Republican,” Darmanin told RTL radio, “(where) imams are followed by the intelligence services and where the discourse runs counter to our values.”Investigators will dig into the mosques’ financing and the background of imams deemed suspicious and search for evidence, among other things, of Koranic schools for young children.President Emmanuel Macron has warned of the growing menace of ‘Islamist separatism’ and its challenge to the unity of the secular French republic. Core French values such as the freedom of belief, gender equality and the right to blaspheme are threatened in localised areas, he has said. “Faced with this ill that is eating into our country, France has rallied with resilience, with determination,” the president wrote in a letter to the Financial Times newspaper in November.The government’s crackdown has left some Muslims feeling increasingly alienated in their own country. Some Muslim leaders while backing the government’s fight against Islamism have warned it against inadvertently lumping an overwhelming majority of their faith with the “fomenters of hate”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/france-to-investigate-dozens-of-mosques-suspected-of-separatism/story-tHLTBEdLmYpJ8ahhgPNIfP.html
03-12-2020||World||Covid-19: Here’s the list of top 10 countries with most number of virus related deaths||Amid positive reports about the safety and efficacy of vaccines developed by leading biotech firms, new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and related deaths continue to surge in several countries. The United States on Wednesday recorded over 3,100 Covid-19 deaths, the highest single-day spike till date, according to Johns Hopkins’ Coronavirus Resource Center. The United States has reported the highest number of deaths so far, followed by Brazil and India. Here’s the list of top 10 countries with most number of Covid-19 deaths:United States: It has recorded at least 273,590 deaths and nearly 14 million cases of coronavirus. The incoming Biden-Harris Administration has to face a major challenge to take control of the situation.Brazil: The Latin American nation is at the second spot with over 174,515 deaths. The Brazilian president was heavily criticised for not taking the virus seriously.India: It has recorded more than 138,000 Covid-19 deaths, with the national capital witnessing a huge spike.Mexico: The US’ neighbouring country has recorded over 107,000 deaths so far.United Kingdom: It has recorded at least 59,796 deaths as the country enters a tiered system.Italy: The European nation is again witnessing a surge in Covid deaths. It has reported over 57,000 deaths so far.France: Italy’s neighbour is also among the worst-hit countries in terms of Covid-19 deaths. It has recorded more than 52,800 deaths to date.Iran: The Middle Eastern nation was already struggling to overcome US’ sanctions and the pandemic created a major crisis in the region. Iran has reported at least 49,348 deaths so far.Spain: Another European nation in the list with more than 45,784 deaths. Russia: It has reported over 41,000 Covid-19 deaths and remains immensely dependent on its vaccine, Sputnik V, to combat the disease.Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE are waiting for an emergency use authorisation from the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) after reporting a vaccine efficacy rate of 95 per cent. Though the UK’s health regulator has approved the use of Pfizer’s BNT162b2 vaccine, the government has to overcome logistical challenges to innoculate frontline workers and people at greater risk. Meanwhile, the threat of coronavirus continues to be a major concern for governments around the world as businesses reopen under strict guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-here-s-the-list-of-top-10-countries-with-most-number-of-virus-related-deaths/story-jKdybjwisscWaw4PhY8iTL.html
03-12-2020||World||Survey says US mayors see permanent changes even after Covid-19 vaccine||It will take years for US cities to fully recover from Covid-19 and during that time “a lot of small businesses won’t survive.”Those are among the takeaways from a survey of mayors released Thursday from the Boston University Initiative on Cities. The survey, conducted from June through August, doesn’t take into account the latest challenge of distributing virus vaccines to local residents.The 2020 Menino survey polled 130 mayors on how they are coping with the economic fallout from the pandemic and the disproportionate impact it brings to the most vulnerable residents and businesses.Two-thirds of US mayors expect that Latinos, renters, immigrants, and Black residents would still be feeling economic harm next summer. Moreover, half of mayors think it will take until 2022 for the arts and culture sectors to return to normal.“With the pandemic still spreading and the federal government still unable to come to an agreement on additional stimulus, we suspect mayors may actually be underestimating just how much their cities will change,”said Graham Wilson, Director of Boston University’s Initiative on Cities.Permanent changes are expected even after a vaccine is available, with 90% of mayors seeing a continued shift toward working from home. This will lead to downtown office buildings becoming “less desirable,” according to 60% of the mayors. The same percentage expect a permanent reduction in in-person retail shopping.The dire predictions do not bode well for small businesses. The majority of mayors expect those firms will be dramatically and permanently reshaped by Covid-19. Almost two-thirds doubt that new businesses will quickly emerge to replace those that went out of business during the pandemic.To help combat tax-base losses from closed businesses, New York City has proposed new streams of revenue such as a Pied-a-Terre Tax and increasing fines. The city also suggested reducing spending with measures such as citywide pay freezes and changes to health care coverage. In Washington, DC, the transit authority proposed eliminating weekend metro train coverage and reducing staff.Of the measures taken to help residents, mayors thought that the eviction moratoriums were the best policy: 93% of Democrat mayors supported these measures as did half of Republicans. Additional policies that were popular with mayors include universal paid sick leave, an increase in the minimum wage and commercial-eviction moratoriums.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/survey-says-us-mayors-see-permanent-changes-even-after-covid-19-vaccine/story-Zf2OgUPPNJIDfdWKyRYVRN.html
03-12-2020||World||US virus deaths top 3,100 in a single day for the first time||The US recorded over 3,100 Covid-19 deaths in a single day, obliterating the record set last spring, while the number of Americans hospitalized with the virus has eclipsed 100,000 for the first time and new cases are topping 200,000 a day, according to figures released Thursday.The three benchmarks altogether showed a country slipping deeper into crisis, with perhaps the worst yet to come, in part because of the delayed effects from Thanksgiving, when millions of Americans disregarded warnings to stay home and celebrate only with members of their household.Across the US, the surge has swamped hospitals with patients and left nurses and other health care workers shorthanded and burned out.“The reality is December and January and February are going to be rough times. I actually believe they are going to be the most difficult time in the public health history of this nation,” Dr. Robert Redfield, head of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said Wednesday.Health authorities had warned that the numbers could fluctuate strongly before and after Thanksgiving, as they often do around holidays and weekends, when because of reporting delays, figures often drop, then rise sharply a few days later as state and local agencies catch up with the backlog.Still, deaths, hospitalizations and cases in the US have been on a fairly steady rise for weeks, sometimes breaking records for days on end.The US recorded 3,157 deaths on Wednesday, according to the tally kept by Johns Hopkins University. That’s more than the number of people killed on 9/11, and it shattered the old mark of 2,603, set on April 15, when the New York metropolitan area was the epicenter of the US outbreak.The number of people in the hospital likewise set an all-time high Wednesday, according to the Covid Tracking Project. It has more than doubled over the past month.Also, the number of newly confirmed infections climbed just over 200,000 Wednesday for the second time in less than a week, by Johns Hopkins’ count.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-virus-deaths-top-3-100-in-a-single-day-for-the-first-time/story-TkmgkXwQNqG1AgG8AEfshI.html
03-12-2020||World||Bangladesh begins relocating Rohingya refugees to island||Authorities in Bangladesh have begun relocating thousands of Rohingya refugees to an isolated island despite calls by human rights groups for a halt to the process, officials said Thursday.The United Nations has also voiced concern that refugees be allowed to make a “free and informed decision” about whether to relocate to the island in the Bay of Bengal.The island’s facilities are built to accommodate 100,000 people, just a fraction of the million Rohingya Muslims who have fled waves of violent persecution in their native Myanmar and are currently living in crowded, squalid refugee camps.On Thursday, 11 passenger buses carrying refugees left Cox’s Bazar district on the way to the island, where they are expected to arrive after an overnight stopover, a government official involved with the process said on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak to the media.He said “a few thousand” refugees were in the first batch. Authorities in Cox’s Bazar did not say how the refugees were selected for relocation.About 700,000 Rohingya fled to the camps in Cox’s Bazar after August 2017, when the military in Buddhist-majority Myanmar began a harsh crackdown on the Muslim group following an attack by insurgents. The crackdown included rapes, killings and the torching of thousands of homes, and was termed ethnic cleansing by global rights groups and the UN.Foreign media have not been permitted to visit the island, called Bhashan Char, or floating island. It was once regularly submerged by monsoon rains but now has flood protection embankments, houses, hospitals and mosques built at a cost of more than $112 million by the Bangladesh navy.Located 21 miles (34 kilometers) from the mainland, the island surfaced only 20 years ago and was never inhabited.Contractors say its infrastructure is like a modern township, with multifamily concrete homes, schools, playgrounds and roads. It also has solar-power facilities, a water supply system and cyclone shelters.International aid agencies and the UN have vehemently opposed the relocation since it was first proposed in 2015, expressing fear that a big storm could overwhelm the island and endanger thousands of lives.The U.N. said in a statement Wednesday that it has not been involved in preparations for the relocation or the selection of refugees and has limited information about the overall plan.“The United Nations takes this opportunity to highlight its longstanding position that Rohingya refugees must be able to make a free and informed decision about relocating to Bhasan Char based upon relevant, accurate and updated information,” it said.Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch on Thursday urged the government to cancel the relocation plan.The current refugee camps near the town of Cox’s Bazar are overcrowded and unhygienic. Disease and organized crime are rampant. Education is limited and refugees are not allowed to work.Still, most Rohingya are unwilling to return to Myanmar due to safety concerns. Government officials didn’t have an estimate of how many refugees would be willing to be relocated to the island.Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina has repeatedly told the UN and other international partners that her administration would consult them before making a final decision on the relocation, and that no refugees would be forced to move.Bangladesh attempted to start sending refugees back to Myanmar under a bilateral framework last November, but no one was willing to go.The Rohingya are not recognized as citizens in Myanmar, rendering them stateless, and face other forms of state-sanctioned discrimination.A UN-sponsored investigation in 2018 recommended the prosecution of Myanmar’s top military commanders on charges of genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity for the violence against the Rohingya.Myanmar is defending itself in the International Court of Justice in the Hague, Netherlands, after the West African nation of Gambia brought a case backed by the Organization for Islamic Cooperation, Canada and the Netherlands over the crackdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bangladesh-begins-relocating-rohingya-refugees-to-island/story-H8FYM7qCVjjg8S0oMFrn7O.html
03-12-2020||World||US jobless claims drop, offering ray of hope for labor market||Applications for US state unemployment benefits fell by the most in almost two months, offering some hope that the gradual recovery in the job market will continue despite a spike in Covid-19 infections and renewed business restrictions.Initial jobless claims in regular state programs decreased by 75,000 to 712,000 in the week ended Nov. 28, the first drop in three weeks, Labor Department data showed Thursday. Without adjustments for seasonal fluctuations, applications dropped by about 122,000 during the period.Continuing claims -- the total pool of Americans on state unemployment benefits -- declined 569,000 to 5.52 million in the week ended Nov. 21.The main figures were below economists’ projections for 775,000 initial claims and 5.8 million continuing claims, based on the median estimates in Bloomberg surveys. One caveat: seasonal adjustments on claims data tend to be trickier around holidays, and last week included Thanksgiving, making it important to see if the trend holds.While the latest claims figures show gradual improvement, they’re still well above pre-pandemic levels. The labor market also remains challenged by a rising number of Covid-19 cases and a tightening of business restrictions in parts of the US Some industries such as travel, leisure and hospitality are still depressed by the pandemic and could cut jobs more aggressively in the absence of additional fiscal relief.The data show a labor market that “continues to progress through the pandemic, but still has a long road to a complete recovery,” Ian Lyngen, head of US rates strategy at BMO Capital Markets, said in a note.US stocks were little changed at the open, while 10-year Treasury yields fell along with the dollar.All but 10 states and territories posted unadjusted declines in initial claims last week, with some of the biggest drops occurring in California, Texas, Michigan and Georgia. Illinois, Oregon and Indiana reported the largest increases in filings during the holiday week.Adjustment Issues“The plunge in initial claims does not refute the idea that the trend is rising; we expected a sharp fall because of the difficulty of adjusting for Thanksgiving,” Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics, wrote in a note. He had forecast claims of 725,000.The government’s monthly jobs report on Friday is projected to show payrolls grew by about 475,000 in November, still solid yet the smallest gain in seven months, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists. The jobless rate is forecast to tick down to 6.8% from 6.9%.A report on Wednesday from ADP Research Institute showed that companies in the US added fewer jobs than expected in November, a sign that businesses are slowing down the rate of hiring as coronavirus cases reach new levels.Continuing claims for Pandemic Unemployment Assistance, a program that provides benefits to self-employed and gig workers, decreased about 339,000 to 8.87 million in the week ended Nov. 14. This number, though, is inflated by multiple-counting and fraud, according to a government watchdog’s report this week, and the Labor Department plans to add a disclaimer.More people have moved into extended programs like Pandemic Emergency Unemployment Compensation, but these were put in place by the Cares Act will expire by year-end and leave millions of people without government aid. The number of Americans on PEUC assistance rose slightly to 4.57 million in the week ended Nov. 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-jobless-claims-drop-offering-ray-of-hope-for-labor-market/story-phXaRytWVk58zCFVkV1gnJ.html
03-12-2020||World||Covid-19: Three former US presidents may take vaccine shot on camera||The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is scrutinising the data submitted by Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE to grant the required approval for emergency use. While President Donald Trump continues to question what he believes is a delayed approval of the Covid-19 vaccine, the three most recent former presidents have volunteered to lead an awareness campaign once the vaccine is available for people at lesser risk. Former Presidents Barack Obama, George W. Bush and Bill Clinton have shown willingness to encourage the sceptical Americans to take the Covid-19 vaccine shot by publicly getting inoculated against the coronavirus disease. During an interview on SiriusXM’s The Joe Madison Show, Obama said that he would get the shot if Dr Anthony Fauci, US’ top infectious disease expert, tells him the vaccine is safe.“I promise you that when it’s been made for people who are less at risk, I will be taking it. I may end up taking it on TV or having it filmed, just so that people know that I trust this science,” Obama said.Also Read | US top health expert criticises UK’s approval of Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine. Here’s the reasonAfter Obama’s remarks, CNN reported that Bush’s chief of staff, Freddy Ford, said the president has already reached out to Dr Fauci and Dr Deborah Birx, the White House coronavirus response coordinator, to check if he could help in promoting the vaccine. Ford added that vaccines need to be deemed safe, and administered to the frontline workers and people at greater risk.“Then, President Bush will get in line for his, and will gladly do so on camera,” he added.Clinton’s press secretary, Angel Urena, also told the media network that the president will definitely take a vaccine as soon as it is made available to him based on priorities determined by the health officials. Urena said that Clinton would take the vaccine in a public setting if it encourages other Americans to get the doses.As the United States is waiting for an emergency use authorisation of Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine, Dr Fauci has indicated that some people are still concerned about the safety of the vaccine. Speaking to Fox News, Dr Fauci said that the FDA is doing “the correct way”, asserting that the US agency scrutinises the data “very carefully” to guarantee a safe and efficacious vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-three-former-us-presidents-may-take-vaccine-shot-on-camera/story-9HR0bytJtA0IhkGLVdV9OK.html
03-12-2020||World||China’s population may decline as fertility rate falls below warning level: Official||China’s total fertility rate has fallen below the warning line and the population growth has entered a critical turning point, Chinese Minister of Civil Affairs Li Jiheng has said amid demographers warning that the country’s population will soon start to decline.Facing a demographic crisis with a rapidly ageing population after implementing the decades-old one child policy, China permitted to have a second child since 2016.Now the demographers call on the government to immediately lift restrictions on having babies and be more tolerant toward babies born out of wedlock, and do more to lower the costs of raising and educating children.Li in an article said that under the influence of various factors, Chinese people are less willing to have children, the total fertility rate has fallen below the warning line, and the population development has entered a critical transition period, state-run Global Times reported on Thursday.On November 1, China started the world’s biggest exercise of population count to document demographic changes in the country.About seven million workers began a door to door survey for the seventh census in the country to account for China’s population stated to be 1.37 billion in the last exercise conducted ten years ago.The figures were expected to reveal more data related to the population which is key for China’s strategic development as the second-largest economy after the US and demographic crisis faced by it.He Yafu, an independent demographer, told the newspaper that the total fertility rate (the average number of children a woman gives birth to) should remain at about 2.1 for China’s population to stay stable, and a total fertility rate of 1.5 is a highly sensitive warning line, given historical and international experience.“Once it slips below 1.5, a country falls into the trap of low fertility and is unlikely to recover,” He said, noting that China’s fertility rate has fallen below that.He warned that China’s total population will soon start to decline, ending the trend of economic growth.Once a country’s population starts to contract, there is little chance of reversing the trend, He told the daily.The birth rate on the Chinese mainland dropped to 10.48 per 1,000 people last year, the lowest in seven decades, and the number of births was down 580,000 compared with the previous year, according to the National Bureau of Statistics.Last year, Chinese Premier Li Keqiang said during his annual press conference that China’s population above 60 years increased to 420 million and that of children over six years to 100 million putting heavy pressure on nursing services and day care centres.Recent studies said China’s population is aging at a rate and scale that is historically unprecedented. The Communist nation is expected to lose 400 million working age persons this century, and the number is already falling, Merrick Carey CEO of the Lexington Institute, a public policy think tank in Arlington, Virginia said in a policy paper.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-s-population-may-decline-as-fertility-rate-falls-below-warning-level-official/story-L2PtRUp2tqi6Xu9LtwIjSJ.html
03-12-2020||World||Iran ready to show goodwill if US, Europe abide by nuclear deal, says foreign minister||Iran will fully comply with a 2015 deal aimed at preventing it from developing nuclear weapons if both the United States and Europe honour their original commitments, Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif said on Thursday.US President Donald Trump quit the pact in 2018, saying it did not do enough to curb Iran’s nuclear and ballistic missile programs or its militant influence in the Middle East.However, president-elect Joe Biden has said he will rejoin it if Tehran first resumes strict compliance. He has also said he would work with allies “to strengthen and extend it”.Addressing a Rome conference via video-link, Zarif said the so-called Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) could not be renegotiated but it could be resurrected.“The United States has commitments. It is not in a position to set conditions,” he said.Iran’s Guardian Council watchdog body approved a law on Wednesday that obliges the government to halt U.N. inspections of its nuclear sites and step up uranium enrichment beyond the limit set under the 2015 deal if sanctions are not eased within two months.Zarif said that although the government did not like the law, it would nonetheless implement it.“But it is not irreversible,” he said. “The Europeans and USA can come back into compliance with the JCPOA and not only this law will not be implemented, but in fact the actions we have taken ... will be rescinded. We will go back to full compliance.”Zarif said economic sanctions imposed by the Trump administration had cost Iranians $250 billion and made it impossible to buy medicines and vaccines needed to combat the coronavirus, which has taken a particularly heavy toll on his country.“It is a crime against humanity,” he said, adding that the US measures were preventing European companies from doing business in Iran, dashing hopes of a massive upswing in trade after the 2015 deal was signed.“Europeans say they are in full compliance (with the deal) but they simply are not. ... We don’t see any European companies in Iran, we do not see any European country buying oil from Iran, we do not see any European banks send us our money,” Zarif said.The foreign minister said he hoped that neighbouring Arab states, some of which have recently forged ties with Iran’s arch-enemy Israel, would seek dialogue with Tehran once Trump left office.“We are their neighbours. We will be in this region together. I do not believe that they want to allow Israel to bring the fight to Iran,” Zarif said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-ready-to-show-goodwill-if-us-europe-abide-by-nuclear-deal-says-foreign-minister/story-lz9oJKNgBsKuci0WBodsFI.html
03-12-2020||World||Greek city to use Christmas money for more ICU beds||A city in northern Greece hard hit by the coronavirus pandemic said Thursday it will scrap plans to set up Christmas decorations and a nativity scene this year to donate the money to the local hospital’s intensive care ward.“We have decided to use the funds to pay for two additional ICU spaces, three medical monitors, and 1,000 protective suits for medical staff,” the mayor of Serres, Alekos Chrysafis, told The Associated Press.City officials said they would announce further details of the donation to the state-run Serres General Hospital at a later date.Cities in northern Greece have been the hardest hit by the pandemic.The daily number of cases in the country’s second-largest city, Thessaloniki, remains higher than those reported in greater Athens — an area with a population more than three times larger.Greece on Thursday extended a nationwide lockdown by another week, through Dec. 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/greek-city-to-use-christmas-money-for-more-icu-beds/story-ddinJOAHkd7669IosxXPfO.html
03-12-2020||World||US pandemic death toll mounts as danger season approaches||US deaths from the coronavirus pandemic have surged past 2,000 for two days in a row as the most dangerous season of the year approached, taxing an overwhelmed healthcare system with US political leadership in disarray.The toll from Covid-19 reached its second-highest level ever on Wednesday with 2,811 lives lost, according to a Reuters tally of official data, one short of the record from April 15.Nearly 200,000 new US cases were reported on Wednesday, with record hospitalizations approaching 100,000 patients.The sobering data came as the head of the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on Wednesday warned that December, January and February were likely to be “the most difficult time in the public health history of this nation.”CDC Director Dr. Robert Redfield told an event hosted by the US Chamber of Commerce that the United States could start losing around 3,000 people - roughly the number that died in the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001 - each day over the next two months.“The mortality concerns are real and I do think unfortunately before we see February, we could be close to 450,000 Americans that have died from this virus,” Redfield said. The US death toll since the start of the pandemic stands at around 273,000.Meanwhile, the administration of outgoing President Donald Trump has yet to articulate an effective strategy to contain the virus beyond promoting the development of a vaccine, which could be rolled out later this month but faces an uphill battle amid a skeptical public and logistical challenges.The Republican president’s few public appearances recently had been dedicated to efforts to overturn the results of the Nov. 3 election won by Democratic President-elect Joe Biden, who will assume office on Jan. 20.Maryland Governor Larry Hogan, a Republican, said he had been concerned about the transition between the Trump and Biden administrations, but he had grown more hopeful that the federal government response would not lapse.“We’re in the middle of the worst battle of this war, and the hand-off has got to be smooth. We’ve got to work together. There’s got to be no politics in this virus,” he told ABC News’ “Good Morning America” program.Hogan echoed Redfield’s warning, citing dark days ahead and noting even when vaccines are approved, there initially won’t be enough to even cover all of his state’s healthcare workers.“The worst part of this virus is coming in the weeks and maybe the month or two to come. And we’re not going to have enough for everybody, so we’re just asking for patience,” Hogan said.Hospitals are filling up with Covid-19 patients, reducing care for people needing treatment for other ailments. Redfield said 90% of US hospitals were in areas designated as coronavirus “hot zones.”Rural and suburban hospitals were particularly affected, threatening their economic viability, Amesh Adalja, a senior scholar at the Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security, told MSNBC on Thursday.“There’s no end in sight because there’s so much community spread,” Adalja said, warning that the pandemic could force hospital closures.Still, rapid vaccine development, aided by the Trump administration’s “Operation Warp Speed” program, offered a ray of hope.Britain on Wednesday gave emergency approval to Pfizer Inc’s Covid-19 vaccine, a sign that US regulators may soon follow suit and allow inoculations within weeks.US Presidents Barack Obama, George W. Bush and Bill Clinton have volunteered to get their Covid-19 jabs on television to help demonstrate their safety, CNN reported, citing press aides to Bush and Clinton and an Obama interview on Sirius XM radio.“I may end up taking it on TV or having it filmed, just so that people know that I trust this science,” Obama said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-pandemic-death-toll-mounts-as-danger-season-approaches/story-jQ8Ev6dSqpFMcfZN11m6hO.html
03-12-2020||World||Ex-Hong Kong lawmaker goes into exile, plans to travel to UK||A Hong Kong pro-democracy activist and former lawmaker who is visiting Denmark said Thursday he is going into exile and will soon move to Britain.“I hereby announce that I will go into exile and will withdraw my membership in the Democratic Party of Hong Kong to leave Hong Kong,” Ted Hui said in a statement to The Associated Press. “There is no word to explain my pain and it’s hard to hold back tears.” It was not clear when he would travel to Britain which, in response to a crackdown on opposition in Hong Kong, has extended residency rights for up to 3 million Hong Kongers eligible for British National Overseas passports, allowing them to live and work there for five years.“My personal determination is that my exile will not be a migration. My only home is Hong Kong which is why I will not apply for asylum in any country,” Hui said.“I will wait for the day that I can go home with the bells of freedom ringing in a free Hong Kong. Until my last breath I will fight to the end. Revive Hong Kong, revolution now!” In July, another democracy activist, Nathan Law, left Hong Kong after testifying in a U.S. congressional hearing about a tough new security law imposed by mainland China on the semi-autonomous territory.At first, he declined to disclose his whereabouts for safety but later appeared in London.“I will continue to fight on aboard and will make it my life mission to widen Hong Kong’s international battle front with people like Nathan Law in the U.K.,” Hui said.Hui was arrested in Hong Kong in May over an incident in the Legislative Council in which he dropped a rotten plant and attempted to kick it at the body’s president. He was able to get his passport back from the government and a visa after receiving an invitation from Danish lawmakers to travel to Denmark, where he arrived Tuesday.Since the start of anti-government protests in June 2019, Hong Kong police have made more than 10,000 arrests.Prominent pro-democracy figures who have been arrested include activists Joshua Wong and Agnes Chow, as well as media tycoon Jimmy Lai, an outspoken advocate for democracy.Hui’s parents, wife and two young children left Hong Kong on a flight on Wednesday, Hong Kong online news portal HK01 reported. It did not mention their destination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ex-hong-kong-lawmaker-goes-into-exile-plans-to-travel-to-uk/story-N3hC9lziv7SmgXRtOvRokI.html
03-12-2020||World||Covid-19: Don’t get carried away, it’s not over, warns UK PM Boris Johnson||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson warned Britons not to get carried away by news of a Covid-19 vaccine being approved by the UK’s regulator, insisting that the “struggle is not over” as England’s month-long lockdown ended with a small drop in new coronavirus cases.One of the highest daily deaths in recent days was reported on Wednesday evening – 648 – as new cases reflected a slight drop at 16,170, which remained at least thrice that of the peak of April-May. The overall death figure in hospitals and care homes reached 59,699.Johnson hailed the achievement of scientists as the regulator approved the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine on Wednesday, and noted that it was developed from an idea pioneered by the English physician Edward Jenner, whose smallpox vaccine was tested in colonial India.Johnson said, “(It) is all the more vital that as we celebrate this scientific achievement, we are not carried away with over optimism or fall into the naïve belief that the struggle is over. It’s not. We’ve got to stick to our winter plan, a comprehensive programme to suppress the virus.”According to him, it is no longer a hope but certainty that normal life would return in the spring.“(We) are no longer resting on the mere hope that we can return to normal next year in the spring, but rather on the sure and certain knowledge that we will succeed - and together reclaim our lives and all the things about our lives that we love,” he said. “So I want to thank the scientists and all those around the world who have taken part in the trials and got us to this stage.”The Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA), the UK regulator, is currently evaluating data from clinical trials of the University of Oxford-AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccine candidates, with decisions expected in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-don-t-get-carried-away-it-s-not-over-warns-uk-pm-boris-johnson/story-5O0xTRofNAcg2cLAOpeCyK.html
03-12-2020||World||US top health expert criticises UK’s approval of Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine. Here’s the reason||British health regulators on Wednesday authorised the use of Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine for public inoculation against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), drawing criticism from US’ top infectious disease expert Dr Anthony Fauci. The United Kingdom became the first country to approve Pfizer’s vaccine, BNT162b2, which has shown an efficacy rate of 95 per cent, while the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is yet to provide emergency use authorisation to the biotech firms.Dr Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, opined that the UK regulators did not scrutinise the data as carefully as the FDA is carrying out in its review. Speaking to Fox News, Dr Fauci said that the FDA is doing “the correct way”, asserting that the US agency scrutinises the data “very carefully” to guarantee a safe and efficacious vaccine.Also Read | Covid-19 vaccine: Is Pfizer approval hasty? Can Indians get vaccinated in UK? All you need to knowThe top health expert further said that rushing to approval would add to the “existing hesitancy” as many people are concerned about the safety of the vaccine. He boasted that the United States has the “gold standard” of a regulatory approach and the UK did not do it as carefully which helped them get ahead by a couple of days.“I don’t think that makes much difference. We’ll be there. We’ll be there very soon,” Dr Fauci added.Meanwhile, UK government ministers and health experts have said that all required procedures were followed to approve Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine. Education secretary Gavin Williamson claimed that Britain has better medical regulators that France, Belgium, and the United States and that’s why it was able to approve the vaccine before other countries. “That doesn’t surprise me at all because we’re a much better country than every single one of them,” Williamson told LBC.Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE expect to produce up to 50 million vaccine doses globally in 2020 and up to 1.3 billion doses by the end of 2021. Pfizer’s vaccine candidate needs ultra-cold storage at around minus 75°C and can be kept in the fridge for five days. An independent panel of experts is scheduled to meet on December 10 to discuss and review Pfizer’s application and could authorise the jab in the US soon after that date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-top-health-expert-criticises-uk-s-approval-of-pfizer-covid-19-vaccine-here-s-the-reason/story-TD4115vVmn3enwiNLChKxK.html
03-12-2020||World||Power shutoffs hit California as high winds risk new fires||Tens of thousands of customers were impacted by power shutoffs that could ultimately affect more than 1 million people in Southern California as high winds raised the risk of live wires sparking wildfires.Edison International’s Southern California Edison cut electricity Wednesday to 14,776 homes and businesses across six counties as of 11:20 p.m. local time, with the majority in Kern County and Ventura Country, according to its website. The utility has warned it could shut power to a total of more than 272,000 customer accounts in eight counties, or about 816,000 people based on the size of the average household. That would constitute the region’s largest public-safety blackout this year.Dry winds strong enough to knock down power lines are forecast to rattle Southern California through Thursday, exposing more than 6.4 million people to critical fire weather, according to the National Weather Service and the U.S. Storm Prediction Center.“If fires do start they will have a pretty dangerous spread,” said Marc Chenard, a senior branch forecaster at the center. The danger isn’t just the immediate conditions, but the prolonged dryness that has plagued the area and turned trees, grasses and shrubs into fuel. Red flag fire warnings are posted in and around Los Angeles County as the threat grows.California has already been charred by record fires that have burned 4.2 million acres and killed 31 people in 2020. Utilities including Edison and PG&E Corp. have cut power repeatedly to prevent live wires from falling into dry brush.Sempra Energy’s San Diego Gas & Electric utility said 50,415 customers had been shutoff so far, and earlier warned about 88,700 homes and businesses, or more than 260,000 people, could lose power Wednesday night or Thursday morning, and possibly remain in the dark through Sunday or Monday. Most affected customers would be in the mountains east of San Diego. PG&E, California’s largest utility, said it may cut power to about 600 homes and businesses in Kern County this week, as well.Last week, Edison cut power to thousands of customers on Thanksgiving during high winds. In 2019, PG&E filed for bankruptcy after its wires sparked the deadliest blaze in state history.The high winds and blackouts will be mostly confined to Southern California but could touch a portion of the state’s Central Valley as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/power-shutoffs-hit-california-as-high-winds-risk-new-fires/story-9vhRYk6klOGRR1DcFqC2QM.html
03-12-2020||World||New Zealand’s carbon-neutral pledge: Govt faces uphill struggle||The New Zealand government’s goal to become carbon neutral by 2025 will only happen if backed by more funding and bold policies - including those targeting dairy farmers - rather than relying on carbon offset schemes, environmentalists said.In addition to promising a carbon-neutral public sector in five years, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern declared a climate emergency earlier this week, a move the main opposition party dismissed as “virtue signalling”.“It’s an ambitious goal and it’s good to see the government committing to lead from the front,” Amanda Larsson, senior campaigner at Greenpeace Aotearoa, said on Thursday.“But in order to make a dent on emissions, what we really need is government policies to cut pollution from the agriculture and transport sectors.”Climate change was a key issue in October’s election, won by Ardern’s Labour Party, with many New Zealanders becoming more aware of the threat earlier this year as ash from bushfires in Australia turned its skies red and its glaciers brown.Proud of being one of the world’s most pristine, naturally beautiful countries, New Zealand has introduced climate change into its school curriculum, while parliament approved a bill to cut carbon emissions to net-zero by 2050.But according to analysis by research coalition Climate Action Tracker, the country’s current climate policies are “insufficient” and inconsistent with limiting global warming to the Paris accord’s tightest goal of 1.5 degrees Celsius.Methane from agriculture and waste accounts for more than 40% of New Zealand’s emissions, it noted.“We need to see bolder action from the government, a commitment to fully decarbonise the state sector and a clear plan that sets out how they will do it,” said Siri Andersen, co-director at climate campaign group 350 Aotearoa.“Our government has the mandate and the numbers in parliament to lead a rapid, just transition to a low-carbon future, and the community is expecting (it) to take bold action,” Anderson told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.The Pacific nation’s “School Strike 4 Climate” marches last year put pressure on Ardern to be bolder with her climate policies but her efforts to do so were often hampered by her coalition partners in government, green groups said.Under the new goal, government agencies will have to measure and report emissions and offset any they can’t cut by 2025.The programme will also be backed by a NZ$200 million ($141 million) fund to finance replacing coal boilers and help buy electric or hybrid vehicles.“The key challenge is, and always will be, funding,” said Elliott Hughes, a spokesman at Generation Zero, a youth-led climate action organisation.“Without additional funding, it’s difficult to imagine organizations already short on cash having the resources to decarbonize effectively.”However, this week’s announcement would send a strong signal to households, businesses and investors that climate change is a priority for New Zealand, green groups said.This needed to be followed with policies, regulations and incentives that make climate-smart choices easier, said Greenpeace’s Larsson.Government agencies will now need to look at replacing their fossil fuel vehicles with greener alternatives - like public transport, cycling or electric vehicles, environmentalists said.Improvements to public buildings - many of which use coal fired boilers - would also be needed to ensure energy efficiency and to prioritise renewable energy, they added.In addition, the new pledge should provide incentives for government designers of public housing to consider energy efficiency - vital given the country’s chronic housing shortage, said Denys Trussell of Friends of the Earth New Zealand.But the concern is that meeting the new emissions target will involve offsetting building emissions, which doesn’t “green” the sector at all, said Cindy Baxter, a spokewoman at Coal Action Network Aotearoa, a climate campaign group.“Buying offsets isn’t proper climate action,” she said. “We need to see this sector actually cutting fossil fuel use, but there needs to be funding for that.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-zealand-s-carbon-neutral-pledge-govt-faces-uphill-struggle/story-Z136At3Oc8BAVi9DQqWD8M.html
03-12-2020||World||China hits out at US after report of new visa restrictions||China on Thursday accused critics in the US government of “an escalation of political suppression” against Beijing following a report of new visa restrictions on members of China’s ruling Communist Party and their immediate family members.Foreign ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying said China would “make representations” to the US following the report Thursday in the New York Times that such people would be limited to one-month, single-entry visas.Hua called Washington’s approach “totally inconsistent with the US’s own interests,” and said it would damage America’s global image.“I think it is obvious to all that this is an escalation of political suppression by some extreme anti-China forces in the US out of strong ideological prejudice and deep-rooted Cold War mentality against China,” Hua said at a daily briefing.The Times report could not immediately be confirmed, but follows earlier hints that Washington was planning such a move, possibly even including a total ban on all 92 million Communist Party members. It wasn’t clear how the restrictions would be enforced since many members do not play active public roles in the party’s institutions.The restrictions would be the latest punitive measure taken against China’s leadership and economy amid sharpening disputes over human rights, the coronavirus pandemic, trade, technology, Taiwan and a host of other issues.On Wednesday, the U.S. said it would block imports from a major Chinese producer of cotton goods because of its reliance on workers detained as part of a crackdown on ethnic minorities in China’s northwest.Washington has already slapped travel bans and financial sanctions on officials connected to the crackdown on Uighurs and other Chinese Muslim groups in Xinjiang, as well as on Chinese and Hong Kong officials it accuses of restricting social and political rights in the semi-autonomous Chinese city through the implementation of a harsh new national security law.Diplomatic ties hit a low point over the summer when the US ordered the closure of the Chinese consulate in Houston and China responded by demanding the US vacate its consulate in the southwestern city of Chengdu.Washington had been loosening restrictions on travel by Chinese to the U.S., seeking to take advantage of the lavish spending habits of China’s newly wealthy. Beginning in 2014, Chinese travelers — whether party members or not — became eligible for multiple-entry visas valid for 10 years, with stays of 180 days allowed for each entry, while students were permitted visas good for five years. China reciprocated with similar treatment for US citizens. Chinese who make up the single largest group of foreign students at American universities have already complained of tougher conditions for obtaining or extending visas. Chinese academics have also faced greater scrutiny, while dozens of journalists with state media have been forced to return home and visa restrictions placed on those remaining, prompting retaliation from Beijing.Analysts have long speculated that President Donald Trump will impose harsher measures on China before leaving office on Jan. 20, placing President-elect Joe Biden in a bind in managing the increasingly fractious relationship.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-hits-out-at-us-after-report-of-new-visa-restrictions/story-95kGTk84C9FG7kLlPk3EBJ.html
03-12-2020||World||Promise of Covid-19 vaccines is ‘phenomenal’: World Health Organisation||The promise of Covid-19 vaccines is “phenomenal” and “potentially game-changing”, Hans Kluge, the World Health Organization’s regional director for Europe, told a briefing on Thursday.Speaking from Copenhagen, he said supplies were expected to be very limited in the early stages and countries must decide who gets priority, though the WHO said there is “growing consensus” that first recipients should be older people, medical workers and people with co-morbidities.Britain approved Pfizer Inc’s Covid-19 vaccine on Wednesday, jumping ahead of the rest of the world in the race to begin the most crucial mass inoculation programme in history.Prime Minister Boris Johnson touted the green light from Britain’s medicine authority as a global win though he recognised the logistical challenges of vaccinating an entire country of 67 million.US and EU regulators are sifting through the same Pfizer vaccine trial data, but have yet to give their approval.The WHO said on Wednesday it had received data from Pfizer and BioNTech on the vaccine and was reviewing it for “possible listing for emergency use”, a benchmark for countries to authorise national use.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/promise-of-covid-19-vaccines-is-phenomenal-world-health-organisation/story-byLNOamArR2rwa8CnURB3I.html
03-12-2020||World||Covid-19: Tony Blair’s think tank urges need for ‘digital health passports’||A digital health passport with a traffic lights-like system that shows vaccine status of individuals is needed to ensure that those with negative Covid-19 test and vaccination are exempt from curbs and are able to attend sport events, concerts and travel, a think-tank set up by former British prime minister Tony Blair said on Thursday.After the Pfizer-BioNTech coronavirus vaccine was approved on Wednesday, the focus moved to delivery and administration from next week, and overcoming anti-vaccine content on social media. Prominent individuals from various walks of life are to be enlisted to encourage wide take-up of the vaccine. The first doses are expected to arrive from Belgium on Tuesday.The Tony Blair Institute for Global Change said the ultimate goal of an effective vaccine programme should be to enable people to live safely and freely alongside the virus. A key part of this will be individuals having “health passports” that shows their current vaccine status.It called on the Boris Johnson administration to urgently approve a digital platform for the health passport that can draw on vaccine and testing data by the second quarter of 2021, so that the economy, travel and society can be reopened and future lockdowns avoided.The think-tank’s report, titled ‘How the Government Should Call the Shots: Getting the UK Vaccine-Ready’, said the passport should show an individual’s next testing date, current testing status (antigen and antibody), vaccine date and location, and vaccine status including expiry date.It said, “The digital health passport would mean that those with an up-to-date negative Covid-19 test or a vaccination would not be subject to strict Covid restrictions and would be able to access settings such as the workplace, hospitality venues, sporting events, concerts.”“The Premier League is already believed to be in discussion with the Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport on how such a system could allow fans to return to stadiums next year. It would enable a person to show they are Covid-safe, and give people working in those settings a quick, reliable and secure way to verify this,” the report added.A simple system of status similar to traffic lights would indicate whether someone has received the vaccine and/or has an acceptable test result, allowing them to move freely: ‘red’, indicating the person neither has an up-to-date test, nor a vaccine; ‘amber’, indicating a negative rapid test and ability to move freely until next test, ideally weekly; and ‘green’, indicating the person has had a vaccine and is able to move around freely until next vaccine date.Jonathan Van-Tam, England’s deputy chief medical officer and a leading figure in official communication on the virus, said thinking around issues such as “vaccination certificates” to make it easier for people to access venues and services had not yet evolved.However, he added that the National Health Service (NHS) would have a clear digital record of who had been vaccinated, saying, “There are definite plans to make sure that we absolutely know, and it is linked to health digital records, who has had the vaccine, who has one dose, two doses if two doses are required, which vaccine they’ve had, and when they’ve had it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-tony-blair-s-think-tank-urges-need-for-digital-health-passports/story-rgKqYW5sLxM1Jx5B8kcJEL.html
03-12-2020||World||Opposition warns Imran Khan of violence if govt attempts to obstruct rally in Lahore||Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) leader Rana Sanaullah on Thursday warned the Prime Minister Imran Khan-led Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) government against creating hurdles for the upcoming Lahore rally by the opposition alliance Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM), stating that the government would be responsible if the situation turns violent.Sanaullah made the statements as was talking to reporters following a PDM meeting wherein the opposition parties reviewed arrangements for the December 13 rally and devised strategies for the planned protest, reported Geo News.Reiterating that the opposition was only demanding free and fair elections, the PML-N leader said the alliance’s next power show in Lahore would act as a referendum against the selected and puppet government of Imran Khan.“December 13 will be the day when people from across the country will come out against this fascist government,” said Sanaullah.The PDM has announced that it would hold the public gathering in Lahore at all costs, and Pakistan Peoples’ Party (PPP) will host a meeting on December 7 in Lahore to finalise the arrangements ahead of the rally, hosted by the PML-N, reported Geo News.Meanwhile, PML-N secretary information Marriyyum Aurangzeb advised Imran Khan to ‘gracefully’ resign before the public shows him the door on December 13. In response to the upcoming jalsa, PTI Senator Faisal Javed Khan on Thursday said the government will not create any obstacles for the PDM jalsa as the rally is a ‘big obstacle in itself’.Taking to his Twitter account, he further wrote that all PDM rallies have flopped and failed to exert any pressure on the government.This comes after the fifth power show of the PDM began on Monday amid the government’s desperate attempts to obstruct it.The PDM has held four similar rallies in Peshawar, Gujranwala, Karachi, and Quetta since October 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/opposition-warns-imran-khan-of-violence-if-govt-attempts-to-obstruct-rally-in-lahore/story-fMp6mNqCtVMrhF775UeSqO.html
03-12-2020||World||‘Take action’: Melting of Greenland ice sheet could be reversed, say scientists||The massive Greenland ice sheet could be facing a point of no return, beyond which it may no longer fully regrow, permanently changing sea levels around the world, warns a new study. Using computer simulations, the study, published in the journal The Cryosphere, analysed how climate change could lead to irreversible sea level rise as temperatures continue to rise and the Greenland ice sheet continues to decline.While there were scenarios in which the ice sheet melting could be reversed, the scientists, including those from the University of Reading in the UK, said these relied on actions to counteract global warming before it’s too late. According to the researchers, the ice sheet is seven times the area of the UK, and stores a large amount of the Earth’s frozen water. In the research, the scientists simulated the effects of Greenland ice sheet melting under a range of possible temperature rises, ranging from minimal warming to worst-case scenarios.At current rates of melting, they said the ice sheet contributes almost one millimetre to sea level per year, accounting for around a quarter of the total increase. The researchers said despite seasonal periods of growth, Greenland has lost 3.5 trillion tons of ice since 2003.Under all future climates like the present or warmer, they found that the ice-sheet declined in size and contributed to some degree of sea-level rise.Importantly, the scientists said there were scenarios in which the ice sheet melting could be reversed. But these depended on actions to reverse global warming before it’s too late, the scientists added.Under scenarios in which global warming goes beyond 2°C, there could be significant ice loss and several metres of global sea level rise to persist for tens of thousands of years, the scientists said, adding that a warmer climate would lead to greater sea-level rise. In such cases, even if temperatures later return to current levels, the study showed that the Greenland ice sheet will never fully regrow once it melts beyond a critical point. After this point, the scientists said sea levels would permanently remain two metres higher than current levels, regardless of other contributing factors. According to the researchers, this is because the ice sheet is so large that it has a substantial impact on its local climate, and as it declines, Greenland would experience warmer temperatures and less snowfall. Once the ice-sheet retreats from the Northern part of the island, the study cautioned that the area would remain ice-free. To avoid irreversible sea level rise such melting would cause, the scientists said climate change must be reversed before this threshold is reached. “To avoid partially irreversible loss of the ice sheet, climate change must be reversed -- not just stabilised -- before we reach the critical point where the ice sheet has declined too far,” said Jonathan Gregory, a co-author of the study from the University of Reading.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/take-action-melting-of-greenland-ice-sheet-could-be-reversed-say-scientists/story-PMJkY1DL3vUR5if5j3enYO.html
03-12-2020||World||Cyclone Burevi moving away from Sri Lanka, damage has been minimal: Officials||Cyclone Burevi, which made landfall in Sri Lanka’s Northern Province on Wednesday night, has not caused much damage but its after-effects will last for another 24 hours, the country’s meteorological department said on Thursday. The tropical cyclone made landfall in the island nation’s Trincomalee district between Thiriyaya and Kuchchaveli villages last night, the Disaster Management Centre said. Districts in the island’s north and east received as much as 200 mm of rain. However, its impact was less than what was anticipated by the officials. Incidents of flooding and tree felling were reported but property damage has largely been contained, officials said. In a flash flood in Trincomalee district, 12 houses were submerged. Over 630 families were accommodated in temporary relief camps, while over 1,700 families made personal arrangements in safe locations. In northern Vavuniya district, around 250 families had been evacuated, officials said. The meteorological department said the cyclone will exit the country by early Thursday evening but the coastal areas will continue to be out of bounds as strong winds and heavy rain are predicted. The effect of the cyclone will gradually diminish throughout the day, the department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/cyclone-burevi-moving-away-from-sri-lanka-damage-has-been-minimal-officials/story-fADzTyhUDlHVJU2XwAQo2L.html
03-12-2020||World||Our right to build dam on Brahmaputra, says China as experts warn of impact||China on Thursday said it was within its legitimate rights to build a dam on the lower reaches of the Yarlung Zangbo river close to the Line of Actual Control (LAC), but gave the assurance that the hydropower project will take into account the interests of downstream countries such as India and Bangladesh.China has finalised initial plans to build a “super” dam on the lower reaches of the river in Medog county of Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR), in a move that could have a far-reaching impact on northeastern India’s water security.Originating in TAR, the trans-border Yarlung Zangbo flows into Arunachal Pradesh where it is called Siang, and then to Assam as Brahmaputra before flowing into Bangladesh.International experts HT has spoken to on the project say that though details about the massive project are not publicly available, once completed, it could impact lower riparian states and the environment in TAR.Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson, Hua Chunying, brushed aside the apprehensions.“Hydropower development in the lower reaches of Yarlung Zangbo river is China’s legitimate right. When it comes to use and development of cross-border rivers, China always acts responsibly. We have a policy featuring development and conservation, and all projects will go through science-based planning and assessment with due consideration for its impact downstream and taking into account interests of upstream and downstream regions,” she said at a briefing when asked about the project on Thursday.“The development of lower reaches of Yarlung Zangbo is in early stages of planning and assessment. There is no need to read too much into that,” she said.“For a long time, China, India, and Bangladesh have had good cooperation in sharing hydrological information, flood and disaster reduction and contingency management. We will continue communication through existing channels,” Hua said.“Going forward China, India, Bangladesh and other concerned countries will continue to have good communication. There is no need for any anxiety on this matter,” she added.Experts caution that though it’s early to comment on the adverse impact of the project, there are reasons for unease in India and Bangladesh.“As a major downstream dam on the lower reaches of the Yarlung Tsangpo, this is surely an important development but also something that has been speculated for quite some time now. China’s position as an upper riparian allows it extensive leverage over the Himalayan waters and in recent years, China’s dam-building and water-diversion projects, coupled with reservations in transparently sharing all hydrological data despite MoUs (post the Doklam standoff), have all been a major cause of concern for downstream countries like India and Bangladesh,” said Farwa Aamer, director of the South Asia Programme at the New York-based EastWest Institute.Miroslav Marence from the River Basin Development programme of The Netherland-based IHE Delft Institute for Water Education said the lack of information on the project was worrying.“To form technical and also scientific opinion, project data is essential. After we have these data, we can speak about influences and impacts - environmental and social. The project looks known in China but without any international knowledge. This makes the project more conspirative,” Marence said.Marence said that it was his “speculation” that China isn’t sharing project details because it “has big impact”.Experts cited the example of how China has handled the issue of sharing hydrological data for the Lancang river (originating in Tibet) and flowing as Mekong through southeast Asian countries such as Laos, Cambodia, Thailand and Vietnam.It was only in October this year that China signed an agreement with the Mekong River Commission (MRC) to share year-round data on the flow of its portion of the vital waterway amid rising concern that Chinese dams may be causing drought downstream in southeast Asia. Until October, Beijing was only sharing water data for the months between June and October.A push for more data from China’s portion of the Mekong river intensified this year after the US government’s criticism that 11 Chinese dams on the Lancang river were “hoarding” water and hurting livelihoods downstream, a Reuters report said in October. Beijing denies the accusation.Ameya Pratap Singh, doctoral candidate at Oxford University, who has written on “India-China relations and the geopolitics of water”, said New Delhi needs to be on alert about the dam.“From India’s perspective the risks are …flooding, water scarcity, diversion of river water and consequent unrest in the northeast where the administrative control of the state has been historically feeble,” Singh said.The new project fits well with China’s turn towards coercive diplomacy and weaponisation of dependence elsewhere, Singh said, giving the example of the ongoing China-Australia trade spat.“Natural resources and Tibetan water reservoirs will potentially be weaponised with India and S-E Asia. There are no good options for New Delhi… But India itself has been unwilling to negotiate trans-boundary river water sharing with Bangladesh. The upper riparian holds all the cards,” Singh added.Liu Xiaoxue, south Asia watcher at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, a leading Chinese government-affiliated think tank, said the dam will give an opportunity for China and India to cooperate, but New Delhi’s apprehensions will remain.“My opinion is that it will surely benefit both sides leading to mutual prosperity. But given the huge deficit of political mutual trust between India and China, there is no doubt it will result in a strong resistance from the Indian side,” she told HT.“Actually, in today’s world, to handle cross-border rivers remains a big challenge to any concerned party. India and China as upstream and downstream countries as well as two emerging powers are supposed to develop a more sensible and sustainable way to solve their differences,” Li said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/our-right-to-build-dam-on-brahmaputra-says-china-as-experts-warn-of-impact/story-t1enUMRHZXvOjU4WnZG1DK.html
03-12-2020||World||China drafts new law on grains reserves amid food security concerns||China published a new draft law on management of its grain reserves on Thursday to include oversight of stocks in regions and provinces as it seeks to bolster its food security.Previous rules governing grain reserves only applied to its central state stockpiles but Beijing has this year heightened its focus on risks to food supply.The law was drawn up as “new situations and questions have risen regarding grains reserves security administration, posing severe challenges to China’s grains stockpile security,” the National Development and Reform Commission said in a statement on its website.China said in May that it would draft and carry out both near and long term plans on ensuring food security amid the global coronavirus pandemic.The pandemic has disrupted agriculture supply chains worldwide, threatening to trigger a potential food crisis and as the virus continues to spread across the world.Local governments should build up reserves of processed grains and oils of an appropriate scale in central areas of medium-large cities and regions with markets that are prone to volatility, the state planner said.“The state’s need to secure grains output and its capability to control domestic supplies has become more urgent,” said Meng Jinhui, senior analyst with Shengda Futures.The new law stipulates how the reserve volumes should be set and the products to be included, as well as when the grains can be released.Reserves should only be used in cases of obvious grains shortage, significant price moves, major natural disasters or other emergencies.The document also encourages urban and rural residents to stockpile grains in a reasonable way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-drafts-new-law-on-grains-reserves-amid-food-security-concerns/story-pDwN8PoGhL8xS5BMUMxfrN.html
03-12-2020||World||Trump running out of time to solidify immigration agenda after US election loss||President Donald Trump’s administration is pushing to finalize new immigration restrictions before his term ends in January, according to three senior homeland security officials, a last-gasp effort in a policy area that was a central focus during his four years in office.The moves come even as Democratic President-elect Joe Biden has pledged to rescind many of Trump’s immigration policies. By finalizing rules that have just been proposed, or issuing last-minute orders, the administration could slow down Biden’s efforts to undo many of Trump’s signature measures that have made it harder for immigrants to enter and settle in the United States.A central goal for Trump’s last few weeks in office is replacing a lottery system used to award H-1B visas to skilled foreign workers, according to officials with the US Department of Homeland Security, who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss government operations. Instead, a new selection process would favor visa applicants with higher-paying jobs.The Trump administration argued in a proposed version of the regulation released in October that the change is needed to better protect US workers.White House senior adviser Stephen Miller - considered the architect of Trump’s hard-line immigration agenda - told Reuters over the summer that the regulations meant to drive up wages in the H-1B program would be politically unpopular to reverse.Other measures that could be hurried to the finish line include new rules to restrict access to asylum and a regulation that would allow federal immigration officials to collect DNA from family-based visa applicants and the US citizens or permanent residents who sponsor them.Another measure would tighten visa rules for international students, cultural exchange visitors and foreign journalists.The changes would take the form of regulatory actions that are crafted by agencies and do not require congressional approval but need to follow legal processes outlined in federal law.News reports have also surfaced about a possible Trump executive order to weaken the constitutional right to citizenship for all people born in the United States. A senior homeland security official told Reuters, however, the effort did not appear to be a priority for the White House.Acting DHS Deputy Secretary Ken Cuccinelli is spearheading the last-ditch immigration effort, one official told Reuters, as the president continues to promote unfounded claims of widespread voter fraud and has not conceded his Nov. 3 election defeat.The White House and DHS declined to comment.Trump is not the first president to engage in a last-minute policy push, according to Republican strategist Alex Conant.“Every outgoing administration tries to do as much as they can before the clock runs out,” he said. “There are a lot of true believers in this White House who think immigration is bad for the country and are spending their last hours in power trying to cement their policies.”Most of Trump’s immigration plans are unlikely to be finished, however, before he leaves office and the ones that are hastily pushed through will be vulnerable to court challenges.A federal judge on Tuesday blocked two different fast-tracked Trump rules targeting the H-1B program. The judge said the administration failed to show “good cause” to skip regulatory steps that typically take months or longer.Rules that have not taken effect by the time Biden takes office on Jan. 20 could be delayed and eventually rescinded, according to three experts in government regulations.Any work in Trump’s final month in office will also likely be slowed down by the Christmas and New Year’s holidays and possible departures of Trump appointees, which is typical for outgoing administrations.One closely watched policy area will be any final Trump actions related to the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, which was instituted by President Barack Obama, whom Biden served as vice president.The Supreme Court in June thwarted Trump’s attempt to end DACA, which offers deportation relief and work permits to some 646,000 “Dreamer” immigrants brought to the United States as children but who lack legal status.After the ruling, the Trump administration said it would still consider ending the program and then issued an order that narrowed its scope.Even though a federal judge ruled against that move in November, the administration could try other last-minute avenues to hamper the program.“Nothing would surprise us,” said Frank Sharry, executive director of the pro-immigrant America’s Voice.Biden has promised to send legislation to Congress that would provide a path to citizenship to the estimated 11 million immigrants living in the country illegally, including those enrolled in the DACA program.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-running-out-of-time-to-solidify-immigration-agenda-after-us-election-loss/story-vGymsB94Z8XVjjqliYYV9K.html
03-12-2020||World||Pakistan to start coronavirus vaccination drive from April 2021||The Pakistan government will provide the coronavirus vaccine free of cost to its people and plans are afoot to start the immunisation drive by April next year, officials said on Thursday.Parliamentary Secretary on Health Nausheen Hamid said the Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf government has approved funds to purchase the vaccine doses.“The PTI government will provide the coronavirus vaccines free of cost to the people. The government will start the vaccination from the second quarter of 2021,” Hamid tweeted.Hamid said the phase III of clinical trials of Chinese vaccines was proceeding well and the shots would be available to the people soon.Pakistan’s coronavirus caseload rose to 4406,810 on Thursday after 3,499 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours.The Ministry of National Health Services, in an update, said 39 people had died due to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours. Now, the Covid-19 death toll stands at 8,205. Nearly 347,000 people have recovered from the disease, while 2,469 people are in critical conditions.Authorities said 42,904 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, of whom 8.15 per cent tested positive. In total, 5,627,539 tests have been conducted in the country.On Tuesday, Pakistan’s Cabinet approved USD 150 million to purchase coronavirus vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-to-start-coronavirus-vaccination-drive-from-april-2021/story-pHEaE2oFmxsj3p4VAkSjGK.html
03-12-2020||World||Game not over in Covid-19 fight, warns UK PM||Prime Minister Boris Johnson sought to strike a note of caution amid the excitement of the UK becoming the first country to approve the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine against Covid-19, warning that it is not “game over” for the deadly virus just yet.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Johnson hailed the “searchlights of science” fighting back against the world’s “invisible enemy” but urged people to not get carried away with over optimism over the course of the “long and cold months” ahead while the two-dose vaccine starts to be injected into the arms of those at the highest risk of death from the disease. He urged people to follow the Covid Winter Plan of tiered lockdown which is now in force across England, with a majority of areas still under high alert measures of social distancing.“It is a fantastic moment, but the worst thing now would be to think that this is the moment when we can relax our guard and think it’s game over in the fight against Covid. It’s not. This is not the end,” Johnson said, during a briefing at 10 Downing Street on Wednesday evening.“We have been waiting and hoping for the day when the searchlights of science would pick out our invisible enemy and give us the power to stop that enemy from making us ill – and now the scientists have done it,” he said. “It is all the more vital that as we celebrate this scientific achievement we are not carried away with over optimism, or fall into the naïve belief that the struggle is over. It’s not, we’ve got to stick to our Winter Plan,” he noted.The UK PM confirmed that in line with the advice of the independent Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation (JCVI), the first phase of the vaccine deployment will include care home residents, health and care staff, the elderly and those who are clinically extremely vulnerable.“But there are immense logistical challenges: the vaccine must be stored at minus 70 degrees and each person needs two injections, three weeks apart. So it will inevitably take some months before all the most vulnerable are protected,” he said.“[But] we are no longer resting on the mere hope that we can return to normal next year in the spring, but rather on the sure and certain knowledge that we will succeed,” he added.His address came hours after the UK government confirmed that it has accepted the independent Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) assessment and authorised the use of Pfizer/BioNTech to immunise against Covid-19. Now, authorisation has been granted, Pfizer will begin delivery of the vaccine to the UK. In making the recommendation to authorise supply, the MHRA will decide what additional quality assurance checks may be required before a vaccine can be made available.The UK claims to be the first country to pre-order supplies of the vaccine from Pfizer/BioNTech, with 800,000 doses being made available next week and 40 million doses ordered overall – enough to vaccinate up to a third of the population, and the majority of doses anticipated in the first half of next year.“As a nation, we owe every scientist, clinician and trial volunteer an enormous debt of gratitude for their victory won against odds that at times seemed impossible. It is thanks to their efforts, and of our Vaccine Taskforce, that the UK was the first country to sign a deal with Pfizer/BioNTech and will now be the first to deploy their vaccine,” said UK Business Secretary Alok Sharma.The MHRA started the rolling review of Pfizer/BioNTech’s data in October and the UK government asked the regulator to assess the vaccine for its suitability for authorisation under Regulation 174 of the Human Medicines Regulations, enabling the temporary supply of medicines to be authorised. The regulator has stressed that a speedy timeline does not mean any “corners have been cut” and the vaccine was declared safe for human use only after very rigorous checks.Also Read | Good progress being made on Brexit trade deal, British minister says“This vaccine has now passed all of the extensive checks needed for authorisation to supply and will soon be ready to be delivered to the NHS,” said Professor Jonathan Van-Tam, Deputy Chief Medical Officer for England.The state-funded National Health Service (NHS) for England said deployment plans will include hospital hubs for NHS and care staff and older patients to get vaccinated; local community services with local teams and General Practitioners already signing up to take part in the programme; and vaccination centres across the country, ensuring people can access a vaccine regardless of where they live.“This is a momentous occasion and provides fresh hope that we can beat this pandemic, with the UK at the forefront of this revolutionary breakthrough,” said Health Secretary Matt Hancock.The vaccine will be available for free across the UK, with the government working with the devolved administrations to ensure it is deployed fairly across all four nations – England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland. There has been some social media buzz around warning people against so-called “vaccine tourism” as only UK nationals and residents who qualify as high risk will have access to the vaccine at this stage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/game-not-over-in-covid-19-fight-warns-uk-pm/story-lS3xEVsiTvrfXuxeZ9BX0O.html
03-12-2020||World||China has brought modern-day slavery into 21st century: Uyghur activist on abolition of slavery day||As the world celebrated the International Day for the Abolition of Slavery, an Uyghur American activist, Rushan Abbas, on Wednesday pointed out that the “gruesome stain in humanity’s history” is an ongoing issue as “China has brought modern-day slavery into the 21st century”.“One would hope that humanity has outgrown such prehistoric and barbaric practices. And yet, here we are, ending the year 2020 and growing closer to a new decade, still fighting to abolish slavery as if it were a new concept,” said Abbas, pointing towards “China’s genocide against Uyghurs”.Uyghurs, a Turkic Muslim ethnic minority, mostly live in the western China province. The Chinese government for decades has been trying to assimilate the Uyghurs by force into the country’s majority Han cultural identity.She gave examples of her family members and in-laws who are in China’s “concentration camps”. “Both Abdulhakim (husband) and I have family members who are extrajudicially detained inside China’s concentration camps. We don’t have any information on their well-being, their whereabouts or even if they’re alive. They are treated as slaves for China’s economic advancements. China has, in effect, brought modern-day slavery into the 21st century and state leaders have failed to act,” she said.“What does this mean for us? It means that much of the world’s fast fashion and affordable goods that are so often “made in China” are made by enslaved Uyghurs,” she added.Also Read | Muslims in Nepal hold protest demanding justice for China’s UyghurShe further says, “China claims these forced labour facilities and concentration camps are “vocational training centers.” However, these are lies, spun by the CCP to fulfill their economic goals on the blood, sweat, tears and lives of the Uyghur people.”About the conditions inside these “concentration camps, the activist said, “My own sister and my husband’s entire family is languishing inside dark, cold cells... deprived of humane conditions, adequate food/water, medication and torn from their loving families... and for what? To make CalvinKlein bags, Adidas shoes, Apple laptops and Zara tops? My sister, Dr Gulshan Abbas is a retired medical doctor...” She urged people to take time out to learn about the plight of the Uyghurs and “practice diligence and caution when buying any new product”. “Make sure that an Uyghur didn’t suffer to make the item that you bought. I pray that humankind can learn to respect, have compassion and love for one another, that slavery will be a thing of the past. No human deserves to be deprived of their freedom and suffer the abuses that Uyghurs face at the hands of the Chinese government,” she added.A sizeable Muslim population in Xinjiang has been incarcerating in an expanding network of “political re-education” camps, according to US officials and UN experts.People in the internment camps are reportedly subjected to forced political indoctrination, torture, beatings and denial of food and medicine, besides being prohibited from practising their religion or speaking their language.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-has-brought-modern-day-slavery-into-21st-century-uyghur-activist-on-abolition-of-slavery-day/story-vD9zDelHgrjY4XXwE8D3TO.html
03-12-2020||World||Scientists reset biological clock to restore vision in old mice||A team of scientists at Harvard Medical School have turned back the clock on aged eye cells in the retina to reverse vision loss in elderly mice with a condition mimicking human glaucoma, according to a study published in Nature on December 2. This proof-of-concept study demonstrates the epigenetic reprogramming of complex tissues, such as the nerve cells of the eye, to a younger age when they can repair and replace tissue damaged from age-related conditions and diseases. The approach paves the way for therapies to promote tissue repair of various organs to reverse aging and age-related diseases in humans.“That ageing (the loss of cellular functions over time) can (at least in a mouse) be safely reversed in a complex tissue such as the eye to restore its youthful functions. It implies that, in mammals, there is a reset switch that can erase many of the problems that accumulate with ageing. It implicates the epigenome (gene regulation), specifically epigenetic noise that accumulates over time, as a central cause of ageing,” said senior author Dr David Sinclair, professor of genetics in the Blavatnik Institute and co-director of the Paul F. Glenn Center for Biology of Aging Research at Harvard Medical School, in an email.Also read | Research shows bariatric surgery may reduce severity of Covid-19 in patients with obesity“If affirmed through further studies, these findings could be transformative for the care of age-related vision diseases like glaucoma and to the fields of biology and medical therapeutics for disease at large,” Dr Sinclair said.Glaucoma is an optic neuropathy marked by progressive degeneration of the optic nerve and is the second leading cause of irreversible blindness, after cataract. The study is the first to demonstrate that it is possible to reverse vision loss, rather than stop its progress, in animals with a condition mimicking human glaucoma. Dr Sinclair and his team used an adeno-associated virus (AAV) as a vehicle to deliver into the retinas of mice three youth-restoring genes—Oct4, Sox2 and Klf4—that are normally switched on during embryonic development. The three genes, together with a fourth one, which was not used in this work, are collectively known as Yamanaka factors. This promoted nerve regeneration following optic-nerve injury in mice with damaged optic nerves, reversed vision loss in animals with a condition mimicking human glaucoma, and reversed vision loss in aging animals without glaucoma. “The (Yamanaka) factors have been used to make pluripotent stem cells in the dish and used to make cells that are returned to the body. They cause cancer or kill animals when turned on. We show it is possible to use a subset of them to reverse aging, and in existing cells within the body,” said Dr Sinclair. The treatment resulted in a two-fold increase in the number of surviving retinal ganglion cells after the injury and a five-fold increase in nerve regrowth. “Previous studies identified factors that can promote retinal ganglion cells survival and regeneration, but none showed restoration of vision. Sinclair’s group very cleverly used only three (Oct4, Sox2, Klf4) of the four ‘Yamanaka factors’ and restored eyesight after damage to the optic nerve. Thus, avoiding unwanted tumors growth or cell death by not using the c-Myc. Although this study provides proof of principle in mice, it is a huge step forward for the field of regenerative medicine,” said Prof Keshav K Singh, professor of Genetics, pathology and environmental health at the University of Alabama at Birmingham, who has done extensive work in mitochondrial genetics, including reversing skin aging in mice. Lead author Yuancheng Lu, research fellow in genetics at Harvard Medical Lab and a former doctoral student in Sinclair’s lab, builds on the Nobel-winning discovery of Shinya Yamanaka, who identified the four transcription factors, Oct4, Sox2, Klf4, c-Myc, that could erase epigenetics markers on cells and return these cells to their primitive embryonic state from which they can develop into any other type of cell. Subsequent studies identified two major setbacks -- the four Yamanaka factors could induce tumour growth when used in adult mice, which made them unsafe, and could also erase the cell’s identity by resetting the cellular state to its most primitive. Lu and colleagues circumvented these hurdles by dropping the gene c-Myc to deliver the remaining three Yamanaka genes, Oct4, Sox2 and Klf4. The modified approach successfully reversed cellular aging without fuelling tumour growth or losing their identity. The findings set the stage for treatment of various age-related diseases in humans. “The study has significance for regenerative medicine towards slowing down or reversing aging related decline in organ function. Yes, gene therapy holds promise to promote tissue repair and reverse age-related diseases in due course, after relevant safety and efficacy studies,” said Dr Anurag Agrawal, director, Council of Scientific and Industr​ial Research-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi. “The Yamanaka factors can be potentially used to treat neurodegeneration, arthritis, organ deterioration, and other age-related conditions,” said Dr Sinclair.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/scientists-reset-biological-clock-to-restore-vision-in-old-mice-pave-way-for-new-treatments-of-age-related-diseases/story-JiqLyEVKodF2U5TFQLirUP.html
03-12-2020||World||Presidential pardons: Here’s the list of key allies, family members Trump could pardon||Amid reports of US Department of Justice investigating a potential presidential pardon bribery scheme, President Donald Trump is expected to use his clemency power to pardon or commute the sentences of his allies before leaving the office. Last month, Trump pardoned former national security adviser Michael Flynn, who had pleaded guilty to lying to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) about contacts with the Russian ambassador to Washington. Calling Flynn “an innocent man”, the White House said in a statement that he should have never been prosecuted. It described the retired US Army three-star lieutenant general as the “victim of partisan government officials engaged in a coordinated attempt to subvert the election of 2016.” As of November 26, Trump has granted clemency 45 times, including 29 pardons and 16 commutations, which is the lowest of any US president since William McKinley.While Trump has used his expansive power less frequently than any other president in modern history, a CNN report suggests that the outgoing commander-in-chief might stretch the power to save his allies as well as his family members from future prosecution, even though they haven’t been charged with any crime.Heres’s the list of key people Trump might be considering to pardon in the coming days:Donald Trump: In June 2018, Trump made clear in a tweet that the thought of self-pardoning occurred to him, stating that he has the “absolute right” to pardon himself. “As has been stated by numerous legal scholars, I have the absolute right to PARDON myself, but why would I do that when I have done nothing wrong?” tweeted Trump.Rudy Giuliani: Trump’s personal lawyer allegedly sought dirt on Joe Biden from foreign governments, particularly Ukraine, in a quid-pro-quo. During Trump’s impeachment hearings, US envoy Gordon Sondland had testified that Trump and Giuliani sought a ‘quid pro quo’ with Ukraine. The Trump administration is accused of withholding $400 million in military aid to Ukraine and pressurising the country to launch an investigation into Joe Biden and his son Hunter Biden.Also Read | How Trump compares to other US presidents on pardons and commutationsIvanka Trump and Jared Kushner: The couple worked on Trump’s campaigns as well as in the White House in advisory roles. Ivanka has repeatedly been accused of conflict of interest while serving as a White House adviser. Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance has been looking into the finances of the Trump Organization and real estate business of Trump’s family for a criminal investigation. However, there is still unclarity over the full extent of the involvement and activities of Trump’s children. Donald Trump Jr. and Eric Trump: They helped Trump with his campaigns and ran his business. In October, Eric Trump sat for a deposition as part of an investigation by New York Attorney General Letitia James into Trump Organization. In 2019, Trump had to pay $2 million in damages after a New York judge ordered it for misusing funds from his tax-exempt charity to finance his political campaign in 2016. He was sued by James for using funds from Donald J. Trump Foundation, that got closed in 2018, for personal benefit.Paul Manafort: Trump’s former campaign chairman has been imprisoned for financial crimes as part of the Russia investigation. The long-time Republican Party campaign consultant is a convicted tax and bank fraudster.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/presidential-pardons-here-s-the-list-of-key-allies-family-members-trump-could-pardon/story-5M75FPxXzU9ca4ZhvOqELJ.html
03-12-2020||World||US, Australia, India push back on Chinese influence. It’s QUAD in action | Analysis||Australian lawmakers on Thursday cleared legislation that gives the federal government power to veto any agreement struck with foreign states. The law is seen to be targeted at China that had signed up the south Australia state of Victoria in 2018 for President Xi Jinping’s signature Belt and Road Initiative.  ”Australia’s policies and plans, the rules that we make for our country are made here in Australia according to our needs and our interests,” Prime Minister Scott Morrison told reporters in Canberra soon after.A few hours earlier, the United States’ House of Representatives had cleared legislation to delist foreign firms that don’t adhere to US auditing standards, a move that could lead to Chinese companies including behemoths such as Alibaba Group, Baidu Inc and PetroChina getting kicked off American exchanges if they don’t let US regulators review their financial audits.China watchers in New Delhi said the two laws that seek to curb Chinese influence wasn’t a standalone effort.“It is QUAD in action,” one of them said, referring to the informal group of Japan, Australia, the United States and India.Foreign ministers of the four countries met in Japan in October over concerns about Chinese attempts to flex its muscles in its neighbourhood including India’s Ladakh region, the South China Sea and the East China Sea and to ensure a free and open Indo-Pacific based on rule of law and freedom of navigationIndia has been engaged in a standoff with Chinese troops over its attempts to take control of Indian territory along the Line of Actual Control for more than six months. The two armies even clashed in Galwan valley in June that led to casualties on both sides but have mostly managed to keep the situation under control since then. Japan has been uncomfortable at China’s continuing attempts to undermine Japan’s administration over the Senkaku Islands, the East China Sea islets claimed by Beijing that have pushed Tokyo to increase its defence budget to a record high and scale up defence cooperation.Last month, Japan Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga announced a breakthrough agreement on a defence pact with Australia that will allow reciprocal visits for training and operations. This pact is the first in 60 years that approves a deal permitting foreign troops to operate on its soil.“You can see a concerted effort by QUAD; the three middle powers - India, Australia and Japan - backed by a superpower - the US - to not only reduce the influence of China in their respective countries but in their respective regions. Sometimes, far beyond,” the official mentioned above added.It was a reference to the US Deputy Secretary of State Stephen E Biegun’s visit to Bangladesh in October facilitated by New Delhi to reset ties and extend its support. Biegun was the first high-ranking US official in at least a decade to travel to Dhaka, a visit that was described as hugely successful. Officials said one immediate fallout of the joint initiative was Dhaka’s reported reluctance to host Defence Minister Wei Fenghe when he travelled to Kathmandu and Islamabad over the past week.It also was in the context of the larger effort to contain China’s influence that New Delhi has resumed diplomatic engagement with Nepal, sending top officials to Kathmandu to repair relations with the Himalayan nation that had upset India over its controversial political map that included Indian territory. Nepal’s foreign minister Pradeep Kumar Gyawali is scheduled to raise the level of engagement when he visits New Delhi later this month.Simultaneously, India also last week sent National Security Adviser Ajit Doval to Colombo to revive the trilateral maritime security cooperation dialogue with Sri Lanka and the Maldives in face of Chinese attempts to step up defence linkages with smaller countries in the region.Also Read: China has itself to blame for strong QUAD | AnalysisNew Delhi had suspended this dialogue to expand maritime security cooperation in 2014 after its relations with the Maldives soured under the previous Abdulla Yameen regime who was seen to be acting under Chinese influence.A few weeks earlier, India had gifted Myanmar, another country in the neighbourhood which has come under pressure from Beijing, a 3,000 diesel-electric submarine INS Sindhuvir. People familiar with the developments have said the move had helped New Delhi get an edge over China, which pushes its military hardware among countries in the neighbourhood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-china-quad-us/story-F5SeBZWBlOj5oANWdQA3pO.html
03-12-2020||World||Germany extends restrictions to fight Covid-19 spread||Chancellor Angela Merkel said Germany will extend its partial lockdown by three more weeks into next year as the country struggles to regain control of the coronavirus spread.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Bars, gyms and cinemas will remain closed until Jan 10 and the government will reconvene with regional leaders on Jan. 4 to reassess the restrictions, Merkel said late Wednesday after talks with the premiers of Germany’s 16 states.The country’s infection rates are still far too high and need to come down faster, Merkel said in Berlin. “We have to bemoan a very high number of deaths every day, which shows the amount of responsibility that we have.”Germany had 23,275 new cases in the 24 hours through Thursday morning and total infections have more than doubled since the measures started, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. The latest daily death toll was 482, close to a record.Merkel’s administration last week already extended the partial shutdown until Dec 20 while keeping schools and much of the economy open. The so-called “lockdown light” has yielded little progress in slowing the spread to levels the government has determined as manageable.Merkel on Wednesday reiterated that the seven-day incidence per 100,000 citizens needs to come down to around 50 -- and stay there -- before restrictions can be loosened. It was unchanged at 134 on Thursday, according to the latest data from Germany’s RKI public health institute.RKI President Lothar Wieler said that the infection numbers have leveled out but are not yet showing any palpable sign of declining. “Weary” health authorities are no longer able to track cases effectively and some hospitals are approaching the limit of their capacity, with operations and treatments delayed, he added.Care Homes“We are seeing more and more outbreaks in care homes,” Wieler said Thursday at a news conference, urging citizens to respect hygiene and distancing rules and protect vulnerable groups. “These restrictions will be with us for a long time, until a sufficient section of the population has been vaccinated.”Also Read | EU stops short of advising against holiday travel over virusCurbs might be tightened further in January if the number of new cases doesn’t come down fast enough, according to Bavarian State Premier Markus Soeder.“We should not shy away from acting much more consequently,” said the conservative politician, who is seen as a candidate to succeed Merkel as chancellor next year.Merkel has said before that the country will likely prolong its partial shutdown into January unless there’s an unexpectedly rapid decline in contagion rates. By contrast, France and Britain, which imposed tougher restrictions, are now cautiously moving to loosen curbs ahead of the Christmas holidays.The lack of progress in stemming the spread is increasing tension over how to protect the economy. Merkel said the government can’t continue to reimburse affected businesses for 75% of lost sales next year.Eckhardt Rehberg, budget spokesman for Merkel’s parliamentary caucus, said the chancellor is right to turn the focus away from compensating businesses for lost sales and back to so-called bridge aid. Under the program, which has been extended until the end of June, companies can apply for assistance with fixed costs such as heating and rent.Spending 15 billion euros ($18 billion) a month on sales compensation “cannot be justified either to other sectors of the economy or to the taxpayer,” Rehberg said Thursday in an interview with Deutschlandfunk radio. “The state won’t be able to afford to pay for everything,” and “we still have the challenge of financing intensive-care beds for hospitals and rolling out the vaccine.”Merkel dampened expectations that new medication can quickly put an end to the disease. She said it’s unclear if a vaccine for the virus will be available before Christmas, but added that Pfizer Inc., BioNTech SE and Moderna Inc. will deliver 7 million doses in the first quarter of 2021.Governments across the world are hoping for a rapid rollout of such vaccines to bring an end to the pandemic. On Wednesday, Britain’s drug regulator cleared the vaccine for emergency use, ahead of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and its European Union counterpart.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-extends-restrictions-to-fight-covid-19-spread/story-xqSyGmtbgDP8i8LaVTUZ8L.html
03-12-2020||World||Tibetan social media platforms challenge Chinese govt amid suppression||Despite the attempts by the authoritarian Chinese Communist Party (CCP) to curb freedom of expression, right to information, association and religion in Tibet, there has been a rise in domestic social media giving platform to voices challenging the government-sponsored news.The CCP censors the internet and maintains intensive surveillance apparatus in the form of facial recognition technology and Global Positioning System (GPS) coordination in its occupied territories including Tibet, East Turkistan (Xinjiang), and Southern Mongolian (Inner Mongolia), reported The Taiwan Times.With the aim to control the “digital ecosystem”, the social media accounts linked to the CCP propaganda campaign is being used to spread disinformation on social media such as Twitter, Facebook, etc.They have been used to promote content attacking critics of the Chinese government and to spread conspiracy theories blaming the US for waging a biological war against China, The Taiwan Times reported.Meanwhile, the government has blocked websites run by human rights groups, foreign media, Google search engine and social media sites such as Facebook, Twitter, etc.China is considered to be having one of the most pervasive online censorship system in the world, the country’s infamous “Great Firewall” blocks access and censors numerous websites, The Taiwan Times reported.Despite these attempts, a series of images and videos of 156 Self Immolators inside Tibet were sent through social media, the Taiwanese media outlet informed. During the coronavirus pandemic information on personal accounts of life under lockdown was shared on social media. Besides, intensive discussions were leaked with images and videos exposing high ranking officials of their mismanagement, lack of transparency and accountability, The Taiwan Times said.With the aim to muzzle the voices of Tibetans, the CCP this year arrested 10 Tibetans in Lhasa for spreading ‘rumors’ about the coronavirus outbreak on March 12 on WeChat, The Taiwan Times reported.“In July two Tibetan lyricists, Khado Tsetan and singer Tsegao, were sentenced to seven years and three years in prison respectively by a Chinese court in North-Eastern Tibet without a trial after they composed, sang and circulated a song praising Tibetan spiritual leader, H.H. the Dalai Lama. They have been charged for alleged involvement in “subversion of state law and leaking information to the outside world, which is considered as a “state security crime,” said the Free Tibet website.Meanwhile, a Tibetan girl was arrested from the same region for having shared the song on social media.It is a common practise across Tibet and East Turkistan (Xinjiang) that if complaints were made and voices raised, they are liable to face further punishments, The Taiwan Times said while adding that after their release the political prisoners are put under strict surveillance where every move is constantly watched. Besides putting the families of these political prisoners under surveillance, they are also denied access to subsidies and government jobs.Citing the example of Tibetan language rights advocate Tashi Wangchuk, The Taiwan Times further said that he was sentenced to five years for “inciting separatism” in a closed-door trial by Yushu Intermediate People’s Court for voicing concerns in an interview with The New York Times.Despite the global outcry, the Chinese court rejected his appeal and also denied him access to his lawyer. Human Rights Watch’s China director, Sophie Richardson was quoted as saying: “Tashi Wangchuk’s only ‘crime’ was to peacefully call for the right of minority peoples to use their own language”. In the seventh Tibet Work Forum held in Beijing from August 28 and 2, President Xi Jinping emphasised on intensifying and Sinicising Tibetans and their culture through the “patriotic reeducation”. He also emphasized against “anti-Dalai Lama Campaigns in Tibet” with the expansion of mass education to promote “socialism with Chinese Characteristics”, said The Taiwan Times. To counter or rather silence these criticisms, the state media like Global Times and Xinhua had to resort to regular publishing of opinion articles. Further, the CCP has used both the electronic and print media to be its mouthpiece for propaganda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tibetan-social-media-platforms-challenge-chinese-govt-amid-suppression/story-RHqdGt28MNFvs9XP8XtOGO.html
03-12-2020||World||Facebook accused of squeezing rival startups in virtual reality||Virtual-reality startups are accusing Facebook Inc. of using a familiar playbook to muscle out rivals in what could be the digital platform of the future -- prompting a new line of scrutiny from US competition enforcers.Facebook is the world’s biggest virtual-reality hardware maker thanks to its 2014 acquisition of Oculus for $2 billion. Its practices are now drawing the attention of the Justice Department’s antitrust division, which is talking to developers about their interactions with the company, according to two people familiar with the matter.The scrutiny over Facebook’s virtual-reality business reflects broader concerns that the social-media pioneer has grown too powerful. One U.S. lawmaker, during a hearing with Facebook Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg, attributed the company’s dominance to a simple strategy: Copy, acquire and kill any company that’s a competitive threat.Software developers and startup founders say the world’s biggest social media company is now using that same playbook to undermine competition in the virtual-reality market.Facebook’s Oculus acquisition was a bet by Zuckerberg that virtual reality would go beyond gaming to encompass a broad array of experiences and eventually change the way people work and communicate, experts say.Facebook is pushing hard to establish its presence in virtual reality because it represents a unique opportunity for the social media player to establish itself as the leader in the next state-of-the-art platform to deliver products and services to its users without relying on Alphabet Inc.’s Google or Apple Inc.The Federal Trade Commission is preparing to bring an antitrust case against Facebook as soon as next week. But that investigation has been focused mostly on whether the company’s acquisitions of Instagram and WhatsApp harmed competition, Bloomberg has reported.The social media giant last year disclosed an investigation by the Justice Department, but neither the company nor the department has provided details or explained how the inquiry is different from the FTC probe. The FTC declined to comment. The Justice Department didn’t respond to a request seeking comment.Developers say Facebook is using its market power to thwart companies that offer competing games and services. It’s copying the most promising ideas, using below-cost pricing for its devices and making it harder for some apps to work properly on the platform, according to developers and a hardware maker.Faceboook declined to comment about the complaints.Facebook has a 39% share of the virtual-reality hardware market, making it the industry’s largest player, according to data from market intelligence firm International Data Corporation. Smaller players include Lenovo Group Ltd., Sony Corp. and HTC Corp., while Apple is developing its own mixed virtual and augmented reality headset for launch as early as 2022, Bloomberg has reported. Facebook launched its latest headset, the Quest 2, in October, cutting the price to $299 from $399.At the core of the complaints is the way Facebook runs the platform and competes against software developers who build apps and depend on the platform for their business.“Our industry is getting eaten alive by Facebook,” said Cix Liv, who co-founded startup Yur Inc., which makes technology that can be integrated into Oculus games to track fitness metrics. “Any application that has a chance of being mildly competitive with them, they have to kill it somehow.”Yur released its fitness tracking app for Oculus in September 2019 and spent months working to satisfy Facebook’s security, privacy and performance benchmarks to get the app into the Oculus app store. While the app was available to users on another marketplace, Liv said, Yur couldn’t get it into the Oculus store even though he said the startup met Facebook’s requirements.Facebook in the spring released a software update for Oculus that prevented Yur’s technology from working within games, according to Liv. Liv said Yur was the only company that experienced such an issue. Subsequent updates required users to delete the Yur app in order to get the Oculus headset working again.Then in September, Facebook released its own fitness tracker called Oculus Move that Liv said has the same functionality and look as Yur’s product. He accuses Facebook of effectively killing his product by keeping it out of the store and breaking its functionality, all while working to copy his technology.The reason is simple, Liv says: Facebook wants to favor its own products on the platform so it can collect as much data about users as possible in order to “control the future of ads by knowing more about you than any company in history.”Virtual-reality consultant Nima Zeighami said Facebook “locked down the ecosystem so much that if someone makes an app that competes with them too much, they can just blacklist them.”Liv said he was forced out of his company after speaking out against Facebook on Twitter about a month ago. He said the venture capital fund backing his startup, Venture Reality Fund, told him that he would have to leave the company if he continued criticizing Facebook. Liv said he believed the fund sought to pacify Facebook because of its potential to acquire the fitness app and other startups the fund is backing.One of the fund’s partners, Tipatat Chennavasin, denied telling Liv that he had to leave the company if he kept criticizing Facebook.The criticisms against Facebook echo those leveled against other tech giants, such as Amazon.com Inc., which sells its own branded products in competition with third-party sellers on its marketplace. Apple also owns the App Store, where its products compete against those of developers who depend on the store to sell their apps.In October, Democrats on the House antitrust panel recommended that Congress prohibit a dominant platform from competing against companies that operate on the platform -- in essence, to break them up.Other app developers have similar stories of copied products and functionality issues regarding Facebook. One is Guy Godin, a developer who created Virtual Desktop Inc., which allows users to replicate their computer desktops on the Oculus headset. It was released on Oculus in 2016 and has become a top seller on the platform, he said.In June 2019, Godin introduced a version that could stream games and other content to the Oculus headset, a feature that was popular with gamers because they weren’t tethered to their computers with a cable, Godin said.A few weeks later, Facebook told him to remove the feature or else his app would be pulled from the Oculus store. Facebook explained it was due to poor user experience and health and safety issues. Godin called those claims “totally bogus” but said he had no choice but to comply because he depends on Oculus for 90% of his revenue.In September that year, Facebook announced it was releasing a competing product called Oculus Link, which allowed users to stream content but required a cabled connection to the user’s computer.Godin said he’s happy to compete against Facebook’s product but that it isn’t a level playing field because the company controls what features he can offer.“They just want to own it all,” he said. “If there’s only one company, it’s going to be very hard to survive as a developer.”The complaints mirror allegations about Facebook raised in the findings of the House investigation of tech platforms.“Facebook is a case study, in my opinion, in monopoly power because your company harvests and monetizes our data, and then your company uses that data to spy on competitors and to copy, acquire and kill rivals,” Representative Pramila Jayapal, a Washington Democrat, told Zuckerberg when he testified in July.A group of more than 40 developers organized in September and considered writing an open letter to Facebook calling for more transparency to its Oculus store policies and other changes to benefit developers, according to Liv. He said they’re now looking to team up with an established organization that can represent their views similar to the way Apple’s App Store developers created the Coalition for App Fairness.To help secure its position in the market, Facebook is selling the Oculus headset at a loss, according to Stan Larroque, the founder and CEO of Lynx, a Paris startup that promotes its virtual-reality headset to businesses. Engineers at Lynx, whose headset uses many of the same components as Oculus’s Quest headset, estimate that Facebook sells the latest version of the headset, the Quest 2, at a $50 loss per device, said Larroque. That makes it impossible for smaller device makers to compete, he said.“The message is we’re Facebook and we don’t care if we make money or not, but we’ll flood the market and virtual reality will be Facebook Reality pretty soon,” Larroque said.The House report warned that below-cost pricing, also known as predatory pricing, is a risk in digital markets because they tend to be characterized by a winner-take-all dynamic, where one or two companies end up dominating. As a result, there’s an incentive to pursue growth over profit by engaging in predatory pricing for some period to force out competitors.Developers also complain that Facebook squeezes them by forcing them to pay a commission on sales, a complaint also leveled at Apple. One of them is Darshan Shankar, the founder and CEO of Bigscreen Inc., which lets users stream movies on the Oculus headset and interact virtually with friends as they watch together.When a user rents a movie on Bigscreen, they have to use the Oculus in-app purchase system, which collects 30% of the rental fee. That ultimately makes the economics of the business unworkable for the start-up, he said. Shankar said Facebook refuses to negotiate on the 30% commission that Bigscreen has to pay.“It’s literally impossible for anyone to start an e-commerce or media business in VR because these walled gardens are gatekeepers,” he said. “Entire industries are impossible because of them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-accused-of-squeezing-rival-startups-in-virtual-reality/story-z8AsuDZY4brj4C13zbNsWK.html
03-12-2020||World||Pak ATC jails Yahya Mujahid, spokesperson of Hafiz Saeed-led JuD to 15 years||A Pakistani anti-terrorism court has awarded 15 years jail term to Yahya Mujahid, spokesperson of Mumbai attack mastermind Hafiz Saeed’s Jammat-ud-Dawah (JuD), in a terror financing case.Mujahid was last month awarded a collective imprisonment of 32 years in two terror financing cases by the Anti Terrorism Court (ATC).Besides Mujahid, the ATC Lahore on Wednesday also awarded 15 years imprisonment to JuD’s senior leader Zafar Iqbal and six months jail term to Prof Hafiz Abdul Rehman Makki, brother-in-law of JuD chief Hafiz Saeed.Earlier, the ATC Lahore had sentenced Iqbal for 26 years imprisonment in three such cases.ATC Judge Ijaz Ahmad Buttar announced the verdict in FIR 42 of 2019 under different provisions of the Anti-Terrorism Act 1997.The three convicts were present in the court when the judge announced the verdict. The Counter Terrorism Department (CTD) of Punjab police had registered as many as 41 FIRs against JuD leaders, including Saeed in different cities. The trial courts have so far decided 25 cases.The ATC has sentenced Saeed for a collective imprisonment of 21 years on terror financing charges under sections 11-N of Anti-Terrorism Act 1997 in four cases so far.Saeed-led JuD is the front organisation for the Lashkar-e-Taiba which is responsible for carrying out the 2008 Mumbai attack that killed 166 people, including six Americans.The US named Saeed as a Specially Designated Global Terrorist, and the country, since 2012, has offered a USD 10 million bounty on Saeed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-atc-jails-yahya-mujahid-spokesperson-of-hafiz-saeed-led-jud-to-15-years/story-FvRYp1f7IslVxYzMoke5IK.html
03-12-2020||World||Los Angeles mayor issues stay at home order as US witnesses deadliest day||Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti issued an order for residents to stay at home, warning that the city is approaching a “devastating tipping point” in its fight against Covid-19 that would overwhelm the hospital system.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19“We must minimize contact with others as much as possible,” Garcetti wrote in the order dated Dec. 2. The steps were needed to avoid risking “needless suffering and death,” he said.The order, which supersedes one from June, prohibits public and private gatherings of people from more than one household and states that all businesses in the city that require people to work on location must stop operations. Walking, driving, travel on public transport, bikes, motorcycles and scooters are prohibited, other than for those undertaking essential activities.There are several exemptions, including for faith-based outdoor services and the homeless. Others that can continue to operate include supermarkets, grocery stores and health-care operations, but that doesn’t cover gyms and similar facilities. Still, activities such as golf, tennis and pickleball are permitted, according to the order.The city’s safety protocols on social distancing follow those developed by Los Angeles County, Garcetti said. S&P futures turned negative after the order.Los Angeles County has the most infections of any county in the US, with 408,396 confirmed cases and 7,700 deaths. Nationwide, Covid-19 fatalities reached more than 2,700 Wednesday, the deadliest day so far, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University.Anyone over the age of 16 traveling into LA must complete an online form upon arrival to acknowledge they’ve read and understood a California travel advisory. Failure to submit the form is punishable by a fine of up to $500.The Rust Belt, New York and California are likely to drive up the pace of virus-related deaths in coming weeks as the US approaches 300,000 fatalities, based on a forecast from the University of Massachusetts Amherst’s Reich Lab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/los-angeles-mayor-issues-stay-at-home-order-as-us-witnesses-deadliest-day/story-jdfYBKhhovt8FXleLXGBTN.html
03-12-2020||World||Prepared to accept election defeat if it is ‘accurate’ result, says Trump||Donald Trump has said that he is prepared to accept any poll result if it is “accurate”, even as the US President repeated his unsubstantiated allegations of large-scale voter fraud and electoral malpractice in the presidential election.Democratic leader Joe Biden has defeated incumbent president Trump, Republican, in the November 3 presidential election. However, Trump has not conceded and has sought legal recourse in challenging the results.“I don’t mind if I lose an election, but I want to lose an election fair and square. What I don’t want to do is have it stolen from the American people. That is what we are fighting for, and we have no choice (but) to be doing that,” Trump told his supporters at a holiday party gathering at the White House on Wednesday.A video of the event, which was closed for the press, was posted online on Wednesday.“We already have the proof, we already have the evidence, and it is very clear. Many people in the media and even judges so far have refused to accept it. They know it’s true, they know it’s there, they know who won the election, but they refuse to say you are right. Our country needs somebody to say you are right,” Trump said.Biden has secured 306 electroral college votes while Trump has 232 votes out of the 538-mener Electoral College. The winner should have at least 270 votes.“Ultimately, I am prepared to accept any accurate election result, and I hope that Joe Biden is as well, but we already have the proof. We already have tens of thousands of ballots more than we need to overturn all of these states that we are talking about. This is an election for the highest office in the greatest country in the history of the world,” he said.“Every reasonable American should be able to agree, based on what we have already documented, that we need a systematic analysis of the mail-in ballots to review the envelopes. It’s about the signature, and if they are on the envelopes, we can only review the envelopes, and that will tell us everything. This is the absolute minimum we should expect. This is not just about my campaign, although it has a lot to do with who is going to be your next president,” Trump said.Trump said the judicial scrutiny of the election is about restoring faith and confidence in American elections.“This is about our democracy and the sacred rights that generations of Americans have fought, bled, and died to secure. Nothing is more urgent or more important. The only ballots that should count in this election are those cast by eligible voters who are citizens of our country, residents of the states in which they voted, and who cast their ballots in a lawful manner before the legal deadline,” he said.Moreover, the United States must never again have an election in which there is not a reliable and transparent system to verify the eligibility, identity, and residency of every single person who cast a ballot, a very, very cherished ballot.“Many very smart people have congratulated me on all we have done. The biggest tax cuts in history, regulation cuts, the biggest in history. We rebuilt our military. We took care of our vets like never before. Space force and so much more,” he said.“But then they went on to say as big and as important as these events were, the single greatest achievement in your presidency will be exactly what you are doing right now -- voter integrity for our nation. “It’s more important than any of the things that we discussed. If we don’t root out the fraud, the tremendous and horrible fraud that’s taken place in our 2020 election, we don’t have a country anymore,” Trump said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/prepared-to-accept-election-defeat-if-it-is-accurate-result-says-trump/story-bmLEqBbTcJSUXjBlBxRoJL.html
03-12-2020||World||India urges Israel, Palestine to re-engage in direct talks to advance goal of two-state solution||Welcoming the decision to resume coordination between the Palestinian Authority and Israel, India has urged the leadership of both sides to use the opportunity and re-engage in direct negotiations to advance the goal of a two-state solution.The two-state solution has for decades been the primary focus of efforts to achieve peace in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The solution would establish an independent Palestinian state alongside Israel -- two states for two peoples. In theory, this would win Israel security and allow it to retain a Jewish demographic majority (letting the country remain Jewish and democratic), while granting the Palestinians a state.Most governments and world bodies, including the UN, have set achievement of the two-state solution as official policy. This goal has been the basis of peace talks for decades.Addressing the United Nations General Assembly session on ‘Question of Palestine’ on Wednesday, India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti said the Israel-Palestine conflict is almost as old as the United Nations itself, but the aspirations of Palestinian people for a State for themselves remain unfulfilled. “The peace negotiations between the two parties have remained stalled since 2014. Developments on the ground are not creating conditions conducive to the resumption of these negotiations. We call on parties to refrain from steps that hinder resumption of negotiations,” he said.Tirumurti said India is happy to note the decision to resume coordination between the Palestinian Authority and Israel. “We urge the leadership of Israel and Palestine to use this opportunity and re-engage in direct negotiations to advance the goal of a two-State solution. We also call upon the Secretary-General, the members of the Middle East Quartet and the key Arab partners to take immediate steps to facilitate this dialogue,” he said.Last month, the Palestinian Authority had said it was resuming its civil and security cooperation with Israel that had been suspended since May over Israel’s plans to annex parts of the West Bank. As per media reports, Palestinian Civil Affairs Minister Hussein al-Sheikh wrote on Twitter that “the relationship with Israel will return to how it was” after President Mahmoud Abbas received confirmation that Israel remained committed to past agreements with the Palestinians.Tirumurti reiterated that India remains fully supportive of a peaceful negotiated settlement of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict achieved through direct negotiations, resulting in the establishment of a Palestinian state living side by side in peace and security with Israel. The Indian envoy underscored that India has been steadfast in its support for the just Palestinian cause and in its solidarity with the Palestinian people, which extends beyond political support. “It is our firm belief that even as peace is being pursued on the political track, the people of Palestine must not be forgotten,” he said.Tirumurti said India’s efforts are also focused on Palestinian nation-building and strengthening institutions through the India-Palestine development partnership covering various sectors of the Palestinian economy. This includes construction of schools, hospitals, technology parks and centres for excellence.“We see it as an essential investment to help establish a viable and sovereign Palestinian State,” he said.Over the years, India has also invested in strengthening human resource capacities of the Palestinian people through scholarships for Palestinian students pursuing higher education and training of Palestinian professionals in prestigious Indian institutes. Around 250 Palestinians benefit every year from such opportunities.Highlighting another dimension of India’s support to the Palestinian cause, Tirumurti said India quadrupled its support to United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA) in recent years, recognising the acute crisis faced by the UN agency. India has made a multi-year pledge of USD 10 million over the next two years to contribute to a more stable and predictable funding for UNRWA. “We consider our partnership with UNRWA as an investment in peace and stability in the region,” he said, thanking all member states, who supported India’s membership to the Advisory Commission of UNRWA. Addressing the International Day of Solidarity with the Palestinian People 2020 Virtual Meeting on Tuesday, UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres had expressed a “deep sense of worry about the grim realities in the occupied Palestinian Territory and the diminishing prospects of resolving the conflict, which has been with the United Nations since its very creation”. Guterres expressed hope that recent developments will encourage Palestinian and Israeli leaders to re-engage in meaningful negotiations, with the support of the international community, towards a two-state solution and will create opportunities for regional cooperation. “Only a two-state solution that realises the legitimate national aspirations of Palestinians and Israelis can lead to sustainable peace,” he said, adding that the United Nations remains committed to supporting Palestinians and Israelis to resolve the conflict.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-urges-israel-palestine-to-re-engage-in-direct-talks-to-advance-goal-of-two-state-solution/story-FzpsAddJRoSdIjQW7g2pJO.html
03-12-2020||World||Five dead as flash floods hit southern Thailand||Thailand on Thursday reported at least five deaths after flash floods caused by monsoon rains hit seven provinces in the country’s southern region. Authorities reported the deaths all took place in Nakhon Si Thammarat province, where television footage showed staff of a hospital piling up sandbags outside an emergency room to fend off water gushing in from the street.Other images showed people wading or pushing motorcycles through thigh-deep water while some residents, including a Buddhist monk, rowed boats through commercial areas where children played.The floods started a week ago but had receded by Thursday, according to the interior ministry, having affected more than 255,000 households in seven of the southern provinces.The impacted region is home to Thailand’s major rubber plantations, accounting for the majority of the world’s natural rubber supply. The Rubber Authority of Thailand said on Thursday it will pay affected rubber farmers 3,000 baht ($99.34) if the flood damaged more than 20 rubber trees in their plantations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/five-dead-as-flash-floods-hit-southern-thailand/story-hnod9ST5EBbuULBRzlX8dP.html
03-12-2020||World||United States toughens visa rules for ‘malign’ Chinese Communist Party members||US President Donald Trump’s administration on Wednesday issued rules to restrict travel to the United States by Chinese Communist Party members and their families, the New York Times newspaper reported on Thursday.The policy shift limits the validity of travel visas for party members and families to one month and a single entry, the paper reported New York Times citing people familiar with the matter.Previously, party members, like other Chinese citizens, could obtain US visitor visas of up to 10 years’ duration, it said. The Trump administration has sought to cement the outgoing President’s tough-on-China legacy, while relations between the world’s two largest economies have sunk to the lowest point in decades.The move was a part of ongoing action to protect the United States from the Chinese Communist Party’s “malign influence,” the NYT quoted a spokesman for the State Department as saying.The Department did not immediately respond to a Reuters request for comment.Washington and Beijing have clashed over China’s handling of the coronavirus outbreak, its tightening grip on Hong Kong, its disputed claims in the South China Sea, trade and accusations of human rights crimes in Xinjiang.Last week, Reuters reported the United States was poised to add China’s top chipmaker SMIC and national offshore oil and gas producer CNOOC to a blacklist of alleged Chinese military companies, curbing their access to US investors.The new visa guidelines allow American officials to determine someone’s party status based on their application and interview, the paper reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/united-states-toughens-visa-rules-for-malign-chinese-communist-party-members/story-rr2zaQKhUF5paup43iNG8M.html
03-12-2020||World||China completes lunar sample collection ahead of schedule||China’s Chang’e-5 lunar vehicle has finished collecting samples of lunar rocks and soil more than a day ahead of schedule in the first lunar sample retrieval mission since the 1970s, the country’s space agency said on Thursday.The robotic vehicle has stored the samples and will now dock with the orbiting Chang’e-5 for the return journey to Earth.China launched a robotic spacecraft on November 24 to bring back rocks from the moon in the first bid by any country to retrieve samples since 1976.Late on Tuesday, the Chang’e-5 spacecraft successfully deployed a pair of landing and ascending vehicles onto the moon’s surface. The plan was to collect 2 kg (4.4 pounds) of samples.The sample collection was completed after 19 hours, the space agency said in its statement, without disclosing the total weight of the samples collected.China had planned to collect the samples over a period of about two days, with the entire mission taking around 23 days.The ascending vehicle would lift off from the lunar surface with the samples, and dock with a module currently orbiting around the moon.The samples would then be transferred to a return capsule onboard the orbiting module for delivery back to Earth.If successful, the mission will make China only the third country to have retrieved lunar samples after the United States and the Soviet Union.China made its first lunar landing in 2013.In January 2019, the Chang’e-4 probe landed on the far side of the moon, the first space probe from any nation to do so.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-completes-lunar-sample-collection-ahead-of-schedule/story-HFOKF2R5COnoQWfjhhI1BL.html
03-12-2020||World||Over 100,000 people in Russia vaccinated against Covid-19, says Russian health minister||More than 100,000 people in Russia have already been inoculated against the coronavirus, said Russian Health Minister Mikhail Murashko on Wednesday, while presenting the Sputnik V vaccine to the United Nations over a video link.Russia became the first country to register the world’s first Covid-19 vaccine on August 11. Sputnik V, named after Russia’s first satellite, has been developed by Gamaleya National Research Centre for Epidemiology and Microbiology of the Russian Healthcare Ministry.Last month, Russia said that its vaccine is 92 per cent effective at protecting people from the Covid-19, according to the first interim analysis.The total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in Russia has reached 2,327,105, Johns Hopkins University and Medicine reported on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/over-100-000-people-in-russia-vaccinated-against-covid-19-says-russian-health-minister/story-1oWBw4dSxxtsyvVDpg9GlM.html
03-12-2020||World||Good progress being made on Brexit trade deal, British minister says||Good progress is being made by Britain and the European Union in Brexit trade negotiations but Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s government will not sign up to a deal that is not in Britain’s interest, Education Secretary Gavin Williamson said on Thursday.“We always expect negotiations to go up to the wire, it’s a very typical situation when you’re having a negotiation with the European Union,” Williamson told Sky.“I’m confident from what I hear that progress, good progress is being made but we’re going to do a deal that is right for Britain, if such a deal is available,” he said. “If such a deal isn’t available then we’re not going to sign up to something that is to our detriment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/good-progress-being-made-on-brexit-trade-deal-british-minister-says/story-5OoLlMnIrbtQsh9cBl1hZK.html
03-12-2020||World||Prince Harry suggests Covid-19 is rebuke from nature, stresses need to tackle climate change||Britain’s Prince Harry has suggested that the coronavirus pandemic is a rebuke from nature as he called for more action to tackle climate change.The prince spoke during a conversation about the environment with the chief executive of a streaming platform for climate documentaries.“Somebody said to me at the beginning of the pandemic, it’s almost as though Mother Nature has sent us to our rooms for bad behaviour, to really take a moment and think about what we’ve done,” Harry said. “It’s certainly reminded me about how interconnected we all are, not just as people but through nature. We take so much from her and we rarely give a lot back.”Harry and Meghan, the Duke and Duchess of Sussex, have spoken out on issues such as race and the environment since stepping down from their roles as working members of the royal family at the end of March and moving to California.The prince, who has been criticised in the past for his use of private jets, urged people to imagine being a raindrop in order to help repair the Earth.“Every single raindrop that falls from the sky relieves the parched ground,” he said. “What if every one of us was a raindrop? If every single one of us cared? We do, because we have to, because at the end of the day nature is our life source.”Since the start of the pandemic, scientists have stepped up warnings that deforestation, ecosystem destruction and illegal trade in wildlife can increase the risk of disease transmission from animals to people, and have urged tighter controls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/prince-harry-suggests-covid-19-is-rebuke-from-nature-stresses-need-to-tackle-climate-change/story-XTzFa6dnJIxYDgm7MSMb1H.html
03-12-2020||World||Did Canada’s pre-election politics spark Justin Trudeau’s remarks on the farmers’ protest in India?||Politics ahead of possible mid-term elections in Canada in the spring of 2021 may have been the reason behind Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s comments on India’s farm laws that could cause bilateral ties to reset back to the lows of 2017.An Indian official said the remarks during a virtual event were a “setback” given that the relationship had warmed in preceding months after Trudeau returned to power in October 2019, though as the leader of a minority government.Canada foreign ministry, Global Affairs Canada, had been in touch with India on the farm legislations, and their necessity had been conveyed over multiple conversations. In fact, New Delhi expected the matter to be raised in Canada’s House of Commons and was prepared for foreign minister Francoise-Philippe Champagne’s response that the concerns had been made clear.However, an official pointed out that Trudeau “escalated” the matter by raising it unprompted during a Facebook live event to celebrate the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak. The event was to be private and was closed to media, but the video was placed in the public domain, causing damage to the relationship akin to Trudeau’s appearance at a social event in Toronto in 2017, where pro-Khalistan flags and banners were waved and Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale and the assassins of Indira Gandhi featured on floats participating in the accompanying parade.“It was not inadvertent,” Vishnu Prakash, former Indian High Commissioner to Ottawa, said of Trudeau’s comments. He said for the Canadian PM, it was the “primacy” of the vote bank that appeared to matter “without much regard for the relationship”.There is a possibility that Canada may be headed for snap elections next year and that could have been part of the calculation for Trudeau. New Democratic Party leader Jagmeet Singh had already made a strident statement on the farm laws and Conservative leader Erin O’Toole released a video of his party’s support for “peaceful protests”. The latter came prior to Trudeau’s appearance at the virtual event. With all three parties competing for the Sikh vote, which is critical in ensuring a majority in the House, he may not have wanted to lose the advantage he has with the community, which has been holding protests in the suburbs of Toronto and Vancouver on the issue.Prakash described the outcome was “political opportunism” and added, “Even if there’s competitive politics, a prime minister saying something is different from what the opposition says.”Months of improvement in the relationship during which the two PMs have spoken and foreign ministers have been regularly in contact may now be jeopardised. “That’s a pity as a lot of effort has gone into it in the last year and there was again hope for revival of the political relationship,” Prakash said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/did-canada-s-pre-election-politics-spark-justin-trudeau-s-remarks-on-the-farmers-protest-in-india/story-TYyAdFNSCTQXab9mpUe0MP.html
03-12-2020||World||China testing blunders stemmed from secret deals with firms||Secrecy and cronyism at China’s top disease control agency led to widespread test shortages and flaws that hampered the early response to the coronavirus outbreak, an Associated Press investigation has found.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19China’s Center for Disease Control and Prevention gave test kit designs and distribution rights exclusively to three then-obscure Shanghai companies with which officials had personal ties, according to the investigation. It was based on interviews with more than 40 doctors, CDC employees, health experts, and industry insiders, as well as hundreds of internal documents, contracts, messages and emails.The Shanghai companies — GeneoDx Biotech, Huirui Biotechnology, and BioGerm Medical Technology -- paid the China CDC for the information and the distribution rights, according to two sources with knowledge of the transaction who asked to remain anonymous to avoid retribution. The price: One million RMB ($146,600) each, the sources said. It’s unclear whether the money went to specific individuals.In the meantime, the CDC and its parent agency, the National Health Commission, tried to prevent other scientists and organizations from testing for the virus with their own homemade kits. They took control of patient samples and made testing requirements to confirm coronavirus cases much more complicated.The flawed testing system — at a time when the virus could have been slowed — stopped scientists and officials from seeing how fast it was spreading. Chinese authorities failed to report a single new case between Jan. 5 and 17, even as hundreds were infected in Wuhan, the city where the virus was first detected.The apparent lull in cases meant officials were slow to take early actions such as warning the public or barring large gatherings. It also caused critical shortages of testing kits, barring access to care for many who were infected.The testing problems, along with other mistakes and delays, allowed the virus to rip through Wuhan undetected and spread across the world in a pandemic that has now sickened 64 million people and killed almost 1.5 million.China was hardly the only country to grapple with testing. In in the U.S., the CDC declined to use a WHO design and insisted on developing its own kits, which turned out to be faulty and led to even longer delays than in China. Still, the hiccups in China were especially consequential because it was the first country to detect the virus.“Because you have only three companies providing testing kits, it kept the capacity of testing very limited,” said Yanzhong Huang, a senior fellow for global health at the Council on Foreign Relations. “It was a major problem that led to the rapid increase in cases and deaths.”China’s foreign ministry and China’s top medical agency, the National Health Commission, did not respond to requests for comment.But interviews and documents suggest that a culture of backdoor connections quietly flourished in a top-down, underfunded public health system. Though none of the first three diagnostics companies tapped to make test kits were well-known in the industry, there were extensive ties between the companies and top China CDC researchers.The founder of BioGerm, Zhao Baihui, was the former chief technician of the Shanghai CDC’s microbiology lab. Emails and financial records obtained by the AP show that Zhao first started BioGerm’s predecessor through an intermediary in 2012, while she was still at the Shanghai CDC. In the next five years, she sold thousands of dollars’ worth of test kits to her own workplace through the intermediary. After quitting the CDC in 2017, Zhao went on to spearhead lucrative contracts with Shanghai officials.Zhao did not respond to requests for comment from the AP.Another of the three companies, GeneoDx, enjoyed special access because it is a subsidiary of the state-run firm SinoPharm, which is managed directly by China’s cabinet. In October 2019, GeneoDx co-organized an internal CDC training conference on emerging respiratory diseases in Shanghai. Tan Wenjie, the CDC official who ran the training, was later put in charge of developing test kits.GeneoDx did not respond to requests for comment or interviews. The National Health Commission did not respond to a request for a comment or an interview with Tan.The last company, Huirui, is a longtime partner with Tan, the CDC official in charge of test kits. In an interview, CEO Li Hui said the CDC routinely contracted his company to make emergency testing chemicals. He denied any personal relationship with Tan or any payments to the CDC.“We’ve been working with the CDC to respond to emerging new diseases for about ten years, not just for a day or two, it’s normal,” Li said.It’s unclear whether the agreements between the China CDC and the three test kit companies violated Chinese law.They raise questions around potential violations of bribery laws, along with rules against abuse of authority, self-dealing and conflicts of interest, said James Zimmerman, a Beijing-based corporate attorney and former chairman of the American Chamber of Commerce in China.But other experts caution that the state may have designated the three companies to make test kits under special laws on the procurement of emergency goods during natural disasters.“Things will be different in the middle of a crisis,” said Lesli Ligorner, a Beijing-based attorney specializing in anti-corruption law. “I wouldn’t be so quick to rush to judgement.”The first step in making test kits is to get samples of the virus and decode its genetic sequence. This leads to test designs, essentially a recipe for the tests.In past outbreaks, the China CDC sent test designs and testing compounds to laboratories across the country just days after identifying the pathogen. But this time, they held back the genome and test designs. Instead, they finalized “technology transfer” agreements to give the test designs to the Shanghai companies, according to three people familiar with the matter. The selection process was kept secret.At the same time, central CDC authorities stymied others from testing. Provincial CDC staff were told that instead of testing and reporting cases themselves, they had to send patient samples to designated labs in Beijing for full sequencing, a complicated and time-consuming procedure. As a result, for weeks, local CDC staff were unable to confirm new cases.After a Jan. 14 internal teleconference to order secret preparations for a pandemic, China’s health authorities relaxed the requirements to confirm cases and started distributing the CDC-sanctioned test kits. A day after the first test kits finally arrived in Wuhan on Jan. 16, the case count began to rise again.But the test kits from GeneoDx and Huirui had quality issues, turning out inconclusive results or false negatives. And technicians were hesitant to use test kits that would later prove more accurate from more established companies, because the CDC did not endorse them.As a result, in the early days, getting a Covid test was so difficult that Wuhan residents compared it to winning the lottery.Among the victims was Peng Yi, a 39-year-old schoolteacher who started coughing on Jan. 23. When he went to the hospital, he waited for eight hours, only to be turned away for a lack of test kits. Then, when he finally got tested on Jan. 30, it turned out negative, even as the virus ravaged his lungs.His second test, on Feb. 4, turned out positive. It was too late. Weeks later, Peng passed away.“There were very, very few tests, basically none….if you couldn’t prove you were positive, you couldn’t get admitted to a hospital,” his mother, Zhong Hanneng, said in a tearful interview in October. “The doctor said there was nothing that could be done.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-testing-blunders-stemmed-from-secret-deals-with-firms/story-hOsYGt5WdPVqm1O962ys3H.html
03-12-2020||World||Biden, democrats swings behind bipartisan virus aid bill, says ‘immediate held’ needed||President-elect Joe Biden swung behind a bipartisan Covid-19 relief effort and his top Capitol Hill allies cut their demands for a $2 trillion-plus measure by more than half in hopes of breaking a monthslong logjam and delivering much-sought aid as the tempestuous congressional session speeds to a close.Biden said Wednesday the developing aid package “wouldn’t be the answer, but it would be the immediate help for a lot of things.” He wants a relief bill to pass Congress now, with more aid to come next year.Biden’s remarks followed an announcement by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., and Senate Democrat leader Chuck Schumer of New York in support of an almost $1 trillion approach as the “basis” for discussions. The announcement appeared aimed at budging Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., who so far has been unwilling to abandon a $550 billion Senate GOP plan that has failed twice this fall.The Democrats embraced a $908 billion approach from moderate Sens. Joe Manchin, D-W.Va., and Susan Collins, R-Maine, among others. It would establish a $300 per week jobless benefit, send $160 billion to help state and local governments, boost schools and universities, revive popular “paycheck protection” subsidies for businesses, and bail out transit systems and airlines.“In the spirit of compromise we believe the bipartisan framework introduced by Senators yesterday should be used as the basis for immediate bipartisan, bicameral negotiations,” Pelosi and Schumer said. They said they would try to build upon the approach, which has support in the House from a bipartisan “problem solvers” coalition.The statement was a significant concession by Pelosi and Schumer, who played hardball this fall during failed preelection discussions with the administration on a costlier bill. They wanted a more generous unemployment benefit and far more for state and local government. Their embrace of the $908 billion measure was a retreat from a secret $1.3 trillion offer the two Democrats gave McConnell just on Monday.It’s another sign of urgency for additional Covid aid and economic stimulus as the economy struggles to recover from being slammed by the novel coronavirus. While the jobless rate isn’t as high as was feared, the restaurant and airline industries are desperate for aid, as are other businesses, state and local officials, transit systems and the Postal Service, among others.The new plan includes a liability shield for businesses and other organizations that have reopened their doors during the pandemic. It’s the first time Pelosi and Schumer have shown a willingness to consider the idea, a top priority of McConnell, though there’s been no discussion on the details, which are sure to be tricky.McConnell had dismissed the bipartisan offer on Tuesday, instead aiming to rally Republicans around the $550 billion GOP proposal. But McConnell himself endorsed a $1 trillion-or so plan this summer, only to encounter resistance from conservatives that prompted him to retrench. He has acknowledged that another infusion of aid to states and local governments, a key Pelosi demand, probably will pass eventually.McConnell wouldn’t respond when asked about the Democratic statement. His top deputy, Sen. John Thune, R-S.D., said GOP leaders might agree to merging the bipartisan proposal with McConnell’s bill.“I think there’s still time, although it’s short, to put a bill together,” Thune said.Any relief package would be attached to a $1.4 trillion year-end spending bill required to avert a government shutdown next weekend. Talks on that measure are proceeding but if lawmakers should stumble, a temporary spending bill would be needed as a bridge into next year.The bipartisan group of lawmakers proposed a split-the-difference solution to the protracted impasse, hoping to speed overdue help to a hurting nation before Congress adjourns for the holidays. It was a sign that some lawmakers reluctant to adjourn for the year without approving some pandemic aid.Their proposal includes $228 billion to extend and upgrade “paycheck protection” subsidies for businesses for a second round of relief to hard-hit businesses such as restaurants. It would revive a special jobless benefit, but at a reduced level of $300 per week rather than the $600 benefit enacted in March. State and local governments would receive $160 billion.There’s also $45 billion for transportation, including aid to transit systems and Amtrak; $82 billion to reopen schools and universities; and money for vaccines and health care providers, as well as for food stamps, rental assistance and the Postal Service.The new effort follows a split-decision election that delivered the White House to Democrats and gave Republicans down-ballot success.Pelosi and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin struggled over a relief bill for weeks before the November election, discussing legislation of up to $2 trillion. Senate GOP conservatives opposed their efforts and Pelosi refused to yield on key points.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-democrats-swings-behind-bipartisan-virus-aid-bill-says-immediate-held-needed/story-DuJErGUg9TjlnrL8Sd7POO.html
03-12-2020||World||US bans cotton imports from Chinese firm on ‘slave labor’||The Trump administration banned cotton imports from a military-linked Chinese firm it accuses of relying on “slave labor,” as the US seeks to ramp up economic pressure on Beijing over its treatment of Muslim ethnic minority groups.The US Department of Homeland Security said Wednesday that customs officers at American ports would impound “shipments containing cotton and cotton products originating” from the Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps., one of China’s largest producers. The organization -- set up by the Communist Party more than 60 years ago to help develop the far western region of Xinjiang -- was previously hit by Treasury Department sanctions barring it from transactions with American companies and citizens.“The human rights abuses taking place at the hand of the Chinese Communist government will not be tolerated by President Trump and the American people,” DHS Acting Deputy Secretary Ken Cuccinelli said in a statement. US businesses shouldn’t be allowed to “profit from slave labor” he said, adding that “‘Made in China’ is not just a country of origin, it is a warning label.”The Trump administration and other critics of Beijing have targeted cotton from China, which supplies about one-third of US apparel, as a way to increase pressure over the mass detention of Turkic-speaking ethnic Uighurs. Xinjiang produces more than 80% of China’s cotton, much of it from XPCC.The US’s action could potentially affect clothing exports from other Asian producers like Bangladesh, Vietnam, and Cambodia, if they contain cotton from China, according to Sheng Lu, an associate professor in the Department of Fashion & Apparel Studies at the University of Delaware.“Cotton made by XPCC are used by garment factories throughout China and exported to other apparel producing countries,” he said.The US imported about $11 billion in cotton textile and apparel products from China in 2019, but depending on how US Customs enforces this order, it could target a much broader array of products, Lu said. The order also sends a strong signal that the issue of forced labor in Xinjiang is not over yet and there could be other actions in the future, he said.Detention FacilitiesThe Trump administration has already sanctioned scores of Chinese companies and Xinjiang party chief Chen Quanguo over their ties to a security state that has detained between tens of thousands and “upwards of 1 million” Uighurs, according to a United Nations’ assessment. China has continued to expand its detention facilities in the region, the Australian Strategic Policy Institute said in September report based on satellite imagery, government documents, media reports and witness accounts.China defends the camps as “vocational education centers” intended to “purge ideological diseases,” including terrorism and religious extremism. Authorities dispute outside population estimates of the camps, without providing figures of their own. The facilities were built after a spate of deadly attacks involving Uighurs in 2013 and 2014, prompting President Xi Jinping to order authorities to “strike first” against Islamist extremism.Still, the latest measure stopped short of banning all cotton from Xinjiang, as Cuccinelli told Bloomberg TV in September the U.S. was considering. The decision whether to take further action may be left to the President-elect Joe Biden, who has labeled China’s policies regarding the Uighurs as “genocide” and called for an international effort to make a united stand against the campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-bans-cotton-imports-from-chinese-firm-on-slave-labor/story-PoD4nLsoDwNUPNrHIAJCnI.html
03-12-2020||World||US states plan to sue Facebook next week for possible anitrust violations||A group of US states led by New York is investigating Facebook Inc for possible antitrust violations and plans to file a lawsuit against the social media giant next week, four sources familiar with the matter said on Wednesday.The complaint would be the second major lawsuit filed against a Big Tech company this year. The Justice Department sued Alphabet Inc’s Google in October.More than 40 states plan to sign on to the lawsuit, one source said, without naming them.Facebook declined to comment. A spokesman for the New York attorney general’s office declined to comment.The Federal Trade Commission, whose commissioners met on Wednesday, could file a related complaint with an administrative law judge or in district court.It is not known what the states plan to include in their complaint. One allegation often made against Facebook is that it has strategically sought to buy small potential rivals, often at a big premium. These include Instagram in 2012 and WhatsApp in 2014.Facebook Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg has argued in congressional testimony that the company has a range of competitors, including other tech giants. He has defended controversial acquisitions like Instagram and WhatsApp by saying the social media platform helped them expand from small, insignificant companies into powerhouses.The Justice Department and FTC in 2019 began antitrust investigations into the four big tech companies, which also include Amazon.com Inc and Apple Inc. Shortly after that, attorneys generals quickly joined together to probe Google and Facebook.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-states-plan-to-sue-facebook-next-week-for-possible-anitrust-violations/story-HqghT2Src3tTbdOvT7qtSI.html
03-12-2020||World||Brazil to receive 15 million doses of AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine in Jan-Feb||The first batch of 15 million doses of Oxford University and AstraZeneca’s coronavirus vaccine will be shipped to Brazil in January and February, Health Minister Eduardo Pazuello said.“In January and February, 15 million doses will arrive from this AstraZeneca-Oxford and Fiocruz technology order [Rio de Janeiro Oswaldo Cruz Foundation]. In total, 100 million doses will be delivered in the first semester,” the minister said, speaking to the National Congress.Click here for complete coverage of the Coronavirus pandemicWith the transfer of production technology, Fiocruz will be able to produce another 160 million doses of the vaccine in Brazil in the second half of the year, Pazuello said. A total of 260 million doses of the vaccine will be enough to vaccinate the country’s citizens twice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazil-to-receive-15-million-doses-of-astrazeneca-s-covid-19-vaccine-in-jan-feb/story-HQLLwpElaAzKLQqFPmU7GM.html
03-12-2020||World||WeChat deletes Australian PM’s appeal to Chinese community||Chinese social media platform WeChat has deleted a post by Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison, accusing him of misleading the public, as the diplomatic spat between the two nations shows no sign of easing.In a direct appeal to the Chinese community, Morrison promoted Australia as a “free, democratic, liberal country” and explained that an official probe is underway into alleged atrocities by Australian soldiers in Afghanistan. That post was removed for the use of “misleading words” to “distort historical events and deceive the public,” according to a message displayed in its place.Both China and Australia have taken to social media in recent days as tensions between the two nations continue to simmer. Morrison angrily demanded a public apology earlier this week after a diplomat in Beijing tweeted a fake image purporting to show an Australian soldier holding a knife to the throat of an Afghan child.Australia’s Treasurer Josh Frydenberg on Thursday said WeChat’s action was “unnecessary.”While stressing the importance of the trading relationship with China, he said Australia won’t give ground on a list of Chinese grievances against the government. They range from Australia meddling in domestic affairs in Hong Kong to calling for a probe into the coronavirus outbreak.Also Read | Australian PM sends WeChat message to Chinese diaspora in spatAustralia is “not going to give way on those,” Frydenberg said. “They go to the heart of who we are. Our national identity, a free press, a democratically elected parliament and obviously upholding our national interest when it comes to things like foreign investment.”Morrison created his WeChat public account in February 2019, becoming one of the few heads of state who have a presence on China’s largest social network with 1 billion users. He has since posted regularly in Chinese to communicate his government’s policies. During last year’s federal election in Australia, leaders of the main political parties took to the platform to conduct question-and-answer sessions with Chinese-Australian voters.Like all media in China, WeChat works with the Beijing government to censor sensitive content. The Chinese microblogging site Weibo Corp., a more popular platform for foreign government leaders and politicians, has a history of blocking or removing posts from foreign embassies on topics ranging from human rights to stock market manipulation, according to a 2018 report by the Australian Strategic Policy Institute.WeChat operator Tencent Holdings Ltd. didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.Ties between the major trading partners have been strained since 2018 when Canberra barred Huawei Technologies Co. from building its 5G network and introduced anti-foreign interference laws aimed at halting Beijing’s “meddling” in domestic affairs. Relations have been in a deep freeze since April, when Morrison’s government called for independent investigators to enter Wuhan to probe the origins of the coronavirus.A string of commodities have since been targeted with tariffs or bans in what Canberra says amounts to “economic coercion.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/wechat-deletes-australian-pm-s-appeal-to-chinese-community/story-bRt5VGRDUSE4A2TxePbOMO.html
03-12-2020||World||Covid-19 vaccine to be free in Finland||The Covid-19 vaccination in Finland will be free and will start in early 2021, the country’s Health Ministry said.“Finland’s goal is to protect the entire population with a licensed vaccine. Vaccines are offered free of charge to everyone who wishes. The ministry estimates that the first vaccines will be available in the country early next year. Vaccinations should be started as soon as possible,” the ministry said.A final decision on vaccination can only be made after the vaccine is approved and becomes available.Vaccinations will be offered by priority: medical personnel, patients of hospitals and nursing homes, people of older age groups.Finland participates in EU procurement, which guarantees the possibility of receiving the coronavirus vaccine from several different manufacturers. The EU Commission is currently negotiating a supply agreement for six different vaccines. Finland takes part in five of them, and the sixth agreement is being prepared for adoption, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-vaccine-to-be-free-in-finland/story-rmpdcIBax6sFRZwrRwZzRM.html
03-12-2020||World||Psaki, next White House press secretary, a veteran messenger||After four years of President Donald Trump serving as his own chief spokesperson and frequently peddling false information and conspiracy theories in the process, successor Joe Biden is pledging to return to a more traditional approach to communicating with Americans.Much of that work will fall to Jen Psaki, Biden’s pick for White House press secretary. She’s a veteran communications staffer who has worked on many top Democratic campaigns and held leading roles under President Barack Obama, including deputy press secretary and White House communications director, as well as spokesperson for the State Department.She’ll assume the role at a critical time, facing a public that’s skeptical of messages from institutions and a press corps whose relationship with the White House has been highly strained during the Trump era. Psaki, who turned 42 on Tuesday, is well-known in Washington, but she’s not a household name.Yet.“This job becomes one of the most recognizable people representing both the administration and the government writ large,” said Robert Gibbs, a former Obama press secretary. “She’ll be recognized when she travels overseas. She’ll be recognized when she goes to the grocery store.”Trump went through four press secretaries and often preferred to engage directly with the electorate, tweeting at all hours or holding his own press briefings — especially at the start of the coronavirus pandemic. Both the president and his media team were frequently at odds with White House reporters while routinely spreading falsehoods.One of Trump’s press secretaries, Stephanie Grisham, never held a single briefing during her tenure. His most recent choice, Kayleigh McEnany, has used her sporadic briefings to scold reporters on their choice of questions, lecture them about the content of their stories, and reinforce baseless claims by the president.Biden has promised to restore daily press briefings, and Psaki says she views the core of her new job as seeking to rebuild trust in government, especially during the pandemic.“It’s difficult to imagine now how different this is going to be in a couple of months,” said Stuart Stevens, chief strategist for Republican Mitt Romney’s 2012 presidential campaign when Psaki was press secretary for Obama’s reelection campaign.Stevens, a fierce Trump critic, said that after Inauguration Day on Jan. 20, White House communications staffers won’t be “graded upon their willingness to lie for the president.”Former Obama chief of staff Denis McDonough remembered Psaki once coming into his office and “pushing back quite strongly” on a policy point, seeking to get “answers that she knew she would be asked about.” He said the exchange simultaneously annoyed and impressed him.“She was not a passive participant who was just taking messaging to pass along,” McDonough said.Still, simply returning to the way things were during the Obama administration is not something all journalists are looking forward to. While its relationship with the press was not as combative as the current administration’s, the Obama White House tightly controlled access to information, was obstructionist on many Freedom of Information Act requests and offered aggressive spin on key events.It also used the 1917 Espionage Act in unprecedented ways, prosecuting more people for leaking sensitive information to the public than all previous presidents combined.Harold Holzer, a onetime congressional press secretary and author of the book “The Presidents and the Press,” said many White House journalists “were horrified by their treatment in the Obama administration.”“They were being told to consult the White House website for answers to their questions, Obama never showed up ... unless it was to go give a cupcake on someone’s birthday, he didn’t answer FOIA requests,” Holzer said.Psaki has already led calls with reporters to discuss the progress of Biden’s transition to the White House, though those haven’t come daily. Biden, meanwhile, has held only two formal press conferences since Election Day. Trump went weeks after his victory in 2016 without convening a press conference, but his team did provide daily updates by phone to reporters.Holzer noted that Biden “is friendly, but he’s guarded and he’ll be more protective.”Presidential press corps combativeness long predates Trump and Obama.John Adams signed a sedition law prohibiting “malicious writing” about the president and executive branch. Abraham Lincoln imprisoned editors during the Civil War, and Franklin Delano Roosevelt admonished a journalist to go to the corner and wear a dunce cap. Early in Bill Clinton’s term, the corridor between the briefing room and the press secretary’s office was closed to journalists — causing an uproar among their ranks and a reversal of the policy.“It’s happened before. It’s just that it wasn’t on social media,” Holzer said.A native of Stamford, Connecticut, and a graduate of William & Mary, Psaki is part of an all-female senior communications team for the Biden White House. She declined an interview request through a Biden transition team spokesperson.McDonough recalled recruiting Psaki back to the White House from the State Department on the president’s behalf in 2015 — and her saying that she was having a family and that nothing would keep her from achieving that goal.“I’ll never forget having that conversation with her and how insistent she was,” McDonough said.Psaki and her husband, Gregory Mecher, have two children, ages 2 and 5.Gibbs worked closely with Psaki in the Obama press office and said she has a good relationship with Biden and with reporters, excels at message planning and can be “calm inside a building that, even on the best day of the administration, is a bit chaotic.”“You get calls at 2 in the morning from the Situation Room, you’re up early reading news,” Gibbs said of the post Psaki is taking on. “You have to be ready to react to what you know is going to happen and what you have no idea’s going to happen. And that really doesn’t turn off from the moment you start the job until the moment you finish it.”Current and former colleagues say Psaki is careful to take care of those around her, even people she far outranks. A 2008 Obama communications intern recalled Psaki providing an air mattress to use for the summer after a housing mix-up.Biden aides say that the president-elect decided on Psaki because she ran point for the Obama press office on the economy, especially stimulus spending — an issue that then-Vice President Biden, and the man he’s tapped as his administration’s first chief of staff, Ron Klain, were leading voices on. That’s important since Biden has promised to spend billions creating green jobs and making infrastructure improvements to better combat climate change and to reduce economic inequality while reviving the post-pandemic economy.Psaki also has extensive foreign policy experience from her time at the State Department. That, combined with her White House years, makes her among the most practically experienced people to take on the role of press secretary while giving her deep knowledge of key issues, aides say.Psaki is also remembered for some tense exchanges with journalists during State Department press briefings. Videos of some of those have now begun to resurface in Russia. State media there is often critical of U.S. political figures but in the past singled out Psaki, turning her last name into a verb, “Psaking,” meant to denote making mistakes while speaking publicly.Still, Stevens, the Romney 2012 top strategist, said any media dust-ups will be grounded in a public and political reality that evaporated during the Trump era.“I’m sure she’s going to have a lot of fights with reporters, and reporters are going to have frustrations. And that’s how it should be,” he said. “But they will be people living in the same universe. They’re not going to be debating about whether gravity’s a reasonable phenomenon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/psaki-next-white-house-press-secretary-a-veteran-messenger/story-vugh9Knos3Zxj6TjU9R2NN.html
03-12-2020||World||Australia aims to complete review of Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine by Jan 2021||Australia’s pharmaceutical regulator said on Thursday it is on course to review Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine by January 2021, with the country sticking to a March timetable to start vaccinations. Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19 Britain on Wednesday approved the use of the Pfizer vaccine, jumping ahead of the rest of the world in the race to begin the most crucial mass inoculation programme in history. But John Skerritt, the head of Australia’s Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) said it would likely complete its review by “late January” and has told staff not to plan a holiday to get the work done. “My staff have been told to put away their swimsuits and towels and to work as quickly as we can but also in significant depth,” Skerritt told reporters in Canberra.Pfizer’s is one of the four Covid-19 vaccines Australia has agreed to buy, including from Novavax, AstraZeneca and CSL Ltd should trials prove successful.Health Minister Greg Hunt said the January timetable does not accelerate plans to begin vaccinations.“We are on track for first vaccinations beginning with our health workers and our aged care residents subject to approvals in March,” Hunt told reporters in Canberra.Also Read | Covid-19 vaccine: Is Pfizer approval hasty? Can Indians get vaccinated in UK? All you need to knowTreasurer Josh Frydenberg said getting a vaccine out by then would boost the country’s economy by A$34 billion ($25 billion) compared with earlier assumptions of 2022.Australia is in the fortunate position of being able to allow regulators time to complete checks without the pressure of mounting cases of Covid-19.Its tally of more than 27,800 infections is far fewer than many other developed countries, and until Wednesday gone nearly three weeks without any local transmission of Covid-19. The streak was broken when Australia’s most populous state said a worker at a hotel, where overseas travellers are quarantined for two weeks, tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-aims-to-complete-review-of-pfizer-s-covid-19-vaccine-by-jan-2021/story-TV3A3wO7YtT0ABfjNOvAiJ.html
03-12-2020||World||Hong Kong media tycoon Jimmy Lai denied bail on fraud charge||Outspoken Hong Kong pro-democracy advocate and media tycoon Jimmy Lai was refused bail on Thursday on a fraud charge amid a growing crackdown on dissent in the semi-autonomous city.Jimmy Lai of Next Digital, which publishes the Apple Daily newspaper, was among 10 people arrested August 10 on what police said was suspicion of violating a national security law and collusion with a foreign country.Lai, 73, was later released on bail but police raided his company’s offices in October and took away documents.On Wednesday, Lai and two Next Digital executives were charged with fraud over accusations that they violated lease terms for Next Digital office space.Lai appeared in court Thursday and was denied bail. His case has been adjourned till April 16.Hong Kong police said in a statement Wednesday that it had arrested three men on charges of fraud, without naming them. It also said that one of them had been suspected of violating the national security law, and that it was still under investigation.Beijing imposed the national security law in response to protests in Hong Kong that began in June 2019 over a proposed extradition law and expanded to include demands for greater democracy in the former British colony.The sweeping legislation prompted more public protests and led to complaints that Beijing is violating the autonomy promised to Hong Kong when it returned to China and damaging its status as a business center.Apple Daily criticized the law on its front page on July 1, calling it the “final nail in the coffin” of the territory’s autonomy.The British government had slammed Lai’s August arrest and said the security law was being used to crush dissent.The law is “being implemented in a way that undermines freedom of speech,” the British government said in a report this month on the status of the 1984 agreement for Hong Kong’s return to China.“It is imperative that this freedom is fully respected,” the report said.Lai was earlier arrested in February and April on charges of taking part in unauthorized protests. He also faces charges of joining an unauthorized vigil marking the anniversary of the June 4, 1989, crackdown on pro-democracy protests in Beijing’s Tiananmen Square.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-media-tycoon-jimmy-lai-denied-bail-on-fraud-charge/story-nW8GsfqbSdD1B5tmSyQ2DJ.html
03-12-2020||World||China launches 1,100-km section of China-Russia East gas pipeline||Operations have started on the middle portion of the China-Russia East natural gas pipeline, allowing natural gas from the Power of Siberia system in Russia to be transmitted to the smog-prone Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region in northern China.The 1,110-kilometre pipeline aims to help improve air quality in the region, where about a quarter of China’s steelmaking capacity is located, by adding 27 million cubic metres gas supply per day, China Oil & Gas Piping Network Corp (PipeChina) said in a statement on Thursday, adding that the pipeline will also promote economic development alongside the rust-belt areas. This portion starts at Changling city in Jilin and ends at Yongqing city in Hebei. The pipeline also connects the existing gas pipelines in northeastern and northern China, as well as the gas storage projects in Dalian, Tangshan and Liaohe.The northern part of the China-Russia East gas pipeline started operations in December 2019 and has transmitted nearly 4 billion cubic metres (bcm) natural gas, according to PipeChina.China had started construction on the southern portion of the China-Russia East pipeline in July, extending the route to Shanghai in eastern China. Volumes of Russian gas transported via the pipeline could reach 38 bcm per annum once the line is completed by 2025.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-launches-1-100-km-section-of-china-russia-east-gas-pipeline/story-JVlZ9rfMbnjX4LqLhe08OJ.html
03-12-2020||World||Japan may ban sale of new gasoline-powered vehicles in mid-2030s||Japan’s government is considering abolishing sales of new gasoline-engine cars by the mid-2030s in favour of hybrid or electric vehicles in line with a global shift from traditionally powered cars, public broadcaster NHK reported on Thursday.The move would follow Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga’s pledge in October for Japan to slash carbon emissions to zero on a net basis by 2050 and make the country the second G7 nation to set a deadline for phasing out gasoline vehicles in a little over two weeks. Japan’s industry ministry will map out a plan by the year-end, chief government spokesman Katsunobu Kato told a news conference on Thursday.The ministry is considering requiring all new vehicles to be electric cars including hybrid vehicles, NHK reported earlier, adding the ministry would finalise a formal target following expert-panel debates as early as the year-end.In Japan, the share of electricity vehicles is expected to increase to 55% in 2030, Boston Consulting Group said in a report on prospects for battery-powered cars. Globally, “the speed of expansion of the share of electric vehicles will accelerate due to the fact that battery prices are falling more rapidly than previously expected,” Boston Consulting said in the report. The United Kingdom will ban sales of new petrol and diesel powered cars and vans from 2030, bringing forward the phase-out date by five years in what Prime Minister Boris Johnson called a “green revolution.”Japan, China and South Korea recently announced firm targets to end net emissions of carbon, which has given momentum for companies and banks to push for cutbacks to keep global warming in check. Policies and investments in the next few years will be crucial to setting the pathways to carbon neutrality, climate activists and energy transition strategists all agree.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-may-ban-sale-of-new-gasoline-powered-vehicles-in-mid-2030s/story-fGauDbppFCYJaqMnkA7CkL.html
03-12-2020||World||UN to open special session on coronavirus crisis, India’s Secretary West listed as speaker||A special two-day session will be held at the UN General Assembly (UNGA) on Thursday with more than 100 world leaders -- some 53 heads of state, 39 heads of government and 38 ministers due to make pre-recorded video statements, including India’s Secretary West Vikas Swarup.Among the leaders slated to address the session are French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, Japan’s Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga, South African President Cyril Ramaphosa, and European Union chief Charles Michel. The United States will be represented by Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar.The President of the UNGA, Turkish diplomat Volkan Bozkir, will host the assembly’s 31st special session Thursday to Friday in response to the Covid-19 pandemic.“Following 1.5 million deaths, more than 62 million cases worldwide and one of the largest social and economic crises in living memory, controlling and recovering from Covid-19 is the international community’s top priority,” according to a UNGA press release.The two-day special session will primarily consist of a general debate on Thursday and interactive dialogues with experts, UN agencies and leading scientists, on Friday. Serum Institute of India Chief Executive Officer Adar Poonawalla will also address the session through a pre-recorded video on December 4.President Donald Trump is not listed as a speaker for the session and the United States has reportedly claimed that the United Nations meeting of world leaders on the Covid-19 pandemic was being designed to allow Beijing to spread “propaganda.”The U.N. General Assembly agreed in October to hold the Covid-19 special session by adopting a resolution with 150 votes in favor. The United States, Israel and Armenia abstained and the remaining members didn’t vote.Bozkir’s spokesman Brenden Varma said the president thought that the meeting was “already too late” and should have happened in the summer. Varma added the meeting was created as a way to promote multilateralism in a time of crisis.The point is “to bring countries together, along with U.N. actors, with the private sector, with vaccine developers to work together ... to take stock and to identify gaps and challenges,” Varma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-to-open-special-session-on-coronavirus-crisis-india-s-secretary-west-listed-as-speaker/story-nGo48ZCFtK3xxDKiIqw5qM.html
03-12-2020||World||Ivanka Trump questioned in suit over inaugural hotel cost||Ivanka Trump was interviewed by District of Columbia lawyers in a lawsuit where President Donald Trump’s inaugural committee is accused of illegally overpaying for events at a hotel owned by his family business.The deposition of the president’s daughter, a top White House aide, was taken Tuesday and is one of many key interviews taken in recent months, according to a court filing, which also disclosed that First Lady Melania Trump has been subpoenaed for documents.Lawyers for District of Columbia Attorney General Karl Racine also have deposed Mickael Damelincourt, the managing director of the Trump hotel in downtown Washington and Eric Danziger, who runs Trump’s hotel business, as well as Thomas Barrack Jr., a longtime friend of the president’s and chairman of the inauguration committee, according to the filing. The content of the depositions wasn’t disclosed or described.The White House declined to comment.Filed in January in District of Columbia Superior Court, the case is one of numerous and varied legal actions Trump, his family and associates face as the president reenters private life next month.Racine, a Democrat, argues that Trump’s inaugural committee made an unjustified payment of more than $1 million to the Trump hotel for events from Jan. 17 to Jan. 20, 2017, after failing to consider less expensive alternatives.The depositions were reported earlier by CNN.The case is District of Columbia v. 58th Presidential Inaugural Committee, 2020 CA 000488 B, Superior Court of the District of Columbia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ivanka-trump-questioned-in-suit-over-inaugural-hotel-cost/story-fAjei6YbIpgBldS9d0FkWP.html
03-12-2020||World||China could fall short on smog targets as industry surges, says study||Major industrial areas in northern China are at risk of falling short of their winter pollution targets after surges in the production of steel and cement, the Helsinki-based Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (CREA) said on Thursday.The heavily industrialised Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region, which covers 28 cities, is aiming to keep emissions of small, airborne particles known as PM2.5 from October to December at the same level as a year earlier.But PM2.5 concentrations in the region stood at 52 micrograms per cubic metre in October, up 15.6% compared to a year earlier, according to official data. November improvements were not big enough to offset the previous month’s jump.“The targets set for this winter appeared soft, but now a surge in industrial output is putting even these lenient targets at risk,” CREA said.Hebei province, which surrounds Beijing, produced 210.8 million tonnes of crude steel in the first 10 months alone, up 4.1% on the year. Output in October stood at 20.95 million tonnes, up 17% from a year earlier.China’s top steelmaking province has pledged to cut annual production capacity to 200 million tonnes by the end of the year, but “this target is being rendered meaningless by ‘creative accounting’ of steel capacity,” said CREA.The environment ministry aims to keep average PM2.5 concentrations in the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region at under 63 micrograms per cubic metre from October to December, and then under 86 micrograms from January to March 2021.The figure is still more than double China’s official air quality standard of 35 micrograms.China also promised that it would avoid large-scale industrial closures this year, but Hebei and other provinces have already started to shut down cement factories in December in a bid to reduce smog build-ups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-could-fall-short-on-smog-targets-as-industry-surges-says-study/story-9fDwd86gidBumYvCysn0zI.html
03-12-2020||World||Japan voices ‘grave concerns’ about jailing of Hong Kong activists||Japan has “grave concerns” about the jailing of three Hong Kong activists and has conveyed its worries to China over the situation, chief government spokesman Katsunobu Kato said on Thursday.Hong Kong authorities on Wednesday sentenced prominent democracy activists Joshua Wong to more than 13 months in prison over an unlawful anti-government rally in 2019, the toughest sentence for an opposition figure this year. They also jailed Wong’s colleagues Agnes Chow and Ivan Lam for 10 and seven months, respectively. Chow speaks fluent Japanese and is well-known in Japan.“Japan increasingly has grave concerns about the recent Hong Kong situation such as sentences against three including Agnes Chow,” Kato told a regular news conference.“We have conveyed our concerns to China about Hong Kong at various opportunities,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-voices-grave-concerns-about-jailing-of-hong-kong-activists/story-lJ430XZGMb5vbls1lwAFTM.html
03-12-2020||World||Australia approves tough new veto powers over foreign agreements amid China row||Australia’s parliament on Thursday passed legislation giving the federal government power to veto any agreement struck with foreign states, a move likely to anger China and intensify a bitter diplomatic spat between the two countries.The law allows the Commonwealth to block any agreement between Australian states, councils or institutions and a foreign government, such as a controversial 2018 deal between the state of Victoria and China.“Australia’s policies and plans, the rules that we make for our country are made here in Australia according to our needs and our interests,” Prime Minister Scott Morrison told reporters in Canberra.Morrison has stressed the law is not aimed at any country but it is widely seen by analysts as directed at China.“It creates another trigger for the relationship to deteriorate,” said Melissa Conley Tyler, research fellow at the Asia Institute of the University of Melbourne.Under the terms of the new law, the foreign minister can veto any agreements with foreign governments if they “adversely affect Australia’s foreign relations” or are “inconsistent with Australian foreign policy”.One deal expected to come under the spotlight is Victoria’s participation in China’s Belt and Road Initiative, which Morrison said weakens the federal government’s ability to control foreign policy.Morrison declined to comment on whether that arrangement would be vetoed.Relations between Australia and China, its largest trading partner, have soured since Morrison called for an independent international investigation into the origins of the coronavirus pandemic earlier this year.Beijing has also take umbrage at Canberra’s blocking of a recent agricultural deal, its barring of Chinese tech giant Huawei from its 5G network and legislation outlawing foreign interference in Australia’s domestic politics.China has blocked billions of dollars worth of Australian exports from lobsters to wine in recent months, all the while refusing to accept phone calls from Australian ministers.Ties soured further this week when a senior Chinese official posted a fake image of an Australian soldier holding a knife with blood on it to the throat of an Afghan child, prompting Morrison to demand an apology from Beijing.Australian universities earn billions of dollars in tuition fees from Chinese students but some of their agreements with state-backed Chinese institutions may now come under closer scrutiny.Last year Australia’s New South Wales state scrapped a Chinese-funded language programme in schools amid fears over foreign influence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-approves-tough-new-veto-powers-over-foreign-agreements-amid-china-row/story-VazzWcYCARIRnzUBKAwtJN.html
03-12-2020||World||Biden facing growing pressure over secretary of defense pick||President-elect Joe Biden is facing escalating pressure from competing factions within his own party as he finalises his choice for secretary of defense.Black leaders have encouraged the incoming president to select an African-American to diversify what has so far been a largely white prospective Cabinet, while others are pushing him to appoint a woman to lead the Department of Defense for the first time.At the same time, a growing collection of progressive groups is opposing the leading female contender, Michèle Flournoy, citing concerns about her record and private-sector associations.A coalition of at least seven progressive groups warned Biden to avoid Flournoy in an open letter to Biden obtained Wednesday by The Associated Press that referenced her record of “ill-advised policy decisions” — particularly in relation to Saudi Arabia, Yemen and Afghanistan — and an “opaque history of private-sector activity.” “Ms. Flournoy’s consistent support for military interventions has contributed to devastating crises around the world, including in Yemen,” said Jehan Hakim, chairperson of the Yemeni Alliance Committee, which helped organize the letter.Other contenders are emerging, including retired Army Gen. Lloyd Austin and Jeh Johnson, who served as the Pentagon’s top lawyer and then as head of the Department of Homeland Security during President Barack Obama’s second term. Both Austin and Johnson are Black.The competing pressures are intensifying less than a month into Biden’s urgent push to build an administration while trying to preserve the broad coalition that fueled his victory over President Donald Trump last month.And facing massive governing challenges once he takes office on Jan. 20, Biden can perhaps least afford to lose the backing of the Democratic Party’s fiery progressive base. Nearly 100 House Democrats belong to the Progressive Caucus, which may wield significant influence over Biden’s policy agenda as Democrats cling to their narrowest House majority in a century.Biden has already promised to enact a sweeping pandemic relief bill while overhauling health care, immigration and education systems and fighting for the most aggressive environmental protections in US history.Progressive groups have cheered a handful of Biden’s early hires — particularly Heather Boushey and Jared Bernstein to his Council of Economic Advisers — but have been far from satisfied overall. Despite early disappointment, they have resisted the temptation to embrace an adversarial tone as they decide how to flex their muscles most effectively in the new political climate, especially with several major Cabinet positions and senior positions yet to be filled.Justice Democrats spokesperson Waleed Shahid called Biden’s early picks “a mixed bag,” but noted that they have generally been more progressive than Obama’s early picks after his 2008 election victory.“The thing that was alarming to me was when Joe Biden said, ‘We already have a significant number of progressives in our administration,’” Shahid said. “I talked to a lot of people, and they said, ‘We have no idea what he’s talking about.’” Beyond the Defense Department, progressives are gearing up for the possibility of more aggressive fights on Commerce, Labor, Education, Interior and Justice, among other unfilled Cabinet posts. They have already signaled intense opposition to the likes of Rahm Emanuel, a former Obama White House chief being considered for transportation secretary, and Mike Morell, another Obama-era figure being eyed for CIA director.Flournoy, meanwhile, had been seen as the leading candidate for defense secretary under a Democratic president since Hillary Clinton’s failed 2016 campaign.She stood out as deeply experienced, respected on Capitol Hill and well known on the international stage. But soon after Biden’s victory, her stock seemed to slip as others, including Austin and Johnson, came into consideration.A leading Black voice in Congress, South Carolina Rep. James Clyburn, has openly called for Biden to choose more Black men and women for Cabinet positions. The Pentagon job, which has never been held by a woman or a Black person, is one of the last remaining opportunities for Biden to demonstrate his commitment to diversity at the senior levels of his national security team.Liberal critics have suggested Flournoy’s views are more hawkish than the president-elect’s, particularly on the Afghanistan War, and some have pointed to her position as a co-founder of consulting firm WestExec Advisors, which provides what it calls “unique geopolitical and policy expertise to help business leaders” and which has become a source of Biden selections for other national security positions. Another of WestExec’s founders, Antony Blinken, is Biden’s nominee for secretary of state, and Avril Haines, the nominee for director of national intelligence, is a former WestExec principal.There was no reference to race or gender in Wednesday’s letter opposing Flournoy. The signatories include the Yemen Relief and Reconstruction Foundation; Justice Democrats, which is aligned with Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders; Demand Progress; and Just Foreign Policy, among others.They were especially critical of reports that Flournoy had resisted calls to end the Saudi-led war in Yemen. Biden has promised to end US support for the war.The letter offers support for two potential Flournoy alternatives: Sens. Tammy Duckworth of Illinois and Kirsten Gillibrand of New York.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-facing-growing-pressure-over-secretary-of-defense-pick/story-rkKqmC1QXRmtNx4pzMpcwN.html
03-12-2020||World||Want Americans to have faith in current and future elections, says Trump||Reiterating his allegations of massive voters fraud and electoral malpractice in the presidential polls, US President Donald Trump has told his supporters his fight was to ensure that Americans have faith in this and future elections. “Within days after the election, we witnessed an orchestrated effort to anoint a winner, even while many key states were still being counted. The Constitutional process must be allowed to continue. We are going to defend the honesty of the vote by ensuring that every legal ballot is counted and that no illegal ballot is counted,” Trump told his supporters at a White House Christmas Party on Tuesday. “This is not just about honoring the votes of 74 million Americans who voted for me. It’s about ensuring that Americans can have faith in this election, and in all future elections,” Trump said, according to a transcript of his 45-minutes speech at the event which was closed for the press, but one of his supporters had it live on Facebook. Trump alleged the “corrupt mail-in balloting scheme that Democrats systematically put into place” allowed voting to be altered, especially in swing states, which they had to win. “While it has long been understood that the Democrat political machine engages in voter fraud, from Detroit to Philadelphia to Milwaukee, Atlanta, so many other places, what changed this year was the Democrat party’s relentlessly push to print and mail out tens of millions of ballots, sent to unknown recipients with virtually no safeguards of any kind,” he said. This allowed, he alleged, fraud and abuse to occur on a scale never seen before. Using the pandemic as a pretext, Democrat politicians and judges drastically changed election procedures, just months, and in some cases, weeks, before the election, he said. Very rarely were legislatures involved which was Constitutionally required, he said. “But very, very rarely, and you’ll see that as we continue to file our suits, it’s Constitutionally, absolutely incorrect what took place, even from a legal standpoint. “Many states, such as Nevada and California, sent millions of live ballots to every person on their voter rolls, whether those individuals had requested ballots or not,” he said. Whether they were dead or alive, they got the ballots, he claimed. Other states, such as Minnesota, Michigan and Wisconsin instituted universal absentee balloting right in the middle of an election year sending absentee ballot request forms to all voters, on all rolls, he said. This colossal expansion of mail-in voting opened the floodgates to massive fraud, alleged the president. Notably, election officials and media have said there has been no evidence of massive voters fraud as being alleged by Trump. “It is a travesty that in the year 2020 we do not have any means of verifying the eligibility of those who cast ballots in an election, and such an important election it is, for determining who they are, whether they live in the state or whether they are even American citizens,” Trump alleged. He alleged that the Dominion voting system switched his votes to rival Joe Biden, who is now the President-elect. “Ninety-six percent of the company’s political donations went to Democrats, not surprisingly. And frankly, when you look at who’s running the company, who’s in charge, who owns it, which we don’t know, where are the votes counted, which we think are counted in foreign countries, not in the United States,” he said.Trump said that China is happy with the election results as it did not want him to win. “We’re going to show it, and hopefully the courts; in particular, the Supreme Court of the United States; will see it. And respectfully, hopefully, they will do what’s right for our country. Because our country cannot live with this kind of an election. We could say, ‘Let’s go on to the next one’. But no, we have to look also at our past. We can’t let this happen.” Trump said that the “fraud” that his campaign has collected in recent weeks is overwhelming, having to do with the election. “Everyone is saying, ‘Wow, the evidence is overwhelming’, when they get to see it. But really, it’s too late to change the course of an election. It’s too late to change the outcome. In fact, there is still plenty of time to certify the correct winner of the election and that’s what we’re fighting to do,” he said. This is a national disgrace, he said, adding many European countries have instituted major restrictions on mail-in voting specifically because they recognise the nearly unlimited potential for fraud. “The pandemic simply gave the Democrats an excuse to do what they have been trying to do for many, many years. In fact, the very first bill that House Democrats introduced when Nancy Pelosi became speaker was an attempt to mandate universal mail-in voting and eliminate measures such as voter ID, which is so necessary,” he said. “Dramatically eroding the integrity of our elections was the Democrat’s number one priority for a simple reason: they wanted to steal the 2020 presidential election,” he alleged. Trump said that the only way to determine whether there was an honest vote is to conduct a full review of the envelopes in the relevant states. “You will find that many of them, tens of thousands, have fraudulent signatures. A full forensic audit is required to ensure that only legal ballots from lawfully registered voters that were properly cast are included in the final count,” he said. “This election was rigged,” he alleged. PTI LKJ TIR TIR||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/want-americans-to-have-faith-in-current-and-future-elections-says-trump/story-jqjBh5QQZoVOvukcv3e8XO.html
03-12-2020||World||Pizza Hut co-founder Frank Carney dies from pneumonia at 82||Frank Carney, who with his brother started the Pizza Hut empire in Wichita, died Wednesday from pneumonia. He was 82.Carney had recently recovered from Covid-19, but had Alzheimer’s disease for more than a decade, the Wichita Eagle reported. He died at 4:30 a.m. at an assisted living facility in Wichita, his wife and brother told the Eagle.Frank Carney was a 19-year-old student at Wichita State University when he and his 26-year-old brother, Dan, borrowed $600 from their mother to start a pizza business in 1958 near their family’s Carney’s Market.“When you are starting a business that’s going to pay your way through college, you don’t even think about what the economy is doing,” Carney once told a 1992 entrepreneurship conference at Wichita State.“We didn’t care about who was in the White House or what the unemployment rate was,” he said. “The entrepreneur, all he thinks about is: Is there a market for the product? Can I sell it?” PepsiCo bought Pizza Hut for $300 million in 1977. Over the years, he got involved in various business ventures, including other food companies, real estate, oil and gas, automotive, rental and recreational businesses.Only five of about 20 of the companies made him money, which his brother contends is actually not a bad average.“He probably lost most of what he had made in Pizza Hut,” Dan Carney said. “He was not depressed. He was just aggressive to build something different.” When PepsiCo decided to move the Pizza Hut headquarters from Wichita to Dallas - a decision Frank Carney thought was a mistake - it solidified his decision to become a Papa John’s Pizza franchisee in the 1990s and compete against his former business associates in the Wichita market.Frank Carney had one of the largest Papa John’s franchises and kept working until Alzheimer’s struck.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pizza-hut-co-founder-frank-carney-dies-from-pneumonia-at-82/story-3ozqyIX5DKn28WRXwK5mKI.html
03-12-2020||World||Vaccines won’t prevent short-term coronavirus surge: WHO||The World Health Organization does not believe there will be enough quantities of coronavirus vaccines in the next three to six months to prevent a surge of infections, its top emergency expert said on Wednesday.“We are not going to have sufficient vaccinations in place to prevent a surge in cases for three to six months,” Mike Ryan told a social media event, calling on people to maintain social distancing and respect other measures to restrict the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vaccines-won-t-prevent-short-term-coronavirus-surge-who/story-JeALa1GOfIfR1azjCrTYmO.html
03-12-2020||World||Survey finds race and sex-based harassment ‘common’ at FEMA||More than a quarter of employees at the Federal Emergency Management Agency said they were harassed or discriminated against based on their gender or race, according to a survey released Wednesday as part of the fallout from allegations of sexual harassment by a senior official at the organization.The survey by the RAND Corp. found that such civil rights violations were “common” at FEMA, reported by about 29% of the employees surveyed last year.FEMA requested the survey in response to an internal report that found that the former head of the agency’s personnel office had improper sexual relationships with subordinates and created a “toxic” work environment, including by giving preferential treatment to his fraternity brothers.The official resigned from FEMA and the agency took steps to address the allegations, including creating an office of professional responsibility and requiring all of the nearly 20,000 employees to undergo anti-harassment training.FEMA Administrator Pete Gaynor said the agency would be taking additional measures in the coming months.“Even though the data from this survey is more than a year and a half behind us, these findings are alarming and simply not acceptable,” Gaynor said in a statement issued as the RAND survey data was released.The report featured responses from nearly 9,000 employees at the agency that leads the US response to natural disasters and managed an airlift to bring in huge supplies of protective medical gear and equipment in the early stages of the Covid-19 pandemic.It found that 20% of FEMA employees reported harassment and discrimination on the basis of sex. A little more than 18% reported violations based on their race or ethnicity.Few people felt comfortable reporting the violations, with employees saying they believed their complaint would not be addressed or they would face retaliation.There are few, publicly available studies of employee discrimination with comparable data, so it is difficult to compare the FEMA results with other organizations. RAND conducted a similar study at the Department of Defense, but that population is more male and younger.That earlier survey found 24% of women in the military experienced sexual harassment, slightly higher than what was found for women at FEMA.The findings are also in line with an Edison Research 2018 poll that found 21% of Americans said they had experienced sexual harassment in the workplace, including 27% of women and 14% of men.Coreen Farris, the lead author of RAND’s report on FEMA, said the results will provide a baseline for a follow-up survey planned for this spring. “Changing organizational culture and climate is no easy task, but one vital component is measurement of the problem,” she said.FEMA requested the study after the allegations against the former head of personnel led to an internal investigation that revealed systemic problems at the agency. The former official, Corey Coleman, resigned in June 2018, as the probe was underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/survey-finds-race-and-sex-based-harassment-common-at-fema/story-jUyCZ8mR81DG8ThCKCdmwM.html
03-12-2020||World||Nearly 100 world leaders to speak at UN session on Covid-19||Nearly 100 world leaders and several dozen ministers are slated to speak at the UN General Assembly’s special session starting Thursday on the response to Covid-19 and the best path to recovery from the pandemic which has claimed 1.5 million lives, shattered economies, and left tens of millions of people unemployed in countries rich and poor.Assembly President Volkan Bozkir said when he took the reins of the 193-member world body in September that it would have been better to hold the high-level meeting in June. Nonetheless, he said Wednesday it “provides a historic moment for us to come together to beat Covid-19.”“With news of multiple vaccines on the cusp of approval, and with trillions of dollars flowing into global recovery efforts, the international community has a unique opportunity to do this right,” he said. “The world is looking to the UN for leadership. This is a test for multilateralism.”When financial markets collapsed and the world faced its last great crisis in 2008, major powers worked together to restore the global economy, but the Covid-19 pandemic has been striking for the opposite response: no leader, no united action to stop the pandemic that has circled the globe.UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres sent a letter to leaders of the Group of 20, the world’s richest nations responsible for 80 percent of the global economy ahead of their summit in late March as Covid-19 was starting its killing spree urging that they adopt a “wartime” plan and cooperate on an international response to suppress the coronavirus. But there was no response.The two-day special session will not be raising money to finance vaccine immunizations or taking any political action, and there will be no final declaration, just a summary document from Bozkir.“The real point of this special is to galvanize concrete action to approach our response to Covid-19 in a multilateral and collective way,” General Assembly spokesman Brenden Varma said Wednesday. He added that there are currently many responses to the pandemic, but what’s needed now is to bring together all countries, UN actors, the private sector and vaccine developers.Leaders and ministers from over 140 countries will deliver pre-recorded speeches on Thursday after an in-person opening in the General Assembly including speeches by Bozkir and Guterres.Among the leaders slated to address the session are French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, Japan’s Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga, South African President Cyril Ramaphosa, and European Union chief Charles Michel. The United States will be represented by Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar.Friday’s session will focus on three virtrual panels, the first on the UN’s response to Covid-19 and the second on vaccines that will include representatives from producers BioNTech and Oxford University-AstraZeneca, and the World Health Organization’s ACT-Accelerator which is working to get vaccines to the world’s poorest people. The final panel is on recovery from Covid-19. WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus is expected to participate in all three panels.Canada’s UN deputy ambassador Louise Blais, who organized the special session with Azerbaijan’s Ambassador Yashar Aliev, said it will be the first time that the UN system is bringing key players together to focus on Cpvid-19′s “myriad impacts.”“Countries around the world are facing their own internal impacts, but it’s important that the U.N. continue to advocate ... that this crisis impacts us all and the solutions are global,” she told The Associated Press in an interview. “So, we have to work together in order to ensure that all of us get out of this, because until everyone does, no one is really safe.”Blais said the session is “an important step” and will focus on implementing the three resolutions adopted by the General Assembly on Covid-19, especially the wide-ranging measure approved in September.The special session “comes at a critical time,” Blais noted, “because we now know that there are a number of vaccines that have proven to be effective.”“Now, all eyes are on the critical distribution of vaccines,” she said, adding that this is expected to be a key them during the special session and it’s one “where the world is expecting us to work together and make sure that we have an equitable distribution of vaccine globally.”UN spokesman Stephane Dujarric said secretary-general Guterres will be focusing on the need for all countries and people everywhere to have access to vaccines.“The vaccine needs to be treated as a `global public good’ and that will be the basis of the secretary-general’s message” on Thursday, Dujarric said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nearly-100-world-leaders-to-speak-at-un-session-on-covid-19/story-jsoDZ75I2QUEu5a7EdBPkM.html
03-12-2020||World||India makes its move, invites Boris Johnson to be Republic Day chief guest||UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson is expected to be chief guest at the 2021 Republic Day , and if he accepts an invitation from Prime Minister Narendra Modi it will make him the first British PM since John Major in 1993 to be guest of honour at the event.Prime Minister Modi formally invited him to be Republic Day chief guest in a November 27 telephone conversation, HT learns. Johnson, on his part, invited PM Modi to the G-7 summit in the UK next year.New Delhi is tight-lipped on the decision, but diplomats say that it is a well-thought-out strategy by PM Modi to invite his UK counterpart as a hard Brexit looms on the horizon and London wonders about its special relationship with Washington under the incoming administration of President-elect Joe Biden.In a November 27 tweet, PM Modi said that he had an excellent discussion with his friend, Johnson, on an ambitious road-map for India-UK ties in the next decade.“We agreed to work towards a quantum leap in our cooperation in all areas — trade and investments, defence and security, climate change and fighting Covid-19,” PM Modi wrote in the tweet.According to people based in the UK familiar with the details, the conversation between the two PMs was very positive, with Johnson offering a free trade agreement with India and to deepen cooperation on climate change issues. The leaders discussed ways to boost the partnership and put up a strong anti-Covid-19 response.While the UK is aspiring to become Global Britain from Great Britain, the January 1 Brexit will put serious pressure on London -- 47% of the UK’s exports have until now been bound for the European Union. With Europe prepared for a hard border and incoming US President Joe Biden having expressed his apprehensions about Brexit, the UK is facing uncertainty on trade issues.From the Indian point of view, it is necessary for New Delhi to engage London as the latter is part of the P-5 (the five permanent members of the UN Security Council) and still has the ear of the US on Afghanistan and Pakistan. The UK also has a strong political lobby from Mirpur in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK), which often steers its course on issues such as Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-makes-its-move-invites-boris-johnson-to-be-republic-day-chief-minister/story-AUTDCjNSTvX6kJ1iozBrzM.html
03-12-2020||India||Animal parts including musk deer pods seized in Guwahati, 3 arrested||Nearly 50 kg of sea fans and a large quantity of other wildlife parts including porcupine quills, musk deer pods were seized by authorities in Guwahati on Wednesday. The animal parts were seized during three different raids at separate locations in a joint operation by Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB) and Assam forest department. Three persons involved in the racket were arrested. Besides the sea fans, 1.5 kg of porcupine quills, 14 musk deer pods, parts of monitor lizards etc. were seized in the raids. “Illegal trade of such precious resources has always been under the scanner of this government and we are committed to eliminate such evil acts from Assam,” forest minister Parimal Suklabaidya tweeted on Thursday. Sea fans are a type of soft coral found in warm waters around reefs. Sea fans are colonial animals that have a branching structure that is covered by soft tissue. According to forest officials, this is the first time, parts of marine animals have been seized in the state in such large quantity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/animal-parts-including-musk-deer-pods-seized-in-guwahati-3-arrested/story-PEdiRhxF8UCzZ4yh3KTWDK.html
03-12-2020||India||Farmers who die by suicide are cowards, says Karnataka minister, sparks row||Even as farmers in many parts of the country are agitating against the new farm laws, Karnataka agriculture minister B C Patil stirred a new controversy by saying that farmers who die by suicide are cowards.Patil made these remarks while addressing farmers at Ponnampet in Kodagu district on the benefits of bamboo farming.“Farmers who commit suicide are cowards. Only a coward who can’t take care of his wife and children commits suicide. Once we are in the water, we have to swim and win, not die by suicide,” Patil said.The minister pointed out that despite Mandya district having complete irrigation facilities, there have been many suicide cases involving farmers unlike the dry and more drought prone Kolar district. “Do organic farming and there is profit to be made. If not Israel model of agriculture follow the Kolar mode. Don’t be cowards and die by suicide,” he said.Former chief minister and leader of opposition Siddaramiah condemned Patil’s remarks saying that people in responsible positions should not make irresponsible statements. The Congress party too hit out saying that as agriculture minister Patil had failed to address the concerns of the farmers.“Does he have the moral right to call farmers cowards after not providing a single scheme which brightens their lives. Making such arrogant statements, you are unfit to be an agriculture minister. Resign immediately,” the party tweeted.The minister defended his statement saying that what he said has been taken out of context and that he wanted to ensure that farmers don’t die by suicide. “I have not called farmers cowards. I have said committing suicide is cowardly. Those who give us food should never commit suicide but have to overcome all challenges is what I have said.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-who-die-by-suicide-are-cowards-says-karnataka-minister-sparks-row/story-jU6TNAeli26kqk7w0hK1SO.html
03-12-2020||India||SC grants anticipatory bail to Punjab’s ex-DGP in 29-year-old custodial death case||The Supreme Court on Thursday granted protection from arrest to Punjab’s former Director General of Police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini in a case of murder lodged against him in August 2020 for an alleged custodial death 29 years ago.Saini who retired in 2018, had approached the top court seeking protection after the trial court in Chandigarh and the Punjab and Haryana High Court on September 8 refused to accept his plea of political witch hunt by the present Punjab government and declined him anticipatory bail.Reversing the order passed by the HC and the trial court, a three-judge bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said that a fit case for pre-arrest bail was made out looking to the status of the petitioner who retired as Punjab’s DGP after 30 years of service and the long delay of 29 years for the State to lodge fresh charge of murder against Saini.The bench, also comprising Justices RS Reddy and MR Shah directed that in the event Saini was arrested in connection with this case, he shall be released on bail on furnishing personal bond of Rs one lakh and two sureties. He will have to surrender his passport and cooperate with the investigation, the bench added.The incident took place in 1991 when one Balwant Singh Multani, a junior engineer with Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation was arrested by a team of Punjab Police in connection with a car bomb blast on August 29, 1991 that killed three policemen while causing injuries to Saini. Police claimed that Multani escaped from police custody soon after his arrest.The case took a fresh twist in May this year when Multani’s brother filed a complaint alleging murder of Multani by seven police officers including Saini. The case was registered at Mohali’s Mataur police station, initially under charges of kidnapping for murder (IPC Section 364) but in August, the charge of murder (IPC Section 302) was added. Two police officers who were co-accused with Saini turned approvers and narrated the brutal custodial torture inflicted on Multani at the instance of Saini.The bench noted, “A long delay like 29 years as in the present case can certainly be a valid consideration for grant of anticipatory bail.” Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi who appeared for Saini argued that all of a sudden the brother of the victim had woken up in an incident 29 years old and even co-accused have turned approvers to harass and victimize Saini, who was a decorated officer.The bench noted this fact and said, “In this FIR….Section 302 IPC has been added on the basis of the statements of the approvers only (Jagir Singh and Kuldip Singh). We are of the opinion that the appellant has made out a case for anticipatory bail.”Senior advocate Sidharth Luthra who sought custodial interrogation of Saini defended the state by saying, “Mere delay or political vendetta cannot be a ground to quash the criminal proceedings, more particularly, when the allegations are very serious and the allegations against the police officers are of misuse of power, kidnapping and thereafter killing the innocent person.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-punjab-s-ex-dgp-in-29-year-old-custody-death-case/story-hrO39oHNKOSB0Jto9W6XuM.html
03-12-2020||India||PM Modi to address all-party meet on December 4; Covid-19, vaccine likely to be discussed||The government has called an all-party meeting on December 4, which will be the second such meeting since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. The pandemic situation, vaccine network are likely to be discussed in the meeting, to be chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Floor leaders of all parties from both houses of Parliament have been called for the meeting, which will be held via video conference at 10.30am.Apart from PM Modi, defence minister Rajnath Singh, home minister Amit Shah, health minister Harsh Vardhan are likely to be present at the meeting. Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi and minister of state Arjun Ram Meghwal will also attend the meeting.Discussions may take place on the holding of the winter session of Parliament, which may get clubbed with the Budget session that usually begins in the last week of January. Congress leader Manish Tewari on Thursday demanded that the winter session of Parliament be convened at the earliest to debate various pressing issues facing the country like the ongoing farmers’ protest against agriculture reform laws, Chinese aggression and the Covid-19 crisis.As far as Covid-19 in concerned, the all-party meeting follows a few crucial meetings that took place in the last few weeks. On November 24, PM Modi held a video conference with the chief ministers and other representatives of all states and union territories and discussed the government’s vaccine preparation. On November 28, the PM visited the vaccine development sites in Ahmedabad, Hyderabad and Pune. On November 30, OM Modi interacted with three other vaccine-makers — Gennova Biopharma, Biological E and Dr Reddy’s.As many as five vaccine candidates are in advanced stages of development. While four are in Phase II-III and one is in Phase-I-II trials.An estimated one crore frontline health workers will receive the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine whenever it becomes available, with around 92 per cent of government hospitals and 55 per cent of private hospitals across all states and union territories providing data identifying the workers.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-all-party-meet-on-december-4-covid-19-vaccine-likely-to-be-discussed/story-hJ7DMpwIueeZiy9FHpNr2O.html
03-12-2020||India||Gorkha leader Bimal Gurung to address mega rally in Siliguri on Sunday||Followers of the Bimal Gurung faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha have planned a huge rally in Siliguri town on Sunday to mark Gurung’s return to Bengal’s Darjeeling district after three and a half years. Gurung, who has been charged by the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government under anti-terror law for the violence during the Gorkhaland stir in 2017, was in hiding all these years. He surfaced in Kolkata on October 21 and offered to support Mamata Banerjee in the assembly elections due in about five months. In the last three Lok Sabha polls, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won the Darjeeling seat with Gurung’s support. “The BJP did nothing to find a permanent political solution to the Gorkhaland issue. We are with Mamata Banerjee,” he said in Kolkata recently. Sunday’s rally will be held at the Indira Gandhi Maidan in Siliguri. Bishal Chettri, vice president of the party’s central committee said, “Gurung will reach Siliguri by train on Sunday morning and head for the venue. We are expecting a gathering of more than one lakh supporters.” Anand Bhandari, lawyer of the GJM (Bimal Gurung faction), said Gurung can appear in public since the Supreme Court has ordered a stay on investigation in the cases under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Gurung will not immediately move to hills, leaders in the party said. He and his supporters will stay in Siliguri to avoid confrontation with the GJM’s Binoy Tamang faction, Binoy Tamang met law and labour minister Moloy Ghatak on Thursday. Tamang is opposed to Gurung’s return to the hills. His close aide Anit Thapa is chairman of the board of administrators in the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gorkha-leader-bimal-gurung-to-address-mega-rally-in-siliguri-on-sunday/story-J9PmKdp8m0DxZPoVH71oBJ.html
03-12-2020||India||Covid-19 situation in Delhi under control, cases going down: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said the Covid 19 situation in the national capital is “under control” and the number of cases are also going down. At a meeting with a delegation of Delhi Bar Council and Coordination Committee of Bar Associations of Delhi, the chief minister said his government invested the most in the field of health and education and the result of that investment in the health sector is visible now during the pandemic.Delhi has shown the path to other states by first implementing the welfare scheme for lawyers, and now other states can follow suit, he said.The chief minister said, “Delhi is showing the path in various sectors. Now the Covid-19 cases are also going down in the capital and the situation is under control. Delhi has fought a very difficult battle at the time of the Covid-19 pandemic.” During the third wave of Covid 19 pandemic, Delhi reached a peak of 8,500 cases one day and around the world, there is no such city where so many cases were reported, he said.“During the peak of corona in New York, the patients were lying on the streets, but due to our strong hospital management system, nothing such has happened.” “Even at the peak of 8,500 cases a day, Delhi had 7,500 empty beds,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-situation-in-delhi-under-control-cases-going-down-kejriwal/story-jiX7KWAGr07piKjdTkKjiN.html
03-12-2020||India||‘Not connected in any way’: India says Pakistan linking Kulbhushan Jadhav case with another||India on Thursday accused Pakistan’s security establishment of pressuring a Pakistani lawyer engaged by the Indian high commission to misrepresent New Delhi’s position on Kulbhushan Jadhav during a court hearing. The lawyer, Shahnawaz Noon, was engaged to represent an Indian prisoner named Mohammad Ismail, who continues to be in jail despite completing his sentence. According to Pakistan’s media reports, Noon said during a hearing of Ismail’s case in the Islamabad high court on Tuesday that India’s chargé d’affaires is willing to appear in court to explain New Delhi’s position on Jadhav. External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a news briefing that Noon had exceeded his brief due to pressure from Pakistan’s security establishment. Srivastava also accused Pakistan’s attorney general Khalid Jawed Khan of attempting to link Ismail’s case to that of Jadhav, though there is no connection between the two. “Mr Noon is reported to have made those statements which are not true and are in contravention of our stand in the case. He appears to have acted under pressure from the Pakistani establishment to make such statements, for which he has no authorisation,” Srivastava said. Also read: Our right to build dam on Brahmaputra, says China as experts warn of impactNoon was selected by the Indian high commission as part of a “routine consular practice” to appear in the case for the release and repatriation of Ismail. “However, during proceedings of the case regarding Mr Ismail, Pakistan’s attorney general raised the matter pertaining to Jadhav, though the two cases are not connected in any way,” he said. “Mr Noon misrepresented the position of the high commission. He was clearly told by the high commission that he had no authority to represent either the government of India or Kulbhushan Jadhav,” Srivastava said, referring to the former Indian Navy officer on death row following his conviction for alleged involvement in spying. The Indian mission in Islamabad has written to Noon, reiterating he has no authority to represent Jadhav and no basis to suggest the Indian chargé d’affaires will appear in court. The Islamabad high court is hearing a separate case related to appointing a lawyer to represent Jadhav so that he can file an appeal in line with the International Court of Justice’s (ICJ) verdict staying his execution and calling for a review of his conviction. India has insisted that an Indian lawyer or a lawyer eligible to practice in the UK should represent Jadhav so that he can get a fair hearing, but Pakistan has said the formal naval officer can only be represented by a lawyer allowed to practice in the country. Srivastava reiterated Pakistan has failed to respond to “core issues” related to Jadhav’s case, including the provision of all legal documents and unimpeded, unhindered and unconditional consular access, which will be the “basis of an effective review and reconsideration” as ordered by the ICJ. Jadhav was arrested in March 2016 in Balochistan on charges of espionage, and sentenced to death by a military court the following year. India has rubbished the charges levelled against Jadhav and said he was kidnapped by Pakistani operatives from the Iranian port of Chabahar, where he was running a business. The ICJ stayed Jadhav’s execution in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-connected-in-any-way-india-says-pakistan-linking-kulbhushan-jadhav-case-with-another/story-b8GTEhikBFRXxDnIkZJtDL.html
03-12-2020||India||14-year-old Uttarakhand girl gang-raped by 3, left in forest||A 14-year-old girl was allegedly abducted and gang-raped by three men in a remote area of Uttarakhand’s Nainital on Wednesday night. The incident, however, came to light on Thursday when villagers saw her lying unconscious in the jungle, said revenue police under which the area falls. The villagers informed her family members who then reached the spot and rushed her to hospital, said revenue police. Revenue police sub-inspector, Praveen Hyanki, who is investigating the case, said, “The girl was kidnapped by three men on Wednesday evening when she was alone at home while her parents were out for some work.” “They then took her to the jungle where they took turns to rape her. The three men then left her there before threatening to kill her if she told anyone about the heinous act,” said Hyanki. He also informed that all the three accused were known to her as they live in the same area. Also read: No end to deadlock but Centre, farmers hopeful for next meet on Dec 5The girl who sustained serious injuries, fell unconscious in the jungle, only to be found by villagers the next morning. “The villagers after identifying her immediately informed her parents. They then came to the spot and rushed her to a nearby hospital from where she was referred to a higher centre in Haldwani,” said Hyanki. Later in the evening, the girl’s father lodged a complaint against the three men. Sub-divisional magistrate, Koshyakutoli sub-division in Nainital, Prateek Jain confirmed receiving the complaint and said, “We have received the complaint and will soon register a case. The girl is at present undergoing treatment at the hospital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14-year-old-uttarakhand-girl-gang-raped-by-3-left-in-forest/story-992tbl5GZZseBJr5Ho72tO.html
03-12-2020||India||West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee says state government employess to get 3% hike in DA from January||Announcing a three per cent hike in dearness allowance (DA) from next month for government staff, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said the state’s coffers would never run dry for its employees, although it was yet to receive dues of Rs 85,000 crore from the Centre.Banerjee, during her address to members of TMC- affiliated government employees’ association at the state secretariat, said dues payable by the Centre to Bengal had been mounting over a period of time under several heads -- UGC grant, GST and funds for Covid-19 battle among others.“We had not been receiving our financial dues. At least Rs 8,000 crore is due under GST. Despite financial constraints, we had met the recommendations of all previous pay commissions (sixth pay Commission). We will also provide three per cent hike in DA from January 2021,” she said.The chief minister said the exercise will incur an expense of Rs 2,200 crore on the state’s exchequer.“Over Rs 85,000 crore dues are yet to be cleared by the Centre but that will not prevent us from giving our people their dues,” she said.The CM further said that 9.5 lakh students of 14,000 higher secondary schools and 636 madrasas will be given tablets for free for their online classes.Tenders will be floated soon to ensure that students get the gadgets on time to prepare for their higher secondary examinations, he said.The state has also made arrangements to ensure RT-PCR tests are conducted at a rate as low as Rs 950, she stated.Noting that employees of central government organisations and undertakings are currently “insecure” amid talks of privatisation of institutions, the CM said her dispensation has never sacked anyone and instead increased salaries of staff even in the midst of the pandemic.“Employees of the railways, Coal India, SAIL and Air India are currently not feeling very secure as these institutions might be shut down any day. Even the ordnance factories are not immune...” she said.The situation in the country is such that “the farmers are agitating on the streets, while the labourers have lost their voice,” Banerjee claimed.“I have spent more than Rs 33 crore (from state exchequer) to the railways to bear the fares of hapless migrant labourers, but the central government did not do anything to help them return home from their workplaces during the Covid-19 induced lockdown,” she said.The CM also claimed said that the Centre has not given the state its dues for Amphan relief and Covid-19 care.“They are talking of corruption, even as they raised a lot of money under PM Cares initiative but doled out nothing,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee-says-state-government-employess-to-get-3-hike-in-da-from-january/story-xR1yddO7asHdigiEECH2FM.html
03-12-2020||India||Army chief to visit Saudi Arabia, UAE from Sunday||Indian Army chief General MM Naravane is set to make a four-day visit to Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) from December 6. This is his third foreign trip this year with diplomatic overtones, people familiar with developments said on Thursday.Naravane will spend two days each in both West Asian countries, home to a majority of the nine million Indian expatriates in the region, and hold meetings with the senior military and civilian leadership, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.The visits are being seen as part of the Indian government’s outreach to West Asia, which is seen by New Delhi as part of its extended neighbourhood, and come close on the heels of external affairs minister Jaishankar’s visit to Bahrain and the UAE during November 24-26. This outreach has dramatically expanded defence and security cooperation, especially counter-terrorism, in recent years.Naravane is set to travel first to Saudi Arabia, where his engagements will include an address at the National Defence University, the people said. He will then travel to the UAE, whose defence ties with India have been expanded in recent years, the people added.Also read: Our right to build dam on Brahmaputra, says China as experts warn of impactDetails of the trips were being kept tightly under wraps by all the three countries though the visits were confirmed by diplomats and other officials in New Delhi and Riyadh. Former Indian foreign secretary Kanwal Sibal described the visits as “very significant” in a tweet. “Apart from deepening bilateral ties in sensitive area, signals loosening of [Saudi Arabia-UAE] ties with Pak. With Raheel Sharif employed by SA to head Islamic counterterrorism coalition, inviting Naravane sends piquant message,” he said, referring to the former Pakistan Army chief who currently heads the Islamic Military Counter Terrorism Coalition, an alliance of 39 Muslim countries with headquarters in Riyadh.In October, Naravane accompanied foreign secretary Harsh Shringla on a visit to Myanmar, where they held talks with the senior leadership, including Aung San Suu Kyi and Senior Gen Min Aung Hlaing, on security and development cooperation. Last month, Naravane travelled to Nepal for a visit that was seen as preparing the grounds for Shringla’s subsequent trip, with both engagements helping nudge bilateral ties towards normalcy after a border row over a new political map issued by Kathmandu that included Indian territories.The visits also come at a time when Pakistan’s ties with both Saudi Arabia and the UAE are strained. Angered by Islamabad’s criticism of Riyadh’s position on the Kashmir issue, Saudi Arabia recently sought the early repayment of a $3-billion loan provided to the Imran Khan government in 2018. After being rebuffed by the Saudi leadership on the Kashmir issue, Prime Minister Imran Khan had made an unsuccessful attempt to forge a new grouping of Islamic countries with Turkey and Malaysia – a move that further irked Riyadh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-to-visit-saudi-arabia-uae-from-sunday/story-jUeO4u0ywaDjxp2SEHNPNO.html
03-12-2020||India||94% farmers selling produce on MSP in Chhattisgarh: Govt||Over 94 per cent farmers in Chhattisgarh are getting benefit of the minimum support price (MSP) for paddy and it is expected to rise by two percentage points this year, an official statement said Thursday.Due to the policies of the state government, the number of farmers selling paddy in the state has increased from 12 lakh to 18.38 lakh, Chhattisgarh Information Centre said in a statement here.It said 94 per cent of farmers are getting benefit from the state government’s paddy purchase at the support price.The statement said that due to “farmer-friendly policies of the Bhupesh Baghel government, not only the acreage of agriculture has increased in the last two years, but the people who had abandoned farming as a non-profit business are once again coming back towards farming.” In Chhattisgarh, where 76 per cent of the farmers sold paddy on MSP in 2017, after the Bhagel government came to power, it has shown an unprecedented growth and the figure reached 92.61 per cent in 2018 and 94.02 per cent in 2019, it said. This year, over 2 lakh new farmers have registered, so the figure is expected to cross 98 per cent.Paddy procurement has started in Chhattisgarh on support price from December 1, the statement said.Over 21 lakh farmers have registered to sell paddy in the state this year and the area where the paddy is sown is more than 27 lakh hectare, it said.In two years, the area has increased from 19.36 lakh hectare to 22.68 lakh hectare and the number of farmers has also increased from over 12 lakh to 18 lakh, the information centre said.In the year 2017-18, 56.85 lakh metric tonnes of paddy was purchased at the support price. During two years, this figure of paddy procurement reached 83.94 lakh metric tonnes (MT). Considering the number of farmers registered to sell paddy in 2020 and the area under paddy production, the farmers benefitting from support price are estimated to be higher than the last year, it said.The chief minister has waived agricultural loan of about Rs 9 thousand crore of over 17 lakh farmers in the state and the irrigation tax of Rs 244.18 crore outstanding on over 17 lakh farmers for years, according to the information centre.The state government launched the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana from May 21, 2020 to provide farmers their right and fair price for their produce under which Rs 5,750 crore is being given to the 19 lakh farmers in four installments, it said.So far, direct assistance of Rs 4,500 crore has been given to the farmers in three installments, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/94-farmers-selling-produce-on-msp-in-chhattisgarh-govt/story-tdiDcd0gNGRJbotttet8IM.html
03-12-2020||India||Former CM Sukhbir Singh Badal says Parkash Badal’s returning of award sends a strong message||Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday has expressed his solidarity with former CM Punjab CM Parkash Singh Badal on returning his Padma Vibhushan award and said that it sent a strong message to the government.He also said that the government is forcing the farmers to accept the recently passed farm bills during the monsoon session.“Parkash Singh Badal (former Punjab CM) fought for farmers for his entire life. He returned his award to send a strong message to the government. Farmers don’t need these laws so why the Govt of India is forcing them on farmers?,” Badal told news agency ANI.The former five-time Punjab chief minister and Shiromani Akali Dal ex-president on Thursday returned the Padma Vibhushan award and said he feels that the farmers are being betrayed.In his emailed letter to President of India Ram Nath Kovind, Parkash Singh Badal highlighted the reasons why he felt that the farmers have been hurt and betrayed. He said, “I am who I am because of the people, especially the common farmer. Today, when he (farmer) has lost more than his honour, I see no point in holding on to the Padma Vibhushan honour.”He also described the recently passed farm bills as ‘bolts from the blue on the already beleaguered peasantry of the country.’Farmers, who are protesting against the bills for more than a week, are currently holding discussions with union ministers at Vigyan Bhavan in New Delhi. The deadlock between the farmers’ bodies and Centre continues as talks reach the second round. Farmers’ union leaders also told ANI that they are not ready to accept any hospitality from the government until their demands are met.The farmers are protesting against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, which they say will adversely affect the agricultural sector. Farmers fear that the introduction of these bills will allow major agro companies to enter the sector and pave way for corporate farming. They also fear that procurement of farm yields under the Minimum Support Price system will be impacted due to these bills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-cm-sukhbir-singh-badal-says-parkash-badal-s-returning-of-award-sends-a-strong-message/story-PmqlAQu35lWfAw1Sw6L5KJ.html
03-12-2020||India||Mamata Banerjee to hold TMC meeting on Friday to assess poll readiness||Amidst rumblings of discontentment within the party, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has called a virtual meeting of state and district level leaders of the ruling TMC on Friday to assess its preparedness for the approaching state poll, party sources said. The state is set to witness stiff fight between TMC and opposition BJP, which has made deep inroads. While the poll will be crucial for the BJP as it has never been in the government in West Bengal, Banerjee will be seeking to return to power for the third consecutive time.Friday’s meeting assumes immense significance as this will be the first major organisational meeting after the resignation of disgruntled TMC leader Suvendu Adhikari from the state cabinet and various party leaders openly speaking out against the leadership.It is likely that during the meeting the party will unveil a new outreach campaign to tell the people about the policies and developmental work done by the TMC government in the state in the past ten years since it came to power, the sources said.“Banerjee will assess organisational strengths and weaknesses. Some changes in the organisation are likely to take place to fix the loose ends. From this meeting she will give directions to the TMC leadership on what has to be done.She will give us a roadmap for the 2021 assembly polls,” a senior TMC leader said.The TMC state committee, core committee, presidents and convenor of all the districts, frontal organisations, MPs, MLAs and other senior leaders have been asked to be present at the meeting, the sources said.Another senior TMC leader said Banerjee, who is also the party supremo, is likely to virtually launch a new mass campaign and brief the leaders about it.The campaign, like the others launched by the party, is a brainchild of poll strategist Prashant Kishor and his I-PAC team, the TMC leader said.The new programme will cover all the 78,908 booths of the state and will be more of taking feedback from the masses and assessing the ground-level situation, said another leader.Election to the 294-member West Bengal Assembly is due in April-May next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-to-hold-tmc-meeting-on-friday-to-assess-poll-readiness/story-NPbNv36jML2uCDseZuFwfM.html
03-12-2020||India||Indian economy is gradually recovering: IMF||India’s economy, severely affected by the coronavirus pandemic, is gradually recovering, the International Monetary Fund said on Thursday.India’s economy recovered faster than expected in the September quarter as a pick-up in manufacturing helped GDP clock a lower contraction of 7.5 per cent and held out hopes for further improvement on better consumer demand.“India has indeed been severely affected by the pandemic but is gradually recovering,” IMF chief spokesperson Gerry Rice told reporters.Fiscal, monetary, and financial sector measures announced to date provided much-needed support to the economy, including businesses, agriculture, and vulnerable households, Rice said in response to a question on the IMF’s assessment of India’s economy during the coronavirus pandemic.“To further support growth, we believe the Indian authorities should prioritize swift implementation of the existing support programs and may need to consider expanding their scope, as warranted,” Rice said.In her address to the International Monetary and Financial Committee (IMFC), the ministerial-level committee of the IMF, through video conference, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said that a V-shaped pattern of recovery is being seen in several high-level indicators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-economy-is-gradually-recovering-imf/story-zASjauQBLTGADwMQWYuETN.html
03-12-2020||India||Domestic carriers may post loss of Rs 21,000 cr this fiscal: Icra||Domestic carriers are expected to post losses to the tune of Rs 21,000 crore this fiscal as against a net loss of Rs 12,700 crore reported in the financial year ended March 2020, impacted by lower revenue and higher costs, ratings agency Icra said on Thursday.At the same time, the industry’s debt level is also expected to increase to around Rs 50,000 crore (excluding lease liabilities) over 2021-22, while it would require an additional funding of Rs 35,000-37,000 crore over 2022-23, it said in the release.The ratings agency has also revised downward its passenger traffic forecast with domestic passenger traffic estimated to decline 62-64 per cent this fiscal from the earlier forecast of 41-42 per cent. The international passenger volumes are estimated to plunge 88-89 per cent as against its earlier projection of 67-72 per cent, as per the release.The recovery in domestic passenger traffic is contingent on factors such as containment of the Covid-19 pandemic, willingness of consumers to undertake leisure travel, recovery in macroeconomic growth, and recovery in business travel.“The two listed airlines (IndiGo and SpiceJet) have together lost around Rs 31 crore per day during the first half of the fiscal,” said Icra Vice-President Kinjal Shah.She added that the airlines’ daily cash burn started reducing, as gradually they recommended domestic operations, along with continued chartered and cargo operations, thereby resulting in significantly higher yields.“This resulted in a lower daily loss of around Rs 26 crore for these two airlines in the September quarter against around Rs 37 crore in the June quarter of this fiscal,” Shah added.With a sequential improvement in domestic passenger traffic and continued cost rationalisation initiatives by the airlines supported by benign ATF prices, the daily cash burn for airlines has further reduced in the third quarter of 2020-21, she added.In the near term, the balance sheets of Indian carriers will remain stressed until the carriers are able to reduce their debt burden through a combination of improvement in operating performance and/ or by way of equity infusion, Icra said.It has thus maintained its negative credit outlook on the Indian aviation industry.Shah said, “Icra expects FY2021 to witness a higher decline of 62-64 per cent in domestic passenger traffic, than its earlier estimates of 41-46 per cent decline.” With this, the domestic passenger traffic will reach much lower than the 2010-11 levels, she added. “The recovery in air travel is expected to be gradual once the Covid-19 threat is allayed.” The impact of the pandemic will be more profound and last longer on international travel compared to domestic travel, the ratings agency said.It added that in addition to the above-stated factors determining the recovery in passenger traffic, the recovery in international travel is also contingent on the opening up of scheduled international operations by the government.“Icra expects the FY2021 international passenger traffic for Indian carriers to witness a significant year-on-year decline of around 88-89 per cent, higher than its earlier estimates of about 67-72 per cent decline,” Shah said.Due to the low base of 2020-21, the passenger growth in 2021-22 for both domestic and international operations will be robust; however, it will still be significantly lower than even 2015-16 levels, Icra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-carriers-may-post-loss-of-rs-21-000-cr-this-fiscal-icra/story-72ZmgUtpZViXSXOoX4iRaI.html
03-12-2020||India||Seems govt’s stand over MSP will be fine, says Bharatiya Kisan Union after meeting with Centre||The talks between the protesting farmers’ organisations and the Union ministers made little progress on Thursday, Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said after the seven-hour meeting concluded for the day.Speaking after the meeting, Tikait said the government has given indications over Minimum Support Price (MSP), one of the key demands of agitating farmers, “It seems that their stand over MSP will be fine,” Tikait said.The issue is about the complete rollback of laws, Tikait also said. “Farmers want that the laws be taken back,” he added.Also Read | Govt not egoistic, holding discussions with farmers with an open mind: TomarThe next round of talks will take place on December 5.Thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana are protesting against three farm laws which were recently enacted during the monsoon session of Parliament in September. They are protesting against the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The farmers are demanding the complete withdrawal of the laws as they fear that it will lead to the end of Mandi system and are only in the interest of big corporates. However, the government has so far refused the demand.However, the government has assured that no such thing would happen. Meanwhile, it had asked the farmers’ bodies to identify specific issues that are worrying them.Thursday’s meeting was held between the leaders of 40 farm organisations and three ministers from the central government - Narendra Singh Tomar along with railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal and minister of state for commerce Som Prakash. The meeting at Delhi’s Vigyan Bhavan today is the fourth round of talks between the government and the farmers.The Centre also offered to set up a committee to discuss the provisions of laws. However, it has been rejected by the farmers’ unions. Instead, they have demanded a special session of parliament to repeal the laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seems-govt-s-stand-over-msp-will-be-fine-says-bharatiya-kisan-union-after-meeting-with-centre/story-Br4vFdb3KLHr4ao2DHfSEI.html
03-12-2020||India||7 months after blowout, Baghjan gas well in Assam is finally abandoned||Seven months after it witnessed a blowout and 17 days after the blaze in it was doused, Oil India Limited’s (OIL) Well No-5 at Baghjan was finally abandoned on Thursday evening. Following the uncontrolled release of gas and oil at the well on May 27, OIL had declared an emergency for its internal control purposes. On Thursday, the emergency was withdrawn after abandonment of the well. “All the jobs pertaining to capping, killing and final abandonment of the well was successfully completed in the evening hours on December 3,” OIL said in a statement.The company, which has been faced loss in production and backlash from local residents in its handling of the blowout, thanked all stakeholders for the support. It expressed gratitude to the three OIL employees who died during operations to control the blowout and subsequent fire. The fire at the well was doused using by a team of experts from Canada on November 15 using a technique called snubbing. The gas well in Tinsukia district had a blowout (uncontrolled release of oil or gas) during a workover operation. It caught fire on June 9 killing two firefighters. Another engineer died at the site in September due to electrocution. Besides the loss of three lives, over a dozen houses located close to the well had been gutted in the fire and nearly 40 others damaged partially. Thousands of people were forced to leave their homes and stay in temporary camps for months while efforts were on to control the well. As the well is located close to the Dibru Saikhowa National Park and the Maguri Motapung Wetland there were also apprehensions of damage to ecology due to the blowout and fire. According to OIL, several studies were conducted to access the damage caused and none of them had detected any major harm. Impact on the areas close to the well will be studied done after the well is completely brought under control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-months-after-blowout-baghjan-gas-well-in-assam-is-finally-abandoned/story-DKLqJ2iFWdCnrIxN9IYaeN.html
03-12-2020||India||Hyderabad civic election results 2020: Counting to begin at 8am tomorrow; CCTV cameras to record entire process||The counting of votes in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Council election will begin at 8am on Friday amid elaborate security arrangements. Counting centres have been set up at 30 places and 8,152 officials will be engaged in the process, which will be recorded in CCTV cameras. As ballot papers were used for the election, the results will be known later on Friday. The vote count can be followed on the website of Telangana State election commission. The voting took place on December 1 following a high-octane campaign which. however, did not match with the voter turnout percentage. Only 34 lakh voters caste their ballots out of around 74 lakh eligible voters, which translated to a voter turnout of only 46.55 per cent. Telangana Rashtra Samithi won the last election in 2016 bagging 99 out of 150 wards. Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM had won 44 seats, while the BJP won four seats, Cogress two and the TDP one.BJP conducted a spirited campaign with Union home minister Amit Shah, party president JP adda, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Union Ministers Prakash Javadekar, Smriti Irani and MoS (Home) G Kishan Reddy, who is Lok Sabha member from Secunderabad, party MP Tejasvi Surya participating in the campaign. The GHMC election is being seen as a litmus test for 2023 state assembly election as 24 assembly segments fall under the GHMC limits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-ghmc-election-results-2020-when-and-where-to-watch-live-counting-to-begin-at-8am-tomorrow-cctv-cameras-to-record-entire-process/story-NRQvnpM9Rob0ilbkgmkjRM.html
03-12-2020||India||Opposition leaders ask Centre to hold winter session soon||Maharashtra minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik on Thursday said that the government should sit for a winter session of Parliament and avoid evading questions raised by Opposition leaders as well as farmers.Malik told ANI that Parliament should sit for a winter session even if the session runs for a short period of time. He said, “Not holding (winter) Session and evading questions is not right for democracy. Opposition & farmers are demanding that even it’s for two days.”He also said that Bengal Congress Lok Sabha MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury’s demand for holding a winter session is valid. Malik said, “Adhir Ranjan ji’s demand for winter session of Parliament is valid.”Earlier on Thursday, Congress MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury in a letter to Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla highlighted the need for holding the winter session. In his letter to Birla, he wrote, “There are a number of very important issues that the nation is facing in present times. The most notable among them is the ongoing farmers’ agitation and the status/preparation of the COVID-19 vaccine.”Nawab Malik also pointed out that the government should clarify queries regarding the rollout of Covid-19 vaccine. He said, “The Health Secretary says that they never said that the vaccine would be administered to everyone. Will it be free of cost? There are questions. The Modi govt should call the winter session of the Parliament and discuss the issue of farmers and vaccines.”Earlier on December 1, health secretary Bhushan had said that the government is not planning to inoculate every single individual and the vaccinations will be done to break the chain of transmission.Cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba last week met representatives from all the states and union territories to discuss the rollout of Covid-19 vaccine and asked officials to ensure that last-mile vaccine delivery is ensured.Congress Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi also on Thursday said that the prime minister should clarify how Centre plans to deliver vaccines to citizens. He said, “PM - Everyone will get vaccine. BJP in Bihar elections- Everyone in Bihar will get a free vaccine. Now, GOI- Never said everyone will get vaccine. Exactly what does the PM stand by?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-leaders-ask-centre-to-hold-winter-session-soon/story-bUMAYTQVfjxsK8L2tnnkeN.html
03-12-2020||India||Govt not egoistic, holding discussions with farmers with an open mind: Tomar||Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday said that the government is holding discussions with farmers with an open mind and holds no ego after the second round of discussions ended between the farmer groups and the union ministers.Tomar also said that farmers are mainly concerned with the impact the laws would have on the Agricultural Produce Market Committee mandis. He said that the government is considering strengthening the APMC and contemplating levying an equal amount of tax for private mandis outside the purview of APMC as well as for APMC currently operating under the ambit of the APMC Act.Tomar told ANI, “Some points have been raised in previous meetings & today’s meet. Farmer unions are mainly concerned about these. The Government has no ego, it was discussing with farmers with an open mind. Farmers are concerned that the new laws will end APMCs.”He further said, “The government will contemplate seeing that APMC is further strengthened and its usage increases. New laws lay down provision for pvt mandis outside purview of APMC. So, we’ll also contemplate having an equal tax for pvt as well as mandis under APMC Act.”Tomar also said that farmers can raise their issues with courts in case of disputes arising from the passage of these new farm laws. He said, “In the new Act, it has been provided that farmers can take their grievances to SDM court. Farmers’ Unions feel that SDM court is a lower court and they should be allowed to go to court. Government will consider this demand.”Farmers’ groups, however, did not relent and said that emphasis still lies on repealing the new laws and the farmers will continue to raise their voices until the Centre decides to completely roll back the recently passed farm laws.Farmer leader Baldev Singh Sirsa told ANI that farmers do not want amendments and remain firm on the demand that the new laws be repealed. Sirsa also said that the government had to admit that there are drawbacks in the recently passed laws.He said, “We listed all drawbacks before the government, they had to admit that there are drawbacks & they’ll make amendments. We said we don’t want amendments but withdrawal of laws. We also demanded that MSP be implemented for certain and law should be made for it.”Harjinder Singh Tanda of the Azaad Kisan Sangharsh Committee said that the farmers are hopeful that the government will take action. Tanda said that farmers’ groups will continue to pressurise the government and ask them to repeal the laws.Tanda told ANI, “We are hopeful. The laws are wrong. In the next meeting, we will put pressure on the government. They will have to say that they will take back the laws. In my opinion, it will be finalised during the meeting day after tomorrow.”The farmers’ group and the government will again hold another round of discussions on December 5. Farmers are protesting for more than a week against the three bills - Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill. They fear their incomes will be in danger as private players can enter the market. They also fear that as APMCs will be impacted affecting the procurement of yields under the minimum support price system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-not-egoistic-holding-discussions-with-farmers-with-an-open-mind-tomar/story-PKoZJ1CIPozbFUzbkcUjfL.html
03-12-2020||India||Imperative for China to adhere to agreements on LAC, says India||Against the backdrop of a US commission concluding that the deadly June 15 clash in Galwan Valley was planned by Beijing, New Delhi said on Thursday it is imperative for China to adhere to agreements on not taking any unilateral action to alter the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The “core issue” continues to be strict adherence to bilateral agreements and protocols for maintaining peace and tranquillity along the LAC, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said at a weekly news briefing when he was asked about the report of the US-China Economic and Security Review Commission. The commission, in its report submitted to the US Congress on December 1, said evidence suggested the Chinese government had planned the “massive physical brawl in the Galwan Valley” between People’s Liberation Army (PLA) and Indian troops on June 15, “potentially including the possibility for fatalities”. The clash resulted in the death of 20 Indian soldiers and unspecified Chinese casualties. Srivastava referred to a statement issued by the external affairs ministry following a conversation between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi two days after the violent face-off in Galwan Valley. “I would stress that the core issue remains that both sides need to strictly follow the various bilateral agreements and protocols in their entirety, including the 1993 and 1996 agreements on maintenance of peace and tranquillity along the LAC in the border areas, which require that there should not be amassing of troops, each side should strictly abide by and respect the LAC, and should not take any unilateral action to alter it,” he said. Despite several rounds of diplomatic and military talks, the two sides haven’t been able to agree on a roadmap for disengagement and de-escalation at friction points in Ladakh sector of the LAC, including Depsang and Pangong Lake. There has also been no official word on the holding of the ninth round of talks between senior military commanders, even as tens of thousands of troops of the two sides have dug in for the winter. Srivastava said the two sides “continue to maintain communication through diplomatic and military channels with the objective of ensuring complete disengagement in all friction points along the LAC” and full restoration of peace and tranquillity. “Both sides have agreed to have another round of senior commanders’ meeting at an appropriate time. As and when we have more information, we will share it with you,” he said. In response to another question on whether China’s actions had figured during a recent conversation between the foreign ministers of India and Australia, Srivastava said New Delhi and Canberra had elevated their bilateral relationship to a comprehensive strategic partnership in June and are committed to a rules-based global order. “Given the depth and importance of our bilateral relations, naturally, we exchange views on regional and global developments as well as current issues of concern,” he said, adding bilateral engagements span critical minerals, infrastructure, maritime cooperation, counter-terrorism and cyber security.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imperative-for-china-to-adhere-to-agreements-on-lac-says-india/story-nETE7VrAOWpvStE4xxfz4H.html
03-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Farmers’ talks with Centre inconclusive at Vigyan Bhawan meeting and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Farmers’ talks with Centre inconclusive: Who said what at Vigyan Bhawan meetingThe meeting between the representatives of the protesting farmers’ organisations and the Union ministers on Thursday remained inconclusive, though both sides found silver lining after the seven-hour deliberation at Vigyan Bhawan. Read moreOld rivalries take back seat as six Jammu & Kashmir parties join hands to contest local pollsSaifuddin Shah, 70, and his family from Kakroosa village in Jammu & Kashmir’s Kupwara district have been staunch loyalists of former chief minister Farooq Abdullah-led National Conference (NC). Read moreMalegaon blast case: Court asks MP Pragya Singh Thakur, other accused to appear on December 19Four of the seven accused in the 2008 Malegaon blast case, including Bharatiaya Janata Party lawmaker Pragya Singh Thakur, failed to appear before a special court hearing the matter. Read moreCovid-19: Three former US presidents may take vaccine shot on cameraThe US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is scrutinising the data submitted by Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE to grant the required approval for emergency use. Read moreCan’t get your hands on Sony PS5 in India yet? This might be the reasonSony announced its next-generation gaming console the Sony PlayStation 5 last month. Shortly after that, that is around November 19, PS5 went on sale in the global markets except India. Read moreNASA shares video of the Sun created using pics captured for over 20 years. It’s mesmerisingA video of the Sun shared on Twitter has now won people over and chances are it’ll leave you mesmerised too. The clip is created using pictures captured for over two decades from ESA and NASA’s Solar and Heliospheric Observatory (SOHO). Read moreMouni Roy’s droolworthy look in a Rs 30k red ruffle saree is all you need to add the oomph factor on your next date nightThey say there is a shade of red for every woman and television hottie Mouni Roy proved it rightly so with her latest smoking hot look in an organza red saree. Read moreMulan movie review: A monumental misfire from Disney, the worst of its live-action remakesMulan finds a way to offend just about everyone. Are you a feminist? Prepare to be disappointed by the film’s simplistic idea of empowerment. Read moreFarmers decline food offered by govt at meeting, take their own lunchFarmer leaders, who participated in a meeting with Union ministers on December 3, declined food offered by the government. They were seen distributing and eating food they had taken with themselves on paper plates. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-farmers-talks-with-centre-inconclusive-at-vigyan-bhawan-meeting-and-all-the-latest-news/story-70qJLHhb0R7wPIjjVzTdRI.html
03-12-2020||India||‘Vendetta politics,’ alleges PFI after countrywide raids on leaders, offices||In a countrywide raid, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday searched offices and residences of Popular Front of India (PFI) leaders in connection with money-laundering complaints. After Delhi riots and communal disturbances in Bengaluru, the role of the radical outfit was under the scanner of central agencies. The PFI condemned the raids, alleging it was part of vendetta politics.In Kerala, houses of three prominent leaders including national chairman OMA Salam were raided. “It is a politically-motivated move. It is aimed at distracting attention from the farmers’ strike,” said OMA Salam, who is employed with the Kerala state electricity board in Malappuram.Besides OMA Salam, national secretary Naseeruddin Elamaraom and state leader Karamana Ashraf Moulavi’s houses were among the raided entities. In Thiruvananthapuram and Malappuram, angry PFI workers tried to block the raids, later local police had to intervene. A senior ED official said 26 locations were raided in Delhi and eight other states and it seized many documents. But PFI leaders in Kerala said the ED failed to seize any documents. Searches were also conducted in neighbouring Karnataka and Tamil Nadu.Also read: No end to deadlock but Centre, farmers hopeful for next meet on Dec 5“It is part of a witch-hunt going on against activists and groups who are at the forefront of citizenship agitations. The organisation will face such tactics legally and democratically,” a statement issued by the PFI headquarters in Delhi said. A controversial outfit, the PFI is often considered to be an offshoot of the banned Students’ Islamic Front of India (SIMI). It all started when fiery Kerala cleric Abdul Nasser Madani, an accused in Bangalore and Coimbatore blast cases, founded Islamic Seva Sangh on the lines of the RSS after the Babri mosque demolition in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992. Later, when Madani was in jail in connection with the Coimbatore blasts, the leaders of the Islamic Seva Sangh formed the National Development Front. In 2006, the NDF merged with Manitha Neethi Pasarai of Tamil Nadu and Forum for Dignity, a Karnataka-based outfit, to form the Popular Front of India (PFI). In Kerala, most of the front’s erstwhile leaders are members of the banned Students Islamic Movement of India (SIMI). The PFI describes itself as a neo-social movement committed to empowering people belonging to the minority communities, Dalits and other weaker sections of the society. In Kerala, a retired professor P Koya is considered as the tallest leader and mentor of the organisation. Now, the PFI claims to have units across 22 states. Officials in the intelligence agencies say it successfully exploited a growing vacuum in the minority community by portraying itself as a ‘saviour’. Since its inception, the outfit has been mired in many clashes and political murders. It was allegedly involved in at least 30 political murders in Kerala. In 2015, 13 of its workers were awarded life-term in prison for chopping the palm of a college professor, TJ Joseph, who prepared a question paper, alleged to be blasphemous.In 2017, six PFI activists were held in connection with the murder of an ABVP leader in Kannur and nine were arrested for allegedly killing SFI leader Abhimanyu in Maharaja College in Ernakulam in 2018. The front is currently being probed for alleged funding of the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vendetta-politics-alleges-pfi-after-countrywide-raids-on-leaders-offices/story-lJgwZRUGY05RHZjADuqZfP.html
03-12-2020||India||Pakistan linking Kulbhushan Jadhav case with another prisoner’s case, says India||India on Thursday blamed Pakistan for linking Kulbhushan Jadhav with another prisoner case.“Pakistan is trying to link the case of Kulbhuashan Jadhav with another prisoner’s case. In routine consular practice, Shahnawaz Noon was selected by our High Commission to appear in the case for release and repatriation of an Indian prisoner, Mohammad Ismail, who has completed his sentence but continues to be in jail in Pakistan,” Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said at the weekly media briefing.“However, during the proceedings of the case regarding Ismail, Pakistan Attorney General raised the matter pertaining to Jadhav though the two cases are not connected in any way, and Noon is reported to have made those statements about our Charge d’Affaires (Cd’A) which are not true, and they are in contravention of our stand in this case,” he added.Srivastava said Noon did this under pressure and has misrepresented the position of the High Commission.He was clearly told by the High Commission that he had no authority to represent either the Government of India or Kulbhushan Jadhav.“Noon is reported to have made those statements which are not true and are in contravention of our stand in the case. He appears to have acted under pressure from the Pakistani establishment to make such statements for which he has no authorisation,” Srivastava said.Pakistan has failed to respond on the core issues concerning the case including the provision of all documents and an unimpeded unhindered and unconditional consular access of Kulbhushan Jadhav which would form the basis of an effective review and reconsideration as ordered by the International Court of Justice.Indian Mission in Islamabad has written to Noon reiterating that he has no authority to represent Jadhav and has no basis to suggest that the Indian Charge d’Affaires would appear in the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-linking-kulbhushan-jadhav-case-with-another-prisoner-s-case-says-india/story-LESVGIhXt6qyZzzTGi3eFM.html
03-12-2020||India||Farmers’ talks with Centre inconclusive: Who said what at Vigyan Bhawan meeting||The meeting between the representatives of the protesting farmers’ organisations and the Union ministers on Thursday remained inconclusive, though both sides found silver lining after the seven-hour deliberation at Vigyan Bhawan. The farmers organisations are hopeful that in the next meeting — which is scheduled on December 5 — the issue will be resolved as the Centre on Thursday agreed to review several provisions of the laws. The Centre too is pinning its hope on the next meeting after today’s discussion. Meanwhile, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has urged the agitating farmers to withdraw their protests so that people in Delhi do not suffer.Here is what happened at the meeting:> The meeting was held at a cordial environment with 40 leaders representing various farmers’ organisations that are currently protesting the agricultural laws which the Centre projects as reforms but the farmers are worried that minimum support price will be withdrawn. > The farmers pitched for the repeal of the three farm laws, which the Centre had earlier refused.> Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the government listened to the grievances of the farmers with an open mind. Some of the points have also been raised in previous meetings. “Government has no ego. It was discussing with farmers with an open mind. Farmers are concerned that the new laws will end APMCs,” the agriculture minister said. > In the meeting, the Centre reiterated to the farmers that the MSP system will continue. > The farmers expressed their reservation over the provision where they are supposed to take their grievances to SDM courts. “Farmers’ unions feel that SDM court is a lower court. Govt will consider this demand,” Tomar said.> The farmers raised concerned over trading outside the purview of mandi. The trading is supposed to take place on the basis of PAN card. The farmers, at today’s meeting, pointed that getting hold of a PAN card is very easy. The Centre has assured the farmers that traders will be registered. > The farmers organisations said there was little progress in the meeting as the government has only assured about MSP.> The farmer leaders said the government accepted that there are certain drawbacks which they will amend. “We said we don’t want amendments but withdrawal of laws. We also demanded that MSP be implemented for certain and law should be made for it,” farmer leader Baldev Singh Sirsa said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-second-meeting-remains-inconclusive-who-said-what/story-1N6UCM226HYXVPuDN2va9O.html
03-12-2020||India||‘Will be destroyed’: MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan warns against ‘Love Jihad’||In a stern warning against “Love Jihad”, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shiv Raj Singh Chouhan on said, “If someone plots religious conversion or does anything like this, they will be destroyed,” news agency ANI quoted Chouhan as saying. This comes as the state is preparing to pass a controversial ordinance that outlaws marriages with an aim of religious conversions. “Government belongs to everyone, all religions and castes. There is no discrimination but if someone tries to do anything disgusting with our daughters, then I’ll break you,” Chouhan also said, ANI reported.“Love jihad” is a term coined by right-wing activists to refer to the alleged campaign of Muslims forcing Hindu girls to convert in the guise of love.Following on the footsteps of Uttar Pradesh government, MP home minister Narottam Mishra confirmed earlier this month that the state would soon table a bill against ‘love jihad’. It will likely to be brought in the next Assembly session.As per the ordinance, the conversion for marriage by force, fraud, lure or instigation will be punishable by a maximum jail term of 10 years, Mishra had said.Meanwhile, experts including Supreme Court judge Madan Lokur have raised concerns saying that such laws will put freedom of choice, dignity and human rights on the back seat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-be-destroyed-mp-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-warns-against-love-jihad/story-TWRR2kT2FpArFNHdIxGvyJ.html
03-12-2020||India||No changes will be made to MSP: Agri minister assures farmers’ leaders||Minimum Support Price (MSP) will not be touched, said Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar during a meeting with leaders of farmers’ union protesting against the recently enacted farm laws, news agency ANI reported on Thursday. In a response to farmer leaders, Tomar said that “no changes will be made to it.”Leaders of 40 farm organisations are meeting with three ministers from the central government - Narendra Singh Tomar along with railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal and minister of state for commerce Som Prakash. The meeting at Delhi’s Vigyan Bhavan today is the fourth round of talks between the government and the farmers.Click here for complete coverage on farmer’s protest Farmers are protesting against the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. They were passed during the monsoon session in September.Thousands of farmers protesting against the laws are demanding the government to repeal the contentious laws as they worry that it will end the mandi system and are only in the interest of big corporates.However, the government has assured that no such thing would happen. Meanwhile, it had asked the farmers’ bodies to identify specific issues that are worrying them. The Centre also offered to set up a committee to discuss the provisions of laws. However, it has been rejected by the farmers’ unions. Instead, they have demanded a special session of parliament to repeal the laws. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-changes-will-be-made-to-msp-agri-minister-assures-farmers-leaders/story-PAXb5dBqmm86W0YfZ2gaRP.html
03-12-2020||India||India tells China it is concerned about its Brahmaputra hydropower project||India has conveyed its concerns regarding the diversion of waters of Brahmaputra river, India’s external affairs ministry said on Thursday after reports that China is building a mega-dam on the lower reaches of the Yarlung Zangbo river close to the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Tibet.The Chinese side has assured that they’re only undertaking run of river hydropower projects which don’t involve diversion of waters of Brahmaputra, MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said in a weekly media briefing.“We have urged them to ensure that the interest of downstream states isn’t harmed by activities in upstream areas. Chinese side conveyed to us on several occasions that they’re only undertaking run of river hydropower projects which don’t involve diversion of waters of Brahmaputra,” said Srivastava.He also said that the government is monitoring the developments and as lower Riparian state with considerable established user rights to water of transborder rivers “we have consistently conveyed concerns to China.”“We intend to remain engaged with China on the issue of transborder rivers to safeguard our interests,” Srivastava further said.Earlier this week, Chinese state media had reported that Beijing will build a “super” dam on the lower reaches of the Yarlung Zangbo river. Chinese media had indicated that the dam could come up in the Medog county of TAR, which is close to Arunachal Pradesh.Originating in the Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR), the trans-border Yarlung Zangbo flows into Arunachal Pradesh where it is called Siang and then to Assam as Brahmaputra before flowing into Bangladesh.The new dam’s ability to generate hydropower could be three times that of central China’s Three Gorges Dam, which has the largest installed hydropower capacity in the world.China had earlier played down its plan, saying there is no need to have “any anxiety” over the project and assured that it would continue to have “good communication” with lower riparian states - India and Bangladesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-tells-china-it-is-concerned-about-its-brahmaputra-hydropower-project/story-dPBU6I6BQWAZkH3ZEBAtNI.html
03-12-2020||India||Asia needs flexible LNG deals not linked to oil prices: Dharmendra Pradhan||Asia needs flexible liquefied natural gas (LNG) contracts with no links to oil prices to reflect changes to the market as demand recovers from the impact of the coronavirus pandemic, India’s oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan said on Thursday.Pradhan said gas buyers and sellers need to adjust to changing market dynamics after lower spot gas prices in last two years have encouraged buyers to favour short-term and spot deals instead of long-term oil-linked deals.“The LNG price determination for Asian consumers is still oil-linked, and this requires an urgent revision,” Pradhan said at an International Energy Forum event.India, the world’s fourth largest liquefied natural gas importer, is aiming to raise the share of gas in its energy mix to 15% by 2030 from the current 6.3% and is investing $60 billion by 2024 to strengthen infrastructure.The country’s top importer Petronet LNG is renegotiating pricing of gas bought under long-term deals with Qatar, after a spot price slump made oil-linked long-term deals unattractive.“There is greater recognition to immediately address the rigidities in its marketing structures in LNG sector,” the minister said referring to clauses like destination restriction.He said refined fuels and gas demand in India has recovered to pre-Covid levels and he hoped the country will remain a key global energy demand center.India is doubling its natural gas grid to 34,500 kilometers and increasing annual gas import capacity to 61 million tonnes by 2022 from the current 42 million tonnes, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/asia-needs-flexible-lng-deals-not-linked-to-oil-prices-dharmendra-pradhan/story-Z53yHjiuxQhxqOxBZ0uLBN.html
03-12-2020||India||Shivraj Chouhan announces memorial for Bhopal gas tragedy victims||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday announced building of a memorial for the Bhopal Gas Tragedy victims to ensure there is no recurrence of industrial disasters. He also announced the resumption of pension to widows which was not being paid to them since 2019. The CM made the announcements during an all-religion meet organised by the state government in Bhopal to pay homage to those killed due to the leakage of highly toxic methyl isocyanate (MIC) gas from erstwhile Union Carbide factory on the intervening night of December 2 and 3, 1984.More than 3,700 people were killed in the gas leak according to the state government records and more than 5.58 lakh others were affected. “We have been mulling this for a long time but now time has come. We should build a memorial of Gas Tragedy in Bhopal at the earliest which teaches a lesson to the world that we should not make any such thing which proves disastrous for the entire world,” Chouhan said.“By paying silent tributes to the victims of Bhopal Gas Tragedy we wish to resolve to protect our environment to ensure that there is no recurrence of such a tragedy”, he added. Also read: Bhopal gas tragedy: 36 years on, survivors still await justiceHe said, “Our sisters who became widows due to tragedy whom we call Kalyani were getting Rs 1000 monthly pension but the same was discontinued in 2019 (during the then Congress government). The pension will be resumed immediately.” Meanwhile, paying tributes to the tragedy victims four organisations of tragedy survivors ‘condemned the continued evasion of legal liabilities by Dow Chemical, USA for the ongoing damage to the health of the survivors and pollution of the local soil and groundwater’. The organisations in a joint statement said they denounced the state and central governments for failing to make the corporation pay adequate compensation and denying the rights of the survivors to medical care and social support. The organisations include Bhopal Gas Peedit Mahila Stationery Karmchari Sangh, Bhopal Gas Peedit Mahila Purush Sangharsh Morcha, Bhopal Group for Information and Action and Children Against Dow Carbide. “Dow Chemical’s market share that was down to 2.5 % in 2005 has steadily risen since 2015 to over 22% of the Indian market”, said Rashida Bee, President of the Bhopal Gas Peedit Mahila Stationery Karmachari Sangh. However, she added, the monthly pension of Rs 1,000 for 5,000 women widowed by the disaster had been stopped since last December. Alleging downplaying of figures of death of gas survivors due to Covid-19 by the Madhya Pradesh government, Rachna Dhingra of the Bhopal Group for Information & Action, said “This is nothing new. Officials have been downplaying the figures of death and extent of health damage caused by Union Carbide and Dow ever since the morning of the disaster. The official figure of death is still five times lower than the actual and over 90 % of those exposed to Union Carbide’s gases have been categorized as needing just one visit to the hospital.” Nawab Khan, President of the Bhopal Gas Peedit Mahila Purush Sangharsh Morcha said, “In the last ten years officials of the state and central governments promised in writing that they would revise the figures of death and health damage in the curative petition for additional compensation from the American corporations. These promises remain to be kept. Meanwhile, all official research on the long term health impact of the disaster has been stopped or suppressed.” “The effect of the pandemic on the survivors in Bhopal and on people exposed to industrial pollution everywhere in the world has once again highlighted the urgent need for reigning in chemical corporations. In the last 36 years our institutions have failed to make Union Carbide and Dow Chemical heed the laws of the land.” said Nausheen Khan for the Children against Dow Carbide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shivraj-chouhan-announces-memorial-for-bhopal-gas-tragedy-victims/story-5XMWlWlOtLHCcxOchKt81I.html
03-12-2020||India||Sundeep’s Shiva song shines on Dev Deepawali!||The video of Prime Minister Narendra Modi witnessing Dev Deepawali from a cruise in Varanasi, went viral on social media, recently. The clip featuring a laser light show on the song, ‘Shiv Shankar Shambhu’ was an instant hit. The chartbuster played in the backdrop of the video has been written, composed and sung by Lucknowite, Sundeep Gosswami. Elated with his devotional song going viral and earning praise, the composer-singer said, “It was late in the night that I saw my song getting featured in the back drop of the video. Within a few hours the views went in multi-million with the song being vastly praised by all. I feel it’s all due to Baba’s blessing,” said the composer. Sundeep has earlier composed for films like ‘Bhindi Bazaar Inc,’ (as Sundeep-Surya), ‘Blue Mountains’ and ‘Phamous.’ “This is my first devotional song titled ‘Kaal Ke Hai Mahakaal’ that I wrote, sang, composed and produced. It was released on my official YouTube channel in April 2017. It has 4.5 million views on my channel and with other channels combined it has 25 million views. Many songs were played in during the celebrations but the one shared by the prime minister on the occasion was my mine,” shares Sundeep. A Shiva devotee, he composer has been releasing one song on the deity every month. “My numbers don’t fall in bhajan category. They are devotional songs, with fusion of western music, which attracts youth as well as the elders. My next song is going to be a rap with which I have incorporated mantras.” Sundeep had also composed a number of non-filmi songs for Darshan Raval, Jubin Nautiyal-Jonita Gandhi and Ash King. Recently, he composed ‘Kambakht Jawani’ for Kancchan Srivas and is waiting for a new release ‘Chal koi gal nahi’ that features Arishfa Khan and Lucky.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/sundeep-s-shiva-song-shines-on-dev-deepawali/story-RnEvK3haiOwXsn3XG7BXQJ.html
03-12-2020||India||NIA takes over Nagrota encounter case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday took over the Ban Toll Plaza encounter case which took place near Nagrota on November 19.Four heavily armed Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorists were killed on November 19 in Nagrota in a swift operation by the security forces. The case was handed over to the NIA following a notification issued by the Central government. “An FIR has been registered in Jammu Police Station of the NIA on Wednesday,” said an official. It may be recalled that an NIA team had visited the site of encounter at Ban Toll Plaza on November 19 itself. The team had recorded statements of the eyewitness and police officers. The NIA is already probing the encounter in Nagrota which took place on January 31, 2020, in which three terrorists from Jaish-e-Mohammed were killed at the same toll plaza.Also read: Maharashtra farmers launch day-long protests against farm laws“The Central Government received information regarding registration of FIR No. 0045/2020, registered at PS Nagrota, District Jammu, 307, 120B, 121, 122, 123 of IPC, sections 7, 25, 26 & 27 of Arms Act and sections 16 & of the UA(P) Act, 1967, relating to an encounter between the police party and unknown terrorists who were travelling in a truck bearing registration No. JK03F-1478 at Ban Toll Plaza in PS Nagrota, District Jammu during which three militants were killed and three of their accomplices including the driver of the Truck were arrested,” NIA case details read.The encounter between terrorists and security forces started around 4.50 am at Ban Toll Plaza on Jammu-Srinagar national highway. Within three hours, the four Jaish terrorists were killed inside the truck that was ferrying them to Kashmir.The slain ultras had used a trans-border tunnel from Chak Bhura post of Pak Rangers that opened up near Regal post of the BSF in Samba sector.Subsequently, they had boarded a Kashmir-bound truck on Pathankot-Jammu national highway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-takes-over-nagrota-encounter-case/story-19svhQ2i9x13EEMF2sAjYP.html
03-12-2020||India||Slump in Delhi’s Covid-19 positivity rate in last 7 days; steady rise in number of containment zones||The Covid-19 positivity rate in the national capital has slumped in the last one week, dropping from 8.65 per cent on November 26 to 5 per cent on December 2, even as the count of containment zones has grown steadily in the same period, according to official data.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19In this duration, nearly 100 containment zones have been added each day, rising to 5,772 on Wednesday.Delhi recorded 3,944 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the tally to over 5.78 lakh, while 82 new fatalities pushed the toll to 9,342.These fresh cases came out of a record 78,949 tests conducted on Tuesday, including 36,370 RT-PCR tests, while the positivity rate dropped to 5 per cent, according to the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi health department.This is the highest number of tests conducted in a day till date and also the first time when over 70,000 tests were done.The positivity rate has been steadily dropping since November 26 till date, except on November 29 when it marginally rose to 7.64 per cent compared to 7.24 per cent on November 28, as per the official figures shared by the Delhi health department.The positivity rate was 8.65 per cent on November 26 when 5,475 fresh cases were recorded, and 8.51 per cent on November 27 when 5,482 cases were reported.On November 30, the rate again dropped to 7.35 per cent; 6.85 per cent on December 1 and 5 per cent on December 2, as per the data.Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said the Covid-19 positivity rate in the national capital is falling rapidly and it should drop to below 5 per cent level in the next few days.However, the number of containment zones has steadily risen in the last one week, from 5,156 on November 26 to 5,772 on December 2.The count of zones on intervening days were -- 5,229 (November 27), 5,331 (November 28), 5,441 (November 29), 5,552 (November 30) and 5,669 (December 1), according to official data.Also Read | Centre allotted labs taking more than 24 hours in providing Covid-19 test reports: Satyendar JainWhen asked about the rise in count of containment zones, Jain had said, as per the government policy, any place where three or more cases are reported are converted into a containment zone.“So, this is our effort to contain the spread of the virus and so the numbers are increasing, and thus not a matter of concern,” he said, adding, that the rapidly falling positivity rate is a “satisfactory” trend.The positivity rate was 15.26 per cent on November 7. There has been a reduction of nearly 55 per cent since early November, Jain had said on Tuesday.Eighty-two fatalities were recorded on Wednesday, pushing the toll in the national capital to 9,342.The active cases tally on Wednesday had dropped to 30,302 from 31,769 on Tuesday.The Wednesday health bulletin said that the total number of cases has climbed to 5,78,324, while the recovery rate stood at over 93 per cent.The highest single-day spike till date -- 8,593 cases -- was reported on November 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/slump-in-delhi-s-covid-19-positivity-rate-in-last-7-days-steady-rise-in-number-of-containment-zones/story-ZMZ07CJQKUqX6IwVxG5MCJ.html
03-12-2020||India||Arnab Goswami seeks stay on investigation in 2018 abetment to suicide case||Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami has moved the Bombay high court seeking a stay on the ongoing investigation by the Mumbai Police into Anvay Naik’s suicide case in 2018. The journalist has also urged the high court to transfer the investigation to CBI or any other independent agency.The matter will be heard before the Bombay high court on December 10.Goswami was arrested on November 4 on charges of abetting the suicide of interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother in 2018. He was granted interim bail on November 11.Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh has recently said a charge sheet will be filed soon in the case.The Supreme Court has observed that prima facie evaluation of the FIR against journalist Arnab Goswami and two others did not establish the ingredients of the offence of abetment to suicide. The apex court has also extended the interim bail granted to Goswami. A bench of justices D Y Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee said that the high court should not foreclose itself from the exercise of the power when a citizen has been “arbitrarily deprived of their personal liberty in an excess of state power”.“In this batch of cases, a prima facie evaluation of the FIR does not establish the ingredients of the offence of abetment of suicide under Section 306 of the IPC. The appellants are residents of India and do not pose a flight risk during the investigation or the trial.“There is no apprehension of tampering of evidence or witnesses. Taking these factors into consideration, the order dated 11 November 2020 envisaged the release of the appellants on bail,” the top court recently said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arnab-goswami-seeks-stay-on-investigation-in-2018-abetment-to-suicide-case/story-ljj94CZ2DVS3eCSfO6ee6N.html
03-12-2020||India||Farmers from other states won’t be allowed to sell crops in Madhya Pradesh, says Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday said that the state government will only buy the yield of crops of Madhya Pradesh, and if anyone from other states tries to sell their crops in the state, then their trucks will be confiscated and they will be imprisoned. Addressing the crowd in Sehore, he said, “I have decided that only the produce of the crops harvested in the state will be bought. If someone from outside the state come, even try to sell from the neighbouring states, then his truck would be confiscated and he would be sent to jail.” मैंने तय किया है कि जितनी पैदावार किसान की यहां होगी उतनी खरीद ली जाएगी। लेकिन अगर बाहर से कोई आया, अगल-बगल के राज्यों से बेचने या बेचने का प्रयास भी किया तो उसका ट्रक राजसात करवाकर उसे जे़ल भिजवा दिया जाएगा: म.प्र. के मुख्यमंत्री शिवराज सिंह चौहान pic.twitter.com/t2RuUb1ZInThe chief minister was addressing a program organised at Nasrullaganj in Sehore to transfer an amount of Rs 100 crore under the Chief Minister Kisan Kalyan Yojana in the banks of the farmers.Kisan Kalyan Yojana was launched by Madhya Pradesh’s chief minister following the path of Pradhan Mantri Kisan Kalyan Yojana. Under the Kisan Kalyan Yojana, the state government will pay farmers a Samman Nidhi of Rs 4,000 like the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Kalyan Yojana that pays Rs 6,000 every year in 3 equal installments. In the backdrop of the farmers’ protest, the BJP leader also attacked the opposition and claimed that the Congress has always been against the farmers. He blamed Congress for the chaos and violence in the districts of Neemuch and Mandsaur, saying that it was the Congress that distressed and instigated the farmers. He went on adding that he will not let the opposition party create chaos in Madhya Pradesh. Also Read | Farmers’ Protests Live Updates: Farmers march in Maharashtra against farm laws“Congress has always opposed farmers. They’re distressed, they’re looking for some chaos. It was the same Congress that instigated farmers in Neemuch & Mandsaur and fanned violence. We will not let Congress do this at any cost in Madhya Pradesh,” the chief minister said.Farmers from across the nation are protesting in the national capital against the three new farm laws introduced by the government. The protesting farmers on Wednesday had called for a special Parliament session to repeal the anti-farmers laws that were enacted in September earlier this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-from-other-states-won-t-be-allowed-to-sell-crops-in-madhya-pradesh-says-shivraj-singh-chouhan/story-JCkOxWYXNJ2QXrlV6eFIEK.html
03-12-2020||India||UP govt gives 4 reasons to HC for not transferring DM after Hathras gang rape||The Uttar Pradesh government has listed four reasons before the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court for not transferring district magistrate of Hathras after the gang-rape incident in the district in September.The government also tried to justify the decision to perform the last rites of the deceased in the night.The case came up for hearing in the court of Justice Pankaj Mittal and Justice Ranjan Roy on November 25 last. The order was uploaded on the court’s website on December 2 (Wednesday). During an earlier hearing of the case on November 5, the court had asked advocate of the Uttar Pradesh government, SV Raju, whether it was fair and reasonable to allow the district magistrate of Hathras to continue at the same post during the pendency of the investigation. Raju informed the court that after pondering over the issue the government decided not to transfer the district magistrate of Hathras Praveen Kumar Laxkar for four reasons. Firstly, the transfer of district magistrate has been made an issue by political parties with oblique motive to exert political pressure. Secondly, there is no question of the DM tampering with the evidence relevant to the investigation. Thirdly, security of the family is now in the hands of the CRPF with which the state government and its authorities have no concern. Fourthly, the investigation (of Hathras case) is being conducted by the CBI and the state government has no role to play. The government counsel also attempted to justify the cremation of the victim in the night and pointed out that the Hathras DM did not commit any wrong in this regard.On September 14 last, the 19-year-old Dalit victim was raped by four persons in Hathras district when she had gone to the fields to collect fodder for cattle. She was partially paralysed in the attack. As her condition deteriorated, she was moved to Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital on September 28 and died in the early hours of September 29. The court has fixed December 16 as the next date of hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-govt-gives-4-reasons-to-hc-for-not-transferring-dm-after-hathras-gang-rape/story-RNp4erEh8zQGIYxj9xVBUM.html
03-12-2020||India||Kolkata Metro to increase daily services, extend timings from Dec 7||The Kolkata Metro Railway will increase its daily services from 190 to 204 from Monday to Saturday starting December 7, a senior official said on Thursday.Timings will also be extended, with the first service from both ends - Dum Dum and Kavi Subhash stations - at 7 am instead of 8 am, he said. The last trains will leave Kavi Subhash and Dum Dum at 9.30 pm instead of 9 pm.The last trains will leave Kavi Subhash and Dum Dum at 9.30 pm instead of 9 pm, the official said, adding that services will be available every 7 minutes during the morning and evening peak hours.Senior citizens, ladies and children below 15 years, will not be required to produce e-passes throughout the day.For all other passengers, e-passes will not be required between 7 am and 8.30 am, and 8 pm onwards, he said.Tokens will not be issued, and travellers need to make use of smart cards to avail the services, as has been the practice since the Metro resumed operations following the Covid-19 lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-metro-to-increase-daily-services-extend-timings-from-dec-7/story-XcVApetl16gE9wSiveHAiO.html
03-12-2020||India||Old rivalries take back seat as six Jammu & Kashmir parties join hands to contest local polls||Saifuddin Shah, 70, and his family from Kakroosa village in Jammu & Kashmir’s Kupwara district have been staunch loyalists of former chief minister Farooq Abdullah-led National Conference (NC). He says they have always voted for the NC, which ushered in transformative land reforms in the 1950s and negotiated the erstwhile state’s special status that was revoked last year. The family credits the NC for playing an important role in Jammu & Kashmir’s “development and empowerment” and says it would not have voted for the party’s rival-turned-ally Peoples Conference (PC) on Tuesday in the District Development Council (DDC) elections had not they been contesting the polls together. The two parties are part of a six-party alliance called the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD). The grouping was formed in October to fight for the restoration of the special status. The NC and PC leaders have been jointly campaigning for their candidates as the bitter rivalry between them appears to be a thing of the past.“Our family always voted for the NC. It has been a relationship of generations with this party. This time, we voted...for [PC]... After the special status was removed, the old rivalries have ended automatically, especially when all the mainstream leaders were detained. I could have never thought of voting for the PC candidate but for the future of Kashmir, there was no other option...,” said Shah.Also read | BJP goes full steam for J&K DDC polls; Smriti Irani among star campaignersThree former chief ministers Farooq Abdullah, Omar Abdullah, and Mehbooba Mufti were among hundreds of people, who were detained to prevent protests against the nullification of the Constitution’s Article 370 that stripped Jammu & Kashmir of its special status. PC chief Sajjad Lone was also among the detainees. A protracted communications’ blackout and a lockdown were also imposed in the aftermath of the nullification, which means outsider can now buy properties as well as get government jobs in the region.Umar Farooq, a first-time voter, echoed Shah saying his family, too, is an NC supporter but decided to vote for a joint PAGD candidate. ”Kashmir has been betrayed by leaders of all the parties. This is the first time when the leadership has come on a single platform. So, let us give them another chance. We lost everything when these people were divided and hope now with the unity, they could get us something back.”Mohammad Maqbool Khan, a local village head, said the alliance is helping both the NC and PC. “Both the parties have strong vote banks in Kupwara...”PAGD is contesting most of the 280 DDC seats. So far, voting has taken place for 50 of the seats in the Kashmir division in the first two phases of the polling.Umar Maqbool, a political analyst, said PAGD looks strong on paper but it remains to be seen whether votes of big parties like the NC, PC, and Mufti’s People’s Democratic Party are transferable. “At many places, votes are getting transferred and the alliance looks strong. But at many places local rivalries are becoming a big impediment to this vote transfer which could hurt the PAGD candidates... many independent candidates, who are actually proxies of political parties, could also win.”PC spokesman Adnan Ashraf said many disgruntled candidates of different parties are contesting as independent candidates. He acknowledged that could hamper the vote transfer among the PAGD allies. “The leaders are making all efforts to win the seats. We are campaigning in areas which are our strongholds...we want the alliance to win maximum seats.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/old-rivalries-take-back-seat-as-six-jammu-kashmir-parties-join-hands-to-contest-local-polls/story-JcP1BoIsMe08aLlegLNJjK.html
03-12-2020||India||‘Coward’: Karnataka minister make bizarre remark on farmers who die by suicide||Karnataka Agriculture Minister B C Patil on Thursday said the farmers who die by suicide are cowards.“The farmers who commit suicide are cowards. Only a coward who can’t take care of his wife and children commits suicide. When we have fallen (in the water), we have to swim and win,” Patil said addressing farmers at Ponnampet in Kodagu district of Karnataka.The Minister was explaining to bamboo growers of Ponnampet how profitable the agriculture business is, but some cowards do not realise that and die by suicide.To buttress his point, Patil cited an example of a woman who was wearing gold bangles.“When I enquired with her how her hands were full of gold bangles, You know what she said? She said, “This mother earth has given me for my 35 years of toil.” “Doesn’t this please you all after listening to this?” Patil told the gathering.He said when a woman who had depended herself entirely on agriculture and achieved big why other farmers cannot do it.Reacting to this, Congress Karnataka unit spokesperson V S Ugrappa condemned the Minister’s statement, saying he has shown disrespect to the farming community.“It’s a disrespect to the farmers. He should apologise for it,” Ugrappa told PTI.He said the Minister should have gone into the subject to find why some farmers commit suicide.“No farmer wishes to end life. There are many reasons such as floods and droughts, which have not been understood and solved yet. Instead of understanding the gravity of the problem, the Minister gives such an irresponsible statement,” Ugrappa said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coward-karnataka-minister-make-bizarre-remark-on-farmers-who-die-by-suicide/story-newzJN1I5dSMZz40dCojdK.html
03-12-2020||India||Andhra Pradesh govt issues orders to liquidate Amaravati start-up area||More than a year after a consortium of Singapore companies pulled out of the project to develop a start-up area development project in Amaravati, the present capital city of Andhra Pradesh, the state government issued orders to liquidate the project. A government order to this effect was issued by state municipal administration and urban development secretary J Syamala Rao on Wednesday. According to the order, the state government has given approval to Amaravati Metropolitan Development Authority for the termination of agreements of concession and development and also shareholders’ agreement signed with the Singapore consortium for the start-up area development project at Amaravati under the auspices of Amaravati Development Partners (ADP) Private Ltd. The government also authorised the officials concerned including Metropolitan Commissioner of Amaravati Metropolitan Region Development Authority (AMRDA), chairman and managing director of Amaravati Development Corporation Limited and the Board of Members of Amaravati Development Partners Pvt Limited (ADP) to execute the termination agreements. The government authorised them to initiate the process of liquidation of the ADP forthwith as per the laws in force. In 2017, the AP government led by then chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu had entered into an agreement with the consortium of Singapore companies Ascendas-Singbridge and Sembcorp Development for the development of Amaravati capital city start-up area project in 6.84 square kilometres (about 1,691 acres) of government land. The consortium had a 58 per cent stake and the state government 42 per cent in the project. The ADP, the agency incorporated under this public-private partnership, was supposed to develop and market the available land in the start-up area for offices and other commercial activities to companies and institutions across the globe. In November 2019, the Singapore Consortium pulled out of the project following change of guard in Andhra Pradesh. The closure of the project was based on mutual consent between the AP government and the consortium. “We note that the newly elected government of Andhra Pradesh has decided not to proceed with the Start-Up Area, given its other priorities for the state,” Singapore minister for trade relations, S Iswaran, said in a statement then. Later, the state government authorised the then APCRDA Commissioner (now commissioner of AMRDA) and ADCL chairman to finalise draft termination agreement for the project after working out all legal issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aandhra-pradesh-govt-issues-orders-to-liquidate-amaravati-start-up-area/story-j2hQ87iqcMj1oKSzaJr3TJ.html
03-12-2020||India||Marathon rescue op goes in vain, boy who fell into borewell dies in hospital||A 20-hour-long non-stop rescue operation went in vain as a four-year-old boy was declared dead in hospital soon after he was brought out of a borewell at Budhaura village in Mahoba district of Uttar Pradesh’s Bundelkhand region on Thursday, officials said.“The boy was unconscious and all efforts to revive him failed. He was declared dead after an hour (of being taken to the hospital),” said sub-divisional magistrate Mohammad Awes.“We did everything possible to save the child. Oxygen was supplied round the clock and biscuits were passed on. Everyone is sad at the loss,” said district magistrate Satyendra Kumar.The boy had fallen into the borewell while playing on Wednesday.On Thursday morning, a jawan of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) moved through a parallel duct which was built to reach the boy who was stuck at a depth of 36 foot in the 160-foot borewell.The jawan brought the boy out amid the villagers’ cheers.The child was rushed to the Mahoba district hospital, where a team of five doctors was on stand-by since Wednesday, but he was declared dead.Also read: Prepared to face China and challenges arising from Covid-19: Navy chief Karambir SinghEarlier, on Wednesday, Dharmendra fell into the borewell while playing. The incident took place when he accompanied his father Bhaghirath and mother Kanti, who were working at a field nearby.Bhaghirath had dug the borewell about nine months ago for irrigation. Since it failed to provide any water, it was lying closed. A stone slab was put on the opening at that time but someone removed it on Wednesday, the police said.The local administration quickly arranged excavator machines and began rescue work, but faced hiccups as it was initially difficult to assess the depth at which the child was stuck.Two teams of the NDRF and the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) were rushed to Mahoba. The teams reached Budhaura village, around 30 kilometres from the district headquarters, around midnight.By that time, 28-foot parallel digging had been done. Experts found that the child was trapped at the depth of 36-feet. Further digging was done to create a tunnel that went at least two-feet below the point the boy was at.At 9 am on Thursday, an NDRF jawan went through this tunnel, which was connected to the borewell, and managed to bring the boy out.A pall of gloom descended on Budhaura village. Bhaghirath and his wife were inconsolable on losing their only son.Unattended private borewells were a big problem in the area, which is marked as a dark zone, according to Uttar Pradesh Jal Nigam’s executive engineer S Niranjan. Dark zone refers to an area where the groundwater level is critically low.He also said the department was writing to the district administration to take effective action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/marathon-rescue-op-goes-in-vain-4-year-old-boy-who-fell-into-borewell-dies-in-hospital/story-RxJI13kPmEuRXLopGXYxrJ.html
03-12-2020||India||Meghalaya starts preparing for Covid-19 vaccine amid festive season||With the Covid-19 vaccine trials picking up pace, Meghalaya is putting in place protocols to ensure that the process of immunisation is streamlined while keeping in mind the safety of citizens especially during the ensuing festive season.A detailed review meeting on the state’s Covid-19 situation was convened by chief minister Conrad K Sangma on Wednesday evening following which he stated, “Keeping in mind the festive season, which has already begun…it is important that we come up with basic guidelines if necessary protocols, to ensure that people are safe because during festive season, we do tend to let down our guards.”Sangma said the state government will also be holding consultations with the different stakeholders. “The deputy commissioners will be asked to hold meetings with different stakeholders to get their feedback after which, within a week’s time, we will be able to come up with guidelines for this festive season,” he said.Also read | Former Haryana chief minister Chautala tests Covid-19 positiveUrging citizens to strictly follow laid down protocols, the CM said, “Christmas time is a time where we all are in a festive mood. So I would urge that whatever maintain discipline and keep in mind the safety aspects.”Referring to the decline in the number of cases in the state, the chief minister said, “It is a good message but it is important that we don’t let our guards down by always ensuring that protocols are maintained.”On the proposed vaccination programme, Sangma said the Prime Minister has clearly directed all the states to ensure that the necessary system and logistics are in place to implement the vaccination process as and when the vaccines are approved by the scientists and overall regulatory authorities.Sangma said medical and frontline workers will be the first to be immunised. “Therefore, it will be slightly a more structured and easier process because most of them will be able to go to the closest health centres for vaccination,” he said.Asserting that the state is ready to implement the programme, Sangma said all deputy commissioners have been asked to ensure the manpower and infrastructure are put in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalaya-starts-preparing-for-covid-19-vaccine-amid-festive-season/story-fVsKQbbD6YzpYGeQA39vnN.html
03-12-2020||India||India, US ink MoU to enhance cooperation on intellectual property||India and the US have signed an MoU to increase cooperation in the field of intellectual property (IP) by facilitating exchange and dissemination of best practices, collaboration in training programs and outreach activities, an official statement said on Thursday.The two sides will draw up a biennial work plan to implement the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) which will include detailed planning for carrying out co-operation activities, including the scope of action, it said.The Union Cabinet, on February 19 this year, had approved signing of the MoU between the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) and the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO).DPIIT Secretary Guruprasad Mohapatra and Andrei Iancu, Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual Property and Director, USPTO conducted a virtual signing ceremony for the MoU.The MoU aims at increasing IP co-operation between the two countries by way of facilitating exchange and dissemination of best practices; collaboration in training programs, exchange of experts; exchange of information and best practices on processes for registration and examination of applications for patents, trademarks, copyrights, geographical indications, and industrial designs, as well as the protection, enforcement and use of IP rights.Besides, both sides would exchange information on the development and implementation of automation and modernization projects, new documentation and information systems in IP and procedures for management of IP office services, it added.“The MoU will go a long way in fostering the cooperation between India and USA, and provide opportunities to both countries to learn from the experience of each other, especially in terms of best practices followed in the other country. It will be a landmark step forward in India’s journey towards becoming a major player in global innovation and will further the objectives of National IPR Policy, 2016,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-us-ink-mou-to-enhance-cooperation-on-intellectual-property/story-7gSrx1J1eErl3UOi7DIT5O.html
03-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: MP Sukhdev Dhindsa returns Padma Bhushan, says award is worthless as farmers are ignored and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.MP Sukhdev Dhindsa returns Padma Bhushan, says award is worthless as farmers are ignoredShiromani Akali Dal (Democratic) chief and Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa returned his Padma Bhushan award to oppose farm laws here on Thursday. Read morePrepared to face China and challenges arising from Covid-19: Navy chief Karambir SinghChina’s attempts to change the status quo on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and the Covid-19 pandemic complicated the security situation, with the Indian Navy deploying its P-8 Poseidon aircraft and Heron drones for surveillance on the northern frontiers, naval chief Admiral Karambir Singh said on Thursday. Read more‘We brought our own food,’ say farmer leaders, refuse food or tea offered by government at Vigyan Bhawan meetFarmer leaders who went to Vigyan Bhawan on Thursday for their crucial meeting with the Centre regarding the new agriculture laws are not accepting food or tea offered by the government, a leader told ANI. Read more‘I’ll remember it forever’: The KL Rahul gesture which floored debutant Cameron GreenThe newest member of the Australian cricket team, Cameron Green has admitted that he was ‘taken back’ by the warmth showed by India wicketkeeper KL Rahul during the third ODI in Canberra on Friday. Read more‘December 2020 abhi baaki hai’: Smriti Irani reminds people the year isn’t over yet with funny minion memeIf one has to explain the phrase “Umeedon pe pani pher diya” in one word, then “2020” is probably the best suited one. Read moreKangana Ranaut-Diljit Dosanjh fight turns ugly: She calls him Karan Johar’s pet, he says she has no ‘tameez’After Diljit Dosanjh’s tweet criticising Kangana Ranaut, she too has responded with barbed words. Kangana took to Twitter on Thursday, calling Diljit filmmaker Karan Johar’s pet and herself a lioness. Read moreBad news for PUBG Mobile India: PUBG fans and gamers will have to wait longerThe team behind PUBG Mobile India have been trying to get their game launched in the country for a while now. Read moreCentre holds 4th round of talks with farmers as protest enters 8th dayAgriculture minister Narendra Tomar, railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal and minister of state for commerce Som Prakash met 40 farm organisations for the fourth round of talks at Delhi’s Vigyan Bhawan on December 3. WatchBMW 2 Series Gran Coupe ‘Black Shadow’ edition launched in India at Rs 42.3 lakhBMW has launched the new 2 Series Gran Coupe ‘Black Shadow’ edition in India on Thursday at Rs 42.3 lakh. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-mp-sukhdev-dhindsa-returns-padma-bhushan-says-award-is-worthless-as-farmers-are-ignored-and-all-the-latest-news/story-N3nDyCmfeONurc9vh8VbxI.html
03-12-2020||India||In Telangana’s Asifabad forests, an alert for man-eating tigers on prowl||Forest officials of Telangana’s Asifabad Kumaram Bheem district on Thursday sounded a high alert in the reserve forest area of the district bordering Maharashtra, following the killing of two tribal youths in a span of 18 days by suspected man-eating tigers. The killing of a 16-year old girl Pasula Nirmala by a tiger at Mannewada tribal hamlet near Kondapalli village of Penchikalapet mandal on Sunday night triggered panic among the local tribals. The incident happened within 20 km of Digada village, where another 20-year old man Sidam Vignesh was mauled to death by a tiger on November 11. In both the incidents, the tigers dragged the bodies of victims and abandoned them deep inside the forests after partially eating their flesh. “According to our preliminary investigation, the tigers involved in the two incidents are different. The first one has moved towards Maharashtra and the second one is moving closely in the Telangana forest range,” Asifabad Kumarm Bheem district forest officer S Santaram said. Santaram said it was alarming to note that tigers moving in the forests of Telangana-Maharashtra borders have turned into maneaters. “We have not come across man-eating tigers in the district so far. Naturally, the latest incidents are a matter of serious concern,” he said. According to Santaram, the main reason for tigers attacking human beings was the loss of natural habitat. “Despite our repeated requests, tribal people were going deep into the reserve forest areas and take up “podu” cultivation by felling trees and setting up hamlets there. Naturally, tigers in the area would feel insecure and attack humans,” he said. Following the two incidents, the forest department authorities issued an advisory to the local tribal villagers in order to prevent attacks by the maneaters. The forest officers are making announcements in the village using drums to create awareness among villagers on do’s and don’ts they need to follow to prevent incidents of wild animal attacks. “We have asked them to move in groups when they go inside the forests for harvesting of crops or other agriculture operations. One or two of them should keep a watch on the movement of animals and sound an alert by drum beating or blowing trumpet when they spot wild animals,” the official said. The authorities also warned tribals not to take their cattle deep into the forests for grazing and restrict themselves within half-a-kilometre from their hamlets. They should invariably carry sticks with them. The forest officials suggested that the tribals constitute a village protection committee comprising local sarpanch and forest beat officer, which will monitor the movement of tigers and inform the higher officials immediately. All the tribals venturing into forests should inform the protection committee about their movement. The forest department has already formed special tracking teamsto deal with the maneaters. “A seven-member monitoring committee, as per the Standard Operating Procedure (SoP), of the National Tiger Conservation Authority, has been formed to track and deal with the tigers,” Santaram said. “We have set up three cages on the corridors and paths of the big cat. He said seven more cages are being brought up. As many as 60 forest officials are on the job to catch the tiger. This apart CCTV cameras were also being set up to track its movement,” he said. Santaram said there were no traces of the tiger in the nearby areas after Sunday’s incident. “It might have gone deep inside the forests. The CC cameras have not noticed any movement of tiger, nor are there any fresh pug marks in the area,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-telangana-s-asifabad-forests-an-alert-for-man-eating-tigers-on-prowl/story-nymMSwwnKIIlb4XdyZ4cuI.html
03-12-2020||India||Karnataka will have law against “love jihad”: State home minister||Karnataka will have a law against “love jihad”, and officials have been directed to gather information regarding an ordinance promulgated in Uttar Pradesh in this regard, state Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Thursday.Uttar Pradesh had recently promulgated an ordinance against forcible or fraudulent religious conversions, which provides for imprisonment of up to 10 years and fine of up to Rs 50,000 under different categories.“Love jihad” is a coinage used by right wing activists to refer to the alleged campaign of Muslims forcing Hindu girls to convert in the guise of love.“...when Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh governments started mulling over it (a law), we too started thinking about it- how to do it, how to ensure that there was pressure or force involved (in conversion)- it is the main thing,” Bommai said.Speaking to reporters in Udupi, he said, Uttar Pradesh has recently promulgated an ordinance in this regard and our officials have been directed to get a copy of it.Also Read | First man booked under UP’s new law against forced conversions arrested“After gathering information from other states also regarding the measures taken there, in Karnataka too we will have a law against love jihad for sure. The chief minister has agreed to it...,” he added.Last month, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had said that the government will take strong measures to put an end to religious conversion in the name of love and marriage.BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel too on Wednesday had asserted that a stringent law against ‘Love Jihad’ will be enacted in Karnataka.However, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J C Madhuswamy on Tuesday had said there was no proposal of enacting a law against religious conversion for the sake of marriage before the government for now. “...Being the scrutiny committee chairman, I can say that no such proposal has come before me yet,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-will-have-law-against-love-jihad-state-home-minister/story-TjE9CfIny32r9pcyCl1UGO.html
03-12-2020||India||Govt increases domestic flights’ cap from 70 pc to 80 pc of pre-Covid levels||The cap on the number of domestic flights that Indian airlines are permitted to operate was increased from 70 per cent to 80 per cent of their pre-Covid levels on Thursday, said Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri. The minister had said on November 11 that the Indian airlines can operate up to 70 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic passenger flights due to the prevailing demand amid the coronavirus situation. Puri tweeted on Thursday, “Domestic operations recommenced with 30K passengers on 25 May & have now touched a high of 2.52 lakhs on 30 Nov 2020.” “Ministry of Civil Aviation is now allowing domestic carriers to increase their operations from existing 70% to 80% of pre-Covid approved capacity,” he stated. The ministry had resumed scheduled domestic passenger services from May 25, after a gap of two months due to the coronavirus lockdown. However, the airlines were allowed to operate not more than 33 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights. On June 26, this was increased to 45 per cent and on September 2, it was further increased to 60 per cent. On November 11, it was increased to 70 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-increases-domestic-flights-cap-from-70-pc-to-80-pc-of-pre-covid-levels/story-Vc6qultLE3L69H4gAdGxwN.html
03-12-2020||India||Malegaon blast case: Court asks MP Pragya Singh Thakur, other accused to appear on December 19||Four of the seven accused in the 2008 Malegaon blast case, including Bharatiaya Janata Party lawmaker Pragya Singh Thakur, failed to appear before a special court hearing the matter.Lawyers of Thakur, Ramesh Upadhayay, Sudhakar Dwivedi, and Sudhakar Chaturvedi filed an application pleading their exemption from appearing before the court citing the Covid-19 pandemic. The court allowed the plea but asked them to appear before the court on December 19.The special court, which is likely to begin hearing the case on a day-to-day basis from Friday, earlier this week asked all the accused to remain present before it as it sought to resume the trial on Thursday. But only three accused, Sameer Kulkarni, Ajay Rahirkar, and Lt Col Prasad Purohit, appeared.The court has asked all the lawyers to cooperate for the resumption of the trial. The prosecution had brought an independent witness, who was partly examined before the Covid-19 lockdown in March. The court has asked it to resume the recording of the evidence from Friday when the witness will be cross-examined.Six people were killed and over 100 wounded when a bomb planted on a motorcycle went off at Malegaon in September 2008.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/malegaon-blast-case-court-asks-mp-pragya-singh-thakur-other-accused-to-appear-on-december-19/story-NK3QoBL3PGeyJA2kBi9xCM.html
03-12-2020||India||PFI president alleges ED raids planned ‘distraction’ from farmers’ protests||The controversial Popular Front of India has condemned the raids carried out by the Enforcement Directorate on premises and entities linked to the front and its office bearers on Thursday and alleged that it was part of vendetta politics.“It is a politically-motivated move. It is aimed at distracting from the farmers’ strike,” said OMA Salam, the president of the front. Salam is employed with Kerala state electricity board.Salam’s condemnation follows raids carried out by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on offices and residences of PFI leaders in Kerala in connection with the money laundering case filed by the central agency. Premises of PFI national chairman OMA Salam, national secretary Naseeruddin Elamaraom and state leader Karamana Ashraf Moulavi, were among the raided entities. In Thiruvananthapuram and Malappuram, angry PFI workers tried to block raiding officials and later local police had to intervene.A senior official of the ED said it was part of a nationwide raid and 26 locations were searched in Delhi and eight other states.A radical outfit, PFI is often considered to be an offshoot of the banned Students’ Islamic Front of India (SIMI). It all started when Abdul Nasser Madani, an accused in Bangalore and Coimbatore blast cases, founded Islamic Seva Sangh on the lines of RSS after the Babri mosque demolition in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992. Later, when Madani was in jail in connection with the Coimbatore blasts, the leaders of the Islamic Seva Sangh formed the National Development Front. Later, the front merged with Manitha Neethi Pasarai of Tamil Nadu and Forum for Dignity, a Karnataka-based outfit, to form the Popular Front of India (PFI). Also Read: ED raids PFI chairman’s premises in Kerala as part of money laundering probeIn Kerala, most of the front’s erstwhile leaders are members of the banned Students Islamic Movement of India (SIMI). The PFI describes itself as a neo-social movement committed to empower people belonging to the minority communities, Dalits and other weaker sections of the society. In Kerala, a retired professor P Koya is considered as the tallest leader of the organisation. Now, the PFI claims to have units in 22 states. Officials in the intelligence agencies say it successfully exploited a growing vacuum in the minority community by portraying itself as a ‘saviour’. Since its inception, the outfit has been mired in many clashes and political murders. It was allegedly involved in at least 30 political murders in Kerala. In 2015, 13 of its workers were awarded life-term in prison for chopping the palm of a college professor, T J Joseph, who prepared a question paper, alleged to be blasphemous.In 2017, six PFI activists were held in connection with the murder of an ABVP leader in Kannur and nine were arrested for allegedly killing SFI leader Abhimanyu in Maharaja College in Ernakulam in 2018. The front is currently being probed for alleged funding of the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pfi-president-alleges-ed-raids-planned-distraction-from-farmers-protests/story-fPTJVrVZ6JySIAMLXFLEFK.html
03-12-2020||India||Magistrate court records Javed Akhtar’s statement against Kangana Ranaut||The Metropolitan Magistrate court, Andheri on Thursday recorded the statement of lyricist Javed Akhtar in connection with his the complaint of defamation against actor Kanaga Ranaut for her comments on him during an interview. His statement was recorded by the magistrate under the process of verification of the complaint. The writer and poet had approached the court last month. After the verification the court would now hear his lawyer Niranjan Mundargi over admission of the complaint. If admitted the court would take cognizance of the complaint and issue notice to Kangana.Akhtar has through his lawyer filed a private complaint on November 2 against the actor under section 499 (Defamation) and section 500 (punishment for defamation) of Indian Penal Code.Akhtar has claimed that he has been in the industry for more than 25 years and Ranaut has defamed him during a television interview claiming that he had threatened her to withdraw case against Bollywood actor Hrithik Roshan.He contended that Ranaut has called him part of ‘suicide gang’ and claimed that he had threatened her saying if she didn’t back out she will have no option but to die by suicide.Akhtar said because of such comments he received many calls and messages criticising him and was trolled on social media. He claimed that such comments caused much damage to his reputation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/magistrate-court-records-javed-akhtar-s-statement-against-kangana-ranaut/story-Vf5ynK6ZRaBljKyE7ChuBK.html
03-12-2020||India||Punjab announces financial assistance for families of two farmers who died during protests||Mourning the death of two farmers, who were participating in the agitation against the three farm sector laws passed by the Centre, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday announced financial assistance of Rs 5 lakhs each to the deceased families.Farmer Gurjant Singh, from village Bachhoana in Mansa district, died in Delhi during the agitation against farm laws, while Gurbachan Singh (80) from Bhinder Khurd village in Moga district, died due to massive heart attack during a protest at Moga on Wednesday.“Deeply anguished at the death of Gurjant Singh and Gurbachan Singh, farmers from Mansa and Moga respectively during their participation in the protests at Delhi. The government will provide full monetary and other assistance to their families,” said Singh.Singh also met the Union Home Minister Amit Shah today and urged the Centre to rethink its stand on the legislations while appealing to the farmers to find an early solution to the problem that was adversely impacting the state’s economy and also posed a serious danger to national security.Punjab Chief Minister during the meeting stressed that the problems of farmers need to be solved quickly and urged the Union Home Minister to ensure that the Government of India addresses the concerns of the farmers.The Chief Minister told media during a brief interaction after his meeting with Shah that while he and his government were not involved in mediation in any way and the matter had to be resolved between the Centre and the farmers, an early resolution was vital in the interest of both Punjab and the country.“A solution has to be found at the earliest,” he said, adding that he had come to meet the Union Home Minister to reiterate Punjab’s stand on the imbroglio between the farmers and the central government, as well as the need to secure the future of the farming community and agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-announces-financial-assistance-for-families-of-two-farmers-who-died-during-protests/story-rOz40QxYr6O3JtHChkTR6M.html
03-12-2020||India||India-Bangladesh border talks to be held outside Delhi for first time||India and Bangladesh are expected to hold their Director General-level border talks in Guwahati later this month, the first time the biannual meeting will be held outside Delhi, official sources said.The 51st edition of these high-level talks will be held between the Border Security Force (BSF) and its counterpart Border Guard Bangladesh (BGB) beginning December 22. Discussions on curbing a variety of border crimes and enhancing cooperation between the two countries are expected to be held for four days.Assam’s capital is the base for BSF’s Guwahati frontier headquarters whose troops guard 495 km of the 4,096 km-long India-Bangladesh border that runs along the state and some parts of West Bengal.A special BSF water wing that keeps vigil along the riverine border areas including Dhubri in Assam is under the command of this frontier of the border force.This is the first time since these biannual talks began in 1993 that they are being held outside Delhi, the sources said.The meeting being held near the border may also give an opportunity for the brass of the two sides to jointly visit some border areas in Assam, they said, stating the reason behind moving the talks outside Delhi.The Director General-level talks were held annually between 1975 and 1992 but they were made biannual in 1993 with either side alternatively travelling to the national capitals of New Delhi and Dhaka.A delegation led by BSF Director General Rakesh Asthana had visited Dhaka for these talks in September.Asthana will lead the talks again with his BGB counterpart Maj Gen Shafeenul Islam, the sources said.The current relations between the two countries and the forces are very good and both sides will take them forward during these talks, officials said.While the Indian side is expected to take up the issue of joint border security management, fencing of unfenced areas and undertaking effective steps to curb cross-border crimes, the Bangladeshi border force is expected to take up issues related to the killing of its people along the front.During the last meeting, Asthana had said the killing of criminals along the front will be “made to reduce significantly” even as he reiterated that his troops only fire when their lives are endangered by cross-border miscreants.He had said death or apprehension of criminals on the border was “irrespective of nationalities”.“BSF personnel fire with non-lethal weapon only in self-defence when they are surrounded by a large number of miscreants armed with dah (cleaver-shaped knife), sticks, etc., and their lives are endangered,” he was quoted as saying by a BSF spokesperson.The two sides are also expected to firm up new standard operating procedures (SOPs) in view of the crossing over of a “significant” number of mentally challenged Indian nationals to Bangladesh, a plan mooted by the BSF chief.The two forces, after the Dhaka talks in September, had also decided to “share real-time information” with each other expeditiously through formal or informal channels regarding smuggling of narcotics and human trafficking. It was also decided to share information regarding fake Indian currency notes, cattle, arms, ammunition, explosives, anti-social elements, activities of Indian Insurgent Groups and breach or damage of the border fence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-bangladesh-border-talks-to-be-held-outside-delhi-for-first-time/story-vGM0jtwculavx5y80qYnhO.html
03-12-2020||India||‘We brought our own food,’ say farmer leaders, refuse food or tea offered by government at Vigyan Bhawan meet||Farmer leaders who went to Vigyan Bhawan on Thursday for their crucial meeting with the Centre regarding the new agriculture laws are not accepting food or tea offered by the government, a leader told ANI. A video of farmer leaders sharing food that they brought with them has also surfaced. The video shows the union leaders came prepared for the lunch time — with boxes full of food and paper plate for distribution so that they don’t have to accept government hospitality. #WATCH | Delhi: Farmer leaders have food during the lunch break at Vigyan Bhawan where the talk with the government is underway. A farmer leader says, "We are not accepting food or tea offered by the government. We have brought our own food". pic.twitter.com/wYEibNwDlXA delegation of 40 farmers arrived at Vigyan Bhawan early in the day for their second round deliberation with the Centre amid the ongoing ‘Dilli Chalo’ protests, which entered the eighth day on Thursday. The agitating farmers earlier said they had come to Delhi for the protest with enough foodgrains in stock to sustain them for months, hinting that they won’t yield unless their demands are met.The first meeting to end the present stalemate owing to the ongoing protest of thousands of farmers in Delhi and at the borders of the Capital city was held on Tuesday. It fell through as the farmers’ representatives refused the Centre’s proposal to set up a committee which will address the issue of the farmers. On Wednesday, Union home minister Amit Shah met agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and railways, commerce and food minister Piyush Goyal to discuss the issue. Both Tomar and Goyal are present at Vigyan Bhawan meet apart from Som Parkash who is an MP from Punjab and also is the minister of state for commerce.Ahead of the Vigyan Bhawan meeting today, Amit Shah also met Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh who requested Shah to resolve the issue at the earliest. “Discussion is going on between farmers and Centre, there’s nothing for me to resolve. I reiterated my opposition in my meeting with home minister and requested him to resolve the issue as it affects the economy of my state and security of the nation,” Amarinder Sinh said after the meeting.The farmers want a Parliament Session repeal the laws enacted in September, which the government had earlier rejected. It had asked the farmers’ bodies to identify specific issues that are worrying them. The laws have been enacted as major farm reforms removing middlemen but the farmers are worried that minimum support price (MSP) will be rendered ineffective.In a significant development of Thursday, Akali stalwart and former Punjab Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal returned his Padma Vibhushan award in protest against the Centre’s farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-second-day-meeting-underway-union-leaders-not-accepting-food-or-tea-offered-by-government/story-T4GV5LkLHGgKAj72uGJBGK.html
03-12-2020||India||Maharashtra farmers launch day-long protests against farm laws||Farmers across Maharashtra marched to offices of tehsildars and district collectors to express their solidarity with cultivators camping outside Delhi to demand repeal of farm laws passed in September to liberalise the sector. The All-India Kisan Sabha (AIKS), an umbrella body of over 500 farmer organisations, organised the marches.Over 80 organisations in Maharashtra are participating in Thursday’s protests. Farm labours, trade unions, bank employees, etc, were also backing their solidarity marches, the AIKS said.Also read | Centre, farmers begin fresh talks; MSP assurance on the tableAjit Navale, AIK’s Maharashtra general secretary, said they will issue a detailed statement at the end of the day.In Mumbai, Trade Unions Joint Action Committee formed to coordinate the protests organised a protest at Parel.Congress leader Sachin Sawant said they are also holding statewide protests at the tehsil and district levels. “The protests started at 11am this [Thursday] morning. ...party workers in large numbers are protesting at tehsildars’ offices. We have left it up to the district level Congress leadership to decide the nature of the protest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-farmers-launch-day-long-protests-against-farm-laws/story-dQKsXkveEhpEg3ktl2qHQK.html
03-12-2020||India||Prepared to face China and challenges arising from Covid-19: Navy chief Karambir Singh||China’s attempts to change the status quo on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and the Covid-19 pandemic complicated the security situation, with the Indian Navy deploying its P-8 Poseidon aircraft and Heron drones for surveillance on the northern frontiers, naval chief Admiral Karambir Singh said on Thursday. Singh told the annual news conference ahead of the Navy Day on December 4 that air power at sea is an essential component of naval operations and the Indian Navy is committed to acquiring a third aircraft carrier, a move that would also be in line with the country’s ambition of becoming a $5-trillion economy. The Navy, he said, is prepared to face challenges arising from the pandemic and China’s attempts to change the status quo on the northern borders, which have “significantly increased the complexities in the security situation”. Also Watch | ‘Indian Navy’s activities are in synergy with Army, Air Force’: Navy chief The Navy’s P-8I maritime surveillance aircraft and Heron unmanned aerial vehicles were deployed to northern bases to keep an eye on the Ladakh sector of the LAC in line with requests from the Army and Air Force, he said. Two MQ-9B Sea Guardian drones, which have an endurance of about 33 hours, have been leased from the US to fill in the gaps in the Navy’s capabilities, he added. Though Chinese fishing and research vessels are operating in regional waters, none of them has violated India’s maritime boundaries and only three warships of China’s People’s Liberation Army Navy have been present in the Gulf of Aden in the Indian Ocean region for anti-piracy operations since 2008. With the Navy’s second aircraft carrier, the indigenously built INS Vikrant, set to begin sea trials next year, Singh emphasised the need for a third carrier to project naval power “here and now”. The Navy is working on collating technical information before formally approaching the government to clear the acquisition of a third carrier, he said. “Air operations are integral to naval operations. Air power at sea is required here and now. The Navy is all about reach and sustenance,” Singh said, adding project power at sea dovetails with the government’s plans to make India a $5-trillion economy. “If you want to be a $5-trillion economy...you will have to go outwards. The Navy does not want to be tethered to the shore. For that, aircraft carriers are absolutely essential,” he said. The Navy is working with the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) on a multi-role carrier-based combat jet to replace its MiG-29s. This work will build on the lessons learnt from the indigenously built light combat aircraft and the Navy is hoping the home-grown carrier-based fighters will join service in the 2030s, Singh said. Indigenisation is a key part of the Navy’s acquisition of warships and all 24 surface vessels and submarines inducted in the past six years were built in India, while 41 more vessels are being constructed at the country’s shipyards, he said. The Project 75I-class submarine programme too is on track, with the Navy having identified vendors and partners to build six submarines, and Smash-2000 rifles are also being acquired to protect vessels against attacking drones, he added. Despite the disruption caused by the pandemic, the Indian Navy participated in 13 bilateral and multilateral drills this year and training of naval personnel from friendly countries resumed in November. Thirteen countries have been invited to send representatives to India’s information fusion centre in Gurugram and three foreign liaison officers have joined while three more are expected soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prepared-to-face-china-covid-19-says-navy-chief-karambir-singh/story-TXuBgPAQhYH7zcFcEOvhCO.html
03-12-2020||India||Man arrested for sexually assaulting minor daughter in Odisha||Police in western Odisha district of Jharsuguda, on Thursday, arrested a 34-year-old man who had allegedly sexually assaulted his 11-year-old daughter in a state of intoxication on Sunday night.Officials said the survivor stayed with her father and grandmother in Jharsuguda town. On Sunday, when the girl’s grandmother had gone out to wash utensils in a wedding reception party, her father allegedly assaulted her sexually.District coordinator of Childline in Jharsuguda, Ashish Panda said after the assault, the man threatened his daughter against revealing the incident to anyone.“However, the victim told her neighbours about the assault on Monday, who in turn, informed her grandmother. The grandmother reported the matter to Jharsuguda town police station after returning from work at the wedding on Wednesday,” said Panda.The girl’s mother had left her father four years ago.Also Read: Woman Maoist who guarded senior rebel leader surrenders to Odisha policePolice officials said a case under Pocso Act and other IPC sections have been lodged against the accused. The girl, now studying in class 6, has been sent to a child shelter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-arrested-for-sexually-assaulting-minor-daughter-in-odisha/story-ZARjJdbP7VHli6tUYGFJJO.html
03-12-2020||India||‘One should age gracefully, make room for youngsters’||Versatile actor, motivational speaker, Smita Jayakar, believes that with age one should move ahead and make space for the next generation.“See, change is permanent and if we, as humans, will not accept it, it’s impossible to live a peaceful life. I can’t be doing what I was doing 10-20 years back. As actors, we too should move ahead with time else everything will become stagnant. The next generation should be handed over the mantle and we should age gracefully,” said the actor best remembered for the blockbuster ‘Hum Dil De Chuke Sanam.’Acting happened randomly for Smita and projects just happened one after the other. Remembering her earlier days, she said, “There was no such dramatic incident that got me into acting. Instead, a Marathi Doordarshan’s anchoring offer led to weekly shows and the rest is history. Life was easy then with no work pressure on actors or makers. I was married early and was a mother of two at the age of 24. So, I started acting when my personal life was all settled.”Smita was spotted in a TV serial ‘Ghutan’ for Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s ‘Hum Dil…’ by the film maker’s mother. “I have been guided constantly and it was a smooth-sailing journey after my debut. My second film ‘Sarfarosh’ gave me more recognition and then films like ‘Devdas,’ ‘Ajab Prem Ki Ghazab Kahani,’ ‘Ek Vivah…’ gave me immense appreciation and love.“But as I said, one needs to keep on moving in life and age gracefully. I was into spirituality, maybe that helped me a lot to understand this theory of life. I have been in the industry for over three decades and enjoyed my work thoroughly and now I have decided to slow down,” she shared.Currently, Smita is happy with the release of her short film ‘Chhoti Si Guzaarish,’ that was shot in Lucknow a few years back and won accolades at various international film fests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/one-should-age-gracefully-make-room-for-youngsters/story-5nS7AVE5Nr5ooUhAt8da7H.html
03-12-2020||India||Rajasthan: Bharatpur police launches multi-stakeholder campaign to check child marriages||Police in Rajasthan’s Bharatpur district and a child protection organisation have laid down a mechanism to ensure that police have direct dialogues with women and girls regularly to check child marriages.The mechanism has been introduced under a multi-stakeholder campaign against the social evil. Police have constituted a panel of women volunteers of the organisation Aangan Trust, who are trained in child protection, at police stations as a part of the community liaison group (CLG). “The programme has been introduced to ensure regular dialogue with women and girls in the district so that the issue of child marriage can be addressed,” said Superintendent of Police, Bharatpur, Amandeep Singh Kapoor, who had recently launched the campaign. Police and the organisation have laid down an effective mechanism to hold dialogue directly with women and girls in the district, an associate of the Trust said.There are 600 women volunteers in the district.“Vulnerable children are at high risk of exploitation through child marriage and the police are hearing from them and addressing their demands to ensure their safety,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-bharatpur-police-launches-multi-stakeholder-campaign-to-check-child-marriages/story-9HFpEhjF7oUjgLv0d806VK.html
03-12-2020||India||Indo Gangetic plain global hotspot of atmospheric ammonia, IIT Kharagpur study||The Indo-Gangetic Plain (IGP) is the global hot-spot of atmospheric ammonia (NH3) due to intense agricultural activities and fertilizer production there, according to researchers at The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kharagpur.The study titled “Record high levels of atmospheric ammonia over India: Spatial and temporal analyses” has also been published in the international Elsevier journal “Science of the Total Environment”. The study by the IIT team was conducted along with researchers from Indian Institute Of Tropical Meteorology, Pune and few European researchers.The team has also recommended wider adoption of precision farming along with seasonal restrictions on the use of fertilizers. “Agro fertilizers containing high levels of ammonia have long been designated as a hazardous material for human health. In a first-of-its kind study, the seasonal and inter-annual variability of atmospheric ammonia emitted by the agricultural sector was analysed by us and the results are in agreement with the long-held apprehension of global environmentalists - the Indo-Gangetic Plain is indeed the global hot-spot of atmospheric ammonia,” said Jayanarayanan Kuttippurath, Professor at IIT Kharagpur’s Centre for Oceans, Rivers, Atmosphere. “The satellite data we collected for agricultural emissions show a positive correlation of atmospheric ammonia with total fertilizer consumption and temperature since high temperature favours volatilization and is negatively correlated with total precipitation as wet deposition helps removal of atmospheric ammonia,” he added.Using IASI satellite measurements to analyze the seasonal and inter-annual variability of atmospheric NH3 over India for the period 2008–2016, the researchers observed atmospheric ammonia growing rapidly at a rate of 0.08 pc annually during the summer-monsoon (Kharif crop period) season from June to August.“Atmospheric ammonia is typically generated due to agricultural activities including the use of nitrogenous fertilizers, manure management, soil and water management practices and animal husbandry. It is very dynamic as it is constantly exchanged between the atmosphere and biosphere. “In India, there has been a lack of detailed information about atmospheric ammonia, which is a significant contributor to atmospheric pollution and deterioration of air quality. This is particularly important for IGP as there are many cities including New Delhi,” Kuttippurath said.The study also mentions that there are positive trends in atmospheric NH3 over the agricultural areas of the United States, China and Europe, about 1.8–2.61 per cent annually, depending on regions. However, the general trend in atmospheric ammonia over India is negative in most seasons. “Observing the overall trend, we can therefore assert to have sincere to our pledge at the Paris Climate Summit towards reducing atmospheric emissions through initiatives under the National Clean Air Programme though we have to be relentless in our efforts to reduce the emissions at the Indo Gangetic Plain, which would otherwise have detrimental effects on the human health, ecosystems and climate,” said Kuttippurath.Deliberating on possible remedies, co-authors Ajay Singh and Nirupama Mallick from the IIT Kharagpur’s Department of Agricultural and Food Engineering emphasised wider adoption of precision farming along with seasonal restrictions on the use of fertilisers. “Agriculture, in its conventional form, contributes significantly to the atmospheric emission of gaseous ammonia that plays a key role in the deterioration of air quality over the whole of India by actively contributing to the formation of secondary aerosols. This demands regulations on the amount of fertilizer application in cropping seasons in arable lands, in place of conventional blanket recommendation practices, along with viable strategies to curb farm emissions,” said Mallick.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indo-gangetic-plain-global-hotspot-of-atmospheric-ammonia-iit-kharagpur-study/story-RZFBhXjKLr6Bg7sE9keX8I.html
03-12-2020||India||Need priority list as vaccine won’t be available for all in the beginning, says AIIMS director||All India Institute of Medical Sciences Director, Randeep Guleria, on Thursday expressed hope on the emergency authorisation of vaccine for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) from Indian regulatory authorities. Speaking to news agency ANI, Guleria said that several vaccine candidates that are being developed in the country are now in their last stage of the trial. He also said that hopefully, the process of vaccinating the people will begin soon after getting the required approvals from regulatory authorities “by the end of this month or early next month.”Click here for complete Covid-19 coverage“There is good data available that the vaccines are very safe. Safety and efficacy of vaccine not compromised at all,” Guleria further said as per ANI. “70,000-80,000 volunteers given a vaccine, no significant serious adverse effects seen. Data shows that in the short term vaccine is safe,” Guleria added.Speaking on the vaccine availability, Guleria said, “In the beginning, it will not be available in sufficient doses to give to everyone. We need a priority list to see that we vaccinate those who’ve high chances of dying due to Covid,” ANI reported. “Elderly, people with comorbidities and front line workers should be vaccinated first,” It quoted Guleria as saying.Once a booster dose is given, the vaccine will give a good amount of antibodies production and protect from the virus for “for a significant amount of time.” The antibodies can last for many months in the body, he also said.Also Read | No night curfew in Delhi as of now, AAP govt informs Delhi high courtOn the distribution plan of the government, Guleria said that work is going on at war-footing both at the Centre and state level. Authorities are working on a plan “in terms of maintaining the cold chain, having appropriate storehouses available, developing strategy, training vaccinators and availability of syringes.”This comes as India’s Covid-19 caseload crossed 9.5 million-mark on Thursday after it recorded 35,551 fresh cases of the viral disease. As of Thursday morning, the country have 95,34,964 confirmed cases of the virus. While the death toll reached 1,38,648.On November 23, pharmaceutical company Astrazaneca said that the its Covid-19 vaccine candidate, in development with British partner Oxford University, has an efficacy rate of 90%. The late-stage trial findings will allow the company to seek emergency use approval by year-end, before securing authorisation for a full rollout by February or March.India is also conducting a late-stage trial of Russia’s Sputnik V.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-priority-list-as-vaccine-won-t-be-available-for-all-in-the-beginning-says-aiims-director/story-nSa7DyZR1gH99zPaX9XgJN.html
03-12-2020||India||Manipur’s Nongpok Sekmai police station bags award for being India’s best||The Union home ministry has named Manipur’s Nongpok Sekmai police station the best in the country. Amit Shah, the Union home minister, virtually presented a trophy to the police station’s in-charge, inspector Keisam Premkumar Mangang, on Wednesday during an ongoing three-day virtual meeting of police chiefs from across the country.Nongpok Sekmai police station was established on April 8, 2015.Also read | Manipur imposes night curfew till December 31 to check Covid spreadPrime Minister Narendra Modi in 2015 sought the laying down of parameters for grading police stations on the basis of their performances and citizens’ feedback to rank the top 10 among them annually. An annual assessment has since conducted to recognise 10 best police stations nationally and in each state and territory.Earlier, Manipur’s Nambol and Imphal West city police stations were declared the best in 2018 and 2019.In a tweet, Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh wrote, “Congratulations to Nongpok Sekmai PS, Thoubal District on being conferred the #BestPoliceStationAward2020 of the country by Union Home Ministry. The award is in recognition of the professionalism, hard work, dedication and community oriented policing by the #Manipur Police.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-s-nongpok-sekmai-police-station-bags-india-s-best-police-station-award/story-nvfgR3XTCmeMEfGUKWBgtN.html
03-12-2020||India||Boy who fell into borewell in UP dies||A 4-year-old boy who fell into a borewell in Budhaura village here died on Thursday, officials said. “After an 18-hour rescue operation, the child was taken out from the borewell in the morning and rushed to the hospital on life support system where doctors declared him dead,” District Magistrate Satyendra Kumar said.Dhanendra alias Babu had fallen into the borewell at around 2.30 pm on Wednesday when he was playing. His parents were irrigating the field at the time of the incident, according to police. Anup Kumar Dubey, SHO, Kulpahad had on Wednesday said the boy was suspected to be trapped at about 25-30 feet deep borewell. Additional Superintendent of Police Rajendra Kumar Gautam said the child was rescued at about 8.30 am on Thursday.“The borewell had water up to 25 feet and it seems the child slipped into it and died,” he said. Dr Gulsher Ahmad of the district hospital said the child may have died about six hours before he was brought to the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/boy-who-fell-into-borewell-in-up-dies/story-lF87pqGlzhghcmxY5JohGL.html
03-12-2020||India||Bombay high court acquits doctor convicted of disclosing gender of foetus in 2006||The Bombay high court has quashed a doctor’s conviction for conducting a woman’s prenatal test to determine the gender of her unborn child in 2006, saying the proper procedure was not followed while registering the complaint in the case.Mohankumar Nagane’s lawyer, Abhijeet Desai, said the competent authority did not check Nagane’s clinic and a medical officer who did so did not follow the procedure. He submitted the amount alleged to have been paid to Nagane for the test was not found in his clinic but in a car owned by someone else which the doctor used sometimes.The court held that though the money was not found in the premise of Nagane and the medical officer had acted beyond his authorisation, both the lower courts failed to take cognisance of it and hence the conviction was being quashed and set aside.Sex determination tests are banned in India to prevent female foeticide that is common in some parts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-high-court-acquits-doctor-convicted-of-disclosing-gender-of-foetus-in-2006/story-N6TQDvNoe39BsLAZJ50r2H.html
03-12-2020||India||Bengal CM Mamata threatens country-wide stir if new farm laws not withdrawn||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday threatened to launch a country-wide agitation if the “anti-farmer” new farm laws were not withdrawn.The Trinamool Congress supremo lashed out at the BJP- led government at the Centre over the issue in a series of tweets.“I am very much concerned about the farmers, their lives and livelihood. GOI must withdraw the anti-farmer bills. If they do not do so immediately, we will agitate throughout the state and the country. From the very start, we have been strongly opposing these anti-farmer bills,” she tweeted. I am very much concerned about the farmers, their lives and livelihood. GOI must withdraw the anti-farmer bills. If they do not do so immediately we will agitate throughout the state and the country. From the very start, we have been strongly opposing these anti-farmer bills.Her statement came ahead of a crucial round of talks scheduled to be held between the Centre and representatives of the agitating farmers during the day.“We have called a meeting of the All India Trinamool Congress on Friday, December 4. We will discuss how the Essential Commodities Act is impacting common people and resulting in sky rocketing prices. The central government must withdraw this anti-people law,” she said in another Twitter post.“The GOI is selling everything. You cannot sell Railways, Air India, Coal, BSNL, BHEL, banks, defence, etc. Withdraw ill-conceived disinvestment & privatisation policy. We must not allow treasures of our nation to be transformed into BJP party’s personal assets,” Banerjee added. The GOI is selling everything. You cannot sell Railways, Air India, Coal, BSNL, BHEL, banks, defence, etc. Withdraw ill-conceived disinvestment & privatization policy. We must not allow treasures of our nation to be transformed into BJP party’s personal assets.Agitating farmers had on Wednesday demanded that the Centre convene a special session of Parliament and repeal the new farm laws as they threatened to block other roads in Delhi and “take more steps” if it failed to do so.Ahead of the scheduled talks, Union Home Minister Amit Shah held deliberations with Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Railway Minister Piyush Goyal on the previous day on ways to dispel concerns over the new farm laws.Tomar, Goyal along with Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash had represented the Union government on Tuesday during the talks with farmer leaders but failed to reach any breakthrough.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-cm-mamata-threatens-country-wide-stir-if-new-farm-laws-not-withdrawn/story-d9auujTeCwGTd1mvC2QpCN.html
03-12-2020||India||MP Sukhdev Dhindsa returns Padma Bhushan, says award is worthless as farmers are ignored||Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic) chief and Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa returned his Padma Bhushan award to oppose farm laws  here on Thursday.The veteran leader, who parted ways with the Shiromani Akali Dal following political differences with SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, was presented the Padma Bhushan by President of India Ram Nath Kovind in March 2019.“I have returned my Padma Bhushan in protest as farmers have been staging dharnas for the past two months but the Central government is not ready to listen to them. When the BJP government is ignoring our elderly people, who have shifted their protest to Delhi borders, the award is worthless to me,” Dhindsa told HT over phone.The Rajya Sabha MP said that his party workers are extending support to farmers and he has asked them not to discuss party politics in farmers’ protests.Also read | Parkash Singh Badal returns Padam Vibhushan to protest ‘betrayal of farmers’“My son Parminder Singh Dhindsa also staged protests against these anti-farmer laws. I will stand by farmers,” he added.He added, “I will intensify the agitation if the government does not repel such black laws.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-mp-sukhdev-dhindsa-returns-padma-bhushan/story-L9FKE7EmojcVS199UtwsWN.html
03-12-2020||India||Those not wearing masks violating other citizens’ Fundamental Rights: SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday stayed the December 2 order passed by Gujarat high court mandating social service duty at Covid care centres for those found not wearing masks in public. The court also sought suggestions from the Centre and the State governments on ways to ensure compulsory wearing of masks and maintenance of social distancing by the public at large.The three-judge bench headed by justice Ashok Bhushan held that the state must vigorously enforce the standard operating procedure (SOP) released by the Centre for mandatory wearing of masks and keeping social distancing to contain the spread of Covid 19 disease.“Those people not wearing masks in public are violating the fundamental right (right to life and health) of other citizens,” observed the bench, also comprising justices RS Reddy and MR Shah. The bench noted that in the State, people were gathering in thousands and there was no mechanism to report such gatherings.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for Gujarat, had opposed the high court order, calling it well-intentioned but claiming that the consequences of its implementation will be bad. Mehta informed the court that those violating mandatory wearing of masks are being fined Rs 1000 by the State Police. The bench agreed to stay the interim direction of Gujarat HC on the appeal filed by the State stating that such a direction will cause more harm to people by exposing them to the risk of catching infection. However, it noted that wearing of masks is mandatory and stare authorities shall take every action to punish violators, including levy of fine. Also Read: Provide gender sensitisation training to judges to avoid stereotyping women, says AG KK VenugopalThe order of the HC was passed on a PIL by a lawyer named Vishal Awtani, who complained against the lack of enforcement of mandatory norms of wearing masks and maintaining social distancing by people across the State.Mehta shared the concern of the court and said that the problem is being witnessed throughout the country as this phenomenon relates to a “culture of indiscipline” prevailing among people.The bench sought suggestions from the Centre and States as it said, “There is a standard operating procedure in place put by (the) Centre but how is it to be implemented.” The States will give suggestions on how they propose to implement rules about mandatory wearing of masks and social distancing. The Court listed the appeal by Gujarat government for further hearing in the second week of January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/those-not-wearing-masks-violating-other-citizens-fundamental-rights-sc/story-t3bnVimH31lMvvjlbskDeK.html
03-12-2020||India||Delhi HC adjourns Manoj Tiwari’s plea against summons in Sisodia’s defamation case to Dec 7||The Delhi High Court on Thursday adjourned to December 7 the plea filed by BJP MP Manoj Tiwari challenging a trial court order issuing summons against him in a defamation case filed by Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia.A single-judge bench of Justice Anu Malhotra asked the counsel appearing for Tiwari to file legible copies of documents relating to his petition and submit physical copies of judgements, which he is relying on to support his plea.Tiwari’s counsel and senior advocate Pinki Anand urged the High Court to quash the order passed by Rouse Avenue Court on November 28, 2019, issuing summons against her client.The trial court had also issued summons to BJP MPs Hans Raj Hans and Pravesh Verma and MLAs Manjinder Singh Sirsa and Vijender Gupta in the matter. Gupta has also challenged the trial court order in the Delhi High Court.The High Court also listed Gupta’s plea for further hearing on December 7.Sisodia had filed a defamation case against BJP MPs Manoj Tiwari, Hans Raj Hans, Pravesh Verma, MLA Manjinder Singh Sirsa, MLA Vijender Gupta and BJP spokesperson Harish Khurana for making false allegations regarding the former’s involvement in corruption of Rs 2,000 crore in the building of classrooms of Delhi government schools. All accused are out on bail in this matter.Sisodia, in the defamation case, had said that all the allegations made by these BJP leaders were false, defamatory, derogatory and with an intention to harm and damage the reputation and goodwill of the Delhi Deputy Chief Minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-adjourns-manoj-tiwari-s-plea-against-summons-in-sisodia-s-defamation-case-to-dec-7/story-FJC4wj8MaIJ1RZMh7DE8YJ.html
03-12-2020||India||No night curfew in Delhi as of now, AAP govt informs Delhi high court||The AAP government on Thursday told the Delhi high court that it has decided not to impose night curfew in Delhi as of now, after assessing the present Covid-19 situation in the Capital. On November 26, a high court bench comprising Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad asked the government to submit its response on imposing night curfew without any delay. The government at that time told the court that no decision was taken on night curfew but it was under “active consideration”.On Thursday, the Delhi government filed a status report in which it said it has issued an order directing status quo be maintained with regard to permitted and restricted activities in the city till December 31. “Therefore, no new activity has been permitted/ allowed till December 31,” the report said. Earlier, the court had rapped the government for lifting several restrictions at a time when the number of cases was on the rise.Since the last week of October, the Capital saw an uptick in daily infections with the number breaching the 8,000-mark in November. The daily toll too reached above 100 in November when the Capital is believed to have witnessed the third wave of Covid-19.The National Centre for Disease Control in a report drafted recently had warned that Delhi needs to be prepared for about 15,000 fresh cases of Covid-19 per day, taking into account the upcoming winter season-related respiratory problems, large influx of patients from outside and festive gatherings.Though several states have announced night curfews and local restrictions, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal maintained that restrictions is not a solution to the Covid-19 situation — they only delays the spread. In the past few days, however, the number of daily infections in Delhi came below 4,000 as it recorded 3,944 fresh Covid-19 infections on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-night-curfew-in-delhi-as-of-now-aap-govt-informs-delhi-high-court/story-l1QPKn9adHSuIBXrhUuF3M.html
03-12-2020||India||Mamata warns of nationwide protest against farm bills, attacks Centre’s disinvestment policy||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has threatened a nationwide agitation if the Centre does not withdraw the three contentious laws enacted in September to allow agribusinesses to freely trade farm produce without restrictions.“I am very much concerned about the farmers, their lives and livelihood. GOI [government of India] must withdraw the anti-farmer bills. If they do not do so immediately we will agitate throughout the state and the country. From the very start, we have been strongly opposing these anti-farmer bills,” Banerjee tweeted on Thursday.Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress will hold a meeting on Friday to discuss their future of course of action.“...We will discuss how the Essential Commodities Act is impacting common people and resulting in skyrocketing prices. The central government must withdraw this anti-people law,” she said in another tweet.Also read | BJP targets 10million Bengal households to counter TMC govt’s biggest outreachFarmers, especially from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting against the three laws, saying they will hurt their incomes even as the government has maintained they will enhance them. They say the laws are a precursor to the withdrawal of government support for farming and will replace existing middlemen with more powerful corporate entities.Banerjee also sharpened her attack against the Centre’s disinvestment and privatisation policy saying the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is transforming national treasures into its assets“The Government of India is selling everything. You cannot sell Railways, Air India, Coal, BSNL, BHEL, banks, defence etc. Withdraw ill-conceived disinvestment and privatization policy. We must not allow treasures of our nation to be transformed into BJP party’s personal assets,” she said.BJP leader Jay Prakash Majumdar said the Communist Party of India (Marxist), or CPI(M), carried out anti-Centre protests for 34 years and Banerjee talks on the same lines. “Will Bengal leaders always oppose the country’s laws and deprive people of the state of the Centre’s welfare schemes.” CPI(M) leader Md Salim said Banerjee always wakes up late. “The movement has already reached the doorsteps of Delhi. The Left parties have already held a nationwide movement. She is talking of holding a movement when her party is on its way out of power in Bengal.” Congress leader Pradip Bhattacharya blamed the Centre for an alarming increase in the prices of essential commodities and added Banerjee is free to lead the protests. “But she must also ensure that prices of vegetables produced in the state are kept under check.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-warns-of-nationwide-protest-against-farm-bills-attacks-centre-s-disinvestment-policy/story-VqXHtymIKKZiKQ0qQFzLLL.html
03-12-2020||India||‘Ready to tackle Covid-19, China’: Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh||Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh on Thursday said the navy is prepared to face dual challenges of Covid-19 and Chinese attempts to alter the Line of Actual Control (LAC). He added that the navy is all prepared with an standard operating procedure (SOP) to tackle the situation in case of any infringement by the Chinese vessels.“There is a dual challenge from Covid-19 and Chinese attempts to change the Line of Actual Control. The Navy is prepared to face both these challenges,” Admiral Singh said at a press conference on the eve of the Navy day.On surveillance activities, the navy chief said the two predator drones taken on lease are aiding the navy to fill the capability gap. He added that if the army and the IAF felt the need, the 24 hours sustained surveillance capabilities can be used for the northeast as well. Also Read | China plays down concerns over ‘super’ dam impacting water security in northeast IndiaHe also notified that all three armed forces are operating in close coordination with each other.He said, “2 Predator drones taken on lease are helping us to fulfil the capability gap in our surveillance. 24hrs of surveillance capability is helping us to get sustained surveillance capability: If the Army and IAF feel a requirement for them in the northeast, we can consider it.”The navy chief elaborated on the surveillance drones by informing that P-8I aircraft and Heron surveillance drones have been deployed on various frontiers as per the requirement of Army and IAF. Further, “As of now, three Chinese warships are in the Indian Ocean region. The Chinese have been maintaining three ships since 2008 for anti-piracy patrols,” said Navy Chief Singh.Admiral Singh talked about bolstering the strength of the force amidst the Ladakh-China row that started due to the aggression from the PLA. India and China are still in deadlock after seven months of high level deliberations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ready-to-tackle-covid-19-china-navy-chief-admiral-karambir-singh/story-HhAkHTC4ZvA8PpqS3hhfkI.html
03-12-2020||India||Parkash Singh Badal returns Padma Vibhushan to protest ‘betrayal of farmers’||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader and five-time former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal on Thursday returned the Padma Vibhushan award in protest against the “betrayal of the farmers by the government of India and the shocking indifference and contempt with which it is treating the ongoing peaceful and democratic agitation” of the farmers against the three farm Acts. “I am who I am because of the people, especially the common farmer. Today, when he (farmer) has lost more than his honour, I see no point in holding on to the Padma Vibhushan honour,” the veteran Akali leader wrote in a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind. He described the betrayal of the farmers by the government as “bolts from the blue on the already beleaguered peasantry of the country”, adding that the farmer finds himself waging bitter struggles in severe cold just to secure his fundamental right to live. Also read | Centre, farmers begin fresh round of talksSAD, one of the oldest constituents of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), had snapped ties with the BJP in September 2020 and pulled out of the alliance to protest against the agriculture marketing laws enacted by the Central government. In a letter e-mailed to the President, Badal listed his reasons for feeling “hurt and betrayed” by the government’s attitude and actions against the farmers. “When the Government of India had brought the ordinances, assurances were given that the farmers’ apprehensions would be addressed to their satisfaction while bringing the relevant Bills and subsequently the Acts. Trusting these assurances, I even appealed to the farmers to believe the Government’s word. But I was shocked when the Government simply went back on its word,” he wrote. The former chief minister described that period as the most painful and embarrassing moment in his long political career. “I just cannot put in words the pain and emotional stress which I have been going through since then. I have truly begun to wonder why has the Government of the country become so heartless, so cynical and so ungrateful towards the farmers,” he said. Badal also said he had been deeply pained by the communal insinuations being thrown at the peacefully and democratically protesting farmers. Badal regretted that the government remains indifferent to the sufferings of the farmers. “The spectacle of hundreds of thousands of farmers crying out for justice in one voice in the national capital would have moved any other nation or its government,” he said. No such sensitivity towards the farmers’ pain and anger is visible here, he said, hoping that as the first citizen of the country and a conscientious public figure, the President too would be fully aware and perhaps as deeply concerned about these developments. Badal felt apologetic that the pleas of farmer friendly parties like the Shiromani Akali Dal were mocked. “It was cynically suggested that farmers take loans just for ostentatious lifestyle. This cruel cynicism and malice against the farmers did not stop even when thousands of farmers in this country were and are being driven to take their own lives in a phenomenon called farmer suicides,” he said. He also came down heavily on the government, saying that while “corporate loans worth lakhs of crores are waived off with just a single thoughtless stroke of the governmental pen, no one has ever thought of even subsiding the farm debts, forget a complete waiver”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/badal-returns-padma-vibushan-in-protest-against-farm-laws/story-x89lL0NPAh8Zq7H8FB87eM.html
03-12-2020||India||Covid 19 scuttles 200-km yearly padyatra to commemorate the lord of Goa||December 3 marks the feast of St Francis Xavier, a 16th century Spanish Jesuit who travelled to the then Portuguese held territories in India and other parts of Asia to evangelize and is now revered as Goencho Saib (Lord of Goa). The public holiday is marked with huge congregations at Old Goa, but this year on account of the coronavirus pandemic, the event has been largely moved online.For the hundreds of people from the villages of the hilly and thickly forested upper reaches of the Western Ghats-- now falling in North Western Karnataka and South Western Maharashtra-- who would make the 150-200 kilometres walk from their town to Old Goa every year on the occasion, the pandemic has meant that their pilgrimage cannot be held this year. Catholics residing in the neighbouring districts, who trace their roots back to Goa, known as ‘Bardeskar’-- their ancestors having had to migrate from the Bardez taluka in Goa to escape religious and cultural persecution, epidemics and continuous Portuguese-Maratha skirmishes -- had begun a tradition of walking across five days to reach Old Goa by December 2, the eve of the feast of St Francis Xavier. “The tradition had become a part of the lives of the people of these villages who have great reverence and devotion for Goencho Saib. This (restriction due to the pandemic) became a deep source of sorrow to many of the devotees who have been walking every year,” Fr Joseph Monetiro, the parish priest of Gadhinglaj in Kolhapur district of South Maharashtra, said. The pilgrimage, modelled on Maharashtra’s Varkari cult’s ‘padyatra’ to Vithoba, the presiding deity at Pandharpur, is undertaken with the hope that various favours will be granted that could include help in getting rid of an alcohol habit, a new job, healing from chronic diseases, etc.The devotees would walk across the ghats, making their way through the forested stretches and traditional pathways to reach Old Goa by December 2 each year.Gadhinglaj and the neighbouring towns of Azra in Kolhapur district, Sindhudurg district of Maharashtra and Belgaum district of Karnataka are home to hundreds of families of ‘Bardeskar’ who have formed Catholic settlements centuries ago, but continue to hold on to their links to Goa and the village associations that they belong to. The tradition dates back to 1982, when a Jesuit priest Swami Prabhudar began walking from Azra, a village in the Kolhapur district of Maharashtra with just seven people. It soon gained popularity and now involves hundreds of people with some marching from as far as Ahmednagar district in Maharashtra to Goa. Also Read: Old Parrikar video threatens to derail railway line doubling project in Goa Instead this year, on account of the risks associated with large gatherings, the villagers from Gadhinglaj decided to have a smaller scale pilgrimage involving fewer people and a march from Gadhinglaj to Nesari, a distance of 22 kilometres every day for nine days until December 3, when the feast will be celebrated. “We are doing this to ensure that the tradition is not broken besides to also enable those who wish to participate, seeking the intercession of St Francis Xavier for various favours can fulfil their devotion,” Fr Monteiro said. The feast of Francis Xavier is being celebrated at a low key level this year with physical gatherings being discouraged and the celebrations being live streamed instead for the benefit of the devotees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-scuttles-200-km-yearly-padyatra-to-commemorate-the-lord-of-goa/story-rSpxa2R0UiCjw8nzNZh4bN.html
03-12-2020||India||Former Punjab CM Parkash Singh Badal returns Padma Vibhushan in protest against farm laws||In the latest development over the ongoing anti-farm law protests, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) patriarch and former 5-term Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal on Thursday returned the Padma Vibhushan, the country’s second-highest civilian award, which was conferred upon him in 2015. Former Punjab CM Parkash Singh Badal returns Padma Vibhushan to protest "the betrayal of the farmers by govt of India" pic.twitter.com/mzdsoAZSlCIn a statement, Badal described the laws as “the betrayal of farmers” by the government of India. In September, the month these laws were passed, then central minister and Badal’s daughter-in-law, Harsimrat Kaur Badal, who was the only SAD representative in the central government, had resigned from office in protest against the legislations. Days later, the SAD, too, formally announced it was no longer a part of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA).Also Read | SAD-NDA: Farm bill was final nail in the coffin. Here’s a look at other reasons for splitThe SAD was the BJP’s oldest ally, with the two parties’ ties being more than two decades old.In recent days, a number of sportspersons from Punjab, too, have threatened to return their awards if the farmers’ demands were not met. Though the farmers have been protesting against the laws since September, including blocking railway tracks in Punjab, last week they started marching towards the national capital and have been camping on its outskirts for eight days now. They have threatened to block Delhi “from all sides” if the laws are not repealed.Three rounds of talks have taken place between the farmers’ unions and the government thus far, including the latest one on Tuesday. Fourth round of talks are scheduled to take place on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-punjab-cm-parkash-singh-badal-returns-padma-vibhushan-in-protest-against-farm-laws/story-bIAlkJjQrZvwPuL76Ab4pJ.html
03-12-2020||India||Dilli Chalo protest: Centre, farmers begin fresh talks; MSP assurance on the table||Three Union ministers are currently meeting leaders from 40 farm organisations for the fourth round of make-or-mar talks at the Capital’s Vigyan Bhawan, as protests by thousands of farmers against a set of farm laws continued for the seventh straight day. Agriculture minister Narendra Tomar, railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal and minister of state for commerce Som Prakash are leading the government side, while representatives of some of the biggest farmers unions in the country, mainly from Punjab, are speaking for the farmers. While the farmers want the three farm laws approved by Parliament in September to be revoked, the government has leaned on its new reform agenda for better crop prices and higher investments in the farm sector. Opposition to the reforms has set off some of the biggest farmers’ protests in decades, posing a political challenge for the Narendra Modi government. “It is possible that the government may offer some sort of undertaking or assurance that the reforms will not impact minimum support prices (MSP), although the reforms are not meant to have any impact on MSP,” an official said, requesting anonymity. Farmers also want rollback of an ordinance invoked in October by the government to crack down on pollution in New Delhi, of which crop-residue burning is a major cause. The ordinance has riled farmers because it provides for steep penalties for polluters, including farmers who burn crop stubble, with a jail term of 1 year and fines of up to Rs1 crore. “Higher subsidies that will enable farmers to adopt environment-friendly technologies as an alternative to crop-residue burning is another option before the government,” a second official said. The recent reforms in the antiquated farm sector allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside the so-called government-controlled mandi system, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming. In the last round of talks on December 1, which was inconclusive, the government had asked the farm unions to identify specific provisions in the three farm laws which they were opposed to. The three ministers had assured of appropriate responses to their objections in today’s meeting. “The issue is not about one particular clause, but about the direction in which the Centre is pushing farming in India,” stated Avik Saha, the secretary of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, in a letter to the farm minister ahead of Thursday talks. Farmers fear the reforms could pave the way for the government to stop buying staples at federally fixed MSP, erode their bargaining power and leave them at the mercy of private buyers. The government has insisted it will still buy staples at MSP, but farmers have demanded a law to guarantee that no sale of farm produce below MSP will be permitted. Indian farmers receive lower-than-international prices for their produce because of increasing costs of cultivation, inadequate markets and the government’s obsession with keeping food prices low. This has worsened agriculture’s terms of trade, measured as a ratio of prices of agri-products to prices of manufactured items. The crisis, therefore, is not one of low production, but of low prices. Economists say an MSP mechanism that ignores dynamics, such as demand and global prices, creates market distortions. If it is not profitable for traders to buy at federally-fixed MSP, when demand is low, then the private sector will simply exit the markets. In such a scenario, the government simply cannot be a monopoly buyer of all produce, said Pravesh Sharma, a fellow at New Delhi’s Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations. The assumption behind the new reforms is that free competition in agricultural markets will result in a market-clearing price, at which quantity supplied equals quantity demanded, resulting in an equilibrium.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dilli-chalo-protest-centre-farmers-begin-fresh-round-of-talks/story-vRYvUsKi5hKSoGkMjdMxjO.html
03-12-2020||India||Chhattisgarh joins 27 states and 3 UTs to opt for GST loan, Jharkhand is lone dissenter||Chhattisgarh is the latest State to accept the Centre’s borrowing option of Rs 1.1 lakh crore to meet the Goods and Services Tax (GST) shortfall in 2020-21, making Jharkhand the lone dissenter.“Government of Chhattisgarh has communicated its acceptance of Option-1 to meet the revenue shortfall arising out of GST implementation. The number of states who have favoured Option-1 has gone up to 27. All states except Jharkhand and all the 3 Union Territories (UTs) with legislative assemblies, have decided in favour of Option-1,” Union finance ministry said on Thursday.Now, 30 members of the GST council – 27 states and 3 UTs -- have formally accepted the first borrowing option proposed by the Centre in August this year, reducing the number of dissenting states to just one, an official in the Union government said requesting anonymity.At the 41st GST Council meet on August 27, the Centre had given two borrowing options to states to meet their revenue shortfall of about Rs 2.35 lakh crore in the current financial year. Two days later, it had specified that under the first option, states would not have to pay either the principle amount or the interest if they borrow only Rs 97,000 crore (later this amount was raised to Rs 1.1 lakh crore) to meet the GST revenue shortfall because of implementation issues. However, they would have to bear significant interest costs if they choose the larger borrowing option of Rs 2.35 lakh crore that included revenue shortfalls due to an “act of god”, which was the Covid-19 pandemic.Initially 10 states – Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Kerala, Maharashtra, Delhi, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and West Bengal-- mostly administered by non-National Democratic Alliance (NDA) parties, objected and insisted that the entire borrowing should be done by the Centre without imposing any direct interest burden on States. They were.Under the first option, the Union government on October 23 set up a special borrowing window for this purpose and borrowed an amount of Rs 30,000 crore on behalf of states, which was passed on to them. “The funds borrowed through the special window were released to the States and UTs on 23rd October, 2020, 2nd November, 2020, 9th November, 2020, 23rd November, 2020 and 1st December, 2020. Now the State of Chhattisgarh will also receive funds raised through this window starting from the next round of borrowing,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-joins-27-states-and-3-uts-to-opt-for-gst-loan-jharkhand-is-lone-dissenter/story-ToGdJWwWQbIJi2LRACNkIJ.html
03-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1pm: Farmers block NH-9 ahead of talks with govt and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times. Ahead of talks with government, protesting farmers block Ghaziabad-Delhi side of NH-9Supporters of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) intensified the farmer’s stir and blocked the National Highway-9 near the UP Gate on Thursday morning. The move has led to blockade and disruption of traffic from Ghaziabad to Delhi. Read moreGovt releases list of India’s top 10 police stations, Manipur’s Nongpok Sekmai on topThe government on Thursday released a list of the top 10 police stations in India for the year 2020. In a press release, the government noted that the list was in accordance with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s directions while addressing the 2015 Directors General of Police (DGP) Conference in Kutch, Gujarat. Read more‘What does PM stand by’: Rahul Gandhi on Centre’s stand on Covid-19 vaccineFormer Congress party chief Rahul Gandhi hit out at the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government on Thursday for ambiguity in the vaccine policy of the country, seeking clarity over the same. Read more‘He has many ways to get wickets’: Tom Moody believes 29-year-old India fast bowler is an ‘exciting package’India benefitted from the four changes they made to their playing XI in the third ODI against Australia in Canberra on Wednesday. India left out Mayank Agarwal, Mohammed Shami, Yuzvendra Chahal and Navdeep Saini and replaced them with Shubman Gill, Kuldeep Yadav, T Natarajan and Shardul Thakur, with all four additions contributing immensely in India’s 13-run win. Read moreDiljit Dosanjh slams Kangana Ranaut for her tweet against elderly Sikh woman: ‘Shouldn’t be so blind, she says anything’Diljit Dosanjh has joined multiple Punjabi stars as they rebuked actor Kangana Ranaut’s latest Twitter fiasco. Kangana had shared a tweet, misidentifying an elderly Sikh woman during the farmers’ protest as Bilkis Bano of Shaheen Bagh. She had written that the woman had joined the protest for a meagre price of Rs 100. Read moreTata Nexon EV surpasses 2,000 sales milestone in 10 monthsIt may not seem like a milestone to rave about at first but that its battery-powered heart has helped Tata Nexon become a cornerstone in the electric vehicle movement in India is now underlined by the fact that 2,000 units of the EV have been sold here in a little over 10 months since being launched. Read moreNetflix StreamFest in India: Here’s how you can watch Netflix for freeNetflix is going to be free this weekend in India. Netflix StreamFest will be a two-day event on December 5 and 6 where anyone in India will be able to watch Netflix for free. Netflix is experimenting this for the first time, and it’s starting with India. Read more‘Killed this’: Sonam Kapoor Ahuja calls her look ‘hot’ as Rhea Kapoor-Masaba Gupta gush over the denim saree stylingEccentric outfits and out-of-the-box looks are synonyms for Bollywood fashionista Sonam Kapoor Ahuja whose uncanny ease at pulling off the most unconventional of outfits makes the fashion police’s jaws drop everytime. Read more‘Indian Navy played crucial role in deterring PLA Navy’: Vice Admiral AK ChawlaVice Admiral AK Chawla, Flag Officer Commanding-in- Chief, Southern Naval Command said that Indian Navy played a crucial role in preventing any misadventure by the Chinese Navy in the Indian Ocean Region during the peak of the border standoff between the two countries. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1pm-farmers-block-nh-9-ahead-of-talks-with-govt-and-all-the-latest-news/story-j7Co0gY46Dr3n14XOyUkIJ.html
03-12-2020||India||Telangana HC orders pole climbing test for two women rejected for lineman job||The Telangana High Court has directed a state power distribution company to conduct pole climbing test for two women candidates, who cleared the written test for the post of junior lineman.The court gave the direction to the Southern Power Distribution Company of Telangana after its counsel informed the court that the state-run power utility did not want to engage women for field jobs such as lineman as they could not climb poles easily.A division bench, headed by Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddywhile hearinga writ appeal by V Bharathi and B Shirisha on Wednesday, observed that women were being recruited in armed forces also.It has directed the power department to conduct the pole climbing test for the petitioners in two weeks and submit the result to the single bench which is hearing the petition.A single bench had earlier ordered the Southern Power Distribution Company of Telangana Ltd and Principal Secretary Energy Department to conduct the test for the two women “if they conduct any Pole Climbing test in future.” The petitioners seeking timeframe for the test had moved the bench.G Vidya Sagar, senior advocate appearing for the DISCOM, said the power utility in its advertisement for filling vacanciesof lineman, had mentioned that women candidates were not eligible for the posts of lineman.However some women candidates approached the High Court court seeking its permission to appear for the exam.Out of them, two cleared the written test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-hc-orders-pole-climbing-test-for-two-women-rejected-for-lineman-job/story-XzlErh8ERMydCd9kcBPQsK.html
03-12-2020||India||ED raids PFI chairman’s premises in Kerala as part of money laundering probe||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday raided premises including that of Popular Front of India (PFI) chairman OM Abdul Salam in Kerala’s Thiruvananthapuram and Kochi in connection with a money-laundering probe, officials familiar with the matter said.Raids are being conducted at 26 locations in nine states: Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Bihar, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Karnataka, Delhi and Maharashtra.The PFI is under investigation for alleged financial links with anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) protesters earlier this year. The ED in January this year submitted a note to the Union home ministry saying there “is a direct correlation between the dates of deposits/withdrawals of money from the bank accounts of PFI and those of demonstrations against the CAA”.“It has been noticed that Rs1.04 crore were deposited in 15 bank accounts of PFI (10) and Rehab India Foundation (5) during the period starting from 04.12.2019 till 06.01.2020. The deposits were in form of cash and IMPS using mobile and deposit amounts varies from Rs5,000 to Rs49,000. The amounts have been kept below Rs50,000 in order to [not] disclose the identity of depositor,” the note said.Also read | Scribe held on way to Hathras: ‘Shocking findings’ have emerged during probe, UP govt tells SC“Rs1.34 crore were withdrawn from these 15 accounts from December 4, 2019 to January 6, 2020 by way of cash and NEFT/IMPS using mobile.” The withdrawals were made in small amounts of Rs2,000 to Rs5,000 on multiple occasions.The note, a copy of which HT has seen, said 80 to 90 withdrawals were made from a single account on December 12 and December 21 when protests were held at several places in Uttar Pradesh.“The money trail has proved beyond doubt that PFI has mobilised the money to finance the cost of demonstration/gherao against CAA Bill till 06.01.2020. Further investigation to trace money trail from other bank accounts is continuing,” the note said. PFI, which has denied all the allegations against it, did not immediately respond to ED raids.The organisation has been accused of forced conversions, radicalisation of Muslim youth, and linkages with banned outfits.The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has called it a threat to national security and the then Union minister Kiren Rijiju in January 2018 said the government was considering banning the outfit. The government is yet to ban PFI.Prior to ED’s probe, PFI has been named in at least four cases by the NIA. They include the one involving chopping of the palm of a professor in Kerala’s Idukki district in July 2010, the murder a Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh leader in Bengaluru in October 2016, the so-called Islamic State Omar Al-Hindi module in Kochi and a training camp in Kannur from where bombs, IEDs and swords were recovered in April 2013.NIA in 2016 said PFI’s Sathya Sarini was involved in several conversions in Kerala. PFI was never charged by the agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-raids-pfi-chairman-s-premises-in-kerala-as-part-of-money-laundering-probe/story-LXsL04p6IMga3P2CmbsDNP.html
03-12-2020||India||Olive ridley turtles return to Odisha beach for nesting||Pairs of olive ridley sea turtles have begun emerging on the swirling sea waters off Gahirmatha in Odisha, marking the commencement of the annual natural heritage of mass nesting, forest officials said on Thursday.Forest personnel on patrolling drives have sighted pairs of mating turtles. For undisturbed breeding of the aquatic animals, prohibition on sea fishing continues to remain in force in the marine sanctuary, they said.Gahirmatha beach in Kendrapara district is acclaimed as the world’s largest-known nesting ground of these endangered marine species. Apart from Gahirmatha, these aquatic animals turn up at Rushikulya river mouth and Devi river mouth for mass nesting.“On the serene surface of sea waters, the turtle surveying teams spotted hundreds of mating pairs along the Gahirmatha coast. Fishing prohibition is presently clamped in Gahirmatha zone to ensure disturbance-free mating of the marine animals,” said Divisional Forest Officer, Rajnagar Mangrove, Bikash Chandra Dash.After the end of the mating season, most of the male turtles usually return, leaving behind the female turtles to lay their eggs, he said The female turtles virtually invade the nesting beaches, usually at the dead of the night for laying eggs, the phenomenon described as ‘arribada’.After indulgence in instinctive egg-laying, the turtles leave the nesting ground to stride into the deep seawater. Hatchlings emerge from these eggs after 45-60 days.It is a rare natural phenomenon where the babies grow without their mother, the officer said.The ban on sea fishing remains in force round the year in Gahirmatha marine sanctuary as the seawater here is the most conducive habitat for these delicate species.The rise in the mortality rate of mating turtles along the coastal water surface led to the clamping of prohibition as the gill nets used by the trawls prove to be messengers of death for breeding turtles.The mute species, accorded schedule-1 animal under Wildlife Protection Act for its highly threatened status, get entangled in the nets for prolonged periods and die of asphyxiation. Many turtles also perish after getting hit by the fast-moving propeller of the fishing trawlers, forest officials said.The rate of mortality of these endangered species is quite high. An olive ridley usually lays about 120 to 150 eggs from which hatchlings emerge after about 45 to 60 days. But not all eggs remain intact as predators devour it.Besides, eggs are also washed away by sea waves during high tide. The eggs are incubated in the nest and grow, sans mother, to emerge as hatchlings, they said.Around 7.30 lakh olive ridley turtles had turned up for their annual sojourn of mass nesting in the 2019-20 season. The female turtles had emerged from the sea to crawl on to the serene beach and dig pits to lay millions of eggs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/olive-ridley-turtles-return-to-odisha-beach-for-nesting/story-HZCRe2NTZizs7DiGHGmO9O.html
03-12-2020||India||Will launch political party in January, tweets Rajinikanth; says announcement on Dec 31||Tamil superstar Rajinikanth on Thursday said on Twitter that he will launch his political party in January next year, adding that announcement about it wil be made on December 31.Assembly elections are due in Tamil Nadu next year. He had met the district secretaries of ‘Rajini Makkal Mandram’ - a political extension of his fan club - on Monday and deliberated the possibility of his political foray.“They (functionaries) told me that they are with me whatever may be my decision. I will make known by decision (on political foray) as soon as possible,” he had said after the meeting.Fans thronged the meeting location and his residence cheering for him as the next chief minister. Rajinikanth reportedly spoke to about 1.5 hours at the meeting.“Most of the office bearers wanted him to contest in the 2021 assembly elections but we also wanted him to take care of his health,” said Thoothukudi district secretary A J Stalin.In October, Rajinikanth had for the first time disclosed that he had undergone a kidney transplant in 2016 in the United States and that the doctors were against him venturing into politics in view of the coronavirus pandemic.Rajinikanth had first announced his decision of entering politics in December 2017 but he had not taken any concrete steps to build his party. In March 2020, Rajinikanth said that he would head his party but he wanted someone educated to be the chief minister candidate. However, the only certainty that Rajinikanth has maintained in his political plans is that his politics would be spiritual.On the other hand, Rajinikanth’s contemporary in films and politics, Kamal Hassan, who floated Makkal Needhi Maiam (People’s Justice Party) contested in the 2019 parliamentary elections, and is preparing to put up candidates for the 234 assembly seats. Hassan had said that he will not align with any of the Dravidians parties.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-launch-political-party-in-january-tweets-rajinikanth-says-announcement-on-dec-31/story-TqD5iJBeCX0aSshA0wB35H.html
03-12-2020||India||Ahead of talks with government, protesting farmers block Ghaziabad-Delhi side of NH-9||Supporters of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) intensified the farmer’s stir and blocked the National Highway-9 near the UP Gate on Thursday morning. The move has led to blockade and disruption of traffic from Ghaziabad to Delhi. The BKU has been part of the ongoing protest against the farm bills that seek to liberalise farm trade in the country. The protesters had been camping under the UP Gate flyover since Saturday but did not block any roads or highways till this morning. On Wednesday, they had announced they would hold a mahapanchayat this afternoon and said they will be joined by thousands more who are likely to arrive with their leader Naresh Tikait. “The farmers who were staging protest under the UP Gate flyover till now have come on highway and blocked the traffic going from Ghaziabad to Delhi. Our officers are holding talks with them to vacate the highway area. The traffic from Delhi to Ghaziabad is running normal,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. NH-9 is also used by long distance travellers to travel to cities like Hapur, Moradabad and Lucknow, among others. The UP Gate flyover on NH-9 is used by thousands of commuters each day from Ghaziabad and Noida to move to Delhi. The area under the flyover is already blocked for traffic since Saturday last in wake of the protest. Also read | Closed border points affect vehicular traffic in outer, east Delhi“There has been movement of hundreds of farmers who have come for the mahapanchayat at the UP Gate. Some have blocked the highway and we are trying that there is no inconvenience to the commuters. On the other hand, farmers have their demands which have been put forward before the government but there is no resolution as yet,” said Rajbir Singh, state vice-president of the BKU. Ghaziabad Traffic Police officials said that in wake of blockade of one side the UP Gate flyover, they have asked commuters to divert to internal roads of Ghaziabad and Noida. “The protesters have blocked the highway from Ghaziabad to Delhi while the other side traffic is continuing. Officials are trying to convince farmers to vacate the highway. In the meantime, we have asked our officers to divert the traffic to the major roads of Ghaziabad and Noida so that there is no jam at the UP Gate,” said Ramanand Kushwaha, superintendent of police (traffic).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-talks-with-government-protesting-farmers-block-ghaziabad-delhi-side-of-nh-9/story-rVfb7pMCvtdvHbE4AOqnFN.html
03-12-2020||India||‘Nothing for me to resolve’: Punjab CM after meeting home minister Shah over farmers’ stir||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday met Union home minister Amit Shah over the ongoing farmers’ protests on the outskirts of the national capital against the three contentious farm laws passed by the Centre in September. Speaking to media after the meeting, Singh said talks were going on between the Centre and the farmers and there was nothing for him to resolve.“Discussion is going on between farmers and Centre, there’s nothing for me to resolve. I reiterated my opposition in my meeting with home minister and requested him to resolve the issue as it affects the economy of my state and security of the nation,” news agency ANI quoted the Punjab chief minister as saying. Discussion is going on between farmers & Centre, there's nothing for me to resolve. I reiterated my opposition in my meeting with Home Minister & requested him to resolve the issue as it affects the economy of my state & security of the nation: Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh https://t.co/OPfQWdyPCL pic.twitter.com/6T4gxMuydoAdditionally, Singh also announced compensation of Rs five lakh each to the families of two farmers, from the districts of Mansa and Moga respectively, who lost their lives during the ongoing protests, the Punjab chief minister’s office (CMO) said in a statement. Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh has announced financial assistance of Rs 5 lakh each to the families of the two farmers, hailing from districts Mansa and Moga respectively, who died during ongoing Farm law protests: Chief Minister's Office, PunjabThe meeting between Shah and Singh took place on a day fourth round of talks are scheduled to take place between the government and the protesting farmers. The third round of talks, which took place on Tuesday, had ended in a stalemate, with the farmers’ representatives turning down the government’s proposal to form a panel to discuss the three laws.Meanwhile, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said he is hoping for a positive outcome of talks with farmers.“The government is constantly discussing issues with farmers. Today is the fourth round of talks And I’m hoping for a positive outcome,” Tomar said after meeting home minister Shah.The Centre is trying very hard to end the protest against the newly-enacted farm laws, which the farmer leaders are opposed to. Just hours ahead of talks with protesting farmers, Som Prakash, Minister of State for Commerce and Industry on Thursday stated that farmers are coming for talks because there is hope for a solution that will be acceptable to both government and farmers and reiterated that the Centre is clear that the Minimum Support Price (MSP) will stay and is willing to give it in writing as well.Of the three ministers who held hour-long discussions with farmers, Prakash hails from Punjab and will be engaging with farmers today along with agriculture minister Tomar and railways minister Piyush Goyal.The farm unions, which are spearheading the protests, said that 40 leaders are present at Vigyan Bhawan for talks with the government.“We are hopeful that the talks will be productive. If our demands are not met then the farmers will take part in the Republic Day parade held in Delhi,” farmer leader Rakesh Tikat said.The farmers are protesting against The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-cm-captain-amarinder-singh-arrives-to-meet-home-minister-amit-shah-over-farmers-stir/story-ZFZukeqzuWaT77kdZD7DVN.html
03-12-2020||India||Chhattisgarh CM writes to PM Modi, seeks priority Covid 19 vaccination for state||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking free and on priority Covid 19 vaccination for the tribal-dominated state, a government press release stated on Wednesday. The CM further said that the state is fully prepared for carrying out the first phase of Covid-19 vaccination drive. “Since Chhattisgarh is a tribal-dominated state, it should be given priority in the first phase of vaccination drive and it (vaccine) should be free for all. The pandemic has resulted in stress and fear and therefore it is (the government’s) responsibility to ensure peace and good health for every person in the country. As we all know, Covid-19 vaccination is important for the prevention of infection and related deaths,” the letter stated. The CM further outlined who all were likely to be administered the vaccine first once it is made available.“Apart from the health professionals, frontline workers of police, revenue, urban development, rural development departments and media personnel will be covered under the vaccination drive in the state, he stated in his letter.The country is chiefly relying on Astra Zeneca/Oxford vaccine, made in Pune by the Serum Institute of India. The trial of this vaccine is also being conducted in India.Also Read: Vaccines won’t prevent short-term coronavirus surge: WHOThe letter to PM Modi comes at a time when a controversy has broken out after a senior government official indicated that the Central government may not be looking to vaccinate the entire country.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had earlier said that all Indians will be vaccinated. ICMR’s Balram Bhargava has said that the purpose of vaccination is to break the chain of infection, which could even be achieved “if we are able to vaccinate a critical mass of people” required to break the virus transmission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-cm-writes-to-pm-modi-seeks-priority-covid-19-vaccination-for-state/story-fIXBsXiMyuuGjD4dYu4LwI.html
03-12-2020||India||Declare journalists who die of coronavirus as Covid-19 warriors: Press council to Centre||The Press Council of India (PCI) has written a letter to the Centre and state governments saying journalists, who die of coronavirus, be treated as Covid-19 warriors like doctors and offered benefits that those at the forefront of fighting the pandemic get. It has sought group insurance schemes for journalists such as the one implemented by the Haryana government.“The Council recommends to the Central Government to include the journalists, who died due to Covid-19, in the category of Covid warriors like the doctors and others and confer them with the same benefits,” the letter said.The Centre has announced Rs50 lakh compensation for doctors and other frontline workers who die fighting the pandemic.Press Associations such as the Indian Journalists Union, Indian News Cameramen Association, and National Union of Journalists have also submitted a memorandum to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to declare journalists as Covid-19 warriors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/declare-journalists-who-die-of-coronavirus-as-covid-19-warriors-press-council-to-centre/story-PpYTbc6UNLcL7nZ57FjiXN.html
03-12-2020||India||Government announces list of 10 best performing police stations in India||The government on Thursday released a list of the top 10 police stations in India for the year 2020. In a press release, the government noted that the list was in accordance with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s directions while addressing the 2015 Directors General of Police (DGP) Conference in Kutch, Gujarat.The press release further stated that 2020’s survey for the best police station was done by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) under “challenging circumstances” due to the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. It also said that Union home minister Amit Shah had noted that a “vast majority” of police stations shortlisted for the list were from small towns and rural areas. This, the release said, was also true for the 10 police stations finally listed as the best in the country.The top 10 police stations were selected from a total of 16,671 police stations on certain parameters, the release said. From these, 75 police stations were selected for the next stage, out of which 10 were selected as the country’s best police stations.A total of 4,065 respondents participated in the survey, the government said, while also acknowledging that all states and Union territories co-operated with it even during the pandemic period.Here are India’s top 10 police stations for the year 2020:1. Nongpok Sekmai (Thoubal, Manipur)2. AWPS-Suramangalam (Salem, Tamil Nadu)3. Kharsang (Changlang, Arunachal Pradesh)4. Jhilmili (Surajpur, Chhattisgarh)5. Sanguem (South Goa, Goa)6. Kalighat (North and Middle Andaman, Andaman and Nicobar Islands)7. Pakyong (East district, Sikkim)8. Kanth (Moradabad, Uttar Pradesh)9. Khanvel (Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Dadra and Nagar Haveli)10. Jammikunta Town (Karimnagar, Telangana)The list can also be accessed from this Press Information Bureau (PIB) link.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-releases-list-of-india-s-top-10-police-stations-manipur-s-nongpok-sekmai-on-top/story-fYxADHHII2qmcthR2hISBL.html
03-12-2020||India||UP’s Govardhan road expansion projects hits green hurdle in SC||A series of road expansion plans proposed by the Yogi Adityanath government soon after it came to power in 2017 faced environmental hurdle in the Supreme Court on Wednesday with questions being raised over the felling of 2,940 trees for one out of the six road-widening projects to facilitate pilgrimage to Govardhan Hill, associated with Lord Krishna.On behalf of the Uttar Pradesh Public Works Department, senior advocate S Wasim Ahmed Qadri presented the court with the application for felling of trees moved in 2017, pending in court for the past three years. Incidentally, the court-appointed expert body, central empowered committee (CEC), had granted clearance for the tree felling in January this year.Taking up the matter, a three-judge bench headed by the Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde wished to know whether the value of compensation for felling the trees took into account the oxygen producing capacity of the trees considering its age, species and feasibility of felling it.Qadri informed the court that the CEC had examined all aspects and granted clearance for the project. He stated that the state calculated a compensation of Rs 141.4 crore for one of the road widening projects from Ding to Mathura to be paid to the forest department and will replant the same species and number of trees in a separate area.Also Read: Provide gender sensitisation training to judges to avoid stereotyping women, says AG KK Venugopal“We do not want this argument of development versus environment…..You can’t fell 2,940 trees in the name of Lord Krishna,” said the bench, also comprising justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. They asked the State if it had examined the possibility of saving some of these trees. “Why can’t this road take a turn around the trees. If you make road winding around the trees, traffic will be slow and this will save human lives as accidents will reduce,” the bench said.Advocate ADN Rao, appearing for the CEC, pointed out that when trees are cut in forest land, the net present value (NPV) to be paid for felling of trees takes into account their remaining lifespan. Additional solicitor general (ASG) Aishwarya Bharti, who appeared for the UP government, sought time to take instructions on how the value of Rs 141 crore was arrived at. The court posted the matter after four weeks asking ASG Bharti to consider suggesting the state to apply the NPV formula and even consider feasibility of saving some trees from felling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-s-govardhan-road-expansion-projects-hits-green-hurdle-in-sc/story-PoNMb0W3Xrl5FHZrSoaZgK.html
03-12-2020||India||‘What does PM stand by’: Rahul Gandhi on Centre’s stand on Covid-19 vaccine||Former Congress party chief Rahul Gandhi hit out at the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government on Thursday for ambiguity in the vaccine policy of the country, seeking clarity over the same. “PM - Everyone will get vaccine. BJP in Bihar elections- Everyone in Bihar will get free vaccine. Now, GOI- Never said everyone will get vaccine. Exactly what does the PM stand by,” Gandhi said in a tweet. Gandhi’s tweet came in response to the government stating on Tuesday that it has not talked about vaccinating the entire population of the country against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).“I just want to make this clear that the government has never spoken about vaccinating the entire country. It’s important that we discuss such scientific issues, based on factual information only,” Rajesh Bhushan, secretary, Union health ministry, had said. Also read | Covid-19: What you need to know todayBhushan had also said that the average daily positivity rate in India has been 3.72% and with 211 cases per million, India has the lowest cases per million count “among all the big nations”. While data from the last seven days indicates that cases are increasing in European nations, the cumulative positivity rate has decreased in India, he had noted. The cumulative positivity rate fell from 7.15% to 6.69% between November 11 and December 1. The number of recoveries had exceeded the number of new Covid-19 infections in India in the month of November, Bhushan added.A contentious point, however, in BJP’s manifesto announced ahead of the Bihar election was that the vaccine would be administered for free to everyone in the state. The promise had drawn the ire of the Opposition, with the parties asking the Election Commission to strike it down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-does-pm-stand-by-rahul-on-centre-s-stand-on-covid-19-vaccine/story-7FvhbvkhJv38qlGepMIdzK.html
03-12-2020||India||UNGA fails to acknowledge violence against Buddhism, Hinduism, Sikhism: India||Calling out the “selectivity” at the United Nations in condemning acts of violence against religions, India has said the UN General Assembly has failed to acknowledge the rising hatred and violence against Buddhism, Hinduism, Sikhism and underlined that the culture of peace cannot be only for “Abrahamic” religions. Addressing the UN General Assembly session on ‘Culture of Peace’ on Wednesday, First Secretary in India’s Permanent Mission to the UN Ashish Sharma said there are “disconcerting trends” in the world of today. While India fully agrees that anti-Semitism, Islamaphobia and anti-Christian acts need to be condemned and the country also firmly condemns such acts, he pointed out that UN resolutions on such important issues speak only of these three Abrahamic religions together. “This august body fails to acknowledge the rise of hatred and violence against Buddhism, Hinduism and Sikhism also,” Sharma said. “Culture of peace cannot be only for Abrahamic religions. And as long as such selectivity exists, the world can never truly foster a culture of peace,” he said. Asserting that the UN is not a body which should take sides when it comes to religion, Sharma said if “we are indeed selective”, the world will end up proving American political scientist Samuel Huntington’s ‘clash of civilisations’.Also Read | UN to open special session on coronavirus crisis, India’s Secretary West listed as speaker “What we are trying to build here is an ‘alliance of civilisations’, not set up a clash. I call on the UN Alliance of Civilisation to act likewise and speak for all, not just a select few,” he said. Sharma recalled the shattering of the iconic Bamyan Buddha by fundamentalists in Afghanistan as well as the terrorist bombing of a gurdwara in the war-torn country in March where 25 Sikh worshipers were killed and the destruction of Hindu and Buddhist temples and minority cleansing of these religions by countries. He told the 193-member General Assembly that such acts call for condemning violence and attacks against Buddhist, Hindu and Sikh religions also. “But the current member states refuse to speak of these religions in the same breath as the first three ‘Abrahamic’ religions. Why is this selectivity?” he asked. Sharma noted that overall, Hinduism has more than 1.2 billion followers, Buddhism has over 535 million followers and Sikhism around 30 million followers across the world. “It is time that attacks against these religions are also added to the earlier list of the three Abrahamic religions when such resolutions are passed,” he said. Key UN General Assembly resolutions over the years have categorically condemned and voiced concern over increase in “anti-Semitism, Christianophobia and Islamophobia in various parts of the world”. However, violence against other religious minorities “get little more than a slap on the wrist”, a sentiment shared by several other countries also, sources said. Sharma told the General Assembly session that India is not just the birthplace of Hinduism, Buddhism, Jainism and Sikhism, but is also the land where the teachings of Islam, Judaism, Christianity and Zoroastrianism have taken strong root and where the Sufi tradition of Islam has flourished.“Today, every one of the world’s major religions has a home in India,” he said. Sharma said for millennia, India has provided shelter to waves of those persecuted in foreign lands, and allowed them to thrive in India. “And our tradition of inter-culture dialogue goes right to the time when ancient Indian thinkers had a flourishing dialogue with the ancient Greeks. India is not just a culture, but a civilisation in itself,” he added.Also Read | Nearly 100 world leaders to speak at UN session on Covid-19 Underlining that culture of peace is the cornerstone of the foundation of a global order of peace and tolerance, he said India has tried to foster this culture through tolerance, understanding, respect for differences, respect for other religions and cultures, respect for human rights, gender equality -- all this under the overarching umbrella of pluralistic ethos and democratic principles. India on Wednesday co-sponsored a resolution presented by Bangladesh titled, ‘Follow-up to the Declaration and Programme of Action on a Culture of Peace’. The resolution reiterates that the objective of the effective implementation of the Programme of Action is to strengthen further the global movement for a culture of peace. It invites member states to continue to place greater emphasis on and expand their activities promoting a culture of peace at the national, regional and international levels and to ensure that peace and non-violence are fostered at all levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unga-fails-to-acknowledge-violence-against-buddhism-hinduism-sikhism-india/story-pCkKvPSGB3KfzsY5QMJnXN.html
03-12-2020||India||BJP targets 10M Bengal households to counter TMC govt’s biggest outreach||In a bid to counter the Trinamool Congress-led government’s biggest outreach program ahead of the 2021 West Bengal assembly elections, the Bharatiya Janata Party plans to reach out to more than 10 million families in the State highlighting alleged corruption of the Mamata Banerjee government. “Just like the TMC-led government has launched an outreach program - Duare Sarkar (government at doorsteps) - BJP workers will also reach more than 10 million households on December 5. The program has been named Aar Noy Anyay (no more injustice),” said Dilip Ghosh, president of the BJP’s West Bengal unit. BJP workers, across the state, will visit households and distribute leaflets to highlight the alleged corruption of the TMC government and how the people were allegedly deprived from availing central schemes such the Kisan Samman Nidhi and Ayushman Bharat Yojana. With an eye on the 2021 assembly polls, the Mamata Banerjee government has launched its biggest outreach drive over the next two months. At least four camps would be set up in every village and civic body across 344 blocks in the State between December 1 and January 28. Officials will help people to access various government facilities including MGNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act), job cards, health cards, caste certificates and ration cards among others. Also Read: After Suvendu Adhikari, another disgruntled TMC MLA fans speculation“This is one of the biggest outreach programs any state government has undertaken. Already 5.4 lakh people have come to the camps within two days to the services. This has unnerved the BJP,” said Sovandeb Chatterjee, state minister and a veteran TMC leader. BJP leaders said that their outreach would be the second phase of the Aar Noy Anyay campaign. The first phase was launched earlier this year when union home minister Amit Shah had come in March. It was launched to counter another outreach program of the TMC – Didi ke Bolo (tell didi). BJP leaders have already started to hold meetings for the execution of the campaign to reach 10 million households simultaneously across the state on December 5 around 12 noon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-targets-10m-bengal-households-to-counter-tmc-govt-s-biggest-outreach/story-fohUtWImDCuysMSFnRcUiM.html
03-12-2020||India||Achieve target to provide safe drinking water to all by 2024, says Andhra Pradesh Governor||Andhra Pradesh Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan participated as Chief Guest at the “Hygiene Matters” seventh WASH Conclave organised by UNICEF and the National Institute of Rural Development and Panchayati Raj (NIRDPR). Addressing the participants at the 7th WASH (Water, Sanitation and Hygiene) Conclave via virtual mode from Raj Bhavan on Wednesday, Andhra Pradesh Governor said, “It should be ensured to achieve the target to provide access to and use of safe and adequate drinking water to all households within premises by 2024.”Harichandan participated as Chief Guest at the inaugural session of the three-day Conclave being held with the theme of “Hygiene Matters” in which key stakeholders of Water, Sanitation and Hygiene from Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Telangana have participated on a single platform to discuss key issues with particular focus on hygiene.Speaking on the occasion, the Governor said, “India has achieved significant strides in Water, Sanitation and Hygiene sector in terms of achieving Open Defecation-free status, basic drinking water services through piped water supply (PWS) and is progressing towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goal Number six to provide ‘clean water and sanitation.”Also Read | Cyclone Burevi heads towards TN coast after crossing Sri LankaThe Governor said the supply of adequate, accessible, equitable and quality water supply and better sanitation facilities in household, community and institution-level with a community-managed water supply and sanitation system is the soul of Jal Jeevan Mission and Swachh Bharat Mission programmes.The Governor further said that the State-level programme initiatives such as ‘Manam Mana Parisubrtha’ in Andhra Pradesh, ‘Swacchotsava Nityotsava’ in Karnataka and ‘Palle Pragathi’ in Telangana have been contributing in a long way towards achieving WASH resilience and a healthy society.Harichandan said the States of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Telangana have been working extremely hard to overcome the situation posed by the Covid-19 by taking up various initiatives by controlling the spread of the virus and simultaneously focusing on development activities in line with guidelines issued by the Government of India and said observing proper hygiene for health have never been felt so important globally as it is now and people have now realized that Hygiene is the first line of defense against the Covid-19 pandemic.The Governor complimented all the stakeholders of the three States, involved in sustaining the Open Defecation-free status and achieving the milestones of water and sanitation for all and appreciated their efforts to become 100 per cent WASH compliant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/achieve-target-to-provide-safe-drinking-water-to-all-by-2024-says-andhra-pradesh-governor/story-7zeHYbwv8HfV4MjGetc5JM.html
03-12-2020||India||Amit Shah speaks to Tamil Nadu and Kerala CMs over Cyclone Burevi, promises all possible help||Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday spoke to chief ministers of Tamil Nadu and Kerala as Cyclone Burevi barrels towards India’s southern coast. The cyclonic storm is expected to make landfall late on Thursday night or early Friday morning.“Modi government is committed for all possible support to help people of Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Several teams of NDRF are already deployed in both the states,” Shah said on Twitter. Have spoken to Tamil Nadu CM Shri @EPSTamilNadu and Kerala CM Shri @vijayanpinarayi in the wake of Cyclone Burevi. Modi government is committed for all possible support to help people of Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Several teams of NDRF are already deployed in both the states.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued red alert for Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha districts of Kerala for December 3. There is red alert for four districts of Tamil Nadu too.After hitting the Tamil Nadu coast, the cyclone is expected to cross over to Kerala either on Thursday night or Friday morning“Cyclone Burevi will emerge into the Gulf of Mannar in the next 3 hours. It will reach near Pamban and Kanniyakumari around noon and cross the south Tamilnadu coast on 3rd night to 4th early morning,” the IMD said on Twitter on Thursday morning.The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has deployed 26 relief teams in Tamil Nadu and Kerala kept one team in reserve in Puducherry.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday spoke with the chief ministers of Tamil Nadu and Kerala on Wednesday and discussed the situation prevailing in parts of the states due to the incoming cyclone while pledging all possible support from the Centre.“We discussed the conditions prevailing in parts of the state due to Cyclone Burevi. Centre will provide all possible support to TN. I pray for the well-being and safety of those living in the areas affected,” PM Modi tweeted.Cyclone Burevi, named by the Maldives, will not be as strong as Cyclone Nivar which lashed the northern coast of Tamil Nadu last week, said weather department officials. They said the storm is expected to have a speed of 80-90 km/hour unlike Nivar which had a speed of 110-130 km/hour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-speaks-to-tamil-nadu-and-kerala-cms-over-cyclone-burevi-promises-all-possible-help/story-ddy3FAfbRnNTFIXS9rkLdI.html
03-12-2020||India||Former Congress corporator Rakib Zakir arrested in connection with Bengaluru riots case||Rakib Zakir, a former Congress corporator and a key accused in Bengaluru riots case, has been arrested by Central Crime Branch of Bengaluru Police.Joint Commissioner of Crime Sandip Patil said on Thursday morning that Zakir was arrested late on Wednesday night. He was on the run.On August 11, an angry mob enraged over a derogatory social media post, had burnt down more than 60 vehicles as well as DJ Halli and KG Halli police stations in Bengaluru apart from the house of Congress legislator Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy.Three people were killed in the police firing when cops were trying to control the riots. At least 60 policemen were injured in the violence.More than 400 people were arrested in the incidents of violence and a preliminary charge sheet filed by the police in the case said that intra-party rivalry within Congress was one of the key reasons for riots.The National Investigation Agency (NIA) had in September taken over the investigation in which the provisions of Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) were invoked by the state police.The NIA has carried out searches at multiple locations in connection with the case and arrested a number of people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-congress-corporator-rakib-zakir-arrested-in-connection-with-bengaluru-riots-cases/story-vk53fqoUmSwrAvKtuBw67O.html
03-12-2020||India||Provide gender sensitisation training to judges to avoid stereotyping women, says AG KK Venugopal||Attorney General KK Venugopal on Wednesday suggested to the Supreme Court that judges who are from the old school and have a patriarchal approach need to be sensitised to deal with cases of sexual violence.During the hearing of a petition seeking guidelines for courts to not impose bail conditions objectifying women especially through bail orders in sexual violence cases, the AG said sensitization of judges by State Judicial Academies is needed.Venugopal further told a Bench headed by Justice AM Khanwilkar that all lawyers should also undergo gender sensitisation training for two to three years.Venugopal said, “The patriarchal approach of judges, especially of the old school where women are stereotyped, needs to be avoided with training and sensitization.”He said when an accused is granted bail in cases of sexual violence and is a neighbour of the victim then protection needs to be given so that acid throwing instances or witness coercion does not take place.The Bench reserved its order after hearing arguments in the case.Also Read | AG calls for greater role for women in judiciary to help sexual crime victimsEarlier, the top court had asked Attorney General and others to recommend ways to improve gender sensitivity towards victims while laying down bail conditions for sex crime offenders.The Bench had sought view on a plea about courts imposing bail conditions for sex crime offenders which end up further harassing, objectifying their victims.Nine women lawyers had approached the top court questioning the bail conditions imposed by the Madhya Pradesh High Court which directed a man accused of sexual assault to get a Rakhi tied by the victim as a condition for bail.Approaching the top court, the women lawyers, led by advocate Aparna Bhat, said the High Court order was a “trivialisation of victim’s trauma.”The law prescribes the victim to be kept far away from the accused, plea said, adding that instead, here the High Court has ordered the accused to visit the home of the woman -- the very place where the crime is alleged to have occurred.The order only succeeds to victimise the woman and retards the years of work done to sensitise the courts about how damaging it would be to attempt a compromise “by way of marriage or mediation between the accused and the survivor”, plea added.The plea said that the High Court further ordered the accused to gift the woman a sum of Rupees 11,000 “as a customary ritual usually offered by brothers to sisters on such occasion and shall also seek her blessings.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/provide-gender-sensitisation-training-to-judges-to-avoid-stereotyping-women-says-ag-kk-venugopal/story-n5K5oRt5C7GucS7uSkZ91O.html
03-12-2020||India||Bar Council of Delhi writes to PM Modi, calls for repeal of farm laws||Extending support to farmers’ protest against new farm laws, the Bar Council of Delhi has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to repeal the new farm laws.The letter said it seems that while framing the laws, it was not brought to the notice of Prime Minister that they are “more detrimental” to the interest of legal professionals across the country.It said “bar of civil court jurisdiction” will substantially affect district court as well as high courts in some states.The letter said the nature of subject matters covered under these laws are so vast that all disputes up till now entertained by civil courts will be adjudicated by SDMs/ADMs, who are not part of regular courts.Senior Advocate Ramesh Gupta, Chairman Bar Council of Delhi, said the government should have consulted and taken lawyers into confidence when farm laws are simply not related to routine revenue matters but matters which are basically contractual and commercial. “How can any litigation having civil consequences be given for adjudication to a structure involving administrative agencies, controlled and run by executive authorities?” he asked.Also Read | Most of Delhi borders closed due to farmers’ protest: 10 points“Your kind attention is invited to constitutional provision for separation of judiciary from executive to maintain its independence and probity as enshrined under the Constitution but by resorting to these laws, what is not permissible under our Constitution has been provided,” the letter said.“It will substantially damage district courts in particular and uproot the lawyers. Under our Constitution, a fine pyramid of justice dispensation system has been envisioned. The district courts are part of basic structure and being the principal courts of original jurisdiction is the foundation of the pyramid. These courts are at the doorstep of people, where one approaches for access to justice but the trend in the recent past is to destroy courts. This will seriously jeopardize the interest of the public, as getting justice at the doors of bureaucracy is far from reality,” it added.According to the lawyer’s body, these laws are not only detrimental to the peasants but also affect the lawyer community, the litigants and the general public.“The mindset behind the move to oust the jurisdiction of civil courts and transfer of power to bureaucrats, acting as executive officers, to decide disputes between the traders and the farmers, will lead to corruption, and touts will victimize unimaginably. Shutting the doors of civil courts to entertain disputes, pertaining to the subject matter under these Acts will prove disastrous,” the letter said.It mentioned that a large number of farmers are agitating on the borders of the capital.“You are also champion of the cause of masses and while you were not in power, you always said that right to protest is a universal right and whenever enactment or any act of the government is not suitable to masses and there is agitation, the government in power must listen to their grievances and come out with an amicable solution,” the letter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bar-council-of-delhi-writes-to-pm-modi-calls-for-repeal-of-farm-laws/story-bbKtpSxrXwRemQ1leXtT1H.html
03-12-2020||India||10 to 15% Covid-19 patients may have only gastrointestinal symptoms, say AIIMS doctors||Around 10 to 15% Covid-19 patients have only gastrointestinal symptoms such as nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea rather than cough, breathlessness or sore throat, said All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) doctors at the National Grand Round, a virtual platform for doctors to discuss trends and treatments for the disease.Covid-19 patients may also suffer heart attack, stroke, clotting problems, kidney or liver dysfunction, the doctors said while discussing the impact of the illness on organs other than lungs.“...10 to 15% of the Covid-19 patients may present with only gastrointestinal symptoms and no respiratory symptoms. It is, therefore, necessary to test those who have gastrointestinal symptoms for Covid-19 if they show any respiratory symptoms or if they have a history of contact with a positive patient,” said Dr Saurabh Kedia, assistant professor, department of gastroenterology, AIIMS.Also read | Vaccines won’t prevent short-term coronavirus surge: WHOThe most common gastrointestinal symptoms of Covid-19 are diarrhoea (2 to 50%), appetite loss (30 to 40%), hepatitis (14 to 53%), digestive symptoms (3 to 23%), vomiting and nausea (1-12%), Dr Kedia said. Elevated liver enzymes were also a common finding, with half the Covid-19 patients having them, said Dr Shalimar, an additional professor at AIIMS.Other than the gastrointestinal symptoms, Covid-19 can lead to clotting problems, heart and brain conditions, kidney injury, and dermatological symptoms, said Dr Neeraj Nischal, an associate professor of medicine at AIIMS.Data presented by Nischal showed that among the 540 Covid-19 patients in a ward excluding those with dengue and blood cancer, 27% had low platelet count and 2.9% severely low platelet count. Dengue and blood cancers can both lead to low platelet count.“Pulmonary embolism [the blockage of the blood vessel to the lung due to a blood clot] in Covid-19 patients is much higher as compared to those without Covid-19 – 20.6% as compared to 6.1%,” said Dr Nischal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-to-15-covid-19-patients-may-have-only-gastrointestinal-symptoms-say-aiims-doctors/story-JIfESQejMyumsQSKzJGyeI.html
03-12-2020||India||Dharampal Gulati, iconic face of MDH spices, dies; tributes pour in||Mahashay Dharampal Gulati, owner of spices brand MDH, passed away on Thursday. He was 98.Union minister Piyush Goyal paid tribute to Gulati on Twitter. “Extremely saddened by the demise of Mahashay Dharampal Gulati, who spread the fragrance of Indian spices in the whole world. He set an example through his self-reliance. May he attain salvation,” Goyal tweeted in Hindi on Thursday morning. देश के मसालों की सुगंध को पूरे विश्व मे फैलाने वाले, पद्मभूषण पुरस्कार से सम्मानित महाशय धर्मपाल गुलाटी जी के निधन से अत्यंत दुख हुआ।अपनी उद्यमिता से स्वदेशी व आत्मनिर्भरता के साथ ही उन्होंने सामाजिक कार्यों का एक आदर्श स्थापित किया। ईश्वर उन्हें मोक्ष प्रदान करें। ॐ शांतिः pic.twitter.com/Nzi0zA6VPwDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also paid his tributes to the departed soul. “Dharm Pal ji was very inspiring personality. He dedicated his life for the society. God bless his soul.” Dharm Pal ji was very inspiring personality. He dedicated his life for the society. God bless his soul. https://t.co/gORaAi3nD9According to MDH website, Gulati was born on March 27, 1923, in Pakistan’s Sialkot. He dropped out of school in 1933 before he could complete Class 5.By 1937, Gulati started assisting his father in his business.He came to Delhi after the Partition, on September 27, 1947, and started a business of spices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dharampal-gulati-iconic-face-of-mdh-spices-dies-tributes-pour-in/story-pJlhUvETmzPk4dXTm6sYwJ.html
03-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Closed border points affect vehicular traffic in outer, east Delhi||Vehicular traffic movement remained affected on Thursday morning and motorists faced traffic jams in several parts of the city, especially in outer and east Delhi areas, because of the closure of several border points connecting Delhi-Haryana and Delhi-Uttar Pradesh due to the ongoing farmers’ protest.In order to alert commuters about the closure of borders and alternate routes, Delhi Traffic Police took to Twitter to post a list of borders that have been closed and the alternate routes that the motorists can take to travel between Delhi-Haryana and Delhi-Uttar Pradesh. As per the advisory, the Chilla border on Delhi-Noida link road has been closed for vehicular movement near Gautam Budh Dwar. Also read | Punjab CM Amarinder Singh leaves for Delhi, to meet Amit Shah ahead of talks with farmers“The Chilla border on Noida link road is closed for traffic due to farmers’ protest near Gautam Budh Dwar. People are advised to avoid Noida link road for going to Noida and use NH 24 and DND instead for Noida,” the Delhi Traffic Police tweeted. The local police, however, said that one carriageway going towards Noida from Delhi through Chilla border is open since Wednesday afternoon, after the protesting farmers shifted their protest to the Noida to Delhi carriageway.“Noida to Delhi carriageway is closed. Only one carriageway was opened by farmers yesterday, which is Delhi to Noida,” said deputy commissioner of police (east) Jasmeet Singh.The traffic police also posted an alert regarding obstruction in traffic in the carriageway from Akshardham towards Noida-Chilla Border due to overturning of a light goods vehicle near Mayur Vihar Phase-1 flyover. Commuters have been advised to avoid the stretch. About the other borders, the traffic police alerted that Tikri border, Jharoda border, and Jhatikra border are closed for any traffic movement. The alert says that Badusarai border is open but that too, only for two-wheeler traffic.“Available open borders to Haryana are Dhansa, Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders,” the traffic police tweeted.They said that Singhu border is still closed from both sides while Lampur , Auchandi and other small borders are also closed. They have advised the motorists to take alternate routes and that traffic has been diverted from Mundka Chowk and GTK Road.“Traffic is very heavy. Please avoid outer ring road from Signature bridge to Rohini & vice versa, GTK road, NH 44 & Singhu, Auchandi & Lampur borders,” Delhi Traffic Police tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-closed-border-points-affect-vehicular-traffic-in-outer-east-delhi/story-HlmePzJYjuFDWfdt0jTHTI.html
03-12-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 caseload crosses 9.5 million with 35,551 new cases||India on Thursday recorded 35,551 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which pushed the country’s overall tally to 95,34,964, according to Union health ministry update at 8 am.The number of active cases stood at 4,22,943, while 89,73,373 patients have been cured or discharged from hospitals.The health ministry data also showed that in the last 24 hours, 526 people died due to the disease and the death toll now stands at 1,38,648.India’s total active caseload significantly dropped to 4.28 lakh (4,28,644) on Wednesday, the lowest after 132 days, according to the health ministry. It further said that India’s present active caseload consists of just 4.51 per cent of the country’s total positive cases.Health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Wednesday that the Covid-19 pandemic taught countries that such challenges require shared responsibilities and collaborations had become the order of the day.Vardhan was charing the inaugural session of the annual conference of the India-Sweden Healthcare Innovation Centre under the Sweden-India Nobel memorial week.Meanwhile, the difference in new recoveries outnumbering new cases has also improved the recovery rate to 94.03 per cent as on date, according to the health ministry.Of the new recovered cases, 78.35 per cent are observed to be concentrated in 10 states and union territories, it further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-caseload-crosses-9-5-million-with-35-551-new-cases/story-nAtLsgS89QVUWEvhgYRmaJ.html
03-12-2020||India||IB’s annual three-day police chiefs’ conference begins||The Intelligence Bureau (IB)’s 55th annual three-day conference of Director Generals of Police and Inspector Generals of Police began on Wednesday. The police chiefs and central agencies officials will discuss policing, national security, and terrorism at the conference.Union home minister Amit Shah, who inaugurated the conference being held virtually for the first time due to the Covid-19 pandemic, directed the security agencies to have a coordinated approach to national security. He asked them to achieve the target of making India a developed and safe nation, according to a home ministry statement.Shah stressed upon the need to ensure the safety and dignity of the citizens. He underlined the importance of the capacity building of police to deal with emergency situations and disasters.Shah highlighted policy issues on national security and applauded the role of police as frontline warriors in crisis and disaster management. He emphasised there should be “zero tolerance against terrorism”.Prime Minister Narendra Modi also joined the conference virtually and reviewed the action points of last year’s conference.The IB presented a review of the internal security situation to Modi and Shah.A session on initiatives of security forces to tackle the Left-wing extremism was also held. National Security Advisor Ajit Doval also attended the conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ib-s-annual-three-day-police-chiefs-conference-begins/story-dgmSdaS7v8EoRbVpXN9qdK.html
03-12-2020||India||MHA to deploy volunteers to raise funds for armed forces||The Union home ministry will deploy volunteers at the four entry and exit gates of New Delhi’s North Block on December 7 to collect donations to support the families of soldiers who have lost their lives in the line of duty, disabled ex-servicemen and their dependents. December 7 is celebrated as Armed Forces Flag Day and the fundraising is being done on the defence ministry’s request.According to a home ministry order, the volunteers will receive donations from people and officers visiting the offices in the North Block that houses key ministries. Officers have been asked “to contribute generously”.Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday said the Armed Forces Flag Day will be celebrated throughout December. “It is our national responsibility to support families of our security personnel, who have lost their lives or suffered injuries in the line duty.”Armed Forces Flag Day has been observed annually on December 7 since 1949 to honour the soldiers, airmen and sailors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-to-deploy-volunteers-to-raise-funds-for-armed-forces/story-lmtfETwbzCteywi4oXvpXL.html
03-12-2020||India||How to minimise Covid-19 spread risk at market places: Health ministry issues revised SOPs||Only asymptomatic customers should be allowed inside shops, with no entry for customers not wearing a mask, and at least a six feet distance between seats meant for customers to sit at shops in marketplaces, say revised standard operating procedures (SOPs) released by Union ministry of health and family welfare amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Shop owners, employees and visitors living in containment zones shall not be allowed entry into marketplaces. At the entry point of shops, all employees and visitors need to undergo mandatory hand hygiene (sanitiser dispenser) and thermal screening to check for fever.“Staggering of visitors to be done for maintaining physical distancing of a minimum of 6 feet, when queuing up at the time of entry. Number of customers inside the shop to be kept at a minimum, to maintain the physical distancing norms. Number of people in the elevators shall be restricted, duly maintaining physical distancing norms. Use of escalators with one person on alternate steps may be encouraged,” the SOPs say.The guidelines also suggest that civil defence volunteers, home guards, volunteers etc. should be involved to regulate crowd, there should be access control at parking lots for limiting vehicle entry, and, if feasible, separate entry and exit with unidirectional flow of visitors. Also read | Covid-19: What you need to know todayRoads within the marketplaces may be made vehicle-free (including cycle and electric rickshaws) and secured only for pedestrians and bicycles as far as possible. Strict penal action should be taken against illegal parking on market roads by law enforcing authorities. The SOPs also suggest providing incentives or discounts to those who shop during non-peak hours. “Provision for online booking of groceries/ items and delivery at doorstep must be encouraged. The staff for home deliveries to be screened thermally by the vendors prior to allowing home deliveries,” it said. The SOPs make a special note of the need for proper ventilation. “As far as feasible, natural ventilation must be ensured and use of small enclosed spaces must be discouraged. Circulation of outdoor air needs to be increased, as much as possible, by opening windows and doors, using fans, or other methods,” the guidelines say. “For air-conditioning and ventilation of closed enclosures, the guidelines of Central Public Works Department shall be followed which emphasise that the temperature setting of all air conditioning devices should be in the range of 24-30 degrees C, relative humidity should be in the range of 40-70%, intake of fresh air should be as much as possible and cross ventilation should be adequate. Air handling unit needs to be cleaned prior to switching on,” it says. The guidelines also suggest exploring the option of allowing markets or shops to opening on alternate days, and even closure of market in case a large number of cases is reported linked to it. Finally, special emphasis has been placed upon self-regulation by market associations in market places. “Covid appropriate behaviour in marketplaces may be self-regulated by market associations through a number of measures, such as creation of a sub-committee for each market to facilitate and monitor implementation of Covid appropriate behaviour (within shops and establishments as well as outside),” the SOPs say.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-ministry-releases-revised-sops-for-market-places/story-x6umpn0kYlGgXRUUjDaFUK.html
03-12-2020||India||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh arrives in Delhi, to meet Amit Shah ahead of talks with farmers||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh arrived in Delhi to meet Union home minister Amit Shah ahead of the next round of talks between the Centre and farmer organisations’ representatives on the three contentious farm laws. He is scheduled to meet Shah around noon to try and work out an amicable solution to the deadlock, according to sources. Amarinder is accompanied by his chief principal secretary Suresh Kumar and some other officials. The chief minister had sought time from the home minister for a meeting on the ongoing stir against the new laws that has led to a siege by the protesting farmers, mostly from Punjab. Thursday’s meeting between farmers and the Centre is crucial as this is the fourth such meeting — all previous meetings failing to end the deadlock — over the grievances against the three farm bills passed recently by Parliament. As focus shifted to today’s meeting, farm leaders appeared to have hardened their stand, demanding the Centre call a special session of Parliament to repeal the newly enacted farms laws, which they say will adversely impact the minimum support price system (MSP) that offers cultivators assured prices from the government, and eventually help corporate entities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-leaves-for-delhi-to-meet-amit-shah-ahead-of-talks-with-farmers/story-rJzKaq71M3qLrpwXgY3foN.html
03-12-2020||India||Cyclone Burevi just 40 km away from Mannar, IMD issues red alert for 4 districts of Kerala||Cyclonic Storm Burevi is very close to the Tamil Nadu coast. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD) bulletin on Thursday morning, Burevi is very likely to move west-northwestwards and emerge into Gulf of Mannar near Mannar coast during next three hours.“Cyclonic Storm Burevi lay centered at 0530 hrs IST of 03rd December over Sri Lanka near Lat. 9.0°N and Long. 80.3°E, about 40 km east of Mannar, 120 km east-southeast of Pamban (India) and 320 km east-northeast of Kanniyakumari (India),” the IMD bulletin at 8:30 am said.“The Cyclonic Storm with wind speed of 70-80 gusting to 90 kmph would be centered very close to Pamban around noon of 3rd December,” it further added.It is likely to cross south Tamil Nadu coast between Pamban and Kanyakumari in the night and early Friday morning.As many as eight teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and personnel of the Air Force and the Navy have been deployed for rescue and relief operations ahead of the landfall of the cyclone, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Wednesday.In total, 26 relief teams have been deployed in Tamil Nadu and Kerala and one team is in reserve in Puducherry, the NDRF said.Nearly 700 people from 175 families have been shifted to relief camps, while 2,489 other camps have been identified.The IMD has issued a red alert for Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha districts for December 3, in view of cyclone Burevi.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday spoke with the chief ministers of Tamil Nadu and Kerala on Wednesday and discussed the situation prevailing in parts of the states due to the incoming cyclone while pledging all possible support from the Centre.“We discussed the conditions prevailing in parts of the state due to Cyclone Burevi. Centre will provide all possible support to TN. I pray for the well-being and safety of those living in the areas affected,” PM Modi tweeted.Cyclone Burevi, named by the Maldives, will not be as strong as Cyclone Nivar which lashed the northern coast of Tamil Nadu last week, said weather department officials. They said the storm is expected to have a speed of 80-90 km/hour unlike Nivar which had a speed of 110-130 km/hour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-burevi-just-40-km-away-from-kerala-coast-imd-issues-red-alert-for-4-districts/story-f6CI587swlvNRl5RCdAlMN.html
03-12-2020||India||Cyclone Burevi heads towards TN coast after crossing Sri Lanka||Several districts in south Tamil Nadu and south Kerala will receive heavy to very heavy rainfall and extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) with cyclonic storm Burevi heading towards the Tamil Nadu coast, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday.Burevi crossed the Sri Lanka coast close to north of Trincomalee between 10.30pm and 11.30pm on Wednesday as a cyclonic storm with a wind speed of 80-90 kmph gusting to 100 kmph. It lay centred over Sri Lanka (close to north of Trincomalee), about 40 km north-northwest of Trincomalee, 190 km east-southeast of Pamban (India) and 380 km east-northeast of Kanyakumari (India).It is very likely to move nearly west-northwestwards and emerge into Gulf of Mannar Thursday morning. The cyclonic storm with wind speed of 70-80 gusting to 90 kmph would be centred very close to Pamban around noon. It would then move nearly west-southwestwards across Pamban area by afternoon and cross south Tamil Nadu coast between Pamban and Kanyakumari between Thursday night and Friday early morning as a cyclonic storm with wind speed of 70-80 gusting to 90 kmph. Thus, its impact on south Tamil Nadu’s coastal districts is very likely to commence from forenoon today initially over Ramanathapuram district and gradually towards Kanyakumari district.“Adverse weather in south Tamil Nadu is likely to begin much before Burevi makes landfall on Friday. This is because the storm will be crossing a narrow strip of ocean between two landmasses along the Palk Strait. Though it will first make landfall over Sri Lanka, it will cross a very narrow strip of land and continue to draw energy from the ocean and hence make landfall again as a cyclonic storm,” Sunitha Devi, in charge of cyclones at IMD said on Wednesday.“It’s likely to intensify further. The sea surface temperature in the Bay is around 0.5 degree Celsius above normal presently,” she added. Heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places with isolated extremely heavy rain is likely over south Tamil Nadu (Kanyakumari, Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Tenkasi, Ramanathapuram and Sivagangai) on December 2 and 3; over south Kerala (Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha) on December 3 and isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall likely over south Tamil Nadu on December 2 and 4 December and south Kerala on December 3 and 4.Also read | ‘Praying for the safety and well-being,’ PM Modi assures help to Kerala, Tamil Nadu ahead of cyclone BureviHeavy to very heavy rainfall is also likely over north Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Mahe, Karaikal and north Kerala on December 2 and 3 and heavy rainfall is likely over south coastal Andhra Pradesh on December 2 and 3 and over Lakshadweep on December 3 and 4.Squally winds reaching 45-55 kmph gusting to 65 kmph is very likely over Comorin Area, Gulf of Mannar and along and off south Tamil Nadu coast (Kanyakumari, Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi and Ramanathapuram districts) and south Kerala coast (Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha districts) from December 2 forenoon. It will gradually increase becoming 55-65 kmph gusting to 75 kmph from Wednesday evening and 70-80 kmph gusting to 90 kmph from Thursday evening for subsequent 12 hours and decrease thereafter.Authorities urged fishermen not to venture into southeast Bay of Bengal, southwest Bay of Bengal and along and off east Sri Lanka coast from December 2 to 3; Comorin Area, Gulf of Mannar and south Tamil Nadu-Kerala and west Sri Lanka coasts from December 2 to 4, over Lakshadweep-Maldives area and adjoining southeast Arabian Sea from December 3 to 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-burevi-heads-towards-tn-coast-after-crossing-sri-lanka/story-lWhnjcIY1xj8Zwu3SJGOKK.html
03-12-2020||India||Most of Delhi borders closed, farmer leaders accuse govt of indulging in divisive agenda: 10 points||The Centre will hold another round of talks with farmers on Thursday, in a bid to end the protest over farm bills that has severely affected traffic movement in and out of Delhi.The farmers have been protesting near Delhi for more than a week, jamming roads and engaging in confrontation with the police which are guarding the national capital’s borders.Here are updates on farmers protest and what the government is doing:• The Delhi Traffic Police tweeted on Thursday morning that the Chilla border on Noida link road is closed for traffic due to farmers protests near Gautam Budh Gate. It also said that people who want to go to Noida from Delhi should use NH-24 and Delhi-Noida Direct (DND) flyway.• On the Haryana side, Tikri border, Jharoda border and Jhatikra border are closed, according to Delhi Traffic Police. “Available open borders to Haryana are following: Dhansa, Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders.”• Meanwhile, a delegation of farmers will meet Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday. A spokesperson of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), which is spearheading the protest, said on Wednesday that all farmer organisations across the country should hit the streets now.• Several farmers from different parts of the country like Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh are marching towards Delhi to join the protest against new farm laws.• Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh will meet Union home minister Amit Shah at his residence on Thursday, ahead of the talks between the Centre and farmer leaders. Singh will hold deliberations with Shah in a bid to work out an amicable solution to the deadlock.• The Punjab chief minister and his Congress party have been supporting the farmers’ stir and the state Assembly had also passed a set of bills aimed at negating the Centre’s farm legislation.• The Centre has, however, maintained that the new farm laws, passed by Parliament in September, are in the interest of farmers. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the reforms have been done after a long wait and the government is ready to address their concerns.• The leaders of the protesting farmers wrote to Tomar on Wednesday, demanding a special session of Parliament to repeal the new farm laws and asking the government to not “indulge in divisive agenda” to break farmers’ unity.• The government had held talks with farmer representatives on Tuesday. But the outcome remained inconclusive as farmer unions rejected the government’s offer to set up a committee and said they will continue their protest.• The farmers are protesting against The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/most-of-delhi-borders-closed-due-to-farmers-protest-amarinder-singh-to-meet-amit-shah-ahead-of-key-meet-10-points/story-BlLOpOxqfqMyqfdJKPrXfJ.html
03-12-2020||India||Bhopal gas tragedy: 36 years on, survivors still await justice||The wait for justice for the survivors of one of the world’s biggest industrial catastrophe--Bhopal gas tragedy—continues on the 36th anniversary of the disaster with subsequent governments having given up on the cause, says the organisations fighting for their rights. Several rights organisations have been, for decades, demanding harsh and exemplary punishment to those responsible for the tragedy, adequate compensation to the victims, a proper rehabilitation plan and adequate medical facilities for survivors and removal of toxic chemicals lying on the plant premises among other things. As per a state government affidavit filed in the court in the year 2006, the tragedy had killed 3,787 people and affected more than 5.58 lakh in the state capital after toxic gas leaked from erstwhile Union Carbide factory which was closed after the tragedy on the intervening night of December 2 and 3 in 1984. However, the organisations fighting for the victims claim the tragedy has killed at least 25,000 people. A report released in April, 2019, by International Labour Organisation (ILO) dubbed the 1984 Bhopal Gas Tragedy as one among the world’s ‘major industrial accidents’ of the 20th century. The report stated that at least 30 tons of methyl isocyanate gas, released from the Union Carbide pesticide plant, had affected more than 600,000 workers and nearby inhabitants. The highly toxic methyl isocyanate (MIC) gas can cause death within minutes of inhalation if its concentration exceeds 21 PPM (parts per million). That was the reason for so many deaths and the crippling after effects on hundreds of thousands of survivors for decades, as per organisations. Eight accused in the tragedy case were awarded two-year imprisonment and a fine of Rs 1.7 lakh each by a Bhopal court in the first week of June in 2010 which, the survivors organisation say, was a mockery of justice in such a big tragedy. The accused were granted bail too. The main accused in the case, Warren Anderson, who was given a safe passage after his visit to Bhopal by the then Congress governments in the state and at the Centre, died in Florida, United States in September 2014 without facing any trial in Indian courts. “Nothing has changed for the survivors irrespective of the political party in power whether it’s in Madhya Pradesh or at the Centre. It’s always been the interest of the erstwhile Union Carbide and now Dow Chemical, and not the interest of the gas tragedy victims, which has dictated the policies of the governments,” said Rachna Dhingra, founder member of Bhopal group of information and action.Dhingra says whether it’s the case of compensation, rehabilitation, medical treatment for survivors, punishment to the guilty or shifting of toxic chemicals from the plant premises, the governments have been found to be woefully short and continue to ignore the adverse impact of gas on the next generations of the victims. “The National Library of Medicine, USA has recently collated health effects of MIC and diseases caused as a result of exposure to MIC. They have established that Hyperglycaemia (Diabetes), Uremia (kidney diseases), Pulmonary fibrosis, lung diseases & acidosis are associated with the long term damage caused by it,” Dhingra said. She says that various documents state that the injuries caused by exposure to Methyl Isocyanate (MIC) are permanent in nature, yet more than 90% of the exposed victims have been paid only 500 US dollars as compensation for ‘temporary’ injuries. Also Read: 36 years on, Bhopal gas tragedy survivors battle obesity, thyroid disordersSadhna Karnik, the convener of another rights organisation--Bhopal Gas Peedit Sangharsh Sahyog Samiti—who has been fighting for the victims, says that governments are making no efforts to mitigate the effects of the toxic case even today.“The gas leaked from the plant continues to affect people in a vast area of the city but there is no effort on the part of the central or state governments to address the issue. Bhopal Memorial Hospital and Research Centre (BMHRC), the hospital meant for treatment of the survivors is in shambles but there is no effort to improve the facilities over there,” said Karnik. A banker Jagdish Dubey, one of the victims of the tragedy said, “Observing Bhopal Gas Tragedy anniversary has become a ritual for us as well as the government. There is lip service by the authorities that they would look into our problems and then nothing happens. Then, there is another anniversary next year.” Also Read: 3 women among 4 arrested for beating, stripping woman in Madhya Pradesh“The gas survivors have been demanding extra compensation for the long term injuries and vulnerabilities caused by the exposure to gas. This was evidenced during the ongoing Covid 19 pandemic. According to the health department official record, the Covid-19 death rate is 6.5 times higher among the gas exposed population of the Bhopal district,” said Nawab Khan, president of the Bhopal Gas Peedit Mahila Purush Sangharsh Morcha. Minister for Bhopal Gas Tragedy Relief and Rehabilitation, Vishwas Sarang said, “The matter of compensation is pending before the apex court. Hence, I can’t comment on it. Our government in the state is making all out efforts to provide best medical facilities to the gas survivors. Bhopal has a dedicated hospital for the gas survivors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/36th-bhopal-gas-tragedy-anniversary-mere-lip-service-ritual-says-survivor/story-xZh0CUOb5181D0V9jOm1aK.html
03-12-2020||India||Why Delhi may be on right track in Covid-19 fight||The third wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections in Delhi has started showing clear signs of receding with new cases dropping steadily over the past few weeks. The reduction in new infections has come hand-in-hand with a drop in the positivity rate and a significant improvement in testing, suggesting that the outbreak in Delhi may be relatively under control for the third time. Here are four factors that show Delhi is on the right track in its battle against the viral outbreak.1. A distinct drop in the third waveDelhi’s Covid-19 case trajectory has shown three distinct surges. The first started in mid-June, and peaked when the seven-day average of daily cases, also known as the case trajectory, touched around 3,400 in the last week of June. This receded by the end of July when the trajectory dropped to around 1,000 daily cases. The second wave started at the end of August, rising until mid-September, when average daily cases touched 4,174 for the week ending September 17. This again dropped to 2,574 in the week ending October 9, before the onset of the third wave. The third wave raged through most of October and November, leading to the largest surge of cases the capital has seen. The seven-day average of new cases peaked on November 14, when it touched 7,341 – the highest recorded so far. Since then, however, cases have started receding almost steadily (albeit with a slight bump on November 19 and 20).2. Testing better and testing moreWhile Delhi has been ramping up Covid-19 tests from as early as September, a key concern was that most were rapid antigen tests, which are cheap, and produce results within 15 minutes, but unreliable. The proportion of reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests, considered by experts to be the “gold-standard”, dropped significantly. In the first 15 days of September, while overall testing rose, the share of RT-PCR tests nearly halved – from 32.3% in the week ending September 1 to 17% in the week ending September 16. This may have suppressed the real positivity rate because studies have shown that rapid antigen tests can miss as much as 50% of positive cases.  But in the past few weeks, this has not been the case. In the past week, 47.5% of all tests done in Delhi have been RT-PCR tests – the highest proportion ever recorded since the Delhi government started releasing a breakup of testing numbers in the last week of August. Meanwhile, the rate of testing (both RT-PCR and antigen) is at the highest ever. On average, the Delhi government has conducted 64,148 tests every day in the last week. In fact, 78,949 samples were tested on Tuesday, another single-day testing record.3. Dropping positivity rate a good signThe positivity rate for Covid-19, meanwhile, has again started dropping. In the last week, 7.3% samples tested have come back positive (this is the lowest in over a month, since 7.2% for the week ending October 26). The proportion was 11.2% the week before, and 13.3% the week before that. On Wednesday, it was 5% — the lowest single-day positivity rate in nearly two months (it was 5% on October 6). The positivity rate is a crucial metric as experts say it shows how widespread the virus is in the community, and when coupled with increasing new infections, indicates that the virus is spreading rapidly. A rising positivity rate typically suggests that a region is testing inadequately. The average positivity rate should drop to 5% or below if the testing programme is adequate and is keeping the outbreak in control, according to the World Health Organization (WHO). That is why testing enough, and using the right kind of tests, is the key to Delhi being able to control the outbreak in the next few weeks.4. Another relief: Covid deaths dip againAs Delhi grappled with the third wave of infections, another alarming trend emerged – daily deaths were rising at an alarming rate again.In the week ending November 24, 116 people died every day on average of Covid-19. This was the highest death rate since mid-June (to be sure, deaths in this latter period were artificially inflated as Delhi retrospectively added fatalities that had been wrongly not attributed to Covid-19, according to the Delhi government). From the peak in the week to November 24, however, deaths have again started inching down, with 89 people a day on average, dying of Covid-19 in the past week.Source: Delhi government Covid-19 bulletins, HT’s Covid-19 dashboard||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-delhi-may-be-on-right-track-in-covid-19-fight/story-TZX7vnPyN6MmDpeSElPwPO.html
03-12-2020||India||Delhi HC to decide on issue of key tribunal’s chair||The Delhi high court on Wednesday said it will examine the issue related to a non-judicial member currently presiding over the charge of Acting Chairman of country’s only and crucial appellate tribunal dealing with the seizure and attachment of properties under money laundering Act, Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators Act (SAFEMA) and Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Relying upon a Hindustan Times report from last week, the authority of current acting chairman – G C Mishra, who is from Indian Legal Services and is the only member in the tribunal at the moment, was challenged by advocate Vijay Aggarwal on behalf of Echanda Urja Pvt Ltd (EUPL), a company linked to former ICICI Bank managing director Chanda Kochhar’s husband Deepak Kochhar. Aggarwal argued that Mishra, being a non-judicial member, cannot decide cases in the absence of a regular Chairman as only a judicial member can deal with legal aspects. HT reported on November 27 that the tribunal was headless for the past 14 months, seriously affecting its functioning and Mishra, being an acting chairman, had mostly deferred the appeals filed by individuals and business entities challenging attachment of their properties by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) or other authorities. ED approached the tribunal last week challenging a November 6 order by its own adjudicating authority under PMLA for releasing the attachments worth Rs 78 crore belonging to Kochhars. Kochhars sought a stay on hearing ED’s appeal till the matter of an acting chairman is heard. Justice Navin Chawla, however, refused to stay the proceedings on ED’s appeal while agreeing to contentions of Additional Solicitor General (ASG) SV Raju who said that a stay would create a havoc in the various appeals being heard at the tribunal. ASG Raju contended that if a stay were granted other parties would also seek a stay on the cases being heard in the tribunal.After hearing lengthy arguments, the court said that it does not consider it fit to interdict in the proceedings (ED’s appeal) pending in the tribunal. The court also issued notice to ED seeking to know its response and posted the matter for further hearing in February 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-to-decide-on-issue-of-key-tribunal-s-chair/story-3z12iZfyALivQ0UCasrLvO.html
03-12-2020||India||CCTVs must in offices of CBI, ED, police stations: Supreme Court||With the aim of preventing custodial torture, the Supreme Court on Wednesday ordered for installation of CCTV cameras in the offices of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Enforcement Directorate (ED), the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and other agencies, in addition to police stations across the country.  Extending the ambit of its 2018 order, the top court maintained that not only police stations but all the other agencies, which have the power to make arrests and interrogate, must also have CCTVs and recording devices installed in their premises. Therefore, the bench headed by Justice Rohinton F Nariman directed the central government to get CCTV cameras with audio-recording facility installed in the offices of CBI, ED, NIA, Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), Department of Revenue Intelligence (DRI), Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO) and all such agencies. “As most of these agencies carry out interrogation in their office(s), CCTVs shall be compulsorily installed in all offices where such interrogation and holding of accused takes place in the same manner as it would in a police station,” directed the bench. In 2018, the court had passed a judgment for bringing all police stations under the surveillance of the CCTV cameras to check human rights abuses. For this purpose, all states were required to constitute independent committees that could study CCTV camera footages and periodically publish reports of its observations. Further, this judgment asked the Central government to a set up a Central Oversight Body (COB) and provide necessary funds so that it could issue necessary directions to states and union territories to facilitate videography of the crime scenes and compliance with other directions of the apex court. Two years on, when the bench sought to evaluate the progress made by the states, it noted severe deficiencies in complying with its judgment across the board. At this point, the court sough assistance of attorney general KK Venugopal and appointed senior advocate Siddhartha Dave as amicus curiae (friend of the court) to navigate the matter to a fruitful outcome. After receiving suggestions from Venugopal and Dave, the bench expanded the ambit of its order and included central agencies too. Besides, the court order made SHO of each police station responsible for upkeep and maintenance of CCTV cameras. The cameras need to be installed at all entry and exit points, main gate of the police station, all lock-ups, reception area, officials’ rooms, and station hall. The court has directed the states to make sure that good quality cameras with high resolution, night vision and a recording retention facility for at least a year are purchased and installed immediately in all police stations. It added that a State Level Oversight Committee, comprising secretary or additional secretary from home and finance departments, director general of police or inspector general of police and a member of the state women’s commission, must also be constituted to make certain the court’s directions are duly complied with, besides taking care of budgetary allocations and supervision at the state level. Similarly, District Level Oversight Committees, consisting of the district magistrate, a superintendent of police and a municipality mayor, will be set up in all districts to interact with the SHOs for upkeep of CCTVs and review the footage for any human right violation. The Centre and states have been given six weeks by the court to file their compliance affidavit with details of cameras installed, exact timeline of completing the remaining installations and constitution of oversight committees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cctvs-must-in-offices-of-cbi-ed-police-stations-supreme-court/story-3PHqTtLDUvpnjQFVP34AqI.html
03-12-2020||India||Tamil Nadu braces for heavy rains as cyclone Burevi closes in||Several districts in south Tamil Nadu will receive heavy to very heavy rainfall and extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) with cyclonic storm Burevi brewing over the southwest Bay of Bengal, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday.At 5.30 pm on Wednesday, Burevi lay about 70 km east-northeast of Trincomalee (Sri Lanka), 290 km east-southeast of Pamban (India) and 480 km east-northeast of Kanniyakumari (India). It is very likely to move west-northwestwards and cross Sri Lanka coast by midnight on Wednesday as a cyclonic storm with a wind speed of 80-90 kmph gusting to 100 kmph, the IMD said in its bulletin.It would move nearly west-southwestwards across Pamban area by Thursday afternoon and cross south Tamil Nadu coast between Pamban and Kanyakumari in the night and early Friday morning as a cyclonic storm with wind speed of 70-80 gusting to 90 kmph. Its impact on south Tamil Nadu’s coastal districts is very likely to commence from Thursday forenoon initially over Ramanathapuram district and gradually towards Kanyakumari district. Heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places with isolated extremely heavy rain is likely over south Tamil Nadu on December 2 and 3; over south Kerala on December 3, and isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely over south Tamil Nadu on December 2 and 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-braces-for-heavy-rains-as-cyclone-burevi-closes-in/story-pSO9CkKPy00pQOifeBWr8N.html
03-12-2020||India||Govt’s own ministries divided on Char Dham road project, says SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday noted that the central government’s own ministries were divided on the Char Dham road project, with the ministry of defence (MoD) alleging neglect of security concerns amid tensions along the Indo-China border.The court pointed out that the MoD and the ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) appear to be not on the same page on keeping the width of roads leading to border areas at 5.5 metres.“It seems your own ministries are not in tandem with each other. They don’t seem to be working with each other,” a bench, headed by justice Rohinton F Nariman, told attorney general KK Venugopal.The bench was referring to the latest affidavit by MoD. The affidavit complained that the MoRTH’s circulars in 2012 and 2018 on the width of roads along the national highways did not take into account the needs of the security forces.While these circulars restricted the widening of roads in hilly and mountainous terrains based on the number of vehicles plying every day, MoD emphasised that aspects relating to movement of troops and artillery were overlooked. “Neither the MoRTH circular of October 5, 2012, nor the circular dates March 23, 2018, dealt with the security needs of the country by way of roads which could accommodate tanks or heavy artillery and the mobilisation of troops, and would therefore stand in a class apart from the roads used for civilian movement in mountainous territory,” stated the MoD’s affidavit.MoD called it unfortunate that even though security of the state is itself in jeopardy in view of the situation developing along the Chinese border, “needs of the army was mentioned in passing” by MoRTH.It asserted that the MoRTH circulars “do not deal with roads which are essential for the movement of troops, armaments, artillery and tanks to the borders of the country to defend the nation against aggression and hence, cannot be treated as covering the particular situation which the state is facing today.”In its affidavit, MoD requested the bench to modify its September 8 order, fixing the width of the road to 5.5m for the whole project, in terms of the MoRTH circular in 2018.MoD requested that the national highway from Rishikesh to Mana, from Rishikesh to Gangotri and from Tanakpur to Pithoragarh may be allowed to be developed into a 2 lane configuration with a width of 7m “in the interest of the security of the nation and defence of its borders”.The bench further asked Venugopal to resolve the issues between the ministries after his office gets a report from the HPC after two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-s-own-ministries-divided-on-char-dham-road-project-says-sc/story-J6KlmmHAvGyyaCRBu3IkTK.html
03-12-2020||India||SC puts on hold felling of trees for road projects||The Supreme Court on Wednesday put the Uttar Pradesh government in a quandary over the assessment of oxygen-releasing capacity of trees that the state government seeks to cut for road projects around the Krishna Janmabhoomi in Mathura.A bench led by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde declined to approve the tree felling in the Taj Trapezium Zone (TTZ ), a defined area of 10,400 sq km around the Taj Mahal to protect the monument from pollution, until the state spells out its method of evaluating a tree, including how much oxygen it gives off.“You cannot cut trees...only in the name of Lord Krishna. Is there any evaluation on how much oxygen these trees produce? You cannot simply say we will plant a week-old sapling in lieu of a 100-year -old tree.There can be no comparison between the two in terms of oxygen they release,” the bench told additional solicitor general Aishwarya Bharti and senior advocate SWA Qadri.Bharti was appearing for the state government while Qadri represented the Public Works Department (PWD). PWD had to seek permission from the court to cut more than 3,000 trees since the areas comes under the TTZ, earmarked by the Supreme Court to protect the Taj Mahal from environmental pollution.When asked about the classification of trees based on their age and oxygen releasing capacity, Qadri expressed his inability to give such details.This prompted the CJI to question how permission for felling thousands of trees can be given when the PWD has no clue about such information. The judge added that living trees cannot be evaluated merely as timber, which is dead wood.“Living trees give oxygen and it must be taken into account while evaluating them. How much oxygen a tree releases during its life time and the loss of it once it is cut; these are important factors,” said the bench, asking Bhati if the state government has any policy in this regard.As Bhati sought some time to get instructions, the bench asserted that meaningful reforestation requires a detailed assessment of the trees sought to be felled.The court added that not pulling down certain very old trees may only mean a road taking a turn around such trees. “It will only slow down the traffic which is also a good thing since this can prevent deaths due to high speed,” it said.The court then recorded in its order: “It is not possible to accept the compensation in just arithmetic terms particularly since there is no specific statement coming forth from the Uttar Pradesh government or PWD as to the nature of the trees i.e, to say whether they are classified as shrubs or large trees.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-puts-on-hold-felling-of-trees-for-road-projects/story-NijChv0l4f9qgvj9N18A6N.html
03-12-2020||India||India lost 118 billion work hours due to heat in ’19: Study||India recorded the highest loss in work hours or productivity because of extreme heat in 2019. Across the globe, a potential 302 billion work hours were lost in 2019, 103 billion hours more than the hours lost in 2000.Only 13 countries made up 80.7% of the global work hours lost in 2019, with India recording the greatest total loss and Cambodia the highest per-capita loss for any country. India lost 118.3 billion work hours and 111.2 work hours per person in 2019 alone, according to the Lancet Countdown report on health and climate change released on Thursday morning.By 2015, the estimated loss in earnings because of heat stress reached as high as 3.9–5.9% of gross domestic product (GDP) for lower-middle-income countries tracked by Lancet authors, including India, Indonesia and Cambodia.In 2019, India also saw a record number of above-baseline days of heatwave exposure affecting people aged above 65 years. During the past 20 years, there has been a 53.7% increase in heat-related deaths globally among people older than 65 years, reaching a total of 296,000 deaths in 2018. The highest number of deaths among the elderly in 2018 were reported in China (62,000) and India (31,000 deaths) followed by Germany, the US, Russia and Japan.“There is an increase in the intensity, duration, and extent of heatwaves over South Asia — particularly the India-Pakistan region,” said Roxy Mathew Koll, climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, citing a study by the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur, as predicting an increase in heatwaves by up to sixfold under a 2° Celsius warming scenario. “This means that the health impacts due to the rising heatwaves also would be large. While we have an excellent weather forecasting system, we also need to work on health forecasting systems,” Koll said.The report warned that the imprint of climate change on extreme weather events was now clear. Advancements in climate science allow for greater accuracy and certainty in attribution, it said, adding that studies from 2015 to 2020 have shown the imprint of climate change on 76 floods, droughts, storms, and temperature extremes. According to the report, drafted by 120 global health and climate change academics, 40 to 60 million people in India will be exposed to a sea level rise of 5 metres by the end of the century. Around 67% of global cities surveyed expected climate change to seriously compromise their public health assets and infrastructure.The report concluded that “the window of opportunity is narrow, and, if the response to Covid-19 is not fully and directly aligned with national climate change strategies, the world will be unable to meet its commitments under the Paris Agreement, damaging health and health systems today, and in the future.”The report underlined that Covid-19 and climate change were interlinked crises. “The pandemic has shown us that when health is threatened on a global scale, our economies and ways of life can come to a standstill,” Ian Hamilton, executive director of the Lancet Countdown, said in a statement.Vivek Adhia, country director for India at the Institute for Sustainable Communities, said, ”Even as we were measuring up to address the existing development gaps, the Covid-19 pandemic further underscored implications with increased risks, on the most vulnerable constituencies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-lost-118-billion-work-hours-due-to-heat-in-19-study/story-tyxzqV4OU1Zf70hBlaSHBM.html
03-12-2020||India||Chanda Kochhar didn’t disclose ties with Videocon: ED||The Enforcement Directorate (ED), in an appeal filed before the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) tribunal last week, sought to establish that ICICI Bank’s former managing director and chief executive officer Chanda Kochhar had close links with the Videocon Group that she did not disclose to the bank. Such a disclosure would have made her ineligible to be on the sanctioning committees approving loans to Videocon, it claimed. The agency is investigating Kochhar’s role in sanctioning loans to Videocon in return for the latter’s promoter, Venugopal Dhoot, investing in her husband’s companies. The case, based on a whistleblower complaint, was responsible for Kocchar’s exit from the bank. ED’s latest disclosure came when it challenged the November 6 order of its own Adjudicating Authority (AA) under PMLA, Tushar V Shah, who dismissed the attachment of properties worth Rs 78 crore belonging to Kochhar and her husband Deepak Kochhar. While asserting that ED had failed to establish these as the proceeds of crime, Shah termed the investment of ₹64 crore in Deepak Kochhar’s Nupower Renewables Ltd (NRL) by Venugopal Dhoot’s SEPL (Supreme Energy Pvt Ltd) as a business transaction. In its appeal dated November 25, reviewed by HT, ED said Chanda Kochhar “knowingly didn’t disclose to the ICICI Bank that she and her husband had a very close association with VIL (Videocon Industries Ltd), its group companies as well as Mr V N Dhoot (Chairman of Videocon) since the year 1994-95.” “She neither disclosed that she was a shareholder in Credential Finance Limited (a company in which Videocon was having substantial interest) nor that she was authorized signatory for Pacific Capital Services Pvt Ltd (50% shareholder of her husband’s Nupower Renewables Ltd), even at the time she was the MD and CEO of ICICI Bank,” ED added. The agency also claimed that “funds were transferred from Chanda Kochhar’s salary account held with the ICICI Bank to CFL. If she had disclosed these facts to the ICICI Bank, then she would have to recuse herself from the recommending and sanctioning committee dealing with the proposal of Videocon Group of Companies”. According to ED, Videocon had invested Rs 10 crore in this company and Chanda Kochhar held 2,835 equity shares in it in 2000-01. Coming down heavily on the AA , ED said in its appeal that: “AA has jumped into the shoes of the special court under PMLA, as if it were hearing the final arguments”. The agency has accused the AA of making a “roving and fishing enquiry into the evidence placed on record and relied upon” by it. ” The AA was not required in law to venture into the quality of evidence placed on record by the appellant against the respondent (Kochhars)”, the appeal read. Seeking to set aside Shah’s November 6 order, ED said the order was passed “without application of mind” and “against the mandate of the PMLA”. The Kochhars’ lawyer Vijay Aggarwal said: “ED appeal is even technically wrong as it has been filed by a deputy director and as per law can be filed by only a director. And on merits, they also know that they don’t have a case but as one appeal is provided in law so they have availed the remedy knowing fully well that attachment is purely conjectural”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chanda-kochhar-didn-t-disclose-ties-with-videocon-ed/story-zTWWA4m9442qJvmSPThd7O.html
03-12-2020||India||AG calls for greater role for women in judiciary to help sexual crime victims||Attorney general KK Venugopal told the Supreme Court on Wednesday that if gender stereotypes against victims of sexual crimes had to end, the Supreme Court should make a beginning by giving greater representation to women at all levels of the judiciary.In a note submitted to the court on the need for sensitizing judges against passing orders and making remarks in sexual crimes that tend to trivialize the crime, the country’s top law officer said: “Improving the representation of women in the judiciary could also go a long way towards a more balanced and empathetic approach in cases involving sexual violence.”At present, the gender ratio in the judiciary is skewed against women. Out of 1,113 judges in the high courts and Supreme Court, only 80 are women (roughly 7.2%), with the apex court having two women judges. Six high courts do not have a single sitting woman judge. No woman has ever become the Chief Justice of India. Similar gender data is not available for subordinate judiciary or tribunals, the note prepared by Venugopal said.“The goal must be to achieve at least 50% representation of women in all leadership positions,” Venugopal said, adding: “This initiative must come from the Supreme Court itself, considering that the power of appointment rests almost exclusively with Supreme Court Collegium.” The AG found certain “outlandish” conditions imposed by some HC judges while granting bail to sexual offenders. These included the victim tying a rakhi on the alleged offender, the offender serving as a Covid-19 warrior, allowing bail to facilitate marriage between the victim and the accused, among others. A detailed list of such offending orders was produced before the court by advocate Aparna Bhatt, on whose petition the court initiated the exercise of seeking the attorney general’s views and laying down the parameters for judges to avoid handing down orders or making comments having the potential for causing disrepute to the victim or trivializing the crime.Venugopal said: “Any judge who wants to pass such an order must place themselves in the shoes of the victim and assess the crime as if the same had been committed on a member of their own family.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ag-calls-for-greater-role-for-women-in-judiciary-to-help-sexual-crime-victims/story-rDatdMJiY3DTns652MpudL.html
03-12-2020||India||Central Vista project: Underground transit to ferry 20k people in peak hours||A dedicated transit system connecting the 10 buildings being built as part of the new Central Secretariat complex, itself part of the ongoing Central Vista redevelopment, will be accessible from the Central Secretariat Metro station and ferry up to 20,000 people during peak hours, keeping much of the movement between the buildings underground, and also making it easy for commuters to transit to their offices from metro stations. “The people mover will be accessible from the Central Secretariat Metro Station’s concourse level, which is an interchange for the Yellow and Violet lines. The people mover will be connected to the Central Secretariat buildings in the basement,” said Bimal Patel, head of HCP Design, Planning and Management Private Limited, the consultant and architect for the Central Vista redevelopment project. A people mover is a small scale transit system mainly used to serve a small area such as airports and parks. The feasibility study for the underground transit project has been done, said HCP Design. The people mover will have coaches and run on electricity just like the Metro, but the technology it will run on is yet to be worked out by Central Public Works Department (CPWD), the government’s construction arm, and the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC). The two are also working on the alignment, technology and the construction details, said the consultant. CPWD and DMRC officials declined comment.Under the Central Vista project, a common Central Secretariat, a new Parliament House building, and residences of Prime Minister and vice-president will be constructed. The new Parliament building will be ready by 2022. A portion of the new Central Secretariat, which will house offices of all central ministries, will be completed by 2023. The deadline for completion of the entire project is 2024. The people mover, a 3-km-long (approximately) underground transit facility was initially meant to connect to two Metro stations -- Central Secretariat and Udyog Bhawan but the latter was found to be infeasible as it is not an interchange station and its distance from the proposed people mover corridor is an issue. While the people mover will connect all 10 buildings in the new Central Secretariat, which will house 51 ministries, it will not be connected to the new Parliament building.The Central Secretariat metro station is one of the major interchange stations on DMRC’s network. The station provides interchange between the Yellow (Samaypur Badhi-HUDA city centre) and Violet (Kashmere Gate-Raja Nahar Singh (Ballabhgarh) lines. The 38-km-long Yellow line is the busiest and carried an average of 1.45 million people a day before the pandemic. The people mover will have four stations — one for every cluster of three buildings of the Central Secretariat.“The buildings will be connected by an underground people mover and by an overground shuttle. These facilities will make the Central Secretariat a transit-oriented development. The plan is under development and will be finalised in coordination with all other projects being developed as part of the Central Vista Redevelopment,” said Patel.The cluster of three buildings will be connected to the station by a walkway with travellators in the basement to ensure safe, secure and seamless movement of people. Traffic volume in the Central Vista area will increase once the redevelopment project is complete. Connectivity to the Metro is essential because 44% of people currently working in various offices in the Central Vista use it, according to a survey conducted by HCP. Apart from the people mover, the capacity of roads will also be increased. HCP wants to increase this proportion to 50% , which is where the people mover comes in. As for the traffic, according to HCP, it will be “be managed by providing increased road capacities, dedicated access lanes and better entry and exit to the Central Secretariat. The Central Secretariat is being planned to provide parking for visitors to avoid on-street parking prevalent today. There will be dedicated bus bays and taxi bays...” Amit Bhatt, director transport at WRI India, said the people mover “is a good idea, but its success will depend on its integration with the existing transit system, including payment modes. Apart from providing alternative modes of public transport, it is important to put in place mechanisms to discourage the use of private vehicles... Just providing a public transport system is not enough...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-vista-redevelopment-underground-transit-to-ferry-20-000-people-in-peak-hours/story-rWVdf5DXByWgErLJarAUZL.html
03-12-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||The UK, which has a patchy record in managing the coronavirus disease — it was, after all, the first country to decide to bank on herd immunity before it realised the folly of the approach — became the third country (after China and Russia) and the first Western one to approve a vaccine for Covid-19.China has approved three vaccines for emergency use; Russia, two. The UK’s regulatory approval for the mRNA vaccine developed by Pfizer Inc and BioNTech SE came on Wednesday, and the first shots of the vaccine are likely to be administered as early as the end of next week. The UK has said it is expecting deliveries of 800,000 of the 40 million doses of the vaccine it has ordered, next week. The Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine is a two-dose one that needs to be stored at Antarctic temperatures (which also means the vaccines can’t be moved around too much), which means the UK may well be able to vaccinate 400,000 of its people from the first delivery. Analysts expect the country to receive a few million doses of the vaccine this year; the shots will be administered by the UK’s National Health Service. The UK has firm agreements with a clutch of vaccine makers for around 350 million doses, which should be adequate for a country of 67 million.UK’s LEAP FORWARDUK, a country that did almost everything wrong at the start of the pandemic, has emerged at the vanguard of countries poised to get the better of the disease as the world enters 2021, a year that will be defined by vaccines and vaccination efforts, almost as much as 2020 was by the Sars-Cov-2 virus and Covid-19. Thus, a country that did almost everything wrong at the start of the pandemic has emerged at the vanguard of countries poised to get the better of the disease as the world enters 2021, a year that will be defined by vaccines and vaccination efforts, almost as much as 2020 was by the Sars-Cov-2 virus and Covid-19.There’s been some confusion over India’s own vaccine plans, which too have gathered steam — the country is betting on the Astra Zeneca/Oxford vaccine, made in Pune by Serum Institute of India; the UK too has a large order with AstraZeneca, for around 100 million doses, and is pressing ahead with regulatory approval of the vaccine, which released trial data that has come in for some scrutiny (and may well prevent the US drug regulator, for instance, from approving the vaccine in that country). There is a trial of this vaccine on in India as well (although the country can approve the vaccine based on the results of its UK/Brazil trial that have been released) but the confusion doesn’t stem from that front — it comes from an almost throwaway comment by health secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Tuesday, that the Indian “government never spoke about vaccinating the entire country”. PITCH FOR UNIVERSAL VACCINATIONThere’s a scientific basis for vaccinating everyone. While more data from the trials as well of infections is needed, questions remain on the extent of natural immunity of people who were infected but remained asymptomatic. Leaving it to nature is a risk the world can’t afford to take. Universal vaccination is the only solution. The comment, which has been followed by radio silence, at least on his part, goes against what Prime Minister Narendra Modi said — that all Indians will be vaccinated. Sure, Indian Council of Medical Research chief Balram Bhargava (who was at the same briefing as Bhushan) sought to explain the health secretary’s comment by saying that the purpose of vaccination is to “break the chain of infection”, and that “if we are able to vaccinate a critical mass of people and break the virus transmission, we may not have to vaccinate the entire population”.It’s important to clarify that the coronavirus vaccines being developed are not for everyone. They are for adults only. None of the vaccine trials thus far, bar one, has been on anyone under the age of 18 years. The exception is the Pfizer/BioNTech trial that, in September, recruited children who were 15-17 years old (in October, it recruited more children, some as young as 12). But the results of this part of the trial are still not out. And it is unlikely that Bhushan had this nuance in mind when he said what he did.As for Bhargava’s explanation, while technically correct, it is perhaps only marginally less dangerous than the UK’s original herd-immunity strategy. This is not how you crush a pandemic as infective and as debilitating to body, spirit, and the economy as Covid-19.There’s also a scientific basis for vaccinating everyone. As Eric Topol and Dennis Burton of The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, California wrote recently in Nature Medicine, at the end of a brief but illuminating note that discussed natural and vaccine-based immunity: “Overall, we are optimistic, given the number of platforms being investigated and the huge ongoing efforts, that a vaccine (or vaccines) against COVID-19 with immune responses and protection superior to that achieved through natural infection is an achievable goal.”While, as the authors say, more data from the trials as well of infections is needed, questions remain on the extent of natural immunity of people who were infected but remained asymptomatic. Leaving it to nature is a risk the world can’t afford to take.Universal vaccination is the only solution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-bMILH0ly2gbTooZ7txvHPL.html
03-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Ministers in huddle, all eyes on key meet today||A day before the resumption of crucial talks, top Union ministers went into a huddle on Wednesday, brainstorming ways to end a protest by farmers who have massed at Delhi’s borders to demand the repeal of three contentious laws aimed at opening up farm trade, as the city’s authorities scrambled to smoothen traffic disrupted by the massive show of strength by cultivators from northern India. Union home minister Amit Shah, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal met at Shah’s residence on the day a blockade triggered by the farmers’ protest at two key border points connecting Delhi to Haryana entered its sixth day, and the gathering of protesters at the Noida border led to the closure of an arterial road link to Uttar Pradesh. “(In the previous round of talks) the farmers were confrontational and party leaders are relying on Shah to bring them around,” a senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) functionary aware of the discussion among the central ministers said, referring to a dialogue between farm leaders and the government on Tuesday. That meeting could not reach a consensus but the stakeholders agreed to carry forward the dialogue. Shah was expected to meet Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday morning, ahead of the Centre’s talks with farm leaders, according to PTI . Thousands of farmers from Punjab have joined the protests. As focus shifted to Thursday’s meeting, farm leaders appeared to have hardened their stand, demanding the Centre call a special session of Parliament to repeal the newly enacted farms laws, which they say will adversely impact the minimum support price system (MSP) that offers cultivators assured prices from the government, and eventually help corporate entities.At Singhu border, which opens into Sonepat and is one of the two points blocked on the Haryana border, farmers’ leader Darshan Pal accused the Centre of dividing agricultural groups. “The Centre should call a special session of Parliament to repeal the three farm laws,” he said, adding that protesters will continue their agitation till the laws were repealed. Apart from Singhu, the farmers have also been camping at the border point in Tikri -- it opens into Bahadurgarh — since November 27.The blockade has hit supply of fruits and vegetables to Delhi from Haryana, Punjab and states further north. Opening another front, transport unions threatened on Wednesday to halt the movement of essential goods across north Indian states from next week, and then subsequently to the entire country if the government did not meet the farmers’ demands.A large section of farmers has demanded the repeal of the three laws enacted by Parliament in September, which, together, allow agribusinesses to trade farm produce without restrictions, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming. Farmers say the reforms will make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations and weaken the government’s MSP system. At Tuesday’s talks, protesters rejected a proposal from the Centre for a five-member committee of officials, economists and farmers’ representatives to hold future negotiations after union leaders from 35 farm organisations based in Punjab and Haryana met Tomar, Goyal and minister of state for commerce Som Prakash for over three hours. Farmers say they also want a legal guarantee for MSP, stressing that they have marched to Delhi for a “decisive battle”. “The party high command has already issued statements to assure farmers about the continuation of MSP,” said the BJP functionary quoted above.He was referring to the Centre’s outreach attempts led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who has said the reforms will not hurt the MSP system, will add “new dimensions” to agriculture and break decades-old “shackles” on farm trade.That the government is pulling out all the stops to reach a consensus is evident from separate negotiations it held with farmers’ group Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU)’s Tikait faction, which holds sway over western Uttar Pradesh. As the impasse continued, protests at Mayur Vihar, bordering UP, led to the closure of a crucial route connecting the national capital with the state for the second consecutive day on Wednesday. “The Chilla border on Noida link road is closed for traffic... People are advised to avoid Noida link road... and use NH 24 and DND instead,” the traffic police tweeted.One of the carriageways on the route was opened in the afternoon, allowing commuters coming from Delhi to enter Noida, as protesters continued to sit on the other side of the road amid heavy police deployment.The Kalandi Kunj border connecting Noida with south Delhi was briefly closed around 4:30pm after about 100 farmers on tractors arrived there and tried to enter Delhi. Police placed barricades and deployed extra personnel at the site, and convinced them to return to Noida.Meanwhile, several traders from three prominent agriculture produce market committees (APMCs) in Delhi – Azadpur, Ghazipur and Okhla – said a large number of them had stopped sending fruits and vegetables to other states temporarily and were focusing only on local supplies to keep prices stable in Delhi. Arrivals of fruits and vegetables in Azadpur have dropped significantly from around 11,500 trucks per day on an average for this time of the year to around 6,000 trucks a day, said Adil Khan, Azadpur APMC chairperson.Anil Malhotra, a wholesale trader based in Azadpur, said: “...traders are running out of stock. And the arrivals are very low. So a demand and supply gap will surface soon — probably in another three to four days — if the borders remain blocked. With that, prices will go up.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-ministers-in-huddle-all-eyes-on-key-meet-today/story-RzU4ke4jcnQPKPXWXmR3OO.html
03-12-2020||India||Baby allegedly raped in Kanpur while mother collected cattle fodder||A local man allegedly raped a 13-month-old boy in a field in a village at Ghatampur in Kanpur rural on Wednesday evening, police said. Villagers caught the man and handed him over to the police.Circle officer Ravi Pratap Singh said the man, identified as Umesh Prajapati, was arrested and a case under the POCSO (Protection of Children From Sexual Offences) Act registered against him. The child has been admitted in a local hospital for treatment.Police said the incident took place after the boy’s mother, along with her father- in-law, had gone to the field, about 100 metres from their house, to collect fodder for cattle.Since both needed to carry stacks of fodder, the mother left the child in a field and decided to pick him up after her work was done. Soon, they heard the baby screaming and rushed to the spot.They saw Prajapati running away and the child bleeding profusely. Some other villagers chased Prajapati and caught him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13-month-old-boy-allegedly-raped-in-kanpur-accused-arrested/story-IwKCcZfdJkkC1aIgVCwuWK.html
03-12-2020||India||Nine-year-old boy in Tripura allegedly sexually abused by private tutor||A case was lodged against a 23-year-old private tutor for allegedly sexually assaulting a nine-year-old boy at Agartala, nearly ten days after the incident, police said Wednesday.The accused, identified as Indra Ghosh, is yet to be arrested, said police on Wednesday. “We filed a case on November 30 after the child’s mother came to us. The accused is absconding and we are trying to arrest him,” said officer in-charge of Ramnagar Outpost Biswajit Das. Police booked the accused under Section 506 of Indian Penal Code (punishment for criminal intimidation) and Section 5 (m)(p) and 6 (penetrative sexual assault) of POCSO Act. A delegation of Childline went to the boy’s home on November 28 after coming to know of the incident. During their counselling, they came to know that the boy was sexually abused by his private tutor at the latter’s house which is near the minor victim’s home. After returning home, the boy did not tell his parents about the incident as the tutor threatened him of dire consequences if he spoke to anyone.“The child told us that he skipped his private tutor for a week after the incident out of fear. Later, he told everything to his mother when she asked the reason for skipping tuition,” said the Childline’s team member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nine-year-old-boy-in-tripura-allegedly-sexually-abused-by-private-tutor/story-YCRfytpcJx9onBWnwk1iBI.html
03-12-2020||India||BJP IT cell chief’s post on farmers’ protest tagged as ‘manipulated media’ by Twitter||Twitter on Wednesday flagged as “manipulated media” a 15-second video clip tweeted out by Bharatiya Janata Party IT cell chief Amit Malviya claiming that an elderly farmer had not been attacked by police as alleged by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in his own tweet which accompanied a photograph showing the policeman raising his lathi at the farmer. Malviya’s may be the first political tweet to be labelled thus, although HT couldn’t independently ascertain this. Twitter officials could not confirm this either. Malviya did not respond to repeated messages and calls. Malviya’s tweet with the video, juxtaposed with the photo posted by Gandhi and raising questions on the latter’s credibility was tagged by the social media company with anyone clicking or tapping on the “manipulated media” tag being taken to tweets by fact checking websites that showed that the farmer had indeed been assaulted (but by a different policeman and shortly before the farmer passed by the one raising his lathi) and also quoting him (the farmer) to this effect. “The referenced Tweet was labelled based on our Synthetic and Manipulated Media policy. As explained in the policy, in order to determine if media have been significantly and deceptively altered or fabricated, we may use our own technology or receive reports through partnerships with third parties,” a Twitter spokesperson said. Other people familiar with the matter said that while Twitter does not have a fact-checking policy, it uses its own team and third party partnerships to determine whether media has been significantly manipulated. The video in question was not first posted by Malviya but by a Twitter handle called Political Kida. The video and the photograph were shot at a Delhi border where thousands of farmers, who have marched from Punjab toward the national capital to protest against new farm legislation they say will hurt their interests, are camped. It dates back to November 28. Posting the photographs on Twitter on November 28, Gandhi tweeted in Hindi that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “arrogance has turned farmer against soldier”. The tweet termed this a “dangerous” trend. Twitter’s action provoked a strong response on the platform itself. While some praised it, others criticised it for targeting Malviya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-it-cell-chief-s-post-on-farmers-protest-tagged-as-manipulated-media-by-twitter/story-eN3ex18sBMjdzSxiiBpF7I.html
03-12-2020||India||Law on MSP may not benefit farm sectors||A new deal to reshape the country’s antiquated agriculture sector has hit a dead-end as protests simmer over three new laws that farmers say will hurt their incomes. The reforms allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside the so-called mandi system controlled by the government, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming. Farmers fear the reforms could pave the way for the government to stop buying staples at federally fixed minimum support prices (MSPs) and would leave them at the mercy of private buyers. The government has insisted it will still buy staples at MSPs, but farmers have demanded a law guaranteeing minimum state-set prices for all major farm produce. The aim is to prohibit sale of any farm produce below the MSP threshold. MSPs, which began with the Green Revolution, mainly benefit paddy and wheat growers because the government procures only these two commodities in sufficiently large quantities. Indian farmers receive lower-than-international prices for their produce because of increasing costs of cultivation, inadequate markets and the government’s obsession with keeping food prices low. This has worsened agriculture’s terms of trade, measured as a ratio of prices of agri-products to prices of manufactured items. The crisis, therefore, is not one of low production, but of low prices. “An MSP is an important policy tool that helped achieve food self-sufficiency because it gave farmers assured prices. It is an important price signal. It is an administrative exercise that does not have statutory backing,” said Abhijit Sen, a farm economist. While the government announces MSP for 23 major crops, setting them at 1.5 times the cost of cultivation to account for inflation, analysts say a blanket law mandating that no trader can buy any farm commodity below this threshold price makes little economic sense. The most immediate impact of such a law will be a higher inflation. Higher MSPs prima facie lead to higher overall prices. “Every 1 percentage point increase in MSPs leads to a 15-basis point increase in inflation,” said economist Sonal Varma. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point. Economists say an MSP mechanism that ignores dynamics, such as demand and global prices, creates distortions. If it is not profitable for private traders to buy at federally fixed MSP, when demand is low, then the private sector will simply exit the markets. In such a scenario, the government simply cannot be a monopoly buyer of all produce. The government already procures staggering quantities of surplus rice and wheat, which have become unmanageable. As of September 2020, the government held 70 million tonnes of rice and wheat in federal stocks, whereas food-security norms require reserves of 41.1 million tonnes as of July and 30.7 million tonnes as of October each year. If MSP is made mandatory, then India’s agricultural exports could become non-competitive because the government’s assured prices are way higher than both domestic and international market prices. No trader would want to buy at a higher price and export at a lower rate. So, the assumption behind the new changes is that free competition in agricultural markets will ultimately result in a market-clearing price, at which quantity supplied equals quantity demanded, resulting in equilibrium. According to economist Ashok Gulati, the cost of procuring, storing and distributing rice to the poor comes to about Rs 37 a kg. For wheat, it is around Rs 27 a kg. The cost to company (CTC) of labour of the Food Corporation of India (FCI) is six-eight times higher than private labour. Therefore, market prices of rice and wheat are much lower than what it costs the FCI to buy the staples. On the other hand, the MSP policy benefits farmers only in a handful of states. The 70th round of the National Sample Survey showed only 13.5% of paddy growers and 16.2% of wheat growers actually received MSPs. While MSPs have incentivised foodgrains over other crops, they have given rise to serious imbalances of water and land resources and shifted land away from crops such as pulses and oilseeds, necessitating costly imports. Also, MSPs, as administered prices, tend to distort market prices. They often ignore the demand side, international prices, export competitiveness and ecological impacts of crops such as paddy. This also means surplus stocks can’t be exported without a subsidy, which invites the World Trade Organisation’s objections. WTO rules cap government procurement for subsidized food programmes by developing countries at 10% of the total value of agricultural production based on 1986-88 prices in dollar terms. “Support to farmers can never be in question. But support in the form of MSP, which is market-distorting, raises questions such as whether can we move to other ways of supporting farmers that cause less collateral damage,” said Pravesh Sharma, a fellow at New Delhi’s Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/law-on-msp-may-not-benefit-farm-sectors/story-azRb8gE6LDAW5noqc5TQEP.html
03-12-2020||India||How the Centre can resolve the deadlock over new farm laws||Protests by thousands of farmers against a set of farm-reform laws they say will hurt their interests simmered for the seventh straight day, with talks deadlocked. While the farmers want the three laws revoked, and the passage of a new law guaranteeing minimum state-set prices for all major farm produce, the government has said the new laws will lead to better price discovery and bring investments to the farm sector. On Thursday, the government is set to meet farmers for the fourth time. The endgame looks tricky but there are several fixes that the government can deploy to resolve the crisis without necessarily withdrawing the reforms. Markets In free markets proposed under the laws, traders don’t have to pay any fees. Farmers worry that the move to open free markets in competition to notified markets controlled by state governments could lead to a collapse of traditional markets. Traditional markets serve as a big source of state revenue. In Punjab, they charge 6% fee (3% each as market fee and rural development fee) on wheat purchases. A 6% fee was also payable on non-basmati paddy while for basmati paddy, 4.25% fee was charged. In September 2020, after the Centre’s new laws came into force, Punjab was forced to reduce the market fee and rural development fee on basmati rice from 2% to 1% each. Set up in the 1960s, these markets initially served as critical infrastructure for farmers to sell their produce and discover prices under the government’s supervision, thereby helping avoid distress sale. Over time, these markets have grown opaque and monopolistic, with prices rigged to the advantage of middlemen, according to a 2010 probe by the India’s statutory anti-monopoly agency, the Competition Commission of India. These markets are also interlocked meaning traders often lend money to farmers, but assure them of purchases, albeit below federally fixed minimum prices, creating a dependence that is entrenched. Since 90% of wheat and paddy in Punjab are bought and sold in these markets, the state government, farmers and middlemen are threatened alike. “The government can come up with rules under the new laws to say that government procurement will mandatorily be done from traditional markets, while other private trade can simultaneously happen in free markets,” said RS Mani, an economist with the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University. This will show , over time, which markets serve farmers better, he said, while assuaging farmers’ fears that the new laws will kill the notified markets. Minimum prices Farmers have demanded a law guaranteeing minimum support prices (MSPs) for all major farm produce. The aim is to make the sale of any farm produce below its MSP threshold illegal. There are economic constraints to such a law, such as its impact on inflation. While farmers want price assurance, the government has focused on reforms to result in better price discovery. Experts say there are several ways to assure returns, such as a price-deficiency mechanism, which the government could lay down during the negotiations. “Price deficiency (mechanism) has been tried in Madhya Pradesh. It needs to be refined, but it can be a way to compensate when markets are down,” said Rohini Mali, an independent consultant, who was formerly advisor of food systems, FAO in Rome. Under the price deficiency system, the government pays the difference between market price and MSP to farmers. Stubble burning In October, the government brought an ordinance to set up the Commission for Air Quality Management in the National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas. The new law aims to cut pollution in New Delhi, of which crop-residue burning is a major cause for a month or so. This ordinance has angered farmers because of it provides for steep penalties for polluters, including farmers, with a jail term of 1 year and fines of up to Rs 1 crore. “This ordinance further reinforces the fears of the farmers that the Central Government is more interested in adopting coercive measures instead of finding real solutions, despite court directions to provide alternatives to farmers to manage the paddy straw,” said Kiran Kumar Vissa of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee. Farmers have been demanding an incentive of Rs 200 per quintal of straw to make alternative disposal financially viable. The Supreme Court has already said the government may consider giving Rs100 per quintal. Given that paddy covers six million hectares in three states, Punjab, Haryana and Utter Pradesh, a federal “production subsidy” as direct cash transfer per quintal of paddy to stop stubble burning will allow the government to take farmers out of the purview of the new anti-pollution law, said Kavitha Kuruganti of Alliance for Sustainable and Holistic Agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-the-centre-can-resolve-the-deadlock-over-new-farm-laws/story-1LBdM2wgYngFYQ8OP3p6pJ.html
03-12-2020||India||Govt holds separate talks with BKU’s Tikait faction||The Union government held separate negotiations on Monday night with the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU)’s Tikait faction, which holds sway over western Uttar Pradesh, hoping to build a bridge with a farmers’ group well known to some senior government ministers. Rakesh Tikait, the spokesperson of the BKU (Tikait faction), said his group was backing the protests by farmers from Punjab and the separate meeting was held to further explore avenues for a solution. Protests by thousands of farmers who say three recent farm-reform laws will hurt their interests simmered for the sixth straight day. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and railways, food and consumer affairs ministers, along with minister of state Son Prakash, held talks with a team of leaders from the Tikait group in the agriculture ministry soon after wrapping up the main discussions, which ended inconclusively, with leaders of 35 farm organisations. The meeting with the Tikait group followed a series of informal discussions between the Tikait group’s leaders and defence minister Rajnath Singh, a government official said, requesting anonymity. “The defence minister has been talking to various stakeholders and farmers’ unions in the hope of finding an amicable settlement, including the Tikait group. The government believes in talking to everyone,” the official said. “We are with the farmers of Punjab. I am hopeful about a solution, although it may take time,” Tikait said, adding: “Rajnath Singh’s family is into farming. He was a successful chief minister of our state and was sensitive to farmers’ problem.” The Tikait group has considerable influence over sugarcane and wheat-growing belts of India’s largest state, Uttar Pradesh, and is politically influential. Rakesh Tikait said the meeting with the three minsters focused on the three laws, besides other key problems faced by farmers. “We have (also) demanded easier rules for farm credit under the Kisan Credit Card system and cheaper electricity,” he said. Yudhvir Singh, the general secretary of the group, said the government’s move to impose steep fines for crop-residue burning, a major cause of pollution, was another anti-farming step that should be withdrawn. “In the meeting, the ministers told us that we should highlight specific issues with the farm laws. Our question is how can the state-notified markets be prevented from collapsing because of the new reforms? If the government works on these lines, a solution is possible,” he said. Farmers want the government to revoke three laws approved by Parliament in September. The laws essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old, government-controlled agricultural markets. Farmers say the reforms would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and weaken the government’s procurement system, whereby the government buys staples, such as wheat and rice, at guaranteed prices. The government has said the laws will empower and enrich farmers, freeing them from the clutches of local traders and opening up new opportunities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-holds-separate-talks-with-bku-s-tikait-faction/story-RDGfF2myZr1WsAAkPPr3AI.html
03-12-2020||India||Kejriwal, Amarinder Singh slug it out over new farm laws||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday criticised his Punjab counterpart Captain Amarinder Singh for “falsely” accusing him of passing the farm laws in the national Capital and questioned if he is acting at the behest of the BJP-led Central government. Addressing a digital press conference, Kejriwal said all the three farm laws were brought in and implemented by the Central government and that the state governments have no role to play in it. He also appealed to the Centre to accept all demands of the farmers and amend the farm laws to include guarantee of MSP. “Yesterday, the Punjab CM alleged that I passed these black farm laws in Delhi. How can Captain Singh play such low-level politics in this fragile situation? The day the President signed the black farm laws, they became effective across the entire country from that day itself,” he said.The Punjab CM rejected Kejriwal’s assertion, and said it was clear that the AAP leader did not even want to try to fight the “draconian legislations”. “Why did you not stand against the Centre by passing your own state legislations like we did in Punjab?”, Singh asked.Kejriwal, who is also the national convener of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) which is in the opposition in Punjab — a state where elections are scheduled in 2022, asked if the Punjab chief minister is acting under pressure from the BJP-led Central government.“You are speaking BJP’s language. Are you forging a friendship with the BJP or is there some kind of pressure on you because the enforcement directorate (ED) has filed a case against your family members and sent notices to them?” Kejriwal said. The Punjab CM hit back at his Delhi counterpart, accusing him of stooping to low level politics and indulging in brazen double-speak.On Tuesday, Singh hit out at the AAP saying they had exhibited “shocking double standards on the farmers’ protests” by “shamelessly implementing the draconian farm law in the middle of the crisis while pretending to be standing with he farmers. Kejriwal said it is no longer up to the states now to choose whether they want to implement these laws or not. “Had the onus lied on the states then why would farmers from across the country come to Delhi to protest? They would demand withdrawal of these laws from their respective state governments. No state government can stop these laws,” he said.“Captain Singh is aware of these facts and he still levelled these false allegations on me. Ever since the Delhi government denied to grant permission to turn the city’s 9 stadiums into temporary jails for the protesting farmers, the BJP-led Central government has been very angry with me,” Kejriwal said. “But the Delhi government did not give permission for this. There was a lot of pressure on me to approve the proposal of the Delhi Police to make these temporary jails. But many a times life throws such situations on us when we listen to our conscience without fearing the consequences,” Kejriwal said.The Punjab CM trashed the claim by Kejriwal and said that it the AAP leader, “whose survival depended on the central government”, was more worried about angering the central government than about the plight of the farmers. The Punjab CM also lambasted Kejriwal for allegedly misleading the people on the committee formed by the central government last year on agricultural reforms. “Not once were these black laws discussed or even mentioned in the committee,” said Amarinder. ”It is evident that Kejriwal is only playing to the sentiments of the farmers now because his party has completely lost the political narrative in Punjab, where AAP has its eyes on the 2022 assembly elections,” Amarinder said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-amarinder-singh-slug-it-out-over-new-farm-bills/story-p3exBUMI2MnzJoBxGZenzL.html
03-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest highlights: Madhya Pradesh farmers head to Delhi to join protests against farm laws||The talks held between the central government and the farmer groups on Tuesday regarding the three new agricultural laws failed to reach a logical conclusion. A second meeting will be held on Thursday as farmers from Punjab and Haryana continued their protests for over six days. Right after Tuesday’s meet which lasted for three hours, Union agricultural minister Narendra Singh Tomar said that Centre suggested setting up a five-member panel to further understand the issues raised by the famers, but it was rejected by the leaders of 35 farmer groups. They said that such committees have led to no results and outcomes in the past. “We had a detailed discussion. We will again meet on December 3. We suggested to them to form a small committee, but they said they all will be present in the meeting. So, we agreed to that,” Tomar had said. Meanwhile, Delhi Traffic Police on Thursday morning said that the Chilla border, situated on Noida-link road has been closed for traffic movement due to protests near Gautam Budh Dwar. It added that people were advised to avoid Noida-link road for going to Noida and use NH-24 and DND instead. Follow live updates on farmers’ agitation here: Madhya Pradesh farmers to join protests in Delhi opposing farm lawsFarmers from Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh left for Delhi today to join the ongoing protests against the centre’s farm laws, reports PTI. MP farmers have left for the national capital, with the union minister for agriculture Narendra Singh Tomar set to meet with the leaders of the already protesting farmers’ unions tomorrow. Farm laws in farmers’ interest, government ready to address concerns: Agriculture ministerNarendra Singh Tomar has appealed to the farmers that the centre’s farm laws were in the interest of the farmers and that the government has implemented them after a long wait. He further assured that the government is ready to address the objections and concerns of the farmers regarding the laws, reports ANI.Agriculture minister assures talks with farmers tomorrowMinister of agriculture and farmer welfare Narendra Singh Tomar has said that the central government will hold talks with the farmers tomorrow. “Let’s see to what extent issues can be resolved,” he said, as quoted by ANI. The government had earlier agreed to meet and discuss with protesting farmer unions on December 3, about the farm bills.Krantikari Kisan Union demands special parliament session to repel farm lawsDarshan Pal, president of the Krantikari Kisan Union has demanded that the central government should convene a special parliament session to repel the farm laws, reports ANI.Centre didn’t invite UP, Uttarakhand farmers for talks on Tuesday, says farmers organisationSardar VM Singh, convenor of All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee had said that the farmers from Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand weren’t invited for talks with the government on Tuesday, despite assembling in Burari after the Home minister’s appeal.He further said that the committee has spoken with leader of Bharatiya Kisan Union and they “are together in this struggle,” reports ANI.Apex transport body calls for nationwide strike in support of farmersSupply of essential goods might potentially be hit , as the All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) has called for a strike in support of the farmers’ protests. AIMTC president Kultaran Singh Atwal has said that all vehicles would be stopped in north Indian states and Union Territories if the centre doesn’t comply with the farmers’ demand.AIMTC represents roughly 10 million truck drivers and a statement from the body said that nearly 65 percent of the trucks carry farm goods and produce. Police use water cannons on Punjab Youth Congress workers marching to Haryana CM’s residence Punjab Youth Congress workers jumped over barricades in their march to Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s residence. Police tried to disband the protestors using water cannons and several others were taken into preventive custody.The protestors marched against the Haryana government for stopping the ‘Delhi Chalo’ farmers’ march, reports news agency PTI.Police remove barricades at Delhi-Noida border The carriageway from Delhi to Noida at Chilla border has been opened after protesting farmers agreed to shift themselves on the other carriageway going towards Delhi from Noida.Manish Tewari urges Centre to urgently convene winter session of ParlCongress MP Manish Tewari on Wednesday urged the Union government to convene the winter session of Parliament as soon as possible to resolve farmers issues along with rising Covid-19 cases in the country and Chinese incursion. “Farmers have besieged Delhi, Economy is officially in recession, Chinese continues to encroach upon over 1000 square kilometres of our land, COVID cases are at 95 lakhs with 1.38 lakhs dead in 8 months. GOVT NEEDS TO CONVENE THE WINTER SESSION OF PARLIAMENT ASAP WITHOUT DELAY,” he tweeted. Legal notice served to Kanagana over ‘misidentifying’ Shaheen Bagh activist Bilkis BanoA Punjab-based lawyer sent a notice to actor Kangana Ranaut over the alleged misidentification of an old woman at the ongoing farmers’ protest as Shaheen Bagh activist Bilkis Bano. Advocate Harkam Singh suggested Ranaut should have authenticated information before posting it on social media and demanded an apology over her tweets where she allegedly misidentified the woman. Rahul Gandhi fires ‘suit boot’ jibe at CentreCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday once again slammed the central government over the ongoing farmers’ protest. Taking to twitter, Gandhi said, “ “What the government said: farmers’ income will be doubled. What the government did: increased income of its cronies four times and will halve farmers’ income. This is a government of lies and a ‘suit-boot’ government.”Tikri border along with two other borders closed for traffic movement: Delhi Traffic PoliceThe Delhi Traffic Police also said Tikri border, Jharoda Border, Jhatikra Border are closed for any traffic movement adding that Badusarai Border is open only for two-wheeler traffic. Chilla border on Noida-link road closed for traffic due to protestsThe Delhi Traffic Police on Thursday morning said that the Chilla border, situated on Noida-link road has been closed for traffic movement due to protests near Gautam Budh Dwar. It added that people were advised to avoid Noida-link road for going to Noida and use NH-24 and DND instead, reports ANI.  The Chilla border on Noida-link road is closed for traffic due to farmers protests near Gautam Budh Dwar. People are advised to avoid Noida-link road for going to Noida and use NH-24 and DND instead for Noida: Delhi Traffic Police#FarmerProtest pic.twitter.com/wnAx3S9n7UNorthern Railway cancels few trains amid ongoing protestsThe Northern Railway on Wednesday morning cancelled/short terminated/short-originated/diverted a few trains due to the protests being carried out by farmers of Punjab. The 09613 Ajmer-Amritsar express special train has been cancelled along with 09612 Amritsar - Ajmer special train. The 05211 Dibrugarh- Amritsar express special train commencing on December 3 will remain cancelled. Consequently, the 05212 Amritsar - Dibrugarh will remain cancelled too. SAD alleges ‘failure’ of talks part of Centre’s attempts to tire farmersThe Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Tuesday blamed the Centre for failure of talks on Tuesday alleging that it was prolonging and deepening the deliberation process in order to tire the farmers out, according to an official release. The SAD added that Tuesday’s meeting was the Centre’s refusal to focus on specific demands of farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates/story-KfDN1fQytvP2MQht7MkK8H.html
