05-12-2020||News||China is using Tibet’s waters against India | Analysis||Last week, China announced plans to build a “super dam” on the lower reaches of the Yarlung Zangbo river close to the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Tibet. Originating in the so-called Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR), the trans-border river flows into Arunachal Pradesh where it is called Siang, and then to Assam as Brahmaputra before flowing into Bangladesh and draining into the Bay of Bengal.The timing of the announcement can be linked to the ongoing border tensions, which is rooted in China’s refusal to acknowledge the McMahon Line. Instead, Beijing claims 90,000 square kilometres in India’s Arunachal Pradesh as Southern Tibet (Nan Zang). China’s aggression has been increasing in the Ladakh and Sikkim sectors. Now, the building of a dam so close to LAC in Arunachal Pradesh also underlines China’s strategic intent: To question India’s territorial integrity.Last month, Global Times, the government’s mouthpiece, reported that the proposed dam would be constructed in Metok (Medog), the last county of TAR. According to the plan, the dam will be constructed 30 kilometres from the Indian border. The decision follows announcements made in the 14th Five Year Plan, which sets the government’s agenda till 2025. The plan states that China will “implement hydropower development in the lower reaches of the Yarlung Tsangpo River”. This dam is one of the three dams that have been proposed for the region.According to Jiandao, which comprises media professionals, analysts and technical experts: “The Motok hydropower station will use the 50 km straight section of the river bend to build a giant tunnel to divert water, and then lay out 6 large hydropower stations each with an installed capacity of 10 million kilowatts. There is a 400-meter drop between each power station, with a total drop of up to 2,400 meters”.The new dam’s ability to generate hydropower could be three times that of the Three Gorges Dam, which has the largest installed hydropower capacity in the world. Yan Zhiyong, chairman of PowerChina, said recently that the dam could provide 300 billion kWh of zero-carbon electricity annually.India, the lower riparian country, has every reason to be alarmed.The Brahmaputra is an important river for the country. In the past, many incidents over the river inside the Indian boundary have been attributed to China’s designs against India. These include the increase in turbidity and blackening of waters in Siang, temporary stoppage of data sharing by China over the high season flows as per the China-India memorandum of understanding during the Doklam standoff (2017), and news of a series of check dams being constructed along the Tibetan boundary.Experts have also warned India about China’s designs.“For India, the one domain in which China’s status as the ‘upper riparian’ provides an almost insurmountable challenge is in ensuring shared access to transboundary rivers. And as the recent clashes on the Sino-Indian border have made clear, India needs to assess how China might “weaponise” its advantage over those countries downstream. Control over these rivers effectively gives China a chokehold on India’s economy,” a Lowy Institute report said in July.In Water Wars: The Brahmaputra River and Sino Indian Relations, Mark Christopher warns: “China’s commitment to construct ever-larger upriver dams reflects a zero-sum mentality on water use that has the potential to bring it directly into conflict with India. Further downstream, the actions of both countries affect Bangladesh”. The management of the river is critical because it touches on a host of crucial and complicated issues, including territorial integrity, food security, international law, the intersection of domestic and foreign policy, and the asymmetric power of neighbouring states with huge populations and great aspirations.The super hydropower station is being planned with one aim: To equip China with strategic leverage over India. Such huge water storage capacity could be used as a tool for consolidating supremacy in the disputed territories. India should be aware that the Yarlung Zangbo-Brahmaputra dam issue is not just about resource management; China is using Tibet’s waters to further its territorial ambitions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/china-is-using-tibet-s-waters-against-india/story-F80hWeMRt1JMTCUSIlSduJ.html
05-12-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Three UP residents held for drug peddling, 57K banned pills seized||Three Uttar Pradesh residents were arrested with 57,700 banned tablets on Friday.The accused are Arshad, Mohammad Imran and Farman, of Meerut. Khanna senior superintendent of police (SSP) Gursharandeep Singh Grewal said the accused were arrested at a checkpoint at the national highway near Doraha. Imran, who owns a chemist’s shop in Uttar Pradesh, said they were trying to smuggle the consignment to Jalandhar.A case was lodged against the accused under different sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-three-up-residents-held-for-drug-peddling-57k-banned-pills-seized/story-LNNEjkkFc15SQ5kJjn0uRJ.html
05-12-2020||Chandigarh||Three lives snuffed out in two separate road mishaps in Ludhiana||Three people lost their lives in two separate road mishaps on Friday evening and Saturday morning.In the first incident, two people died after an SUV hit a Maruti Suzuki Alto at Sua Road, behind Keys Hotel on Friday night. Assistant sub-inspector Harmesh Kumar said one of the victims Ramesh Kumar, 36, was a tea -stall owner. Kumar was attending to a customer in the Alto. Just as he was serving tea, a speeding Toyota Innova rammed into the vehicle dragging the car and Ramesh to at least 50 metres. Kumar died on the spot while the occupant of the Alto was rushed to the hospital, where he succumbed. He is yet to be identified. Kumar’s relatives said the SUV driver was in an inebriated state. The driver was able to escape and an investigation is on to trace the accused. 50-year-old man crushed under tractor-trolley In another accident, a 50-year-old man was crushed under his own tractor trolley on Pakhowal Road. The victim, Ram Sharan, 50, worked as a driver for an LPG cylinder supplying agency in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar Colony at Pakhowal Road.The ASI said Sharan was driving the trolley containing LPG cylinders to a godown in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar When he reached outside Sterling resort, on Pakhowal road, he suddenly fell off the trolley and wa scrushed under the tyres. The trolly stopped on its own, 100m away from the spot. The ASI said it is suspected that Sharan had suffered a heart attack, which caused him to fall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-lives-snuffed-out-in-two-separate-road-mishaps-in-ludhiana/story-BUTgPj5nmDs5gmw2nIeeeL.html
05-12-2020||Chandigarh||Sports associations to conduct social audit of devp projects in Ludhiana||Punjab cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Saturday said that social audit of sports projects in the city will be mandatory.Monitoring committees which will comprise members of various sports associations will be formed to oversee the projects, he added.The decision was taken during the meeting conducted by cabinet minister Ashu, mayor Balkar Sandhu, MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal and deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma regarding the development projects with members of different sports associations at Bachat Bhawan on Saturday. The sports associations had earlier raised concern that their non-involvement while taking up development projects will result in the establishment of white elephants like the indoor stadium on Pakhowal road. The meeting was organised to get their suggestions/objections regarding the projects being taken up by MC under Smart City Mission. Representatives of sports associations including swimming, sports, hockey, basketball, weightlifting, martial arts and football took part. The projects which were discussed include transforming the open basketball courts at Guru Nanak Stadium (project cost Rs 9.42 crore), upgrading Shastri hall at Guru Nanak stadium (Rs 3.14 crore), developing an all weather swimming pool near Rakh Bagh (Rs 5.77 crore), developing a sports park in Jainpur (Rs 50 crores) and repairing astroturf, hockey stadium and a cycling velodrome (cycling track) at PAU. Also, a new table tennis court is coming up near Rakh Bagh, the architectural layout for which has been prepared. The members, including Hockey Olympian Hardeep Singh Grewal and Rajinder Singh from cycling association, said that involvement of sports associations in these projects is a must otherwise there will be many loopholes in the works despite spending a hefty amount. Rajinder said that if the associations are not involved, MC will end up constructing more project like the indoor stadium on Pakhowal road, which is not financially and technically feasible for sports association to use. Members of the weight lifting and martial arts associations said that nothing much has been planned for the development of their respective games.Ashu said, “MC has to float tenders for these projects and this meeting was organised to get suggestions/objections from sports associations as they are aware of the needs of athletes. Their feedback will be incorporated by MC team and consultants, following which the projects will be taken up. More meetings will be held in the coming time to develop infrastructure in the city for all games/sports.”Jainpur sports park to have international level facilities: Ashu During the meeting, there was a detailed discussion on the construction of the sports park in Jainpur area (1.5 kms from Ayali Khurd bridge on Sidhwan Canal). It is being established over an area of 32 acres at a cost of around Rs 50 crore. The land was earlier being used as a garbage dump.The sports park will have playgrounds for cricket, football and hockey, as well as an astroturf, Olympic-sized swimming pool, Olympic-sized football ground along with a synthetic athletics track, four acrylic basketball courts, four lawn tennis astroturf courts, three Olympic-sized volleyball courts, four lane outdoor archery range, 50m indoor shooting range, six badminton courts, two squash courts, two boxing rings, four table tennis tables, two wrestling rings and a weightlifting complex. Also, there will be a 3.5-km long and 15-feet wide cycling and pedestrian track. Besides this, the sports park will have a club area with refreshment lounge, children zone and yoga pavilion.Ashu said that the sports park will also have the first parkour park of the state. Apart from providing the sports facilities, focus will also be on promoting solar energy and encouraging cycling among the visitors, he added. Cycle on rent facility will also be provided at the park, Ashu said. 13-km long cycling track proposedWith rising demand for cycling tracks in the city, the district administration has proposed a 13-km long cycling track alongside Ladhowal Bypass. Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma has forwarded the proposal to the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI).During the meeting, a discussion was also held to upgrade the cycling velodrome at PAU. Cyclist Rajinder Singh submitted a suggestion that rather than spending more on the existing velodrome, MC should establish a new structure.Singh said that the length of existing velodrome is 333.33 metres, however, it should be 250 metres as per international standards. Ashu said that MC will conduct a meeting with cycling association regarding the same in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sports-associations-to-conduct-social-audit-of-devp-projects-in-ludhiana/story-bhxzzCb71CuESxtcr2EJiP.html
05-12-2020||Chandigarh||Taken in by promise of expensive gifts, Ludhiana woman duped of ₹1.4 lakh||A woman was duped of ₹1.4 lakh by a prospective suitor who asked her pay the amount to the customs department in order to clear an expensive gift sent to her from New York. Two of the accused have been identified as Ranbir Singh and Rustom of Maa Shimla Homes, Kharar.The victim, Jaspreet Kaur, 34, of Rajguru Nagar, said she had met the accused, who called himself Chetan Bhagat and said he stayed in New York, on a matrimonial site. Bhagat said he wanted to come visit her and was also bringing an expensive present for her. Later, he told the complainant that all flights had been cancelled due to the pandemic but he had sent a parcel containing a valuable gift and she should get it cleared from the customs department. A few days later, Kaur received a phone call from a woman claiming to be a customs officer who asked her to deposit ₹1.4 lakh in an account as custom fee to clear the parcel. When Kaur deferred to Bhagat, he asked her to pay the fee and promised to return the sum after her returned to India. When Bhagat stopped responding to her messages and she did not receive any parcel, she realised she had been conned and filed a police complaint. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, investigation) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti said the accounts to which the money had been transferred to belonged to Rambir and Rustom and a search was on to nab them. She said it was possible that the crime had been committed by an organised gang that has duped several other people. A case was registered under Section 420 (cheating) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal appealed people to not share their bank details, PIN Code and other details with anybody. He also appealed people to send complaints pertaining to cyber crimes to cp.ldh.police@punjab.gov.in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/taken-in-by-promise-of-expensive-gifts-ludhiana-woman-duped-of-1-4-lakh/story-NEUsA63OnzxHx0yqY9GQ4I.html
05-12-2020||Kolkata||‘Sycophants are given importance’: Another TMC minister shows signs of disgruntlement||A day after Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee sent a stern warning to rebels within the ruling party in West Bengal, a minister of her cabinet showed signs of disgruntlement on Saturday. “Whenever I tried to prove my competence and skill, I was relegated to the back seat. I don’t know what happened. Corrupt leaders, liars and those who do not enjoy the confidence of people are being brought to the forefront just because they are sycophants,” said Rajib Banerjee, state forest minister, who is known for his clean image.He is the second minister of the TMC-ruled government to express his dissatisfaction. Earlier, state transport minister and TMC heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari had resigned from his posts and launched a veiled challenged at the TMC leadership, widening his rift with the party. “It hurts me when I see that those who have the competence and dexterity and are working on ground standing amidst people are not given any importance. Instead, those sitting in AC chambers and thinking that they would be able to fool the people are occupying the front seats,” he added. This is, however, not the first time that Rajib Banerjee has spoken out against corruption. Earlier this year, he had said the party’s drive against in-house corruption should be aimed at not only ‘’small fries’’ but also against ‘’big fish’’. A senior minister, however, hit out at Banerjee, accusing him of echoing BJP’s stance. Also read: ‘BJP out again to topple my govt,’ alleges Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot“This is the age of sycophants. But people don’t like these things. People elect their political leaders with many aspirations. But when they see that the leader is a sycophant, they refuse to accept him. Some people are not being able to feel the pulse of the people,” he said, adding that if leaders think people are fools then they are living in a fool’s paradise. Even as the TMC is desperately trying to fix the chinks in its armour, more gaps are appearing with one after another leader speaking out against the party. “Those who have minimum self-respect left within them, will not be able to work in the TMC. It is because in the TMC party, only those who hail from a particular house in Kalighat are allowed to become leaders. The rest who gave their sweat and blood will always remain as employees,” said Dilip Ghosh, president of the BJP’s Bengal unit. Earlier while Mihir Goswami, a TMC MLA had switched over to the BJP, Silbhadra Dutta another TMC MLA from Barrackpore lashed out against poll strategist Prashant Kishor’s team without naming it. Kishor was roped in by the TMC leadership after the BJP made some impressive gains in the 2019 elections. BJP leaders have already named at least seven MPs and MLAs, claiming that it is just a matter of time before the lawmakers from the ruling Trinamool Congress in West Bengal resign from the party and join the BJP.“Mamata Banerjee has sent a loud and clear message to all rebels within the party. If they need to stay within the party they will have to work for the party. Those speaking against the party will not be tolerated. She, however, didn’t name any leader,” said a senior TMC leader who attended the virtual meeting held by Banerjee with TMC leaders from across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/sycophants-are-given-importance-another-tmc-minister-shows-signs-of-disgruntlement/story-dVEpgFlDQGp4d3YTcsl8kI.html
05-12-2020||Gurugram||GMDA to develop Gurugram’s first parking app||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) is planning to develop the city’s first dedicated app for parking that will allow residents to find the nearest parking lot, know the number of parking spots available, and to book parking spots in advance, said officials on Saturday. In October, GMDA had directed the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), Public Works Department (PWD), and Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) to survey vacant plots in their respective jurisdictions with the aim of potentially converting them into park lots. As per GMDA officials privy to the matter, the departments have submitted a list of at least 80 such sites for this purpose and the geographic information system (GIS) mapping of the same has been initiated.GMDA officials said that sites which would be finalised for parking purposes would subsequently be uploaded in this app under development, which would help residents to know vital details such as the parking lot closest to their current location and the total number of available parking spaces in each site, along with providing them with the option of advance booking. Further, the app will also reflect key information such as a city-wide standard parking fare under GMDA’s parking policy to ensure that the parking contractors are not overcharging residents while the digital issuance of parking tickets will ensure that all revenue is accounted for and the possibilities of embezzlement of funds are minimised.“We have received relevant details of vacant plots for the purpose of turning them into parking lots from various public departments. The process of finalising the sites is in the process. Simultaneously, we are also working on developing an app that would reflect all key details under a single window, allowing residents to avail parking facilities in the city seamlessly,” said a GMDA official privy to the matter.Officials further said that all existing government parking lots would also be integrated into the app and showcase all aforementioned relevant details.In a city of more than 20 lakh residents, there are only 15 sanctioned HSVP parking lots, and a solitary multilevel parking in Sector 29. Therefore, parking remains a major crisis in the city. Many residents opt to use the main carriageway or service lanes near markets, malls, and eateries to park their vehicles illegally which often results in snarls especially in areas such as MG Road, Galleria Market, Sohna Road, and Golf Course Road.“Parking apps have now been developed in many cities across the country. The objective of such parking apps is to ensure that the parking demand does not exceed more than the total supply. The app should not be limited to being an information tool but also highlight the exact points where the sanctioned parking lots are situated. This can be achieved via GPS navigation to ensure that commuters do not end up parking in unauthorised areas,” said Sewa Ram, an urban transport system design expert and a faculty member at the School of Planning and Architecture (SPA). “Further, all the city’s sanctioned parking should be linked and integrated in such a manner that it automatically directs a commuter to the nearest parking lot when the demand for a particular parking lot is nearing its total capacity,” he said. He further said that the app should also display commonly known illegal or unauthorised parking areas to caution commuters in advance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gmda-to-develop-gurugram-s-first-parking-app/story-DQEhNH5oE8rZAflPfeHiTI.html
05-12-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram records less than 400 Covid-19 cases for the first time in over a month||At least 394 new Covid-19 infections were confirmed in the district on Saturday taking the tally to 51,840, according to the district health bulletin. This is the first time in the last 38 days that Gurugram has recorded less than 400 new Covid-19 infections in a single day. Senior health officials attribute the decline in the new Covid-19 cases over the last one week to the aggressive testing conducted across the city. On Saturday, more than over 10,000 tests were conducted in the district.Data shows that on October 28, the district health department had identified 397 new cases. Since then, there has been a consistent upward trend in new infections. The slump in new cases, however, became visible from November 29 onwards with daily average cases hovering around 460 — far lower than the 726 daily average cases in the first half of November. The weekly test positivity rate — total positives out of the samples collected for testing — has come down to nearly seven percent from almost 18 percent recorded in the first half of November. The test positivity rate along with a high recovery rate in the last one week has also led to a decline in the number of active cases, which have been reduced to 3,792 from 6,367 recorded on November 28. “A significant increase in testing in the last two weeks has helped in lowering the positivity rate,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer(CMO). On Saturday, a total 10,002 Covid-19 tests were administered. Of which 8,625 were Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR). It is for the third time that the district health department conducted more than 10,000 Covid-19 tests. On November 21, at least 10,200 tests were carried out, followed by 25,101 tests on November 28. In the last two weeks, at least 1,06,659 tests have been conducted, almost 40 percent higher than the cumulative sum of 64,135 tests conducted in the previous two weeks (from November 8 till November 21). “Regular testing camps and increased RT-PCR have helped in identifying new cases. On Saturday too, 21 camps were being held. Daily testing will continue to remain above 5,000 until there is a further downfall,” said Yadav, The decline in new cases has also led to the downfall in seriously ill patients requiring hospitalisation. As per the health bulletin, 262 people were admitted in hospitals. It exceeded above 400 in November. Presently, out of the active cases, at least 3,515 positive patients are home-isolated. The Covid-19 toll stands at 314 with four deaths on Saturday, out of which 243 were due to co-morbidity and 71 without co-morbidity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-records-less-than-400-covid-19-cases-for-the-first-time-in-over-a-month/story-lzH0a4amaO5q2QZn8T8vnM.html
05-12-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram doctors to protest against decision to allow Ayurveda practitioners to perform surgery||Over 400 doctors in Gurugram are likely to withdraw all non-essential and non-Covid-related services and hold demonstration for two days next week as part of a nationwide protest by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) against the Central Council of Indian Medicine’s (CCIM) decision to allow Ayurveda practitioners perform surgeries.On November 19, a notification was issued by the Ayush ministry on the amendments made to the Indian Medicine Central Council (PG Ayurveda Education) Regulations, 2016 that allowed postgraduate students of Ayurveda to practice general surgery. The new amendments allow Ayurveda postgraduates to get trained in 58 surgical procedures, such as ophthalmology, orthopedics, dental procedures, among others. It also permits them to perform the surgeries after the completion of their degrees.Opposing the move, the Gurugram chapter of IMA will be holding a protest on December 8 and will withdraw non-essential OPD services on December 11. “Following the safety guidelines in the wake of Covid-19, the protest will be held in groups of 20 people each across different locations from 12 noon till 2pm on December 8. Likewise, OPD services (non-essential and non-Covid) will be withdrawn from 6am till 6pm on December 11. All emergency services including the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) will be functional,” said Dr Ajay Gupta, secretary, IMA, Gurugram.According to the statement issued by the IMA, the CCIM’s decision on postgraduate Ayurveda surgery and the entitlement to study and practice medicine independently can be seen as another step in advancing legitimising “mixopathy” of medical science.Dr Rajan Sharma, national president, IMA, called it a mixopathy practice, and said, “We are not against any particular stream of medicine. But the move by CCIM in the Covid-19 times to mix the streams is not justified. Doctors go through years of rigorous training and continue to get trained even after finishing their education.”He said that at least 674 doctors across the country have died this year while treating Covid-19 cases. “The move by the government is a mockery of their contribution to the society,” he added.The Ayush ministry, however, in its official statement issued on November 22 clarified that there is no ‘mixing’ of Ayurveda with conventional (modern) medicine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-doctors-to-protest-against-decision-to-allow-ayurveda-practitioners-to-perform-surgery/story-VpKCsAJWAyJ6Azuw2q2kON.html
05-12-2020||Noida||Covid crisis: Recovery rate crosses 95% in GB Nagar||NOIDA: With 22,040 cured Covid-19 positive cases out of an overall tally of 23,170 on Friday, the recovery rate of Gautam Budh Nagar district has gone up to 95.12%. Not only that, even the case fatality rate (CFR) in the district has been maintained below 0.40% for the past three months, shows the data from the state health department. According to the data, among the districts having over 23,000 positive cases in Uttar Pradesh, only Prayagraj has better recovery rate of 95.93% than that of GB Nagar. In terms of case fatality rate (CFR), GB Nagar’s CFR of 0.35% is the best among the seven districts having over 20,000 cases. Among the districts of Meerut division, GB Nagar’s CFR of 0.35% (83 deaths among 23,170 cases) is the lowest. While Ghaziabad’s CFR is 0.39% (93 in 23,551), Baghpat has 1.52% (30 deaths in 1,968 cases), Bulandshahr 1.54% (86 in 5,580), Hapur 1.62% (64 in 3,948) and Meerut has CFR of 2.10% (412 in 19,590). GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said that early and timely tracking and providing adequate treatment are the main goals before the administration. “Despite having adequate beds for Covid-19 patients, all private and government hospitals have been asked to increase the number of beds in their intensive care units (ICU) and high dependency units (HDU),” he said. The DM also said that further spread of viral infection can’t be ruled out. “But, our focus is on reducing the number of deaths and curing the maximum number of infected patients possible on time. For that, we have adapted the ‘tracking, testing and treating’ methodology in which we are ensuring maximum contact tracing, testing nearly 4,000 people every day and treating infected patients as per symptoms. While recovery rate in GB Nagar has gone over 95%, the case fatality rate (CFR) is only 0.35%, which is much better than the state’s overall CFR of 1.43%,” Suhas said. District chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said that to avert any chance of surge, the health department has increased the contact tracing and testing, especially in high-risk areas, from where more cases are being reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/covid-crisis-recovery-rate-crosses-95-in-gb-nagar/story-Lc6oI7eY97rvHYzImUAVQO.html
05-12-2020||Noida||UP launches app to help residents locate nearest Covid-19 testing centre||Ghaziabad: The UP government on Saturday launched a mobile app -- Mera Covid Kendra -- which will help residents locate the nearest Covid testing centre. The app was launched by UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath in Lucknow. The state health department officials said that the app will locate the nearest centres within 5km radius and user will be able to know the exact location through the maps. They further said that anyone using a computer or a laptop can also view the list of all such Covid-19 testing centres in any district by going to the website link: http://dgmhup.gov.in/en/CovidTestCenter The app has a list of 13 Covid-19 testing centres each in Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar districts, along with their locations. The officials said that the testing centres added with location to the app are the static centres and not the mobile testing booths. “Till now, residents were finding it difficult to locate the exact location of the nearest testing centre. With the launch of the app, they will now be able to track testing centres. We also expect that more people will arrive for testing now,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate of Ghaziabad.After launching the app, CM Yogi said, “When we started fight against Covid, we were lacking Covid testing facilities. Initially, we were doing only 72 tests per day. But with coordination of all departments, we are now conducting 1.5 to 1.75 lakh tests per day. And, these tests include 40% tests conducted by RT-PCR method and not just through the rapid antigen kits,” . “We have also completed two crore tests now and it is all because of efforts by various departments, healthcare workers who have worked continuously even during the holidays. The World Health Organisation has also appreciated our efforts in Covid management. It is due to our efforts that we have been able to launch the app which will immensely help citizens,” he added. The officials of the state health department said that the state has conducted a present total of 201,28,312 tests till December 5. “We have launched the app which will help residents track the nearest testing centre. This is another initiative on part of the government to make available a citizen-centric system to the people. With the help of this app, anyone in 75 districts of the state will be able to locate nearest testing centre where Covid-19 testing will be free of cost. These testing centres will be operational from 10am to 4pm,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s additional chief secretary (health). “Previously, we made available facility to citizens to view their test reports online. This facility has been used by about 30 lakh people so far,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/up-launches-app-to-help-residents-locate-nearest-covid-19-testing-centre/story-dLDvk6DiKQWSvDwOPg2k7H.html
05-12-2020||Noida||Farmers block Delhi to Noida carriageway too at Chilla border||Noida: A group of protesting farmers on Saturday morning blocked the Delhi-Noida side of the road at Chilla border. The Noida-Delhi side at the border has been blocked by the farmers for the past five days. According to a farmers’ leader, they have completely blocked both the carriageways at Chilla border as some farmers coming from western UP were stopped at Jewar toll plaza. Police said that the farmers were trying to march towards Delhi and they were stopped to maintain law and order situation. The Noida police and Delhi police have placed barricades on both sides and diverted traffic to DND Flyway, Kalindi Kunj and Dadri-Surajpur-Chhalera (DSC) road. According to police officials, the police are trying not to let large gathering at one spot in order to manage the crowd.The farmers from districts like Gautam Budh Nagar, Etah, Mainpuri, Firozabad, and Bulandshahr, on their way to Delhi to protest the Centre’s new farm laws, had been stopped at the Chilla border on December 1. They have set up camps since then, and continued to stay there. “We had blocked Noida-Delhi road on December 1 against the farm bills. But the police strategically blocked different roads leading to Chilla border. In our support, about 200 farmers in tractors and cars from western UP were coming to Chilla border on Saturday. But they were stopped by police at Jewar toll plaza. We asked the police officials to allow the farmers to reach the Chilla border. But the police did not agree and in retaliation, the farmers blocked the Delhi-Noida side too,” said Vikas Gurjar, UP vice-president, Bharatiya Kisan Union-Bhanu. Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Zone 1, said that the police personnel are deployed at the spot to maintain law and order. “The farmers were trying to march towards Delhi in the morning. The Delhi police set up barricades and blocked the road on Delhi-Noida side. The Noida-Delhi road has already been blocked for five days. We are holding meetings with farmers to end this deadlock,” he said. Reshma Rana, BKU-Bhanu spokesperson, has come from Meerut to participate in the protest. “We demand the government to withdraw the farm bills. In many cases, the farmers are not able to get even their investment after selling their crops. I grow sugarcane. I sell the produce at the government mills and the bills are not cleared even after one year. A number of farmers commit suicide due to financial instability,” she said. At the protest site, there were some farmers who had lost their family members due to heavy debt. Devendra Singh, a resident of Muzaffarnagar, said that his 46-year-old brother committed suicide in August this year after he failed to clear loans. “My brother Pritam Singh had planted sugarcane in 16 acres after taking loans. He did not get sufficient money after selling the harvest, and failed to return Rs 3 lakh loan. The bank started charging penalty. He remained depressed for a few months and one day he hanged himself,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/farmers-block-delhi-to-noida-carriageway-too-at-chilla-border/story-PRYhfiZAYdTFdZBXW3kBDO.html
05-12-2020||Noida||More farmers arrive at UP Gate protest site||Ghaziabad: As the crucial talks between the government and the farmers’ leaders started on Saturday afternoon in Delhi, the gathering at the UP Gate swelled further as around 200 more farmers arrived there on Saturday evening. Besides, hundreds of farmers also gathered at Loni and tried to proceed to Delhi on Saturday evening, the police said. On Saturday, a total of around 1,000 farmers were on a sit-in at the UP Gate.The farmers said that their protests have entered tenth day and the fifth round of talks between the farmers’ leaders and the government were going on in Delhi’s Vigyan Bhawan to break the deadlock over the Centre’s new farm laws. “Hundreds of more farmers arrived to show support to our protest. Most of them have arrived from Uttarakhand, UP and even Madhya Pradesh. The talks are on with the government and there is no decision as of now (till Saturday evening). When our leaders come from Delhi, they will brief us about Saturday’s development,” said Rajvir Singh, state vice-president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU). The farmers, however, said that they did not want amendments to the new laws but want them rolled back entirely. “We have heard that the talks will continue on December 9. There has been a ‘Bharat Bandh’ call on December 8 as well, and we will continue our protest till the demands are met,” Singh said. The protests were initially held by BKU supporters below the UP Gate flyover where the farmers have parked their tractor-trolleys and have also set up kitchens. However, on Saturday, the protests have shifted almost entirely to the upper portion of the UP Gate after the farmers blocked the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway of National Highway-9 on Thursday morning. The blockade continued on Saturday as well and likely to continue further. “Most of the farmers are now sitting in protest at the highway which is blocked. We are listening to speeches of our leaders at the site. We all are here to press for our demands of roll-back of the new bills. Other issues related to electricity and minimum support price should also be resolved,” said Sandeep Chaudhary, one of the protesters. Far away from the UP Gate, hundreds of farmers on Saturday evening also tried to proceed to Delhi from Pushta police post on Delhi-Saharanpur Road in Loni. The farmers had come from neighbouring districts like Baghpat and arrived in their tractor-trolleys to galvanise support.Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural), said, “The farmers were trying to move to Delhi but they were stopped near Loni border. It is likely that they will return back to their districts. In case they wish to proceed in orderly manner, we will allow them passage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/more-farmers-arrive-at-up-gate-protest-site/story-lpu6MROcHcswdQscNvKmNN.html
05-12-2020||Noida||UP Congress chief arrives to support protesters at UP Gate, farmers oppose||Ghaziabad: As the farmers’ protest entered the eighth day at Ghaziabad’s UP Gate on National Highway-9, the Uttar Pradesh Congress chief, Ajay Kumar Lallu, arrived at the protest site and extended his support to the farmers. However, the farmers opposed the move and said that it is their own fight. The protest at UP Gate is led by the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) whose leaders and supporters have been camping below the UP Gate flyover since November 28 to support the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s new farm bills. The protesting farmers are also joined by their counterparts from Uttarakhand and Punjab, and have also blocked the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway of NH-9. Lallu also participated in a ‘havan’ which was performed by the protesting farmers on NH-9 before their leaders headed for talks with the central government in Delhi on Saturday afternoon. “We are standing with farmers and the government should consider their demands. We oppose the bills brought in by the government. With the ‘havan’, we want that good sense prevails with the government as they are favouring the businessmen,” Lallu said at the protest site on Saturday. “In fact, the farmers are ‘annadata’ (food provider). Those who know how to make government also know how to bring it down. Just wait and watch. The Congress will fight for the farmers in Parliament as well as on roads,” he added. After his short stay at the UP Gate, Lallu left with his supporters. However, the move was opposed by farmers who said that the Congress leaders have come to show concerns when the farmers’ protest has already entered the tenth day. “The Congress leaders came to show their support today. When the Congress government was in power, the Bharatiya Janata Party was saying same things what Lallu was saying today. When their (Congress) government was in power, they did nothing for the implementation of the Swaminathan Committee report,” said Mange Ram Tyagi, chief secretary of the BKU’s NCR unit. “We would have considered their support if they had brought in tractor-trolleys and should have stayed with us in winter chill. We have understood that whichever party is in opposition, they will sympathise with us. So, we will do our good on our own and we will stay here (at the protest site) on our own. They have come to show us their support when our protest has entered the tenth day,” Tyagi added. Meanwhile, the farmers continued their blockade of the highway on Saturday as well. The Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway of NH-9 continued to remain blocked for the third day and no traffic was allowed. After the participating in the ‘havan’ at the protest site, BKU leader and spokesperson Rakesh Tikait tried to proceed to Delhi on a tractor but was prevented by the police from doing so. Later, he was taken to Delhi in a vehicle arranged by the police. “We did a ‘havan’ so that good sense prevails among the government functionaries. Ways will open when people sit together with open heart and positive minds,” Tikait said. The Ghaziabad police continued their deployment on Saturday at the protest site. “Our personnel are deployed and we will continue to keep a close watch on protesters. We are also trying that no disturbing elements join the protest which has so far remained peaceful,” said Gyanendra Singh, superintendent of police (city 2).Interestingly, just several hundred metres from the protest site on the highway, children from nearby locality of Khoda on Saturday arrived and played cricket on the highway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/up-congress-chief-arrives-to-support-protesters-at-up-gate-farmers-oppose/story-LVBQvtKOkixRAuTqis8H5H.html
05-12-2020||Noida||Mercury to rise, expect fog in the morning, says IMD||Mercury soared by four degrees Celsius over the past 24 hours in the city as winds changed direction with the weather department saying that a further rise -- by a degree or more -- may be expected over the next few days. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said since the wind directions have changed from north-westerly to easterly, the temperature has risen, as is the case with such changes. The north-westerly are usually cold as it enters the NCR from the northern mountain regions of Jammu and Kashmir, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh. According to the IMD, the minimum temperature in Noida on Saturday was 14.2 degrees Celsius, a steep climb from the 10.5 degrees Celsius on Friday. The maximum temperature on Saturday was 26.9 degrees Celsius against 27.8 degrees Celsius the day before. The average minimum temperature for entire NCR, as recorded at Safdarjung monitoring station in Delhi, was 11 degrees Celsius on Saturday which is two degrees above the season’s average and a climb-up from the 8 degrees Celsius a day earlier. “The minimum and maximum temperatures will hover around 12 degrees and 28 degrees Celsius, respectively, on Sunday,” said a weather analyst from IMD. Official added that the morning hours will also see shallow to moderate fog in the coming days. “Shallow to moderate fog is likely to obstruct visibility during the morning hours. In shallow fog, the visibility stays between 500 and 1,000 metres and in moderate fog, it dips to between 200 and 500 metres,” the analyst said, on condition of anonymity. According to the weather analysts, however, there is a possibility of another western disturbance– a phenomenon that causes snowfall in the mountains and sometimes rain in NCR – around December 7 and 8. “The western disturbance is likely to cause good snowfall in the upper reaches of Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir on December 7 an 8. The wind directions is likely to change back to north-westerly on or around December 9 which will cause a sharp fall temperature around December 10,” said Mahesh Palawat, director, private weather forecasting agency, Skymet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/mercury-to-rise-expect-fog-in-the-morning-says-imd/story-vWqOKcZCmlviw6axlHTVJO.html
05-12-2020||Lucknow||Yogi govt harassing those expressing solidarity with farmers: Congress||Accusing the Yogi Adityanath government of harassing those who expressed solidarity with the farmers agitating against the Centre’s “black farm laws”, the Congress on Saturday alleged cases has been lodged against its leaders and workers for staging a protest here in September.It said that on September 28, Uttar Pradesh Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu staged a protest at the Parivartan Chowk in Lucknow after which party leaders were taken to Eco Garden, from where all were released the same evening on personal sureties.“The Yogi Adityanath government has lodged cases against 13 Congress leaders, including UPCC president Ajay Kumar Lallu, and 300 unnamed workers for holding a protest in support of farmers in Lucknow on September 28,” the party’s media convenor, Lalan Kumar, who has also been named in the FIR, said.This is another example of the dictatorial attitude of the state government, which is attacking the freedom of expression of the people, Kumar said, adding that he and others came to know of the FIR only on Saturday. He also alleged that it has been filed in “back date”.This move of the state government has agitated party workers and they are in no mood to tolerate this, Kumar said.A police spokesperson said action will be taken against anybody found breaking the law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/yogi-govt-harassing-those-expressing-solidarity-with-farmers-congress/story-LvaODH5t8FvKILFm8t2TkN.html
05-12-2020||Noida||Noida continues to suffer ‘severe’ air quality||Noida and Greater Noida continued to reel under high pollution for the second day in a row with the air quality index remaining in ”severe” category, mostly due to local emissions and poor ventilation. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Saturday, was 414 or ‘severe’, the same category where it was a day earlier. The AQI of Greater Noida was 408 against 415 a day earlier. The air quality of Ghaziabad, was 434 against 440 a day earlier. The AQI between 101 to 200 is considered ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is considered ‘very poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’. Ghaziabad turned out to the most polluted city in the country on Saturday, followed by Kanpur and Bulandshahr.It is to be noted that for the past two days, the smoke from stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana had been negligible, according to the Union government’s pollution monitoring agency System of air quality and weather forecasting and research (Safar). On Saturday, the wind speed dropped from what it was a day earlier, and even though it picked up a little towards the afternoon, the speed was not strong enough to disperse accumulated pollutants in the air. According to the weather analyst, due to the change in wind direction, the speed had dropped on Saturday and the region is likely to suffer toxic air quality for the next few days until it either rains or wind picks up speed. A western disturbance is expected in the upper reaches of Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh around December 7-8 and, consequently, the wind is expected to pick up speed around December 10. There will be a slight improvement in air quality with the AQI remaining either in severe category or improving slightly to the very poor category over the next 24-hours. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the wind direction currently is easterly and south-easterly which are usually of low speed. “The average wind speed in some parts of the Delhi-NCR cities was good. On average, the wind speed was around 4kmph, against 6kmph on Friday. This is the reason that the pollutants remained in the air,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. He said while the wind speed may rise slightly in some areas, the speed would remain around 5kmph on Sunday, though a slight rise in temperature may improve the ventilation.The fine particles or PM2.5 level also remained four to five times high than the safe limit of 60 microgrammes per cubic metres. PM2.5 for past 24 hours in Noida was 279.54 microgrammes per cubic metres, against 285.13 microgrammes per cubic metres a day earlier. The PM2.5 for Greater Noida was 269.54 units against 262.22 units a day earlier. The PM2.5 for Ghaziabad was 312.8 units against 302.98 units a day earlier. According to Safar, the AQI is likely to recover slightly on Sunday. “Air quality is likely to improve marginally by Sunday owing to slightly better ventilation conditions. AQI is likely to further improve on December 7 and 8 due to better ventilation,” the Safar bulletin said on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-continues-to-suffer-severe-air-quality/story-nCGsQcd0eb8ulSWClhCtwI.html
05-12-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad topped list of most polluted cities seven times in last 14 days||Ghaziabad on Saturday once again topped the charts as the most polluted city in the country among over 100 cities listed in the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) Air Quality Index (AQI) bulletin. As per CPCB data, Ghaziabad recorded the maximum instances of “severe” AQI recordings — at least seven times in the past 14 days — between November 22 and December 5.The last time the city emerged as the most polluted city was on November 22 and continued the trend till November 25 for four consecutive days. Thereafter, the city once again emerged as the most polluted on December 1 for two consecutive days. Finally, the city topped the list yet again on Saturday with an AQI value of 434 under the “severe” category. The experts said that the current pollution scenario in Ghaziabad can be attributed more to the local pollutants rather than stubble burning fumes from the neighbouring states. “The city has a number of major construction and infrastructure projects as well as industrial units and vehicles. So, local factors are more responsible for the current situation. Further, meteorological conditions, such as low wind speeds and low temperatures are also helping in the accumulation of pollutants,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of Indian Meteorological Department’s Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, New Delhi. Environmentalists have raised concerns about the rising air pollution in the city and its continuing trend this season. “Similar pollution levels have been prevalent for the past several years now, although officials claim that they have taken several steps to check pollution. But pollution in the city continues unabated and is a major cause for concern for residents. Nowadays, there is no issue of stubble-burning. Almost all pollutants are now BEING generated at the local level,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist and a lawyer. “Moreover, there is also a lot of diversion due to farmers’ protest and roads remaining choked. This also results in lot of vehicular emission,” he, added. According to CPCB records, the city also topped the list of most polluted cities at least six times in January and eight times in February. In March too, the city topped the list of most polluted cities at least twice. On all the 15 occasions in the months of January, February and March, the city topped the list when the AQI was under “poor” or “very poor” categories. “We are taking up every measure to check pollution and recently all agencies have been asked to step up measures to effectively control local pollutants,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. Several of the officials of the regional office of the UP Pollution Control Board are suffering from Covid-19, which has hampered process of monitoring.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-topped-list-of-most-polluted-cities-seven-times-in-last-14-days/story-9wINSG6wHmeBdtupfg1wIJ.html
05-12-2020||Kolkata||BJP campaign in Bengal marred by violence, party calls for President’s Rule||Sporadic clashes between ruling TMC and the opposition BJP activists on Saturday marred the saffron party’s anti-government campaign in West Bengal leaving more than a dozen people injured and prompting it to demand the imposition of President’s Rule in the state.The BJP Saturday held its state-wide campaign christened ‘Aar Noi Anyay’ (No more injustice) against the “misrule and corruption” of the Mamata Banerjee government.At least two union ministers participated in the campaign at Kolkata and East Midnapore district.Several instances of violence between Trinamool Congress and BJP were reported from West Burdwan, North 24 Parganas and Coochbehar districts.At least nine people were injured and several houses were ransacked in a clash between TMC and BJP supporters at Barabani in West Burdwan district on Saturday during which crude bombs were hurdled. The clash broke out when the ruling party tried to stop the saffron party activists from taking out rallies, police said.The BJP alleged that TMC supporters beat up its workers, a charge which was dismissed by the ruling party in the state. The TMC termed it an incident of “infighting” within BJP.Union minister Babul Supriyo alleged that the local TMC leaders were behind the incident.“Those involved with the coal mining mafia were also involved in the incident. This is the reality of West Bengal,” the Asansol MP said.BJP national secretary and Bengal in-charge Kailash Vijayvargiya who rushed to meet the injured, alleged that the police failed to take action against the miscreants despite seeing that bombs were hurled at people.“The rule of law has ceased to exist in West Bengal. The goons are calling the shots. We have informed our senior party leaders and demand that President’s Rule be immediately imposed in the state,” he said.Dismissing BJP’s allegations, TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said, “The clash was a result of infighting within the BJP. TMC is not involved in the incident. The saffron party is trying to create an issue to malign us.” Reacting to the saffron party’s demand for imposition of President’s Rule, Ghosh dared it to do so in the state.“The BJP is in power at the Centre. Instead of threatening us, let them impose President’s Rule in the state if they have the guts. They will get a befitting reply in the elections,” he said.In Coochbehar’s Sitai area clashes broke out between TMC and the saffron party activists which left more than 12 workers of both parties wounded. The BJP’s rally was led by MP Nisith Pramanik and state BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu.At Duttapukur area in North 24 Parganas district clashes broke out between the police and BJP workers after they tried to break a barricade put up by the force.Speaking on the clashes, BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh alleged that law and order have collapsed in West Bengal.“The rule of law has ceased to exist in West Bengal. It will be restored only if the BJP comes to power,” he said.The TMC on the other hand accused the saffron party of trying to vitiate the political atmosphere of the state ahead of the assembly polls due in April-May 2021.The BJP has emerged as the main rival of the TMC by winning 18 of the 42 Lok Sabha seats in West Bengal in the 2019 general elections. Its leaders are now upbeat that the party will be able to end Banerjee’s 10-year rule in the state polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bjp-campaign-in-bengal-marred-by-violence-party-calls-for-president-s-rule/story-JCSHwps6Tb9AfpavzFAWeP.html
05-12-2020||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: The lines of fate||Human influences alter the lines of fate of even the most ‘missable’, obscure and furtive of creatures. Last Monday, tricity’s snake rescue expert Salim Khan was summoned to Panchkula’s Sector 19. People residing in a colony adjacent to the railway track were at their wit’s end. Two highly venomous Russell’s vipers were given to regularly sunbathing after emerging from the rubble of a wall that barricaded the track. Khan was able to nab one viper and while searching for the other, a commotion erupted among anxious onlookers. A lady’s eye chanced upon what she hysterically proclaimed a “saanp ka bachha”. Her blabbering further inflamed the situation as she declared the area was crawling with different venomous snakes and that a death was inevitable in the colony. Khan rescued the 35-cm snake, which was innocently enjoying a spot of sunbathing, from the crowd’s frenzy but was left puzzled as he had never seen such a species. On examination of its photograph by taxonomy experts, the species was declared as probably the very uncommon, non-venomous Cantor’s Black-headed snake (Sibynophis sagittarius). It was possibly the first authentic record of the species from the greater Chandigarh region.Very much an understudied species, this one does not grow to more than 55 cm as an adult. It dwells in a secretive manner, hiding under leaves, stones and fallen wood to ambush geckos and skinks. Its method of killing is to deploy multiple teeth to grip the prey while using its body coils to an extent to constrict the prey. The teeth in snakes act like hands: to grip and then direct the ingestion of the prey down the throat. Tree art & wagging tailsThere were a couple of Nature’s delightful asides to the ongoing Rs 1.5 crore Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational by Take Sports at the tree-lined and verdant Chandigarh Golf Club. Mature and majestic tall trees represent the principal challenge to the professional golfers fighting hard to win the prestigious trophy. Virtually each tree standing in the groves flanking the fairways has a story to tell, of a golf ball that struck it and rebounded. Mostly to the golfer’s detriment but occasionally to good luck when the ball had deflected to a clear patch. A creative soul has anonymously inscribed a fascinating graffiti of a golfer in action on the trunk of a stately tree to the right of the 4th hole green and adjacent to the cart path. Perhaps, to ward off the evil spirits of golf that dwell in trees!The 18th hole green is the arena of championship climax and is usually attended by galleries and caddies. In the interludes of peace and quiet when the action ebbs and the leadergroup is yet distant on the horizon, a delicate migratory bird, the White wagtail, seizes the opportunity to forage for insects in the ruffled 18th green collars. Like the resident stray dogs, whose tails tirelessly wag sideways in the fervent hope of having a morsel flung in their direction, this petite bird is also characterised by a wagging tail. Only that it is not a beggar’s tail. Also, the bird’s tail is incessantly wagged up and down as it runs about swiftly to pluck tiny insects and springs in the air to capture winged prey. vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wildbuzz-the-lines-of-fate/story-Lgg6y8g4UqbRCxILI6Cs0K.html
05-12-2020||Chandigarh||Roundabout: Return of the Touch in the second wave of the pandemic||The gentle sensation that passes on the emotion of love, understanding and warmth vanished in human communication. We got busy washing our hands, hoarding sanitiser bottles with the right measure of alcohol, covering our faces with masks and stood at a safe distance of six feet even from our dear ones. Tougher still for the 65 plus community getting glared at by neighbours and family.What came to mind were some lines from Sailing to Byzantium, a poem by WB Yeats: An aged man is but a paltry thing, A tattered coat upon a stick, unless Soul clap its hands and sing, and louder sing For every tatter in its mortal dress...Suddenly, the time came to clap our hands, sing and laugh, wear coloured clothing with a mask to match and go to the delayed and then suddenly announced Chandigarh Press Club elections on the last but one day of November. This annual fair makes retired old scribes very welcome too. One of the attractions always was the chance of meeting old folks who rarely visited the club. One enjoyed the attention of colleagues divided for the day in two groups during an election which, in times of Covid, had none of the old revelry and followed strict rules of entering the club, picking up a brown sketch pen ticking on the names and then walking out with the pen lest someone touched it. Don’t touch or hang around were the orders of the day.Meeting friends after a long timeYet many chose to hang out on the road, across a little park, meeting friends after nine months, laughing and getting pictures clicked, sipping coffee from disposable paper cups. But something was missing and one looked around and saw that there were none of the old seniors whom one could chat with. Where had they all gone? Then came the realisation that we were the old ones and the older ones had gone over the years to the destination where we all had to go. Not being there for a friendBut the joy of now and here lingered for a day and then came the sad tidings that a close friend, the much-loved poet of Hindi, Mangalesh Dabral, was battling the second coming of Covid 19 in Delhi, his condition serious as his lungs had been affected.Social media was flooded with his poetry and friends anxiously exchanged notes, some trying to reach out to the family, and others doing what they could. But never before had one felt so helpless at not being there for a friend personally at that hour. However, the pull of Mangalesh’s poetry and persona brought many together in messages and phone calls. My acquaintance with Mangalesh happened through a senior poet of our city, Kumar Vikal. In the mid-eighties, on a whimsy, I quit my job, left the city and moved to Delhi, hired a mezzanine barsati and decided to do my own creative writing. Vikal, on a visit there and concerned by the state of affairs, decided to make arrangements for me so that I didn’t go hungry by introducing me to a grocer who would give home supplies on credit and suggested that I visit his wife’s family, living not too far away, whenever I wanted a good home-cooked meal. Next was a bus ride to the Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg where the newspaper offices were located to meet his journalist writer friends so that work could keep flowing in.Himalayan breeze in his poetryAt that time Mangalesh was the magazine editor at Jansatta and though I was introduced to many of Vikal’s friends it was he who in his generosity encouraged me to contribute to the magazine. So there I was doing story after story in Hindi, a language I had not written in earlier. Besides, it was the beginning of camaraderie with the poet who came from Tehri Garwal with Himalayan breeze in his poetry and said thus of staying on: I looked at the city and smiled, I came to know how anyone can live here, And never went back!” The voice of dissent has always been strong in tradition of poetry but never as a slogan. He touches many souls with his poem titled Touch: To touch it is not necessary for someone to sit close, From very far it is possible to touch, Like a bird from a distance who keeps her eggs protected! Perhaps it was the silent touch of his many friends and admirers that has healed him and he is recovering from the dreaded illness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/roundabout-return-of-the-touch-in-the-second-wave-of-the-pandemic/story-V5Inv3JE8VTJhtIFl5maTJ.html
05-12-2020||Chandigarh||Witerati: The great Indian un-groom on Zoom||The new POTUS Joe Biden may be deliberating the political correctness of the guest list at his inauguration, in particular Donald Trump’s attendance, but what is concerning lesser mortals in the New Normal narrative is another kind of attendance – Zoom roll call.When a couple of us humorists congregated virtually some days ago, it was not only an occasion to do our boom on Zoom. It also became a stage to spotlight some species of Zoomers who have perfected New Normal’s Art of e-Attending, with or without boom, dhoom or groom. And also, the Art of Leaving (a pandemic art that may threaten stiff competition to Sri Sri’s ‘Art of Living’)! Art of Leaving The most popular tribe of us Zoomers is those who turn off videos while marking their presence.If the title of the Chetan Bhagat’s novel Half Girlfriend could be tweaked to best describe this new species, it would be thus – Half Zoomer.Half there, half not there.That is, present on the audio, but absent on the video. Alas, this half-heartedness can sometimes spell pitfalls that are hard to swallow. Literally.As a senior colleague recently shared, after putting in a video presence on a Zoom meeting, he turned off his video to partake of dinner. He was in the midst of chomping on Chettinad curry and sundry savories when his earphones sounded an alert as he heard the host announce his name. “Now, Mr X will say a few words on today’s topic.”Caught off guard, he hastily swallowed the supper, speedier than Trump is wont to eat humble pie, and being endowed with the gift of the gab, thankfully prattled some lines with panache.The curious case of ‘One Swallow Does Not A Zoomer Make’.Anonymous, ahoy!Then there are the Zoomaholics Anonymous. They are unlikely to be caught off guard like the aforesaid colleague or be invited to babble impromptu speeches.Pray, why not? Simply because the host can’t spot them on screen as they haven’t logged in by name.Instead, they’re mask-uerading under device names.Whilst we humorists were trying to talk of the humour genre seriously, we found the detective genre bestirring in our bosoms. Invisible invitees began entering the session midway but the Zoom grid identified them only by curious device names.The best twist came when in the middle of our mirth, there popped on the grid a brand name that had more to do with girth.Ample’s iPad.This seemed so like China ‘mask-uerading’ as a clone of America’s “Apple” called “Ample”!Alarm bells did a boom at the back of my mind, “Had an invisible intruder hacked into our Zoom outing?”.The curious case of Zooming not only spiritedly, but also as ‘spirits’.Neither Hair Nor ThereWhen Zoomers come, can Lollita, Lamba ji & Co be far behind!Picture this. Lollita is on a family reunion Zoom call to celebrate the 90th birthday of a maternal uncle. But she hasn’t dared to switch on the video, for her hair bear an (un)poetic resemblance to a porcupine plagued by a bad hair day.Since her hairdresser “Spruce Lee” is inaccessible in semi-Lockdown plus, in keeping with India’s “Chini Kum” narrative, it may not be politically correct to allow this chinky-eyed Chinese hairstylist into domestic terrain, it befalls Lamba ji to do the honours of treating her tresses to groom whilst she does her Zoom.But trust Lamba ji, while fumbling for the scissors near her iPad, to brush past her touchscreen clumsily enough to bring her video blinking alive. Abrupt-Lee!That too when only the right half of her hair are blow-dried and left half still in curlers..The curious case of “Honey, I bunk the grids.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/witerati-the-great-indian-un-groom-on-zoom/story-5DMds5r5Da2YlmWZe1TRQK.html
05-12-2020||Bhopal||In Madhya Pradesh, any marriage with intent to convert will now lead to 10 years in prison||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday held a high-level meeting with officials on the Religious Freedom Bill, 2020 to stop forced religious conversions in the state.The new bill introduces penal provisions for conversion through marriage or by any other fraudulent means. Under the proposed law, conversion through marriage or by any other fraudulent means will lead to a prison term of up to ten years and a fine of up to Rs 1 lakh.A statement, released by the chief minister’s office, said mass religious conversions will also attract a prison term of up to 10 years and a fine of up to Rs. 50,000. The statement also said that any marriage performed with the intention of religious conversion will be declared null.“Religious conversion after hiding one’s own religion will attract 3-10 years of imprisonment & minimum Rs 50,000 fine. Mass religious conversion (2 or more people) will attract 5-10 years of imprisonment and a minimum fine of Rs 1 Lakh,” the statement from the chief minister’s office said.The statement also said that if any individual wishes to convert their religion, then they have to inform the district magistrate’s office one month in advance. Religious leaders involved in the process will also inform the DM’s office a month in advance.The chief minister’s office in its statement said in case of conversion of a minor or any person belonging to the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe community, violators could face a prison term of up to 10 years or face fine of up to Rs 50,000.Earlier on Saturday, Madhya Pradesh chief minister had said that the Religious Freedom Bill, 2020 is his government’s ‘Beti Bachao Abhiyan’. While speaking to mediapersons before the meeting, he said, “It is easy to mislead young girls with malicious intent. Later, their life becomes hell. Dharma Swatantrya (Religious Freedom) Bill 2020 is our beti bachao abhiyan.”Several BJP-ruled states are planning to introduce anti-conversion bills in a bid to stop ‘love jihad’. ‘Love Jihad’, according to right-wing groups, is a process of conversion where Muslim men lure Hindu women into marriage with an intent to convert them.On November 28, Uttar Pradesh government introduced the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020 to stop forced or fraudulent religious conversions. The Karnataka government is also planning on introducing a similar bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/in-madhya-pradesh-any-marriage-with-intent-to-convert-will-now-lead-to-10-years-in-prison/story-9DvLM23wdU2Tfh3wJYFrhJ.html
05-12-2020||Chandigarh||Random Forays: The art and science of paying compliments||Compliments which are meaningful and which emanate from the heart are rare these days, what with people falling over each other to praise their bosses or those who ‘matter’. Sycophancy has been quite the norm and an integral part of many professional circles for decades. Thus, many a compliment should be shrugged off by the recipient as being clearly aimed at his authority and influence rather than any intrinsic qualities which he possesses.A station house officer (SHO) who heads a police station or an executive engineer (XeN) who heads a division can expect compliments to be flying into their air zones with unflagging regularity. The moment they receive their transfer orders, however, such words of praise and those who have been mouthing them would become as scarce as luscious mangoes in winter months. Similarly, the CXO of a corporate entity would surely have people in his team lapping up every idea that his mind generates. False and inflated compliments are part and parcel of organisational credos, with very few hardliners being able to resist the temptation to fall in line. In fact, people in power often baulk at those who do not indulge in ‘chamchagiri’. The game of egos plays a big part in life as a whole, and definitely so when high level elevations or spoils of any kind are at stake. But why continue to take potshots at the opportunist? This write up is also about the ‘how’ and not only the ‘why’ of complimenting others. There are those who are highly adept at bestowing compliments while others feel tongue tied and diffident when their moment comes!Lovers learn this art pretty soon in their relationships, particularly men. They leave no stone unturned in praising to the skies, the looks or the voice or the choice of apparel of their muse. And such muses of course love the attention that they receive from new suitors, though sometimes an overdose of it can be quite off-putting for the young lady, if she is of the discerning variety.Spouses usually fail to keep up the momentum though. All the songs of praise which had been sung with gusto in the halcyon days of honeymooning somehow disappear once life’s rough and tumble roller-coasters start becoming as overbearing as they usually are. Compliments inter se between spouses become as rare as warm quilts in summer months. The husband who regularly manages to praise his wife as the decades pass by, is truly a very visionary man. Wives need to reciprocate too. My wife, Neena, pays me an indirect compliment each time she reads my column, for example!On the other hand, human love and genuine compliments do possess a synergetic bond after all, and if love sustains then so should words of appreciation. Taking the other for granted is clearly often the source of all friction in long term relationships. The other thing about a kind word is that it can last for a long time. A teacher in school praised me fulsomely in front of the whole class once, and I treasure his words till today. Teachers and bosses should especially be trigger happy with compliments instead of being frugal, albeit when a recipient does indeed merit them.In Haryana, I learnt during several public meetings, where I was on duty, that praise can often be misleading and even misdirected. Thus, the compere of an event where the chief minister (CM) would be the chief guest, would often go grossly overboard in praising the said dignitary to the skies. On one occasion, in fact, the gentleman with the microphone was so gushing and so excitable in his invitation to the CM to address the audience, that he actually named the previous CM instead of the current one, clearly a faux pas that was unpardonable. And of course the said gent was never to be heard on the stage ever again!I myself have learnt the oblique and unique art of complimenting myself in some manner, each time I praise others. I don’t know exactly how I do it, but as soon as I discover the exact formula, I will gladly share it in these columns! vivek.atray@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/random-forays-the-art-and-science-of-paying-compliments/story-LogC3WDdbfEQVSSb33zjIM.html
05-12-2020||Patna||IIT-Patna student bags Rs 47 lakh annual package||Students at Indian Institute of Technology, Patna (IIT-P) have managed to fetch lucrative job offers by attracting various reputed firms amid apprehensions around job security triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic. A BTech student received Rs 47 lakh annual package from DE Shaw Indian Software Private Limited, the highest domestic offer in the ongoing placement drive, officials claimed on Saturday.Another BTech student has bagged an annual package of Rs 43.50 lakh from Microsoft along with five other students who have grabbed job offers worth more than Rs 30 lakh per annum.Training and placement officer, Kripa Shankar Singh said, “During the first phase of placement drive, 40 per cent of registered BTech students have been placed while more than 75 per cent of computer science students have been placed till now. Six students from the current batch have received an internship offer and one student has received a job offer from Google, India. Two students have received international internships from Japan.”He said, “The students will join their respective organizations in May-June 2021. It is yet not determined if students, especially those who have bagged international offers, will travel to foreign destinations or carry out their jobs remotely. It will be finalised assessing the Covid-19 situation in future.”Also read: ‘BJP out again to topple my govt,’ alleges Rajasthan chief minister Ashok GehlotJose V Parambil, professor in-charge of training and placement cell, said, “Since recruiters are unable to visit campus amid Covid-19 pandemic, we geared up for virtual campus placement drive on prescheduled time. Students qualified written exams followed by online interviews. The placement cell has conducted online training programs to mentor the students for the online campus recruitment process. Students faced online written exam and technical interview.”Last year, three students of IIT-P bagged an annual package of Rs 59 lakh each from a foreign company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/iit-patna-student-bags-rs-47-lakh-annual-package/story-vk14cDdxnHqzcMjsErnvlM.html
05-12-2020||Kolkata||TMC MLA murder case: BJP’s Mukul Roy says he is being conspired against after CID files chargesheet||BJP national vice president Mukul Roy, who was named in a supplementary chargesheet filed in the TMC MLA Satyajit Biswas murder case, on Saturday termed the development as an absolute conspiracy against him.“This is an absolute conspiracy. I challenge Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who is also the Home Minister, to come and spell out the charges against me in public. I’ll walk into jail if the public says that I can be involved in such acts,” Roy told ANI here.He said that the state government is leveling false allegations in the matter ahead of the upcoming elections.Roy was named in the supplementary chargesheet filed by the West Bengal Criminal Investigation Department (CID) before Ranaghat court in Nadia district on Saturday in the matter. He was questioned on several occasions by the CID in connection with the case.Mukul Roy was among four people who were named responsible for allegedly killing Biswas. However, the BJP leader had claimed that the allegations were levelled on the directions of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee.Biswas, who was elected from Krishnaganj in Nadia district, was shot dead by unidentified assailants at Phulbari in Jalpaiguri in February 2019. The incident happened when Biswas was attending Saraswati Puja celebrations at Phulbari.According to reports, the lawmaker was shot multiple times from a close range when he was coming down from the stage after attending the event. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/tmc-mla-murder-case-bjp-s-mukul-roy-says-he-is-being-conspired-against-after-cid-files-chargesheet/story-bE2s3DA5v6HuLLDqYzYI0M.html
05-12-2020||Bangalore||Lost goodwill of people after joining hands with Cong: Kumaraswamy||JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy on Saturday said joining hands with the Congress and forming coalition government with the party has destroyed the goodwill that he had earned from the people of the state and maintained for 12 years.The former Chief Minister said, he fell to the “trap” and accused Congress leader Siddaramaiah of a conspiracy, as he stated that even BJP had not “betrayed” him to that level.Hitting back, Siddaramaiah said Kumaraswamy was an “expert in lying” and shedding tears was his family’s culture.“The goodwill that I had earned from the people of the state in 2006-07 (as CM) and which I had maintained for 12 years despite the big campaign against me for not transferring power to BJP, everything got destroyed by joining hands with the Congress,” Kumaraswamy said.Speaking to reporters in Mysuru, he said he should not have joined hands with Congress which had campaigned against the JD(S) calling it BJP’s ‘B team’, but because of party supremo H D Deve Gowda’s insistence he agreed to form the coalition government. “It has now led to my party losing its strength....I fell to the trap, to emotional feelings of Deve Gowda because of which my party that had won 28-40 seats independently in the last three elections is suffering, “ he said.He maintained that joining with Congress was the reason for the downfall of his party and his personal goodwill.Kumaraswamy however clarified that he was not blaming Gowda for it, as he knows and respects his father’s lifelong commitment towards secular identity.With no party getting a clear majority in the 2018 assembly polls, Congress-JD(S), which had fought against each other during the election, joined hands to form a government with Kumaraswamy as Chief Minister to keep BJP out of power.However following the rout in the Lok Sabha polls, which both parties fought in alliance, internal differences cropped up and due to rebellion by some MLAs the coalition government collapsed last year, and since then Congress and JD(S) leaders have been blaming each other for it.Siddaramaiah in his rebuttal asked if there was a goodwill for Kumaraswamy to blame Congress for him losing it.“Kumaraswamy is an expert in lying, he can lie according to the situation for the sake of politics...was making him Chief Minister despite JD(S) having 37 seats our fault? Shedding tears is the culture of the Deve Gowda family, nothing new in it, they can shed for appeasement or to make someone believe,” he added.Kumaraswamy, while responding to Siddaramaiah’s recent statement that there is always an internal understanding between JD(S) and BJP citing his meetings with Yediyurappa twice in the last couple of months, said the CLP leader should stop making such baseless allegations.“I meet openly, not in disguise...don’t I know whom he (Siddaramaiah) met recently?” Kumaraswamy said, adding that if he had such an understanding with the BJP he would have continued as the Chief Minister.BJP and JD(S) had earlier formed a coalition government in 2006 with Kumaraswamy as Chief Minister and Yediyurappa as his deputy, under a power-sharing formula of 20 months each.However, the government had collapsed as JD(S) did not transfer power to BJP, which later went on to win the next assembly elections and form its first ever government in the south.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/lost-goodwill-of-people-after-joining-hands-with-cong-kumaraswamy/story-TCZd9YThpIza3wZ25e704I.html
05-12-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana agriculture department employee lands in soup over Facebook post on farmer protests||An agriculture department employee of Charkhi Dadri in Haryana was suspended over his Facebook post on the farmers’ protest and has jeopardized chances of timely delivery of his retiral benefits. The matter came to light when the officer, Ranbir Singh Mann, technical assistant at deputy director, agriculture and farmer welfare department, Bhiwani, approached the Punjab and Haryana high court on December 4 challenging his suspension order of September 25. He sought direction that since he retires on December 31, the department be asked to take a decision on his response submitted after a show cause notice before. He was also transferred from Bhiwani office to director’s office in Panchkula following the episode. The three posts on September 10 and September 11, as per Mann, were put by his granddaughter whom he had given his Facebook account access to attend online classes during Covid-19 outbreak. He was suspended and transferred on September 25 and issued show cause notice under conduct rules for government employees for criticising government. The Facebook posts had suggested that whenever governments tried to disturb farmers, they ruined themselves, second exhorting to listen to demands of farmers and another one praising farmer leader late Chhotu Ram for getting “double rate” for wheat that too in British era. That is why farmers supported such leaders, the posts had suggested.In the high court, he had stated that the “correct position” with regard to the comments posted have been explained to authorities on September 29. However, the authorities have not taken a decision on the same after lapse of over two months. The petitioner is at the end of his career as he is about to superannuate on December 31 and in case, the appropriate decision is not taken by the competent authority prior to the said date, he is likely to suffer prejudice on the release of his retiral benefits, his counsel had told court. He had argued that his Facebook posts do not violate any provisions of the Haryana Civil Service (Government Employees Conduct) Rules, 2016. He had also argued that he cannot be prevented from expressing his views merely because he is an employee. In a democratic society, every government institution is governed by democratic norms. Healthy criticism is a better way of good governance, he had argued. He had also levelled allegations against the deputy director for keeping a personal grudge. Now, the high court has disposed of the plea as government counsel assured the court that appropriate order will be passed within a period of three weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-agriculture-department-employee-lands-in-soup-over-facebook-post-on-farmer-protests/story-XchOtsCW8isvX8RyVCXLkK.html
05-12-2020||Pune||Pune reports 788 fresh Covid-19 cases, nine deaths in 24 hours||The state health department on Saturday reported 788 fresh Covid-19 positive cases and nine deaths in 24 hours in Pune district. The district has reported 3.57 lakh Covid-19 cases of which 3.30 lakh have recovered, 7,576 have been reported dead and 18,723 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or are in home isolation. Pune city reported 351 fresh positive cases on Saturday taking the total count to 1,82,273 and six deaths took the death toll to 4,288. The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 165 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday taking the final count to 89,784 and one death took the death toll to 1,275. Pune rural reported 272 new cases taking the final count to 85,232 and two deaths took the death toll to 1,978, according to the state health department. The state health department reported that 5,834 patients were discharged on Saturday taking the final count of such patients to 17.15 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 92.88 per cent. Also, 4,922 new cases in the state were reported on Saturday taking the total cases to 18.47 lakh. In addition, 95 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 48,776. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.58%. Of 1,12,05,118 laboratory samples, 18,47,509 have tested positive (16.49%) for Covid-19 till Saturday. Currently 5,60,685 people are in home quarantine and 5,855 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-reports-788-fresh-covid-19-cases-nine-deaths-in-24-hours/story-3gN5gJYB2NYM836sVDT5QK.html
05-12-2020||City||Farmers are not terrorists: BJP leader Birender Singh||Former Union minister and BJP leader Birender Singh on Saturday slammed political parties and leaders who were terming the protesting farmers as terrorists and Khalistanis.“The farmers stand united and they are not terrorists,” Singh said while asking the government to address concerns and doubts of farmers regarding the three agricultural laws. He also urged farmer union leaders to get united and said that he was ready to join them and leave politics for their cause. “I want to make it clear that farmers are my top priority and party and politics is secondary,” said Singh, who is also father of Hisar MP Brijendra Singh.“In democracy, every citizen has a right to get an explanation about any government decision, he added. “Covid-19 has affected the economy and only the agriculture sector can help to improve the financial conditions. But you can see that several farmers have left agriculture in the past two decades,” he added.Meanwhile, expressing solidarity with peasants protesting at Delhi borders, several farmer organisations on Saturday held block and district-level protests. The protests were held at several locations in Kaithal, Kurukshetra, Karnal and Panipat districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-are-not-terrorists-bjp-leader-birender-singh/story-pfIXHgvzMwdKpaEIcdOwNP.html
05-12-2020||City||Farmers’ protest: Khaps in Haryana boycott MPs, MLAs supporting BJP govt||Nearly half a dozen khaps in Haryana’s Bangar belt on Saturday announced a social boycott of MLAs and MPs supporting the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government at the Centre and in state amid the ongoing farmers’ agitation. The khaps have also boycotted Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal and actress Kangana Ranaut.While addressing mediapersons in Jind, Dalbir Sheokand, president of Sarv Dhadan khap, said, “The khaps and farmers have decided to ban the entry of BJP-JJP leaders in the villages of Bangar belt. Moreover, we have decided to boycott MLAs including deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala and BJP’s Hisar MP Brijendra Singh. Our people will also impose a similar ban on JP Dalal and Kangana Ranaut,” he added.He said Dushyant and Brijendra have failed to understand the pain of farmers. “We will show black flags to these leaders if they try to enter our village,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-protest-khaps-in-haryana-boycott-mps-mlas-supporting-bjp-govt/story-pNtmdvgoJzTQWjNHegqabJ.html
05-12-2020||Jaipur||‘BJP out again to topple my govt,’ alleges Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday again blamed the BJP for trying to topple his government, four months after a political crisis, triggered by the then deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot’s rebellion, was resolved. Gehlot had blamed the BJP at that time for engineering the revolt to pull down his government. “They (BJP) conspire to topple the elected governments. In Rajasthan they are again starting the game – this is their thinking. People are also saying now that they are targeting Maharashtra,” said Gehlot after the inauguration of a new building of the party office at Shivganj Nagar area of Sirohi district. AICC general secretary Ajay Maken and state Congress chief Govind Singh Dotasara also participated virtually in the event. “BJP earlier conspired to topple the government with money. Everyone saw how the MLAs (backing Pilot) met home minister Amit Shah in the presence of Dharmendra Pradhan (minister), and Syed Zafar (now MP). The meeting went on for an hour. After the meeting, the MLAs said that they were embarrassed seeing a home minister offering sweets and namkeen,” Gehlot alleged. Also read: Farmers’ protest: No headway yet, next meeting to be held on December 9“All our senior leaders, such as Randeep Surjewala, Ajay Maken, KC Venugopal, and Avinash Pande, camped in the state and took the decision to dismiss the party leaders so that the government could be saved,” the CM said. During the political crisis, Pilot was removed as deputy chief minister and Congress state chief on July 14. Two ministers in his camp were also dropped from the Gehlot cabinet. An MLA, who was part of the rebel group, denied that they had met Amit Shah or any other BJP leader. “The CM is raising this issue as he is being asked by the leadership to expand the cabinet and make political appointments. These unwarranted statements are to delay the processes,” he said on condition of anonymity. BJP MLA and spokesperson Ram Lal Sharma said, “Earlier also the BJP had never tried to topple the government. What all happened was due to their internal clashes. The CM stated that first the instalment has been received by the MLAs. Then why doesn’t he name his MLAs who received it? If the government falls, it will be because of their infighting.” He said the allegations against BJP leaders are baseless. “Recently, a Congress MLA alleged that Rs 10 crore was given to other party MLAs to save the government. Why didn’t the CM get the issue probed?” Sharma asked. Recently, a video purportedly showed Congress MLA Mahendrajeet Singh Malviya accusing two Bharatiya Tribal Party MLAs of receiving Rs 10 crore each during Rajya Sabha polls and Congress-Sachin Pilot feud. The alleged video of Malviya prompted the BJP to accuse Gehlot government of involvement in horse-trading.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/bjp-out-again-to-topple-my-govt-alleges-rajasthan-chief-minister-ashok-gehlot/story-P8Nw9a5AbtY2PUGuNgoPUI.html
05-12-2020||City||Farmers’ protest: Doctor brothers from Haryana set up free medical camp at Singhu border||Two brothers who are doctors and belong to a farming family of Haryana’s Sirsa district are providing free medical care to the agitating farmers who are up in arms against the Centre’s three farm laws.A medical camp has been set up at the Singhu border by Sukhwinder Singh Brar and Ramanjit Singh Brar with the help of their doctor friends. Both the brothers are private practitioners at Chandigarh.“Everyday, we are giving medical care to almost 1,500 people coming up with different complaints,” Sukhwinder said over the phone.At the camp, they have kept a range of medicines in the boot space of two cars.“We have medicines which can take care of several health-related issues,” he said.“Most of people are coming with complaints of hypertension, joint pain among elderly ones, diarrhoea, constipation etc,” said Sukhwinder. “Some elderly people who have run out of their medicines are also approaching us,” he further said.A team of 10-15 people including paramedic staff are working at this camp to provide medical care, he said.Sukhwinder said they themselves belong to a farming family and this has motivated them to serve people here. He further said more doctors from Barnala in Punjab will soon join them to extend their support.Some religious and social organisations and local people are also providing them medicines, he further said, adding he and his brother are staying at nearby places so they come here early to start their free medical camp. A protester from Punjab who came to the medical camp for treatment of a hand injury was all praise for the team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-protest-doctor-brothers-from-haryana-set-up-free-medical-camp-at-singhu-border/story-3aEqwSlnlcWTRyMccbLYWL.html
05-12-2020||City||Farmers’ agitation gains momentum in central Haryana, Ahirwal||Nearly ten days after the farmers began their ‘Dilli Chalo’ march against the Centre’s three agricultural laws, the agitation has picked up pace in central Haryana and Ahirwal region.Initially, farmers from the GT road belt and districts like Sirsa and Fatehabad, which share border with Punjab, were hitting the road against these laws. However, after the Punjab farmers started a march in November end towards Delhi through central Haryana, peasants from these areas have also joined them. Now the khaps, social organisations, students, village panchayats and other groups have come forward to join the protesters.Balbir Thakan, secretary of Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sabha, said participation of farmers in the protest has increased after the Haryana Police detained union leaders on the intervening night of November 23-24 from across the state in a major crackdown ahead of the ‘Delhi chalo’ march on November 26.“The BJP-JJP government has added fuel in the agitation by using barricades, water cannons and tear gas shells to disperse farmers and stop their entry in Delhi. The other factors which brought the attention of common farmers are registration of cases against protesters, digging roads to stop their movement and linking the agitation with Khalistan, China and Pakistan,” he added.Kisan Sangharsh Samiti (KSS) president Mandeep Singh Nathwan, said farmers from every part of the state are joining the dharna against these three laws.“The agitation is also picking up pace in Palwal, Faridabad, Nuh and Mahendergarh districts. It was low in few parts of the state earlier because farmers were engaged in wheat sowing and selling their crops. The BJP ministers had also provoked farmers to join the protest by calling them Congressmen and having links to Pakistan, China and receiving funding from Canada,” he added.Saurabh Dahiya, a farmer from Sonepat, said he along with other villagers has been extending support to the farmers by supplying them essential commodities. Bijender Sheoran, head of Sheoran Khap from Badhra, a constituency represented by deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala’s mother Naina Chautala, said the farmers from their constituency have been turning up at Tikri border in large numbers.“ Naina had entered our constituency 16 days before the assembly polls and we had elected her by considering her Devi Lal’s heir. But she and her son Dushyant had disappointed the farmers by not backing them. The JJP leaders failed to take a stand when the police lathicharged farmers and registered FIRs against them. Their lackadaisical approach was also a reason that the farmers from this region joined the protest. Now, the farmers are fighting on their own and do not need any help from politicians to force the government to repeal these laws,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-agitation-gains-momentum-in-central-haryana-ahirwal/story-Ft2OH8KkOGSQ5q61E4zd6I.html
05-12-2020||City||Heritage corridor to be developed in Karnal||A heritage corridor will soon be developed in Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s constituency Karnal under the Karnal Smart City Limited (KSCL).Officials monitoring the project said the corridor will be developed on the two kilometre stretch from main entrance of Karnal at Srimad Bhagavad Gita Gate to Karna Gate.The corridor will include heritage buildings including 200-year-old Christian Cemetery, the old court building, record room, Kos Minar and the ancient Victoria Memorial Hall. Deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Kumar Yadav, who is also the chief executive officer (CEO) of Karnal Smart City Limited said, “As of now, we have identified four old buildings under this project and later the Karnal Club and old building of civil hospital will also be included.”He said the project will attract tourists to showcase the historic importance of these buildings built in the 19th century. The buildings will have CCTV cameras and other facilities including artifacts.In this regard, the authority has prepared a proposal to get the NOC from the archaeological department. “The tender process will be started after getting approval from the boards of directors and NOC from the Archaeological Survey of India. The work will be completed by March-end,” Yadav said.The Christian Cemetery was a cantonment of British forces about 200 years ago and the mortal remains of soldiers were buried at this site. Likewise, the 114-year-old Victoria Memorial Hall is the perfect example of Indian, Islamic and European architecture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/heritage-corridor-to-be-developed-in-karnal/story-rmZwepviCZMe12deBfhYYM.html
05-12-2020||City||RLDA to redevelop Panipat railway station in line with global standards||The Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA) has decided to redevelop Panipat Railway Station on the Public-Private Partnership model.However, the deadline and cost of the project has not been finalised yet. The objective of the redevelopment is to upgrade the railway station in line with global standards and offer state-of-art amenities for convenience of commuters.As per the project details, the redevelopment will include new station building on east side, second entry on model town (west) side, air concourse over the tracks for handling peak hourly passengers traffic and improvement to road connectivity.The project also includes redevelopment of existing double-storeyed railway colony into multi-storey buildings with modern facilities and spare vacant land will be given to developers for undertaking commercial development. Ved Parkash Dudeja, vice-chairman, RLDA, said the project aims to upgrade this railway station without diluting its historical significance. The development will bolster real estate prospects and start a wave of modern development around this area, he added.Briefing about the project, he said various proposals to decongest the approach road to the railway station from both east and west side entry were discussed including connecting the same through nearby flyover and underpass. The Panipat Junction railway station is a category ‘A’ station with five platforms and a major junction in Delhi-NCR area. It serves the industrial town of Panipat and the station has a stoppage of 118 trains with a daily passenger footfall of 40,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rlda-to-redevelop-panipat-railway-station-in-line-with-global-standards/story-L0EiIzCroWm5ppPe05knhL.html
05-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra Congress warns MVA allies over comments on its leadership||The Maharashtra Congress on Saturday warned its partners in the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) against making comments on its leadership if they wanted a “stable” government in the state. a rap amid the three parties in the ruling coalition — Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress —celebrating one year in office. The warning by Yashomati Thakur, working president of the state Congress unit and a minister, came days after NCP chief Sharad Pawar’s interview by regional media house Lokmat, in which, when asked if the country was ready to accept Rahul Gandhi as a leader, Pawar said Gandhi’s leadership has a “few problems” and lacks consistency. In a series of tweets in English and Marathi, Thakur said, “Some interviews/articles of MVA leaders have come to my notice. Being a working president of MPCC [Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee], I must appeal to colleagues in MVA that if you want a stable govt in Maharashtra, then stop commenting on the leadership of Congress. Everybody should follow basic rules of coalition. Our leadership is very strong and stable. Formation of MVA is the result of our strong belief in democratic values,” she said. Congress leaders opined that Pawar’s comment was uncalled for, considering the fact that Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi decided to support a Sena-led government after discussing the matter with him. “Our leadership not only consulted state Congress leaders and legislators, but also Pawarsaheb. If they give him respect, he should avoid unnecessary comments on leadership,” said a senior Congress minister. NCP and Sena leaders, however, sought to play down Pawar’s remarks, saying that it had no connection with the stability of the three-party state government. NCP spokesperson Umesh Patil said, “Pawarsaheb’s statement must be taken positively, looking at his age and experience. [Yashomati] Thakur’s comment on the stability of the government is unnecessary. There is good coordination within the MVA. Just recently, we saw celebrations on the first anniversary. The alliance registered wins in the council elections.” Sena leader and one of the architects of the MVA alliance, Sanjay Raut, said the statement must be viewed as “directions”. Speaking to a regional news channel, Raut said, “Whatever Sharad Pawar might have said about Rahul Gandhi, it has nothing to do with the stability of Maha Vikas Aghadi. I have always stood behind Rahul Gandhi, when his leadership was being damaged. Sharad Pawar is a tall leader in politics. The opposition parties in the country consider Pawarsaheb their leader. When an experienced leader like him says something, it must be viewed as directions. However, I am not saying that they should take steps according to what Pawarsaheb says.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-congress-warns-mva-allies-over-comments-on-its-leadership/story-5b0wpZBAX3LptCgeKlis3K.html
05-12-2020||Kolkata||‘In Bengal, goons can fire pistol, hurl bombs in front of cops’: Vijayvargiya||The Bharatiya Janata Party lashed out at the ruling Trinamool Congress after clashes broke out between both sets of supporters in West Bengal’s Paschim Barddhaman district on Saturday.The BJP Bengal in-charge Kailash Vijayvargiya alleged that the police failed to take action against the miscreants despite seeing that bombs were hurled at people. Vijayvargiya also lashed out at TMC and blamed them saying that the events were pre-planned.Vijayvargiya told ANI, “We’ll hold protests in the entire West Bengal. Police are in cahoots with criminals as they were aware of the BJP rally in Asansol. It can only happen in Bengal that goons can hurl bombs and fire bullets in presence of state police.”TMC leader Bidhan Upadhyay blamed BJP for the bombings and said that several people present in the BJP rally were carrying bombs. He said, “BJP had a rally in which people were carrying bombs. Some of our people were in the vicinity and carrying out a local govt scheme drive. Meanwhile, the BJP workers attacked us under the guise of the rally.”The clashes happened at Bardhaman’s Barabani area where BJP was holding the ‘Aar Noy Anyay’ rally protesting against the Mamata Banerjee-led government. Both sides were involved in the clashes and had hurled bombs at each other, news agency PTI reported. A few houses suffered some damage and some people suffered injuries due to these clashes.Trinamool Congress has also said that the clashes were a result of internal fights within the BJP. The BJP continues to allege that the TMC party workers assaulted some of their members. “The clash was a result of infighting within the BJP. The TMC is not involved in the incident. The saffron party is trying to create an issue to malign us,” said TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh.BJP and TMC have been involved in a bitter war of words ahead of the 2021 West Bengal elections. Several incidents of clashes between cadres of both parties have been reported over the past few months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/in-bengal-goons-can-fire-pistol-hurl-bombs-in-front-of-cops-vijayvargiya/story-BbiPCZ66Qa48ksqjAxd2oO.html
05-12-2020||Kolkata||Govt reluctantly conceding to protesting farmers’ demands: Chowdhury||Congress Lok Sabha MP Adhir Ranjan Choudhury on Saturday said that the government had to accept the demands made by the protesting farmers’ unions. The MP from Bengal also said that the farmers’ unions have made Centre concede to their demands.Choudhury told ANI, “When Congress opposed anti-farmers bills, the ruling party accused us of undermining the interest of farmers… Now the same government has been forced to bow down & concede to demands of farmers in a very reluctant manner.”ALSO WATCH | Tejashwi demands farm laws’ rollback; DMK chief questions TN CM’s silence The farmers and the Union ministers are holding the fifth round of negotiations regarding the recently passed farm bills. The farmers’ unions are demanding that the Centre repeal the three bills - Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill.Union minister Som Parkash who is also accompanying the Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar said that the government understands the sentiments of Punjab farmers. He assured that the government is ready to address the concerns of farmers regarding the bills.Earlier, union minister for agriculture Narendra Singh Tomar has said that the government has welcomed the feedback received from the protesting farmer groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/govt-now-reluctantly-to-conceding-to-protesting-farmers-protests-chowdhury/story-5RBkInZci4qzNZVcspHfwI.html
05-12-2020||Kolkata||Top BJP leaders add fuel to speculations of TMC heavyweight switching sides||Top leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party have added fuel to speculations on whether Trinamool Congress heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari would switch sides, a day before the former state minister could clear his stand. “Already he has resigned. Time will speak what he wants to do and how many more days does he want. But within a day or two, the entire dilemma would be over. I expect he will join the BJP,” Mukul Roy told the media. ALSO WATCH | ‘2/3rd majority in West Bengal...’: Rajnath Singh on BJP-TMC fight #HTLS2020 While Adhikari has already resigned from the cabinet quitting his post, earlier this week he told the TMC leadership that he couldn’t work for the party. Adhikari wrote a text message to Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy, saying the problems he was having in the TMC were far from over. All eyes are now on the former minister’s press conference on Sunday which he is scheduled to hold at East Midnapore district, his hometown. Also read: Stop commenting on our leadership if you want stable govt: Cong leader to Maha alliesOn Saturday, however, president of the BJP’s Bengal unit Dilip Ghosh camped in Adhikari’s bastion holding rallies and lashing out against the TMC and taking a dig at the TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee. “No matter what Adhikari does, TMC will never allow him to become a leader, because, in the TMC party, only those who hail from a particular house in Kalighat are allowed to become leaders. The rest who gave their sweat and blood will always remain as employees,” said Ghosh, adding that BJP makes leaders. The BJP state president cited the example of Mukul Roy who has been made the party’s national vice president after he quit. the TMC and joined the BJP. Last week, hours after Adhikari quit the Mamata Banerjee-cabinet, further widening his rift with the ruling party, the BJP started flexing its muscles in a TMC-citadel in East Midnapore district allegedly capturing the multiple-party offices of the latter. “BJP taking over TMC party offices, Dilip Ghosh holding rallies in Adhikari’s bastion were unthinkable earlier. Things are not right in East Midnapore,” said a TMC leader. Banerjee is also set to hold a rally in West Midnapore district on December 7 and has directed leaders from East Midnapore to remain present. The BJP leaders’ statements on Adhikari gain more importance because on Friday Banerjee had sent a strong message to rebels inside the party. “Didi had sent a loud and clear message to all rebels within the party. If they need to stay within the party they will have to work for the party. Those speaking against the party will not be tolerated. She, however, didn’t name any leader,” said a senior TMC leader who attended the virtual meeting held by Banerjee with TMC leaders from across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/top-bjp-leaders-add-fuel-to-speculations-of-tmc-heavyweight-switching-sides/story-tZ8MD5JGtAy9weddQM2WpO.html
05-12-2020||Pune||BJP on backfoot as MVA candidates shine in Pune||Maha Vikas Aghadi’s (MVA) candidate Arun Lad’s victory in the elections to the Pune Graduate constituency on Friday has brought much confidence to the MVA camp - leaders and workers - and has forced the BJP on the backfoot. BJP city unit president Chandrakant Patil, who used to represent this constituency, said, “Three parties come together and contested against single party. Shiv Sena is helping the Congress and NCP but getting nothing in return. Sena must think about it.” Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP) leader Ajit Pawar said, “The victory of Arun Lad is the answer to opposition party leaders making allegations. Now it is proved that graduate voters also support the Maha Vikas Agadi.”Former Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis said, “We failed to estimate the power of the three parties unitedly.”NCP leader Sharad Pawar said, “The results show that the citizens are expressing confidence in the Maha Vikas Agadi. The climate is changing in the state.” BJP MP Girish Bapat accepted the defeat of the BJP candidate and said, “We must do an analysis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/bjp-on-backfoot-as-mva-candidates-shine-in-pune/story-NkswCp2GfQynet8ERAVnnN.html
05-12-2020||Pune||Two missing minor girls found after 3-day hunt in Pune||A happy video of two toddlers playing on a swing inside a shelter home in the Shivajinagar gaonthan area of Pune quickly turned into a nightmare, as their frail figures were seen jumping over the security gates of the building. The two girls - one a 6-year-old and one an 8-year-old - were reported missing on Tuesday. After a three-day hunt, the girls were found with a family under a bridge near the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) building in Shivajinagar. “We were searching for them on a war footing. They are young and the parents were not able to look after them. They were missing their parents. They could have easily been pushed into human trafficking. Finally, we could find them and we will try to take steps that will prevent the recurrence of this incident,” said Priyanka Narnavare, deputy commissioner of police, Zone 1, Pune. “The girls were found by the beggar family that took them in without questioning them, fed them whatever they could, and gave them clothes they had. They did not bring the girls to the police, as they should have, but they did not abandon them either,” said senior police inspector Balasaheb Kopnar of Shivajinagar police station. When they were found to have gone missing, a case under Section 363 (kidnapping) of Indian Penal Code was registered and the police machinery got active. However, the two sisters were blissfully unaware of what had transpired over the past few days. After being found on Thursday evening, the elder one flopped on the police station floor with a pen and paper she had borrowed from the police station official who was recording her statement. As she drew stick figures of a man and his child in front of a house, her younger sibling ran around the station and gave different answers to similar questions that was directed towards her by everyone around her - what did you do for three day? Why did you leave? However, the answer she gave to a worker of the Rainbow Foundation was the most believable to her parents as well as her caretakers at the shelter home - “We wanted wada pav, so we left”. For the girls who were born on the open-air of the streets, the security of four walls albeit without their parents, was restricting and less fun. “We found them on March 5 in a tin-shed with their parents and grandmother in Ramtekdi, Hadapsar. They live on the streets, beg for a living, and we counselled them that their children will have a better home with us. With their consent, we brought the girls to the shelter home that is above a school run by PMC,” said Pooja Karande, manager at Rainbow Foundation. The girls had attempted to run away from the shelter on the third day of Diwali - November 16 - too. “A rickshaw driver had found them and brought them to the Faraskhana police station. We had felicitated him for doing it. But this time it was very difficult. We formed two teams - one was checking CCTV footage and providing inputs to the team on ground. For the first entire day, we traced various locations, and at last saw them near the rear end of the Omkareshwar temple after which we lost their trail for some time before finding a footage of them walking with the family,” said police inspector (crime) V Goud of Shivajinagar police station. Since the girls went missing, the foundation has pushed the PMC to provide funds which were used to install a mesh on the security gate and metal arrows on the top of the gate. The girls, who now seem more attached to the shelter home care-takers than their mother, have been sent to live with their mother and her parents in Nigdi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/two-missing-minor-girls-found-after-3-day-hunt-in-pune/story-HXxThfAVZ5Ow291u6MNasO.html
05-12-2020||Pune||Covid-19 virus type has changed since June, says expert in Pune||The scientist emeritus at the National Centre for Cell Sciences (NCCS) Dr Yogesh Shouche made a key observation on Covid-19 during a webinar on Friday.According to Dr Shouche, the Covid virus type detected in June and July earlier this year in various states is different than the 20B type found now.He was talking on, “Changing nature and current status of Covid-19” during the curtain-raiser for the India International Science Festival (IISF 2020) organised by NCCS online. ALSO WATCH | What’s govt’s budget for Covid vaccine distribution? FM Nirmala answers #HTLS2020“In June and July as per our studies, in Nashik, Pune and Satara districts there were four different types. However, now, we have seen only 20B. As we stepped into unlock there was only 20B found,” said Dr Shouche.He further said that the second wave of Covid-19 has affected many countries and that infectious diseases have multiple waves.“The same is with Covid-19. We have to yet understand how severe Covid-19 will be during the second wave. However, we are surer now, of the treatment modality,” said Dr Shouche. He further said that the virus may affect differently now.“There are changes in the virus. Also, the virus may behave differently in different types of weather for the second wave. We can see throughout the world that the cases are increasing. Italy, Germany and Russia have witnessed the second wave. The numbers have reduced now,” said Dr Shouche.As part of the curtain-raiser of IISF organised by National Chemical Laboratory (NCL), chief guest AB Pandit, Institute of Chemical Technology (ICT), Mumbai vice-chancellor delivered an online talk on “Expected impact of the new National Education Policy (NEP) and National Innovation and Start-Up Policy (NISP) on Future Research.” Pandit initiated his talk stating that the research institutes need to be ready for the course correction or re-orientation of the research efforts which are being made.“It is important to understand the necessity of the NEP and NISP and what it addresses. It is a general perception that we are producing a large number of degree holders with very little or no capability,” said Pandit.Pandit also said in the last few decades the industrial automation has taken over, the kind of skill-sets which were required for the graduating students was not necessarily addressed in terms of the requirements of the industry. “The automation has improved the quality of the products and the syllabus was never addressing the changing needs and skill-sets of the industry,” said Pandit.He further underlined that it is not possible for us to see the impacts of the NEP and NISP right away but five years down the line, it will be visible. He highlighted that the NEP was formulated in such a way that the first eight years, the students will essentially address the foundations including basic maths, language literacy, the environmental concerns and the relationship between action and reaction, and cause and effect phenomenon.“The syllabus will be continuously being revised being in the dynamics equilibrium with the surroundings and environmental and industrial needs,” said Pandit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-19-virus-type-has-changed-since-june-experts/story-ZYxzwlqPqiLACqXotDQ6OI.html
05-12-2020||Pune||Pune dist reports 803 fresh Covid-19 cases, 25 deaths||The district reported 803 fresh Covid-19 positive cases and 25 deaths in 24 hours on Friday, according to the state health department.The district has reported 3.56 lakh Covid-19 cases out of which 3.29 lakh have recovered, 7,567 have been reported dead and 19,553 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or are in home isolation.Pune city reported 359 new cases taking the total count to 181,922 and 13 deaths taking the death toll to 4,282, while the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 148 new cases taking the final count to 89,619 and three deaths with 1,274 as the death toll.Pune rural reported 296 new cases taking the final count to 84,960 and nine deaths taking the death toll to 1,976, according to the state health department.The state health department reported that 6,776 patients were discharged on Saturday taking the final count to over 17.10 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 92.81%. Also, 5,229 new cases in the state were reported on Monday taking the total to over 18.42 lakh.In addition, 127 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 48,678. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.58%.Out of 1,11,32,231 laboratory samples, 18,42,587 have been tested positive (16.55%) for the virus until December 4. Currently, 5,47,504 people are in home quarantine and 5,567 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-dist-reports-803-fresh-covid-19-cases-25-deaths/story-rIsoLD1Yd6L7azlWqKvIjM.html
05-12-2020||Pune||State seeks contacts of those diagnosed with Covid-19 based on HRCT||The state government has issued directives to all civic bodies stating that all details of those undergoing treatment for Covid-19 based on the initially similar symptoms based on the High Resolution Computerized Tomography (HRCT) must be sought from the diagnosis centre or the concerned hospitals. The letter issued by the state health department noted that there are patients whose contacts could be traced as they were treated for Covid-19 based on the symptoms diagnosed on HRTC but were not registered with the local civic body as Covid-19 patients. The letter was issued by the department on December 2, 2020 and was issued to all civic bodies and district administrations which says that hospitals and laboratories must note down the name, contact number, address of the concerned person which would be mandatory for them. The order states that it has also been found that patients are undergoing Covid-19 treatment without a confirmed test which is why following contact tracing could not be done by the local civic authorities which makes it difficult to break the chain. City doctors also believe that the HRCT is only a suggestive tool and is not 100 per cent accurate. Dr Vijay Natarajan, chief executive officer (CEO), at the Symbiosis University Hospital and Research Centre (SUHRC) said, “The HRCT is only suggestive and a new development in terms of Covid-19. Although, it has been helpful in some cases as we are looking for pneumonia like symptoms in the lungs. RT-PCR is still considered the gold standard and so based on the radiologist’s expertise of whether a follow up RT-PCR test is required or not, the test is done. The HRCT is just a screening method and based on the involvement of the lungs which show pneumonia like patches in the scan.” With this order, every suggestive Covid-19 patient found through HRCT must be subjected to an RT-PCR or a Rapid Antigen Testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/state-seeks-contacts-of-those-diagnosed-with-covid-19-based-on-hrct/story-f7Di9Gwu25QBQxOwOTfFBI.html
05-12-2020||Pune||PCMC police register 28 cases of illegal construction||The Pimpri-Chinchwad police registered 28 cases against illegal constructions in the Wakad area on Thursday. Among the 28 cases, 11 are registered at Wakad police station, two at MIDC Bhosari police station, one at Chinchwad and 14 at Pimpri police station. In all the cases, the Maharashtra Municipal Corporations Act, 1949, has been invoked. In the cases registered at Wakad police station, the complaints were lodged by Nitin Nimbalkar, deputy engineer of encroachment and illegal construction removal department of Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC). In the case registered at Chinchwad, a complaint was lodged by SS Bhujbal, deputy engineer at Pimpri-Chinchwad New Town Development Authority (PCNTDA). In the cases registered at Pimpri police station, complaints were lodged by another PCMC official identified as Suryakant Mohite. Most of the constructions that came under scanner are that of residential houses. According to the respective complainants, they have all been served notice at some time between January and November. The officers of respective police stations are investigating the cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/police-register-28-cases-of-illegal-construction-in-pcmc-area/story-r9h0CG5SnGfFAyXvDen94J.html
05-12-2020||Pune||MVA wins BJP-dominated Pune graduates’ constituency||In a major setback to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Agadi (MVA) candidate Arun Lad has defeated BJP candidate Sangram Deshmukh in the Pune graduate constituency.MVA’s candidate Lad got 1.22 lakh votes against Deshmukh’s 73, 321 votes.The constituency is made up of voters from Pune, Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara and Solapur districts.The constituency was earlier represented by union minister Prakash Javadekar and state BJP unit head Chandrakant Patil. Javadekar and Patil both represented this constituency twice.Except on two previous occasions, this constituency was with the BJP for the last several years.Former Janata Dal Secular MLA Sharad Patil and MNS candidate Rupali Patil Thombre also contested this seat, which is traditionally dominated by the BJP. Earlier Janta Dal’s candidate Patil had defeated Javadekar from this constituency.Even in Pune teachers’ constituency, MVA’s candidate Jayant Aasgavkar is leading.The workers from Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Congress and Shiv Sena jointly celebrated the victory after the results were announced.Lad said, “I worked for the last many years for the graduate constituency. I reached out to many voters during the campaign.”NCP leader Sharad Pawar said, “The results show that the citizens are expressing confidence in the Maha Vikas Agadi. The climate is changing in the state.”MVA’s victory is considered a big blow to the saffron party and has forced the party leaders to introspect. Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and Patil campaigned in the constituency.BJP leaders off the record blamed the workers and said that they were overconfident and did not put in enough efforts.Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said, “We failed to estimate the power of the three parties unitedly.”Who is Arun Lad? Arun Lad runs a sugar factory as well as an educational institute and co-operative institutes in Kadegaon Palus area of Sangli district. His father GD Lad was an MLC and also known as a freedom fighter. Lad in the year 2013 contested the graduate constituency as an independent candidate and got sizeable votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/mva-wins-bjp-dominated-pune-graduates-constituency/story-5tHAGG5uJ2KbR5yEJFaSeP.html
05-12-2020||Pune||Pune civic body issues fresh list of micro containment zones||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has issued a fresh list of Covid-19 micro containment zones, with six areas in the city where movement of residents is restricted. Of the six such zones, three are from the Hadapsar-Mundhwa ward. The ward has been reporting maximum number of cases since the beginning of the pandemic and geographical challenges, including the wide spread of the area is now proving to be a challenge for the administration. The six newly declared micro containment zones are areas from Kasba-Vishrambaugwada, Bibvewadi, Kondhwa-Yewlewadi and three areas from the Hadapsar-Mundhwa ward namely, Iris society in Magarpatta city, Sasanenagar and Fursungi. Somnath Bankar, assistant municipal commissioner of the ward claimed that people in the ward did not follow any social distancing norms or wear masks during the Diwali days. He said, “People thronged the markets despite repeated warnings by the administration. However it is also true that this is the largest ward of all the 15 wards in the city, spread across an area of about 54 square kilometres with a population of about 10 lakh people. We also have the maximum number of hospitals which is why people from nearby villages and outside PMC limits are also being brought here.” The ward has been consistently reporting the maximum number of cases, which is why it has been one of the worst affected wards in the city too. “The newly added villages are also reporting fresh Covid-19 cases which is adding to the total tally of the ward,” said Bankar. As per the latest guidelines issued by the state, all SARI and ILI patients in any containment zones must be tested regularly for any flu-like symptoms for early detection and treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-civic-body-issues-fresh-list-of-micro-containment-zones/story-HpQwYuQC9iRfmE3cG5NwgL.html
05-12-2020||Mumbai||32 year old fireman dies fighting fire in Navi Mumbai chemical company||A 32 year old fireman was killed while dousing a fire in a chemical company in Taloja, Navi Mumbai after inhaling hazardous chemical fumes in the wee hours of Saturday. Three other firemen who complained of difficulties in breathing are under observation in a Navi Mumbai hospital. Fire fighting teams from four different local governing bodies were involved in seven hours long operation with ten fire tenders. The deceased has been identified as Balu Damu Deshmukh, a fireman from Ambernath fire station. The fire broke out shortly after midnight at plot J39 in Mody Chemi-Pharma Pvt Ltd which reportedly manufactures materials for pharmaceutical companies.Deepak Dorugade, Taloja MIDC fire station chief, who himself is under observation after inhaling the fumes, said, “We received the fire call at 12.05 am. When we reached the spot the one storey building was completely engulfed in flames and there were explosions taking place inside. Our priority was to ensure that the nine chlorine tunnels with 900 kg chlorine in each were protected from fire.” Chlorine gas is very poisonous and does not dilute easily in air. If there had been an explosion in even one tunnel it would have been catastrophic with lives being lost, claimed Dorudage. The team managed to ensure the drums were secured. Fire personnel from Navi Mumbai, CIDCO, MIDC and also Ambernath rushed to the spot to douse the blaze.Around 10 fire tenders were deployed and it was eventually put out at around 7 am. Also Read: Stop commenting on our leadership if you want stable govt: Cong leader to Maha alliesDorudage added, “Deshmukh felt dizzy during the fire fighting operation after inhaling the toxic fumes around 4.00 am. He came out and vomited and then felt better and was walking fine. He then went to take rest in his vehicle. A little later, I too felt dizzy and came out of the fire fighting operations and collapsed. However, after vomiting thrice on the road, I felt better.” The team then checked on Deshmukh who was in the vehicle. Dorudage said.Also Read: Maharashtra forms five-lawyer panel for coordination on Maratha quota“He had vomited in sleep and hence there was respiratory tract arrest, we rushed him to MGM hospital in Kamothe. He was breathing until he reached the hospital, however, passed away on admission at around 4.30 am. It is a huge shock for us.” A case of accidental death has been registered at Taloja police station. Apart from Dorugade, two other fire officers inhaled the fumes and have been asked to take rest. They are all stable at present. Fire officials are investigating the cause of fire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/32-year-old-fireman-dies-fighting-fire-in-navi-mumbai-chemical-company/story-TXUeRZiYxRT3t349FrbPNP.html
05-12-2020||Mumbai||United front needed to defeat impregnable BJP: Shiv Sena||Buoyed by the Maha Vikas Aghadi’s victory in Maharashtra Legislative Council polls, Shiv Sena on Saturday said that impregnable BJP can be defeated if parties fight elections together.“Elections were held for 6 seats of the Legislative Council, out of which Maha Vikas Aghadi won 5 seats. Graduate, Teachers Election Association is known as impregnable BJP bastion where well educated, well-settled voters preferred to vote for the BJP. This myth has been busted,” read the editorial in Shiv Sena’s mouthpiece Saamana.“The defeat of the BJP in Nagpur and Pune is a call of changed stormy air... We have seen how a miracle happens when all the groups of Congress, leaders come together. The Congress high command should also take cognizance of this victory. The BJP’s pocket borough can be demolished by a united front, it is seen in Maharashtra,” it said.The editorial termed the results from Nagpur as “most shocking” stating that BJP suffered on the seat which it has been winning for the past several years.“Teachers and graduates voted for Maha Vikas Aghadi everywhere in Maharashtra. The most shocking result has come from Nagpur. For the last five decades, the BJP has been victorious over the Nagpur Graduate Election Association,” it said. “The headquarters of the Sangh are in Nagpur, but despite the strong association of Sangh ideologues, Nagpur Mayor Sandeep Joshi had to accept defeat. The stronghold was tunnelled, now the foundation has been shaken,” it added. Sena also accused BJP of fielding rebels to bring down its numbers when both parties used to contest elections in the alliance. “BJP-Shiv Sena used to fight together, then the BJP used to spoil the game by putting secret rebels in place to pull the leg of Shiv Sena. Now, this has not happened among the three, the BJP should learn a lesson from this,” the editorial said. Of the six seats of the Maharashtra Legislative Council where polling was held earlier this week, the BJP could win only one while the MVA bagged four. Shiv Sena fielded candidate only on one seat in Amravati where too it suffered defeat.The elections were held on December 1 for the six seats -- three Graduates’ constituencies (Aurangabad, Pune and Nagpur), two Teachers’ constituencies (Pune and Amravati), and one Local Bodies’ constituency in Dhule-Nandurbar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/united-front-needed-to-defeat-impregnable-bjp-shiv-sena/story-7E6QKLPjN7r1b16JleasCM.html
05-12-2020||Mumbai||41% ICU beds, 33% ventilator beds allotted for Covid in Mumbai vacant as of Thurs||About 67% of beds, 41% of the ICU beds, 67% of the oxygen beds, and 33% of the ventilator beds reserved for Covid-19 patients in Mumbai were vacant as of Thursday, according to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Mumbai had 13,754 active Covid-19 cases on Friday compared to 11,000 the previous week. BMC has said there could be a spike in Covid-19 cases in December and January but Mumbai’s health infrastructure is equipped to handle it. Suresh Kakani, an additional municipal commissioner in-charge of BMC’s public health department, said they have sufficient beds to handle the spike. “Most symptomatic patients need oxygen beds... fewer need ICU beds and even fewer need ventilator beds. Hence 50% of Mumbai’s total bed capacity are oxygen beds.” Around 72% of the active cases in Mumbai are asymptomatic, 21% are symptomatic, and 7% are critical, BMC said. Mumbai’s recovery rate is 92%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/41-icu-beds-33-ventilator-beds-allotted-for-covid-in-mumbai-vacant-as-of-thurs/story-zdNxrRGpNdBRGgojTrmsLK.html
05-12-2020||Mumbai||Clear and unequivocal agreement must for arbitration: Bombay HC||Observing that existence of a clear and unequivocal agreement to refer disputes to an arbitrator is a pre-requisite for arbitration, the Bombay high court on Thursday dismissed a petition filed by one of consultants appointed by the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA).“There must be a demonstrated consensus ad idem (a meeting of minds or agreement) to refer disputes to arbitration,” said justice Gautam Patel while rejecting the petition filed by Dhargalkar Technoesis (India) Private Limited, seeking to refer its dispute with MMRDA for arbitration.The firm, which had acted as MMRDA’s consultant for a rehabilitation project, contended that certain clauses of its June 2004 agreement with the metropolitan authority clearly indicated the intention of the parties to refer disputes between them to arbitration, though the words arbitration, arbitrator etc. are not specifically mentioned in those clauses.It laid stress on the termination clauses included in both, general and specific parts of the contract, claiming that these clauses mention the term arbitration and confirm or re-affirm the intention of the parties to refer their disputes to arbitration.In support of its argument, the firm relied on the decision in Jagdish Chandler’s case, in which the Apex Court has held that “the absence of words like arbitration and arbitral tribunal or arbitrator are not determinative and an arbitration agreement may well be valid even without such wording.”Also Read: It’s winter in Maharashtra as mercury drops; Mumbai’s air worsensThe firm further claimed that its agreement with MMRDA also fulfilled the requirements for a valid and binding arbitration clause, as laid down by the Supreme Court in the same case - that the agreement must be in writing, parties must have agreed to refer their disputes to a private tribunal, the tribunal should be empowered to adjudicate the dispute in an impartial manner and parties should have agreed to bind themselves by the decision of the tribunal.MMRDA opposed the petition claiming there was no arbitration agreement between the parties and the dispute therefore could not be referred to arbitration. Its counsel, advocate Ajay Khaire, pointed out that the main attribute of any arbitration agreement is consensus ad idem or a meeting of minds, to refer disputes to arbitration. “If this is missing, there is no arbitration agreement,” he asserted.Also Read: SC rejects demand for govt nominees in trust formed for Ayodhya mosqueJustice Patel accepted MMRDA’s stand. “If the non-use of words or phrases like arbitration or arbitrator is not determinative, then, by the same token, the mere use of these words is not determinative either,” said the judge.HC noted that one of the clauses referred by the firm only said that any dispute was to be referred to the joint metropolitan commissioner and project director of MMRDA, whose decision will be final.“On its own — and even allowing that the absence of words like arbitration and arbitrator is immaterial — this is not necessarily an arbitration clause,” said justice Patel. “We cannot unequivocally say this is to be an arbitration (clause) and nothing else,” he added.HC held that the clause did not fulfil the important requirement of “adjudicating the dispute in impartial manner, giving due opportunity to the parties to put forth their case” and therefore can’t be termed as an arbitration agreement.As regards the termination clauses, HC said the mere use of the word “arbitration” in those clauses was immaterial and those clauses indicated that the mode of “dispute resolution” contemplated in it was definitely not arbitration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/clear-and-unequivocal-agreement-must-for-arbitration-bombay-hc/story-tckisCWOviu8dEaA8qvC9M.html
05-12-2020||Mumbai||It’s winter in Maharashtra as mercury drops; Mumbai’s air worsens||Cooler conditions prevailed over coastal areas including Mumbai and cold winds swept interior parts of the state on Saturday morning as the weather bureau said Maharashtra was under the grip of the winter season. Cooler conditions in Mumbai also meant the city’s air quality worsened and entered the poor category on Saturday.Mumbai’s Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs, recorded a further drop in the night temperature on Saturday to 18.4 degrees Celsius (1.4 degree Celsius below normal), the lowest temperature so far this season. It was 19 degrees Celsius on Friday and is expected to hover below the 20 degree Celsius mark for the next two days, the weather bureau said.Colaba weather station, representative of south Mumbai, recorded a temperature of 21.4 degrees Celsius-- a degree below normal.Even moisture levels showed a marginal decline from previous days as the suburbs and south Mumbai recorded 78% and 85% humidity on Saturday morning.In other parts of the state, especially interior Maharashtra along Marathwada and Vidarbha, temperatures were much lower. Parbhani recorded the lowest temperature in the state at 8.8 degrees Celsius followed by Gondia at 10.5 degrees Celsius. Nashik in north Maharashtra recorded 11.1 degrees Celsius while Pune recorded 11.5 degrees Celsius.Also Read: At 402, Delhi AQI breaches severe category again“The drop in minimum temperature indicates winter season is very much underway in Maharashtra as the wind pattern (northerly to northeasterly early morning and easterly during the day) is drawing cool and dry winds over interior and coastal areas of the state. The minimum temperature is likely to remain below the normal mark,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, India Meteorological Department.Also Read: Night temperature in Chandigarh crosses 10-degree mark Meanwhile, the pollutant-measuring indicator showed a spike on Saturday as the air quality index (AQI) entered the poor category for the first time this month. According to the system of air quality weather forecasting and research (SAFAR), it was 225 (poor) for PM2.5 pollutants. The AQI was 99 (satisfactory) on November 30, worsened to 118 (moderate) by Tuesday and kept increasing to 176 (moderate) by Friday. Bandra Kurla Complex (316) recording a very poor AQI. Colaba (276), Mazgaon (269), Chembur (283), Andheri (218), and Malad (300), all recorded poor air. Worli (73) had the best AQI on Saturday.Researchers said the drop in temperatures combined with calm winds had allowed a rise in pollution levels. “Due to low ventilation, AQI is likely to remain poor for the next two days,” said Gufran Beig, project director, SAFAR. The AQI is predicted to be 211 (poor) on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/it-s-winter-in-maharashtra-as-mercury-drops-mumbai-s-air-worsens/story-94oFTg4GTOw7yUGIxkC3pI.html
05-12-2020||Delhi||As farmers’ agitation continues, here are the routes to avoid to and from Delhi||Several roads and borders in and around Delhi continued to be choked on Saturday as farmers protesting the three agricultural laws enacted by the government refused to budge and demanded the legislation be withdrawn.As the farmers continue their protests, Delhi Traffic Police, in a series of tweets, informed commuters about the routes that have been closed due to the demonstrations and also about the ones that can be taken instead.Here are the routes you must avoid or take according to Delhi traffic police in the past one hour:1. Traffic movement is closed on Chilla Border (both carriageway) due to farmers’ protest. Traffic has been diverted from Crown Plaza Chowk and Akshardham.2. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK Road. Avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road, NH 44.3. Singhu, Auchandi, Lemuria Maniyari and Mangesh borders are closed. NH-44 is closed on both sides. People can opt to take alternate routes via Safiabad, Saboli, NH8/Bhopra /Apsara borders /Peripheral expressway.4. Jhatikara border is open only for two-wheeler traffic. Other borders which are open from Delhi towards Haryana are Dhansa, Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders.5. Tikri, Jharoda Borders are closed for any Traffic Movement. Badusarai Border is open only for Light Motor Vehicle like Cars and two-wheelers.6. The Ghazipur border on NH 24 is closed for traffic from Ghaziabad to Delhi due to farmers protests. People are advised to avoid NH 24 for coming to Delhi and use Apsara/ Bhopra/DND for coming to Delhi.7. The Chilla border on Noida link road is closed for traffic from Noida to Delhi due to farmers’ protests near Gautam Budh Dwar. People are advised to avoid Noida Link Road for coming to Delhi and use DND.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/as-farmers-agitation-continues-here-are-the-routes-to-avoid-to-and-from-delhi/story-hZJjUHgLat3uEobOsh9bjK.html
05-12-2020||Chandigarh||Kibber village in remote Spiti valley of Himachal declared containment zone after 14 Covid cases surface||Kibber village in the remote Spiti valley of Himachal Pradesh has been declared a containment zone after 14 residents tested positive for Covid-19, officials said on Saturday. Lahaul and Spiti is among the top three districts with a high positivity rate in Himachal Pradesh. Kibber is situated at an altitude of 14,400 feet and is surrounded by a wildlife sanctuary, which is the habitat of the elusive snow leopard. “Kibber with a population of about 1,100 has been declared a containment zone till further orders. All relaxations given by the administration have been withdrawn. Shops and offices in the containment zone will remain closed and no public and private works shall be carried out,” additional district magistrate Gian Sagar Negi said. The Spiti tehsildar and village head have been directed to ensure the supply of essential commodities to residents. Panchayat head Angmo, who goes by one name, said, “There was a wedding in the village recently. The gathering appears to be the prime reason for the spread of the pandemic.” The residents have been told not to participate or organise any function, meeting or religious event in the containment zone. They can come out of their houses only in case of an emergency. Everyone has been asked to wear masks and thermal screening will be done at all entry and exit points.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kibber-village-in-remote-spiti-valley-of-himachal-declared-containment-zone-after-14-covid-cases-surface/story-t9KhrIYQyDWD6QLCkPM3dL.html
05-12-2020||Mumbai||BMC orders Global Pagoda at Gorai shut between December 5 and 7||Municipal authorities in Mumbai have cited the Covid-19 pandemic and ordered the closure of Global Vipassana Pagoda at Gorai between December 5 and 7.The Pagoda is a meditation centre and also a monument built as a tribute to Lord Gautama Buddha near Gorai beach. Hundreds of followers of Dr B R Ambedkar who visit his memorial at Dadar in Mumbai on his death anniversary on December 6, also visit the Pagoda. BMC officials said the decision to close the memorial was taken at a meeting of police, ward officials, and the Pagoda’s management on Friday. A BMC official said, “Every year hundreds of people gather at the Pagoda during this time of the year and mere appeal may not help. Hence, we have ordered the management to keep the Pagoda kept shut under the Epidemic Act.” The BMC has said the annual event to pay homage to Ambedkar, who headed the Constitution’s drafting committee, will be organised virtually. Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said, “This year, on December 06, I will request all citizens to not have gatherings anywhere that might help Covid-19 spread. Instead, we should continue wearing masks, maintain social distancing and maintain all type of hygiene to control the spread of Covid-19.” Around 500 stalls are set up for selling books, lamps, calendars, decorations, posters, T-shirts, watches carrying Ambedkar’s image near the memorial. No such stall will be allowed this year. Anandraj Ambedkar, grandson of Bhimrao Ambedkar, last week cited Covid-19 and appealed to people to not visit Mumbai in large numbers. “I appeal to all followers to organise events at a smaller scale in districts and towns to ensure the safety of all the citizens.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bmc-orders-to-keep-global-pagoda-at-gorai-shut-between-december-5-and-7/story-FOx30MxMgHdOkcbEniZwmI.html
05-12-2020||Mumbai||Uddhav Thackeray to review Mumbai-Nagpur expressway work||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will visit the cities of Amravati and Aurangabad today to review the ongoing work for Mumbai-Nagpur Samruddhi corridor, a new expressway expected to cut down the travel time between the two cities to eight hours from the nearly 18 hours it currently takes. The 701 km ambitious expressway is expected to be fully operational by May 1, 2022, connecting the State’s capital with its second capital at a total project cost of around Rs 55,000 crore.Back in 2017, the land acquisition for the project was opposed by farmers across 10 districts. The Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation, which is executing the project, has said that the entire land acquisition process has now been completed smoothly. Also Read: Mumbai is Hindi film industry’s heart and soul: IMPPA in letter to Uddhav ThackerayThe expressway will connect 10 districts, 26 talukas and 392 villages between Mumbai and Nagpur. With 24 interchanges, it will also connect many tourism locations like Lonar lake, Ajantha-Ellora caves, Pench National Park, Shegaon, Sevagram, Shirdi, Bibi Ka Maqbara and Daulatabad.The project, which has been delayed due to coronavirus induced lockdown, also includes development of 20 townships and nodes along the route of the expressway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/uddhav-thackeray-to-review-mumbai-nagpur-expressway-work/story-RuOTyS7cJ4th6GCqBO9wTP.html
05-12-2020||Delhi||At 402, Delhi AQI breaches severe category again||Delhi’s air quality deteriorated to the “severe” category on Saturday with the city recording an Air Quality Index (AQI) of 402 at 8 am. The average AQI on Friday was 382. At least 17 of the 35 monitoring stations recorded “severe” category air quality from Friday evening. On a scale of 0-500, an AQI value between 301-400 is considered “very poor” while 401-500 is “severe”. Government agencies had warned the air quality will deteriorate because of a change in wind pattern and slowing down of winds. The situation is likely to remain the same over the weekend.India Meteorological Department (IMD) said stubble burning incidents are now negligible but local pollutants accumulated in the atmosphere have not been able to disperse because of unfavourable weather conditions.“The wind direction changed to easterly from north-westerly. Whenever there is a change in wind direction, it impacts the air quality as winds turn calm for a while and do not allow dispersion. The night temperature is also below normal, which again is not favourable for dispersion. Also, there was increased moisture because of easterly winds, which further traps pollutants close to the ground resulting in deterioration in air quality,” said an IMD scientist.He added any improvement is likely after December 7 when north-westerly winds are likely to return. “From December 7-9, there may be an improvement in air quality as winds speed is expected to remain on the higher side,” he said.On Friday, Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 8 degrees C, a notch below normal. The maximum settled at 28.8 degrees C, four notches above normal.The System for Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) said the share of stubble burning to the city’s PM 2.5 levels was just 1%. “The air quality is likely to deteriorate further over the next couple of days because of reduced ventilation and increase in moisture. However, it is likely to recover around December 6-7 with the return of good wind speed,” the SAFAR said. After the annual peak pollution in November, which is mostly attributed to stubble burning, bad air episodes are seen towards December-end and early January. This is mainly because meteorological conditions are even more unfavourable during this time while the baseline pollution (local emissions from Delhi and neighbouring regions) stays the same. This includes local waste burning, industrial fumes, vehicular emissions and dust suspension.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/at-402-delhi-aqi-breaches-severe-category-again/story-l2lZR3z5nQxZJhOexYImAL.html
05-12-2020||Bhopal||Retired MP school principal made, sold synthetic milk; residents shocked||A chemistry teacher who retired as a Madhya Pradesh government school principal was booked by police on Friday for making and selling synthetic milk in Morena district, 465 km north of Bhopal. The accused is absconding, said police. The act of the 65-year-old retired principal Deendayal Sharma, a resident of Khadiyahar village under Ambah tehsil in Morena district came to light during a raid conducted by a joint team of police, food safety department and district administration personnel on Thursday. The team seized 200 litres of synthetic milk, palm oil and chemicals from the house of the accused, said police. The FIR was lodged on Friday evening on a complaint filed by food safety officer in the district, Avinash Gupta, under sections 272 (Adulteration of food or drink intended for sale), 273 (Sale of noxious food or drink) and 420 (Cheating) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Sections 51, 57, 58 and 59 of Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006, according to the police.As per the FIR, the retired principal was found in possession of synthetic milk and he tried to mislead the raiding team by claiming to collect 250-300 litres of milk daily but he couldn’t show any licence or registration for any such business. “During the raid, 10 kg of maltodextrin powder and 8 kg of refined palm oil was seized, besides the milk samples, which were sent to the State food laboratory for examination. The materials seized suggest that Deendayal Sharma prepares synthetic milk and sells it to others, which is harmful for the health of people,” said the complainant in the FIR. Sihonia police station in charge Rajkumar Singh said, “A police team went to arrest the accused Deendayal Sharma after the FIR was lodged against him but he was found absconding. We will arrest him soon.” Also Read: MP home minister volunteers for Covid-19 vaccine trialA local social activist and former student of Deendayal Sharma, Jayant Tomar, said, “When Sharma joined girls’ higher secondary school in Khadiyahar almost 15 years ago, the passing percentage of the girls’ students was just 17% but he helped improve it to 70% in just a few years. He also made efforts to improve the quality of education. That’s why we can’t believe that he may be involved in a crime like adulteration.” A state-wide campaign is going on across the state against adulteration of food. In Morena, National Security Act (NSA) was invoked against a dairy owner Dharmendra Sharma on Wednesday for making synthetic milk.(With input from Shivpratap Singh Jadon in Morena)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/retd-mp-school-principal-made-sold-synthetic-milk-residents-shocked/story-z5jx5jrzBFtnwCv3lWkvCJ.html
05-12-2020||Lucknow||Senior UP police officer ‘manhandled’ in Jhansi, video goes viral||Jhansi superintendent of police Vivek Tripathi was allegedly manhandled by agitated BJP workers, who were involved in heated exchanges with police alleging anomalies in the counting of votes in the election for UP legislative council member from the Allahabad-Jhansi division graduates’ constituency. A video of the incident went viral on social media.The BJP workers were seen trying to enter the counting centre by force while they were being stopped by SP City Tripathi and other policemen. BJP leader Pradeep Saravgi can be seen in the video brawling with the police personnel. BJP MLAs Amit Sharma and Rajeev Singh Paricha were present at the spot during the incident. Tripathi, however, said he and other cops were manhandled but not assaulted. “I am not injured or beaten up as being circulated over social media,” he said. The incident took place at about 1.30 pm when BJP’s Jhansi district president Mukesh Mishra along with Pradeep Saravagi and other local leaders and workers, tried to enter the counting centre, alleging discrepancies in the counting but were prevented by the police, an eyewitness told a news agency.Later, BJP MLAs Ravi Sharma and Jawahar Rajput and other party workers sat on a dharna outside the centre, demanding recounting of votes alleging irregularities.Also Read: BJP wins three MLC seats in UP, loses Varanasi to SP candidateSamajwadi Party district president Mahesh Kahsyap, who too sat on a dharna with party leaders at the BKD college ground, said the BJP workers indulged in hooliganism facing defeat in the election, the agency reported.Jhansi’s senior superintendent of police Dinesh Kumar P said some persons did try to enter the counting centre but they were prevented and removed.Samajwadi Party, meanwhile, alleged in a tweet that BJP leader Pradeep Saravgi attacked city SP Vivek Tripathi. The party also tagged a video of the incident and demanded strict action against the BJP leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/senior-up-police-officer-manhandled-in-jhansi-video-goes-viral/story-lIUa2Sb2mViOkrQzIWEDFJ.html
05-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai is Hindi film industry’s heart and soul: IMPPA in letter to Uddhav Thackeray||The Indian Motion Picture Producers’ Association (IMPPA) on Friday wrote a letter to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, stressing that the film industry will continue to stay in the city.The letter comes days after Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath proposed an alternate film city in UP.  Adityanath had recently unveiled an ambitious plan to set up the film city in Noida and rolled out an open offer to film fraternity to come to Uttar Pradesh.Ahead of his Mumbai visit recently, ruling Congress in Maharashtra had alleged a conspiracy to snatch away the film city to UP, and Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had vowed not to allow anybody to “forcibly” take away businesses.In a letter addressed to Thackeray, IMPPA said they were “happy to note” that the chief minister had “vocally and clearly stated that Maharashtra is the birth place of the film industry.”  “Mumbai is the heart of the Hindi film industry and nobody can take it anywhere because the industry consists of its people, which are producers, directors, artistes and other technicians are the ones who form the core of the industry.“We can assure you that our members will definitely not lose out on opportunities made available to them by other states and countries but they will never shift their base,” the IMPPA said in the letter.The film body further asserted that Mumbai is the “heart and soul” of the industry. “It is noteworthy that Mumbai produces majority of films in Hindi language which is the one language in the country which has kept Indians all over the world connected to each other due to the entertainment and drama provided to them by Hindi films which are the main source of saluting our culture and social fabric and keeping national integrity alive and intact.“In the present economic scenario as the lockdown pandemic continues to wreak havoc, the birth place of Hindi cinema is gradually becoming the graveyard and we have repeatedly pleaded that necessary steps need to be taken to save the Hindi film industry,” IMPPA added.It said that the Maharashtra government has a responsibility to ensure the film industry’s survival.“The Hindi film industry is also a business which needs to be nurtured and looked after and hence all benefits available to other industries have to be made available to films and entertainment industry if they are going to be a sustainable and viable proposition,” the letter added.During his visit, Adityanath met experts from Bollywood, including directors, producers and actors, to seek their suggestions for the upcoming film city in Noida which will be spread across 1,000 acres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-is-hindi-film-industry-s-heart-and-soul-imppa-in-letter-to-uddhav-thackeray/story-bc85J0ixpyn7ysXLP787JI.html
05-12-2020||Chandigarh||Manesar land scam: Court slams CBI for ‘pick and choose’ probe||Special CBI judge Jagdeep Singh, who had on December 1 summoned five additional accused in the Manesar land scam, has come down heavily on the central agency for conducting investigations in a pick and choose manner. The judge said conduct of investigators, especially in sensitive matters, needed to be scrutinised with reference to their movements and calls records of the relevant time. “Reasons may be two fold — the investigating officer (IO) was either adamant to extend benefit to the persons arrayed as accused or to extend benefit to the persons against whom there are clear cut and prima facie circumstances but have not been arraigned as accused,” said the special judge in his 176-page order. The order said such isolated instances are enough to bring the “sobriquet of caged parrot to the agency”. The special judge, who had on December 1 ordered framing of charges against former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and 32 other accused chargesheeted by the CBI, said the court is not supposed to act as a mere post office or a mouth piece of the prosecuting agency and act as a mute spectator. In his reaction sought by HT, Hooda had said that framing of charges was a part of the process. “I have got full faith in judiciary. As far as this case is concerned, it is politically motivated,” the former chief minister had said. The court said despite unambiguous statements of witnesses and documents on record, the IO has chosen to turn a blind eye to the role of some important public servants whose acts and omissions can be prima facie termed to be more culpable than the persons arrayed as accused in this case. ‘IO’s narrative contradicted by material on record’ The court said sporadic instances of the biased and tainted investigations of a few investigators cannot dent the image of this agency. The IO has sought to introduce narrative which on the face of its gets contradicted vide documents and material on record. It apparently appears that IO has done investigation in an apparent pick and choose manner, for the reasons best known to him. The court had also summoned five additional accused, including former HSIIDC managing director Rajiv Arora, former industries director DR Dhingra, former HSIIDC chief town planner Surjit Singh, former chief town planner of town and country planning Dhare Singh, and former town and country planning deputy superintendent Kulwant Lamba. From the documents on record, it needs no forensic skills to find out that the foundations of making the acquisition proceedings to lapse was laid down by the functionaries of industries department and HSIIDC, in cahoots with each other. Prima facie culpability of the then industries director, DR Dhingra, is further reflected from the statement of witness, the court said. ‘Law does not permit mini trial at this stage’ Dismissing the discharge application of the accused, the court said it is required to evaluate the material and documents on record with a view to find out if the facts emerging therefrom, taken at their face value, disclose the existence of all the ingredients constituting the alleged offences. The law does not permit a mini trial at this stage, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/manesar-land-scam-court-slams-cbi-for-pick-and-choose-probe/story-Tg07B4X7PKs7bhJeU5VkKM.html
05-12-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana civic body polls: JJP to bargain hard, will seek lion’s share in seats||The Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), the ambitious alliance partner of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Haryana, is unlikely to accept anything less than its already decided pound of flesh in the state government while hammering a seat-sharing formula for the upcoming municipal bodies’ elections. The BJP, which depends heavily on the support of the JJP to stay in power in Haryana, will hold the seat-sharing talks with its ally in next two days. And, ahead of the meeting the JJP has been giving final touches to the survey being done by the party legislators to ascertain its pockets of strength and the possible candidates, sources in the JJP-BJP said. The general elections for the seats of mayor and members of all the wards municipal corporations (MCs) of Ambala, Panchkula and Sonepat, president and members of municipal council of Rewari, and municipal committees of Sampla (Rohtak), Dharuhera (Rewari) and Uklana (Hisar) will be held on December 27. The results will be declared on December 30 and the six days’ window of filing nominations will open on December 11. The seats of mayor in corporations and president in council and committees will now be filled up through direct elections. All three MCs have 20 wards each, while the Rewari council has 31 wards, and committees of Sampla, Dharuhera and Uklana have 15, 17 and 13 wards each, respectively. Hence, hard bargaining is likely during the talks between the alliance partners before fielding over 140 candidates, including mayor in corporations. “The JJP will field its candidate for the mayor’s post in at least one MC. The seat-sharing arrangement will be decided within two to three days,” Digvijay Singh Chautala, senior JJP leader and younger brother of deputy CM Dushyant Chautala, said. Another key JJP leader, refusing to be identified, indicated that the JJP would seek more seats in rural wards of the three MCs, Rewari council and three committees. “The BJP has presence in urban belts, while we are very good in rural areas, including the rural pockets of Panchkula MC,” the JJP leader said. Sources in the JJP say the party will demand either Sonepat or Ambala mayor’s seat, besides staking claim on wards of the corporations, council and committees on the lines the alliance was stitched to form the government in October 2019. ReservationsAmbala mayor’s post is reserved for a woman candidate Sampla municipal committee’s president post is reserved for an SC woman candidate Rewari municipal council president’s post is reserved for any Backward Classes candidate||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-civic-body-polls-jjp-to-bargain-hard-will-seek-lion-s-share-in-seats/story-tr3pZdyLThaDBmqMuwcuDO.html
05-12-2020||City||Chandigarh records three more Covid deaths||The tricity recorded five more Covid deaths in the last 24 hours, of which three were from Chandigarh and one each was from Mohali and Panchkula. With this, Mohali’s toll went up to 288 while Chandigarh and Panchkula’s death count rose to 287 and 131 respectively. The deceased include two males, aged 85 and 83, from Sector 19 and Sector 21 of Chandigarh and an 80-year-old woman from Sector 20. From Panchkula, the latest fatality is a 64-year-old man from Sector-16. Chandigarh also recorded 111 fresh infections, taking its tally to 17, 828. The city currently has 928 active cases. As many as 161 patients also recovered in the last 24 hours. In Mohali, 149 persons tested positive for the virus, taking the cumulative count to 16, 068. Out of the 149 cases, 1, 017 are from Mohali (Urban), 13 from Dera Bassi, 12 from Kharar, four from Gharuan, five from Lalru, three from Kurali and five from Dhakoli. As many as 15 patients were discharged after recovery, bringing down the active cases to 2, 280. Panchkula recorded 63 new cases, of which 29 were females. The district has 483 active cases while its recovery rate stands at 93.15%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-records-three-more-covid-deaths/story-TTM1y5blqmrcvNzm7yL4PP.html
05-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air very poor, may turn severe: IMD||Delhi’s air quality plunged to the far end of the ‘very poor’ zone on Friday as the wind speed and pattern changed, resulting in the slow dispersion of pollutants. At least 17 of the 35 monitoring stations had turned deep red, reaching the ‘severe’ zone on Friday. The air quality index (AQI) is likely to deteriorate further over the next two days and may touch ‘severe’ by Saturday, government agencies have forecast. According to the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) 4 pm bulletin, the AQI was 382, higher than 341 on Thursday. It was 373 on Wednesday. Most monitoring stations that are in ‘severe’ category include hot spots such as Anand Vihar, ITO, Vivek Vihar, Ashok Vihar, Bawana, Narela and Mundka, among others.According to weather scientists at the India Meteorological Department, with stubble burning incidents being negligible at present, local pollutants that have accumulated in the atmosphere have not been able to disperse because of unfavourable weather conditions.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said the wind speed was just around 6-7 kmph during the day, which is not favourable for dispersal. “Besides, the wind direction changed to easterly from northwesterly. Whenever there is a change in wind direction, it impacts the air quality as winds turn calm for a while and do not allow dispersion. The night temperature is also below normal, which again is not favourable for dispersion. There was increased moisture because of easterly winds, which traps pollutants close to the ground,” Srivastava said.He said the air quality may turn ‘severe’ over the weekend and any improvement is likely only after December 7 when northwesterly winds are likely to return.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-air-very-poor-may-turn-severe-imd/story-zhtoLVZzJrEXozfVqUnlhM.html
05-12-2020||City||Woman, teen daughter crushed to death by tipper on Airport road in Chandigarh||A 43-year-old woman and her teenaged daughter were crushed to death after a sand-laden tipper hit their two-wheeler at a blind curve near Mata Gujri gurdwara in Sector 70, on Airport road on Friday. The deceased have been identified as Rajwinder Kaur and 13-year-old Darweshinder Kaur, natives of Bathinda, who were staying in a rented accommodation in Sector 67, Mohali. The incident took place around 4pm when the mother-daughter duo was on their way to Kharar from Sohana. The spot where the mishap occurred is known to be one of the major black spots in the city. As per the police, the accident took place when the tipper was taking a turn. After the collision, the mother and the daughter fell down on the road and got crushed under the wheels of the tipper. The woman died on the spot while her daughter was declared dead at the hospital. The driver, identified as Mahitab Singh, a resident of Sangrur, was nabbed from the spot. Sohana station house officer, inspector Daljit Singh said, “The victim’s family members, who live in Bathinda, have been informed. The body will be kept in the mortuary of civil hospital until they arrive. The post-mortem is to be conducted on Saturday.” The SHO added that Rajwinder Kaur had moved to Mohali from Bathinda to educate her children. Flaws in road design had been flagged Last year in April, Punjab traffic advisor Navdeep Asija, after conducting a three-dimensional (3D) safety audit using drones, had revealed major flaws in design of the Airport Road in Mohali. The report stated that the road is not pedestrian and cyclist-friendly. OTHER FATAL MISHAPS ON AIRPORT ROAD The rate of fatalities due to accidents on the Airport Road is double the average for national highways November 18: A 20-year-old student was killed after an unknown vehicle hit his motorcycle near Dullat Resort on Airport road here. November 13: A 25-year-old woman died after a motorcycle hit her bicycle near Sector 69/Sector 70 T-Point on Airport road. November 9: A 48-year-old auto driver was killed in a head-on collision with a car coming from the wrong direction on Airport road in Zirakpur. October 27: A 19-year-old boy was killed in road mishap, while his two friends sustained injuries, after their speeding car fell off the bridge on Airport road near TDI city. The driver of the car lost control after the driver applied brake to save stray cattle, which were on the road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-teen-daughter-crushed-to-death-by-tipper-on-airport-road-in-chandigarh/story-5mcl2Lxb0kkQIpp6AU02IL.html
05-12-2020||City||SGPC to give Rs 1 lakh each to families of seven farmers who lost life in agitation||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Friday resolved to give financial assistance of Rs 1 lakh to the families of farmers who died while taking part in the ongoing stir against the three Central farm laws.SGPC passed this resolution in its first meeting of the executive committee that was elected on November 27, a day after Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh announced an aid of Rs 5 lakh for the families of two such farmers, hailing from Mansa and Moga districts.Divulging proceedings of the meeting chaired by her, president Bibi Jagir Kaur said ardas samagams (prayer functions) will be organised on December 7 at historic gurdwaras to keep the spirits of protesting farmers high.“Women are also taking part in the protests going on at the Delhi border. The SGPC will arrange temporary toilets and washrooms for their convenience,” she said. A resolution was also passed to welcome various prominent persons, including former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal, who are returning prestigious awards they got from the Government of India for their contribution in their respective fields—political, social, sports, culture etc. Demanding roll back of the farm laws, the SGPC president praised the farmers for struggling for their rights.Bibi Jagir Kaur also condemned Bollywood star Kangana Ranaut for the abusive comment she made on an elderly woman participating in the stir, in a now-deleted tweet.The SGPC chief also said a dress code will also be fixed for SGPC employees. She said shawls will not be given to anyone in future with the ‘siropa’ (robe of honour).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sgpc-to-give-rs-1-lakh-each-to-families-of-seven-farmers-who-lost-life-in-agitation/story-xGqn0r0x41Fj1nCqiLRd0H.html
05-12-2020||Lucknow||Families keep low profile as cops stop interfaith wedding||The families of an interfaith couple confined themselves to their respective houses through Thursday and Friday after police did not allow them to conduct the couple’s wedding in Lucknow on Wednesday night, according to people familiar with the matter.Police intervened in the matter on a complaint by activists of a hardline Hindu outfit, though it was a consensual union acceptable to the families of the 21-year-old Hindu woman and the 24-year-old Muslim man, citing violation of a new law in Uttar Pradesh against forced and dishonest religious conversions.Before the police intervention, the families had mutually agreed to solemnise the wedding with Hindu rituals first and later conduct it in accordance with Muslim practices. The families were asked to apply for permission to conduct an interfaith marriage from the district magistrate.On Thursday and Friday, the families avoided talking to the media and social activists approaching them. A friend of the groom’s family, requesting anonymity, said the two lower-middle-class families stayed in the same colony developed by the district urban development agency (DUDA) in Narpatkheda locality under Para police station limits.“Their houses are barely at a distance of 15 metres in the same colony and love blossomed between them, while they were living there for the past few years and they decided to get married. Their families also agreed recently, after which the marriage was scheduled on Wednesday night,” he stated.“Everything was going well till Wednesday night. The groom was following each and every ritual done in Hindu marriages, like tying turmeric beads on the wrists. The bride’s family had made arrangements for the wedding feast. They had invited their relatives and friends. But suddenly the police intervention halted the rituals. The two families were then summoned to the Para police station and told about the new law,” he added.He also said the two families had discussed the matter but had not applied for the marriage permission yet. He said they were planning to engage a lawyer and apply together for the permission next week.Another local said the bride’s family had spent around ₹85,000 to make all the arrangements, but all of it went in vain.Madhu Garg, state president of the All India Democratic Women Association (AIDWA), criticised the incident and stated that the country’s constitution allowed everybody to follow any religion. She said police intervention in private affairs amounting to violating the rights and privacy of the two families.Garg said AIDWA workers visited the two families on Friday, but they were not ready to interact.“After much reluctance, the woman’s family stated they have sorted out the issue and there is no pressure from police or administration to cancel the marriage. But it seemed that they had fear of some local activists on whose complaint the police had halted the marriage,” she added.However, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP), South, Suresh Chandra Rawat had earlier said the police had not intervened in anybody’s personal affair, but the two families had been suggested to proceed according to the new law to avoid any inconvenience in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/families-keep-low-profile-as-cops-stop-interfaith-wedding/story-bVv9d9xWznJxSXFdUVM31H.html
05-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn notifies appellate authorities for grievances under Right to Service Act||For allowing complaints and appeals under the Right to Service Act, the UT administration has notified appellate authorities in 18 new services provided by government departments, including sports, agriculture and animal husbandry.The additional deputy commissioner (ADC) has been designated as the first appellate authority, and deputy commissioner (DC) the second in the case of permissions for road shows, nagar kirtan, trade fairs, exhibitions, which have to be granted within 25 days by the miscellaneous assistant (MA) branch.ADC and DC are the first and second appellate authorities also in the case of counter signatures on documents, refund of non-judicial stamp papers, court fee orders: the MA branch has to provide counter signatures on documents within 10 days. The stamp assistant branch (STA) has to refund non-judicial stamps within 40 days. If not done within the stipulated period, an appeal can be made to the appellate authorities.The refund of treasury challan has to be made within 55 days: if not done, an applicant can make an appeal to the first appellate authority, in this case the DC. The commissioner, Chandigarh division, has been designated as the second appellate authority.The STA is also mandated to provide certified copies of records within 15 days. Appeals against its failure can be made to the ADC as the first appellate authority and/or the DC as the second appellate authority.For complaints of non-delivery of benefits under the Building and Other Construction Workers (Regulation of Employment) Act, joint secretary-cum-assistant labour commissioner has been notified as the designated officer. Secretary-cum-labour commissioner is the first appellate authority, and secretary, labour, the second. Complaints can be made if service is not delivered within 30 days.Labour-related issuesComplaints against non-delivery of benefits under various welfare schemes under the Punjab Labour Welfare Fund Act has to be made within 30 days: the designated officer is the assistant labour commissioner, the first authority is welfare commissioner, and second appellate authority is secretary, labour.In the sports department, the junior assistant concerned has been made the designated officer; the district sports officer is the first appellate authority and director sports, the second. The department has to respond to an application of booking of a stadium within 10 days, on membership in various games in seven days, scholarship in various games in 180 days, and issue of gradation certificates in 90 days.The veterinary officer is the designated officer for complaints against the animal husbandry and fisheries department for non-delivery of services within the stipulated period. The joint director is the first appellate and the director is the second appellate. The department has to give postmortem reports of animals in two days, issue health certificates of birds in a day, and that of animals in three days. In the agriculture department, director agriculture is the first appellate authority and the secretary, agriculture, the second. The licensing officer is the designated officer.The UT had adopted the Punjab RTS Act in January 2018 and constituted a one-man commission later in April. The UT notified the RTS rules in 2019, which made the Act fully operational in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-notifies-appellate-authorities-for-grievances-under-right-to-service-act/story-DoU7vKb7u7sPP5ZGE9LL5O.html
05-12-2020||City||Voter awareness van flagged off in Mohali||A voter awareness mobile van was flagged off by assistant commissioner Manisha Rana, under the guidance of deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan from the District Administrative Complex here to sensitise the public on the importance of registering as a voter and the process involved therein. Rana informed that the van will go to various towns of the district to create awareness among people on the voting process so that no eligible person is deprived of his right to vote. The van will run from December 4 to 7 in Mohali, from December 8 to 11 in Kharar, and from December 12 to 15 in the Dera Bassi Vidhan Sabha constituency. A special drive has been initiated in the district for the registration of new voters and rectification of old ones as instructed by the election commission of India. Booth level officers will be present at their respective polling booths on December 5 and 6 from 10am to 5pm to receive claims and objections from the public. Citizens, who are 18 years or above, can fill form number 6 for registration of new vote, form number 7 for deletion of the vote, form number 8 for correction in the vote, form number 8-A for change of residence address, and can submit the same to the booth level officers. All these facilities can also be availed online through www.voterportal.eci.gov.in or the voter helpline mobile app. More information can be obtained on toll-free number 1950.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/voter-awareness-van-flagged-off-in-mohali/story-bet09Kxd7BJBQYJyx3zQKM.html
05-12-2020||Chandigarh||Two held with drugs, weapons in two cases in Chandigarh||The crime branch of Chandigarh Police arrested two persons, including a drug peddler, with weapons in two separate cases.In the first case, a drug peddler, Sukhvir Singh, 25, hailing from Khalour village in Mohali district, was arrested with 1.5kg opium and a country-made weapon with one live cartridge. He was arrested by a police team on patrolling duty near Gate 3 of Panjab University on the dividing road Sector 14/25 after he tried to walk away on spotting the police party.A case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act and the Arms Act was registered against Sukhvir, who is a labourer, the police said. He was produced before the court and sent to three-day police remand.Man accused of killing cop held with weaponIn another case, one Kulwinder Singh, 22, hailing from Bathinda, was arrested near the Botanical Garden in Sarangpur, Chandigarh, and recovered a country-made weapon with one live cartridge from his possession. Kulwinder is a Class-12 passout and does private work. Police said after verifying his past, it was found that the accused was earlier held for the murder of a police official in Bathinda and in a case of snatching in Phase 11, Mohali. He was produced before the court and sent to one-day police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-held-with-drugs-weapons-in-two-cases-in-chandigarh/story-DSjau9PEwYUKQ5tWQUGOUN.html
05-12-2020||Chandigarh||Industrialists highlight poor condition of Ludhiana’s Focal Point||The poor condition of Ludhiana’s Focal Point was highlighted by various industrialists during a meeting with Sumeet Jarangal, MD of Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC).President of Chairman of Industrial and Commercial Undertaking (CICU) Upkar Singh Ahuja highlighted the issues faced by the industry such as bad roads, sewerage cleaning, non-functional streetlights and improper dumping of garbage. He said the Focal Point is in a very bad state and CICU has been holding various meetings with the government departments regarding the development of the area, but nothing has been done on the front.He added that land must be provided for parking of trucks/heavy vehicles. He also suggested that the government should provide a special pocket for MSMEs at some special rates in Dhanansu Focal Point, so that promotion of new MSME industries becomes easier.CICU general secretary Pankaj Sharma emphasised that pending work of roads should be started on a priority basis and a subdivision office for Focal Point should be established.Sumeet Jarangal said that he will take up these issues with the authorities.He said that Rs 10 crore has been released for maintenance of roads by finance minister Manpreet Badal. He added that from January next year responsibility for approving building plans will be given to PSIEC and 50-acre land can be given to MSMEs in Dhanansu Focal Point.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/industrialists-highlight-poor-condition-of-ludhiana-s-focal-point/story-rPEbPw0NB7ESX6wTzWaadL.html
05-12-2020||Chandigarh||6 Chandigarh heritage furniture lots auctioned for ₹55 lakh in Italy||Six Chandigarh heritage furniture lots were auctioned for around ₹55 lakh in Milan, Italy, on December 2.The items included three furniture lots from Panjab University and three from the administrative buildings.A pair of model wooden chairs with braided cane seats from Panjab University were sold for around ₹7 lakh (7,900 Euro). Another pair of wood chairs from PU went for around ₹13.4 lakh (15,000 Euro). Two armchairs with wooden structure and seat in braided cane, also from PU, fetched ₹12.5 lakh (14,000 Euro). Three other items, including a Pierre Jeanneret-designed pair of small wooden stools from the administrative buildings of Chandigarh, netted around ₹22.5 lakh (25,200 Euro).On November 23, the crime branch of Chandigarh Police had arrested a Baltana carpenter, Sarafraj, 48, after a varsity official had reported 48 heritage chairs stolen between November 1 and 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/6-chandigarh-heritage-furniture-lots-auctioned-for-55-lakh-in-italy/story-lNaxzQnutMJQoPo4hiBTAO.html
05-12-2020||Chandigarh||Fuel theft: Ludhiana employees union comes in support of suspended employees; NGO seeks termination||The Municipal Employees Sangharsh Committee has extended its support to three employees who were suspended by municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal on Wednesday for their alleged involvement in fuel theft. The suspended staffers include a chief sanitary inspector and two sanitary inspectors.During the union’s protest over non-fulfilment of long-pending demands outside MC headquarters on Friday, they handed over a memorandum to mayor Balkar Sandhu, in which they also sought roll back of the suspension orders.Chairman of the union, Ashwani Sahota, said, “The union has demanded that the suspension orders be revoked immediately. We believe that these employees were not involved in the fuel theft.”Sabharwal had ordered the suspension of chief sanitary inspector Jagtar Singh, and two sanitary inspectors, Gurinder Singh and Satinderjit Singh Bawa, on Wednesday after their role in fuel theft was pointed out in an inquiry conducted by MC joint commissioner Swati Tiwana.The inquiry was marked on the recommendations of mayor Balkar Sandhu. The employees were accused of getting fuel allocated against defunct tractors.NGO seeks termination of employeesWhile the employees’ union is demanding revocation of suspension orders, the members of an NGO, Yuva, staged a protest outside the MC’s Zone-D office on Friday demanding termination of services of these employees.President of the NGO, Kumar Gaurav, said that the employees are guilty of stealing fuel and the civic body should set an example by terminating their services so that others don’t get involved in these illegal practices.The MC employees steal fuel and sell it off at lower rates in the market, alleged Gaurav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fuel-theft-ludhiana-employees-union-comes-in-support-of-suspended-employees-ngo-seeks-termination/story-nj37XvJwDVS5d0L7W91DWN.html
05-12-2020||Mumbai||Civic bodies in Thane district get ready to store vaccine||While the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) claimed to be well prepared to immunise the whole city within seven days after the vaccine is approved, other municipal corporations in the district are also making arrangements for vaccinators and deep freezers to store the vaccines.As plans spring up to roll out Covid-19 vaccine by next year, Thane district is preparing for the vaccination process and awaiting further guidelines from the state government.Under the guidance of the Thane district collector, a task force committee has been formed. This panel includes health officers from rural areas, various municipal corporations and municipal councils within the district.Manish Renge, District Health Officer, Thane District, said, “We have prepared a strategy for immunisation, a list of 55,000 health workers from across the district has been made till now. We have prepared vaccinators conducting routine immunisation for the Covid vaccine as well. If needed, we shall rope in more people and train them as well. We are awaiting guidelines from the state government. Moreover, health officers have been asked to make necessary preparations within their jurisdiction.”Dayanand Katke, Health Officer, Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation, said, “We have the capacity to store vaccines between two degrees Celsius and eight degrees Celsius. For temperatures lower than that, we will have to make arrangements. Hence, we are waiting for guidelines from the state government to know if we need additional provisions for storing the vaccines. At present we are in the process of collecting and making a database of health workers who will be a priority for the immunisation process.”A meeting of the district task force committee was held on Thursday. Kailas Pawar, civil surgeon, Thane district, said, “We have given time till December 15 for all municipal corporations to submit their list of health workers. The number of health workers may reach one lakh by then. Based on these figures, we have to make provisions for vaccine storage and immunisation. The vaccines from different countries will require various temperatures and different kinds of cold storage. We are prepared with the basic ones but we will need additional provisions in case temperatures have to be less than minus-17 degrees.”Thane district had conducted Measles Rubella vaccination last year. The basic provisions made for the same includes vaccinators and cold storage facilities. The district has kept the same facilities for Covid-19 vaccines as well for now.Meanwhile, the TMC has claimed that they can immunise the whole city within seven days. “We have made provisions for cold storage and deep freezers at health centres, where we can store around one lakh vaccines per day. As the vaccine will arrive in batches, we won’t need huge spaces, if there are any guidelines from the state Government regarding the same, we will surely implement them. However, as of now, we have made arrangements to provide area-wise vaccinations,” said Dr Raju Murudkar, TMC health officer.The TMC is currently making arrangements for vaccination centres in various wards such that they can easily reach out to the entire city population and complete the immunisation process at the earliest.Meanwhile, the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has prepared a list of 4,572 health workers from 413 private and government hospitals within its jurisdiction. Provisions of around 242 people who will indulge in the vaccination process have been made already by the civic body.Dr Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC, said, “We are still in the process of conducting meetings and planning for the vaccination. As soon as we get guidelines from the state government we will implement it as per needs and provisions within KDMC jurisdiction.”Thane district notices a drop in active cases In the last one week, Thane district has seen a slight dip in active cases from 16,066 on November 28 to 15,140 on December 3. Till now, Thane district has recorded 2.4 lakh Covid positive cases. The mortality rate in the district has also come down to 2.47 per cent. A total of 5,334 deaths has taken place in the city due to Covid.In September, the recovery rate was 86.60 per cent and has now reached 94.23 per cent with less than 15,000 active cases. KDMC has so far reported the maximum number of Covid cases at 58,501 followed by Navi Mumbai, 52,249 and Thane city, 51,630. Out of the total deaths, Thane city has recorded 1,159, Navi Mumbai 1,019 and Kalyan-Dombivli 936.“With testing labs in every municipal corporation and rural areas, we have ensured that the number of testing does not decline within the district. This has helped us keep a tab of the number of cases and to keep cases in control within the district,” said Rajesh Narvekar, collector, Thane District.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/civic-bodies-in-thane-district-get-ready-to-store-vaccine/story-BP421XKau9AE4nnbZb1WcL.html
05-12-2020||Chandigarh||Vehicle lifters’ gang busted in Ludhiana, 13 cars recovered||The Sarabha Nagar police on Friday said they had busted a gang of vehicle lifters with the arrest of four members, including two teenagers, on Friday. The arrested accused are Mandeep Singh, 30, of Hargobind Nagar of Faridkot, David, 50, of Jantapreet Nagar of Ferozepur, Vishal, 19, of Indira Colony of Ferozepur and Kulwinder Singh,18, of Khesa Randhir village of Moga. Joint commissioner of police (JCP, city) Bhagirath Singh Meena said the accused were planning another robbery when they were arrested from a vacant plot in Ayali Kalan village on Ferozepur Road. They recovered 13 cars, one scooter and sharp-edged weapons from their possession. The police have solved 15 cases with the arrest of the accused.“The gang was active in Ludhiana, Amritsar, Batala, Nakodar and Ferozepur. The accused would steal vehicles and sell it to scrap dealers.They were also wanted for snatching and robberies,”said Meena, adding that the accused where history sheeters. “At least nine cases, including snatching, robbery, and theft are lodged against Mandeep Singh. Vishal is facing trial in 10 cases, including assault, snatching and robberies and a case of theft was already lodged against David,” he said.A case under Sections 399 (dacoity) and 402 (assembling for purpose of committing dacoity) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused at the Sarbha Nagar Police Station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/vehicle-lifters-gang-busted-in-ludhiana-13-cars-recovered/story-1LzPvH4p8lzMlGHopJQIWP.html
05-12-2020||Chandigarh||Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational 2020 golf tournament: Chandigarh’s Akshay Sharma takes halfway lead||The winner of the Panchkula PGTI event last month, Chandigarh golfer Akshay Sharma played an under round, a four-under-68, in the tough conditions at the Chandigarh Golf Club to take the halfway lead at the Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational 2020 on Friday.Sharma with his two-day tally of nine-under-135 has been placed at the top of the leaders’ board. Noida’s Amardeep Malik and Gurugram-based Veer Ahlawat played a card of four-under-68 each for the second day in succession to be placed at tied second.Eighteen-year-old Delhi-based rookie golfer Harshjeet Singh Sethie struck a fine 67 to be placed fourth at seven-under-137. Pre-tournament favourite Anirban Lahiri moved up five places into tied fifth at six-under-138.Sharma made five birdies and a bogey on his action-packed back nine and missed out on a hole-in-one by a foot on the 11th. He also made a good chip-putt for birdie on the 17th and followed that up with an exceptional approach on the 18th, which had a tight flag, to set up a birdie.“Four-under is a great score considering that I started in the morning when the conditions are tougher due to a lower temperature. My target was to hit the first five greens and I succeeded in doing that playing two-under on the stretch in the process,” said Sharma, 30.Anirban Lahiri (70-68), who is playing in India after a long gap, did well by picking up five birdies and a bogey. The highlight of his round was the massive 330-yard drive on the seventh hole where he pocketed a birdie.After playing a four-over-76 in the first round, Chandigarh’s Karandeep Kochhar bounced back with the day’s best score of 66. The effort placed him tied 18th at two-under-142. “In round one, I was nervous playing in the same group as Anirban for the first time. I was more at ease today. The goal was to shoot a six-under and get to a total of two-under,” said Kochhar, 19.Among the other prominent names, Gaganjeet Bhullar (72) was tied 28th at even-par-144, SSP Chawrasia (74) was tied 38th at one-over-145 and Jyoti Randhawa (72) was tied 44th at two-over-146.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jeev-milkha-singh-invitational-2020-golf-tournament-chandigarh-s-akshay-sharma-takes-halfway-lead/story-RxpTQhZgHPXVgmqaWLKJBK.html
05-12-2020||City||School education department not authorised to grant fee relief under Disaster Management Act: Institute to Bombay high court||In what can be deemed as a setback for the Maharashtra government, a petitioner has argued that the state’s decision to restrain private unaided schools and permanently unaided schools from hiking school fees for the academic year 2020-21 on May 8, is invalid. The petitioner submitted that while the legislation has appointed the revenue and forest department as the sole authority to implement the DM Act, the May 8 government resolution (GR) was issued by the school education and sports department, and was hence ultra vires (beyond one’s legal power or authority). A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing a bunch of petitions challenging the GR issued by the school education and sports department on May 8 restrained the fee hike and forcing parents from paying fees during the lockdown, was informed by advocates Prateek Seksaria and Saket Mone for Global Education Foundation that the impugned GR was not valid. Seksaria drew the attention of the bench towards the various notifications, circulars and resolutions pertaining to implementing various reliefs for the citizens of the state issued since March 23 and said that all of them had been issued by the revenue and forest department. Seksaria also pointed out to the fact that the state had also violated Articles 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution by issuing the May 8 GR, as it had singled out private unaided schools. “The state, as per a circular issued soon after the lockdown was implemented, had said that it wanted to provide a source of income or reduce the expenses of the people. However, by asking private institutions not to hike or collect fees, it was violating the constitutional rights of the institutions,” submitted Seksaria. He added that the restriction on collecting fees was only restricted during the lockdown period. Hence, the GR could not have been enforced after June 8, when ‘Mission Begin Again’ was implemented and lockdown restrictions were eased. He also submitted that in light of the fact that the schools were regulated by the Fee Regulation Act, 2011, further restrictions could not be forced upon the private institutions. After hearing the submissions, the court sought clarity on the applicability of section 6 (1) A of the Fee Regulation act which was introduced last year in September, and deals with parents consenting to schools hiking fees annually from Class 1 to Class 10 or in two parts: from Class 1 to Class 5 and Class 6 to Class 10 at the time of admission. Seksaria submitted that the GR restrictions were applicable for such fee increases too, as students took transfers from one school to another or from one state to another. Arguments by other petitioners will continue on Wednesday, December 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/school-education-department-not-authorised-to-grant-free-relief-under-disaster-management-act-institute-to-bombay-high-court/story-R4xyy82V4KWfFvlkU9TUgL.html
05-12-2020||Mumbai||Thane police collect ₹30L fine from traffic violators for not paying e-challan||The Thane traffic police have, in the last three days, collected ₹30 lakh as fine from traffic violators for not paying e-challan throughout the year.The e-challan collection was started from high-end car owners who were unaware about the fine on their cars.The drive was started by Balasaheb Patil, Deputy Commissiomer of Police (Traffic) from December 1 across Thane. The officials across the 18 traffic units in Thane commissionerate are asking the violators to pay the e-challan.In the last three days, the traffic unit had collected ₹30,53,100 from 8,499 violators. On December 1, ₹7,78,950 was collected from 2,209 violators; on December 2, ₹11,39,650 from 3,107 violators and on December 3, ₹11,34,500 from 3,183 violators.After the lockdown started in March, the collection from violators was stopped. Patil said, “We have re-started the drive on December 1 and are targeting the high-end cars that have more than five to seven challans. Though unaware, they keep flouting the rules. Even if e-challans are imposed, most motorists keep breaking the traffic rules. Once they are made to pay, they will be discouraged to flout the rules. Our main aim is to make them aware about the fine and the rules they had broken,” added Patil.In 2019, Thane traffic police started the e-challan system, doing away with paper receipts and enabling transparency in the penalisation of errant motorists.Last year, 6,30,232 e-challans were issued with a fine of ₹21Cr, while this year, from January to October end, 5,52,453 e-challans were issued with a total fine of ₹22Cr.Traffic police claimed that these fines can be paid on their website www.mahtraffic.gov.in or the Maharashtra or Mum traffic app. Payment can also be made through Paytm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/thane-police-collect-30l-fine-from-traffic-violators-for-not-paying-e-challan/story-X0lW95QBtUy9KOGfnZpb8L.html
05-12-2020||Chandigarh||Trident Group to train 1,500 people under Grameen Kaushalya Yojana||Under the ambitious Grameen Kaushalya Yojana started by the Punjab government, textiles giant Trident Group has targeted to train 1,500 candidates in association with Punjab Skill Development Mission (PSDM). The PDSM team visited Trident’s Dhaula campus on Friday. Under the vision of Padmashri Rajinder Gupta, Trident Group is providing a comprehensive residential programme that covers housing, clothing and food facilities for all the students throughout the training schedule. To ensure implementation of the same, hostel blocks have been allocated for the students with dedicated caretakers. The trades to be covered under the training program are apparel and textiles and the five districts being targeted for the scheme are Barnala, Bathinda, Sangrur, Fazilka and Mansa.As per an official statement, Trident will start training batches within 10 days. The due diligence report has already been submitted online. The first set of batches will comprise of 210 trainees.Grameen Kaushalya Yojana or DDU-GKY is a Government of India youth employment scheme. DDU-GKY was launched on 25 September 2014 of 98th birth anniversary of Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya. It aims to target youth, in the age group of 15–35 years. DDU-GKY is a part of the National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM), tasked with the dual objectives of adding diversity to the incomes of rural poor families and cater to the career aspirations of rural youth. A corpus of ₹ 1,500 crore is aimed at enhancing the employability of rural youth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/trident-group-to-train-1-500-people-under-grameen-kaushalya-yojana/story-lfvqXOClVlF7nNTj2B8MoM.html
05-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai joins C40 cities to fight climate change||Mumbai has become the sixth Indian city to be chosen as a member of the C40 cities – a global network of cities committed to tackling climate change. State environment minister Aaditya Thackeray made the announcement on Twitter on Friday. “Happy to inform all the climate change action believers that I have received a confirmation mail on a unanimous vote to accept Mumbai as a C40 member city. We had applied to be a part of this group as we believe that our cities can lead the climate change initiative,” read his tweet. Later he spoke to HT about the development and said, “Mumbai as a city is committed towards climate change mitigation and adaptation action. We’ll propose other cities such as Pune, Nashik, Nagpur, and Thane too, which have the potential to be member cities.” C40 connects 97 of the world’s largest and most influential cities. C40 membership encourages cities to develop and implement a climate action plan compatible with the Paris Agreement goal. The leaders of these cities use a science-based approach and there is an exchange of best practices to take effective action for keeping the global average temperatures below 1.5 degrees Celsius and reducing emissions by 2030 as per the Paris Agreement. Apart from Mumbai, Bengaluru, Chennai, the National Capital Territory (NCT) of Delhi, Jaipur and Kolkata are also in the C40 member cities’ list from India. According to state government officials, Maharashtra drafted a state climate change action policy in 2017 with detailed plans to address climate change impacts and the sea-level rise for coastal areas that is regularly upgraded.As per the action plan’s climate vulnerability index, Mumbai, Nandurbar, Dhule and Buldhana from Maharashtra were identified as the most vulnerable districts to climate threat. These cities face a likely risk of a 22%-32% rise in extreme weather events by 2030. For the coastal cities in Maharashtra, the plan identifies a rise in annual mean temperatures ranging from 1.19 degrees Celsius to 1.33 degrees Celsius by the next decade and up to 15 degrees Celsius increase in heat index (measure of rising temperatures incorporating humidity). The sea-level rise is projected to be 24-66cm along Maharashtra’s coastline by 2030. According to an independent analysis report by McKinsey & Company Inc, almost three million people living within a kilometre of Mumbai’s coastline are under threat from coastal flooding, storm surges and sea-level rise. Environment groups campaigning against climate change said Mumbai’s inclusion as C40 city had happened at a time when the world is entering the post-Covid-19 pandemic phase. “This will provide an opportunity to consciously think of future developments in Mumbai, keeping climate change in mind. In the post Covid-19 era, Mumbai needs to focus on green recovery and push for reforms to help fight climate change,” said Bhagwan Kesbhat, founder and chief executive officer, Mumbai-based non-governmental organisation (NGO) Waatavaran. Kesbhat added that the initial steps should be to strengthen cycling and pedestrian infrastructure, focus on mass transit transport systems, provide protection to open and green spaces and encourage all new constructions to be green and low-energy consumption. Meanwhile, C40 measures the level of participation of its member cities annually. Its 2019 annual report recognised Delhi NCT, Dubai and Dhaka as the most active cities in the South and West Asia region. State climate action policy: Measures for coastal zones The state’s climate change action policy detailed plans to address climate change impacts and sea-level rise for coastal areas. Some of the key points of the plan include:•No new constructions across low lying areas along the coast (especially for Mumbai). Wherever permission has to be given for residential complex, climate resilient construction should be done on elevated zones, keeping in mind the distance from the high-tide line and probable tide water ingress •Natural ecosystem protection measures: Mangroves, wetlands, salt pans, natural forests to be protected as per existing environmental laws and ensuring natural beach restoration measures are in place to avoid erosion •Revise existing development plans for cities by including climate change policy and avoiding future construction along low-lying zones close to the coast through sustainable development •No permissions for polluting ‘red category’ industries in low-lying areas and ensuring water quality along the coast is in check •Ensuring proper height and structural stability for linear infrastructure projects, especially coastal bridges, to withstand extreme rainfall and floods •Developing anti-sea erosion bunds along the coast wherever natural solutions are not available to avoid natural erosion •Effective implementation of coastal regulation zone (CRZ) norms for all projects. Reclamation of CRZ-1 (first 500m of land from high tide line and not till the hazard line, includes mangroves and 50m buffer zone) areas banned completely• Considering and developing alternate livelihood schemes and skill development for coastal communities moving away from fishing to other activities such as horticulture, farming etc. All departments of the Maharashtra government to prepare their own climate change policy using examples from the state’s action plan and implement the same district and region-wise. (Source: Maharashtra environment department)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-joins-c40-cities-to-fight-climate-change/story-v7RLfDWeu2q2kJQjYzEoSK.html
05-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai University students of Thane centre threaten protest for not receiving mark sheets||Students of Mumbai University’s Thane sub-centre in Balkum threaten to go on a protest as they have not received their mark sheets since the last four years. Around 36 students pursuing integrated law and management courses are part of this fight to get their mark sheets. Such protests were conducted earlier and the university had promised to issue the mark sheets at the earliest. However, it was not done.“We are part of the integrated law course. It’s been four years and not once have we received our mark sheets. The results are put up on the notice board. If we want more details, we have to pay around ₹1,000 and get a re-evaluation done or can check our answer sheets. However, they are not giving us our mark sheets and there is no authority present at the sub-centre to answer our queries,” said Jayesh Desai, 21, a law student here. A five-year integrated course in Management and Law is being conducted since 2014 within the campus. These students will soon begin their final year and will require their mark sheets for further education or job prospects.“In between, when we had a similar protest, they distributed mark sheets but most of them was riddled with errors. So we had to return them. We will soon have a meeting with cabinet minister Jitendra Awhad to discuss our issues,” said Bhavin Kamyani, 20, another student.“We will have to find out the problems faced by the centre and understand the technicalities involved in this before we respond to the students,” said Leeladhar Bansode, Deputy Registrar in-charge of Mumbai University’s Public Relations.In July 2018, more than 40 students and parents had gathered in protest outside the Mumbai University sub-centre at Balkum in Thane as the university had failed to give mark sheets of six semesters to around 130 students.The students gathered at the campus at around 11am and did not budge till the officials went to the university campus in Kalina and got the mark sheets of four semesters at around 6pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-university-students-of-thane-centre-threaten-protest-for-not-receiving-mark-sheets/story-rGTlEI99CWySnZx4z0HqjN.html
05-12-2020||Mumbai||100 deaths reported for third consecutive day in Maharashtra; Covid-19 toll rises to 47,599||Maharashtra reported more than 100 deaths for the third consecutive day as the state’s Covid-19 toll rose to 47,599 on Friday with an addition of 127 fatalities. However, of the 127 deaths, 57 were from the past 48 hours, 27 from the past week and 43 were from the period before last week. The state also recorded 5,229 new cases to take its infection tally to 1,842,587. Mumbai, meanwhile, reported 813 new Covid-19 cases and 14 deaths, taking the city’s tally and toll to 284,509 and 10,945. Also read: Mumbai hospital continues to wait for Covaxin to begin clinical trialsWith the daily caseload “under control” in the state, authorities have now decided to focus on districts with high number of cases and positivity rate. “Districts with high positivity and fatality rates have been directed to go for more testing and aggressive contact tracing to keep the spread in control. Although the daily caseload hasn’t risen drastically, it can still gradually increase from the last week of December. As projected and conveyed to local authorities, we have to be prepared for the second wave, or another peak, in January or February. The districts that have poor health infrastructure have been directed to ramp it up,” said a health department official, on condition of anonymity.In the past 10 days, the state has reported an average of 5,279 infections daily, contrary to the projection of a surge in cases after Diwali. The weekly growth rate, too, has dropped to 0.31%; doubling period has risen to 225 days; and case fatality rate (CFR) has fallen to 2.58% as on December 1, according to the state health department presentation made before the cabinet. Weekly CFR has also fallen to 1.44% between November 25 and December 1 from 3.72%, highest in the recent past, between November 4 and 10. Also read: BMC aims to vaccinate 1 crore Mumbaiites within a monthThe state’s per million cases, however, are still high in Pune, Thane, Nagpur, Mumbai and Raigad. In Pune district, they are 30,852, followed by 21,952 in Mumbai. As many as 17 districts in the state have CFR more than the state’s 2.58%, with highest being in Mumbai (3.83%), followed by Akola (3.68%) and Parbhani (3.57%). In districts like Nashik, Gondia, Ratnagiri and Palghar, the weekly positivity rate is more than 10%, against state’s weekly positivity rate of 7.57%. Dr Avinash Bhondve, Maharashtra president, Indian Medical Association, said the state machinery is lagging in contact tracing and daily testing. “As per what we have gathered from patients at clinics, the state machinery has not been able to trace contacts of infected patients. The number of tests, too, should increase, if the state really wants to restrict the spread. Government has been talking about tracking the super-spreaders, but on the ground, no such drive exists. On the other hand, people, too, are not following Covid-appropriate behaviour by maintaining social distancing and wearing masks at public places,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/100-deaths-reported-for-third-consecutive-day-in-maharashtra-covid-19-toll-rises-to-47-599/story-NkyrQ8RFQxBCKDGDSvwv6M.html
05-12-2020||City||Passengers claim mandatory RT-PCR tests at Mumbai airport leading to chaos, delay||Within 10 days of the state government mandating the gold standard reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) for arrivals from Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Goa, passengers have raised concerns over the manner in which these tests are being conducted at the city airport. Passengers have been complaining about chaos, violation of social distancing norms and delay in getting test reports from two to five days. Malad resident Urvi Vora, who flew out of Mumbai for a week to celebrate her wedding anniversary, waited for three hours before her test was conducted on Thursday night. The couple decided not to get themselves tested from the source airport because of a higher cost and scepticism over the report’s authenticity. “The (Mumbai) airport authority needs to ensure that they deploy adequate number of people around the testing counters to assist the entire RT-PCR process. We were all by our own for hours and there was utter chaos and confusion when we reached the arrivals area,” said Vora, adding, “Only one of the five desks were operational and no kits were available with the staff, leading to considerable delay.” Airport sources said a group of passengers from Goa wanted to leave without the test. “As this group was standing in queue for a long time, they decided to leave the airport without getting tested. They created a ruckus, after which the local police were called to pacify them. They were allowed to leave the airport only after undergoing the test.” Airport security officers said there have been instances where passengers have manhandled airport staff on the issue of testing. An airport spokesperson said that the registration counters and the sample collection booths at the airport have been increased. “Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) is continuously working to reduce the queuing time for the test. CSMIA has also introduced an additional testing facility to reduce the waiting time for the arriving passengers,” said the spokesperson. CSMIA officials said passengers can scan quick response (QR) code (which is used for online registration) or take the assistance of the counter staff to fill-in the self-declaration form and proceed towards the testing facility at the government-approved rate of Rs1,400. “BMC (Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation) officials stationed at the airport are ensuring that all arriving domestic passengers comply with the guidelines laid down by the state. Further, airlines have been requested to make available the QR code for the RT -PCR test before boarding the flight. Airlines have also been requested to ensure that in-flight announcements in this regard are mandatorily made,” said a CSMIA official. Following Thursday’s chaos at the airport, Suburban Diagnostics, which is conducting the testing, had a meeting with CSMIA officials on Friday. Sushant Kinra, chief executive officer of Suburban Diagnostics, said, “Usually, our waiting time for each passenger is 25-30 minutes. But the delay on Thursday could have been because of the change in the staff’s duty time. To avoid such a situation, we have now displayed QR codes more prominently and asked our staffers to give the options of filling passenger detail forms using tablets apart from the physical forms.” He added, “Starting Friday, we have increased our counters from five to eight, and 32 people will be working in three shifts to ensure that sufficient staffers man the counters and help passengers. Instead of daily passes, we also have weekly airport entry passes in place now. This will save time by allowing the staffers to be at their work station on time.” Passengers have claimed that these problems have been existing since the past few days. For instance, Navi Mumbai resident Roshan Negi, who landed in Mumbai from Goa on November 30, said he and his wife voluntarily got themselves tested for Covid-19. But when they landed, testing counters were set up at places where they went unnoticed, owing to which many of their fellow passengers escaped the tests. “Though we landed on Monday, we are yet to get our online report. We have been following up with pathology lab but it has been of no use. As a precautionary measure, we haven’t stepped out of our homes since Monday, but how long can we be at home?” asked Negi, adding, “Won’t the purpose of testing an arriving passenger for Covid-19 get defeated if a passenger is allowed to leave the airport without the report?” Kinra did not comment on the delay in generating the test reports of passengers. Mumbai’s CSMIA handles 150 departures and an equal number of arrivals each day. Top airport sources confirmed that only 3,355 passengers have undergone the RT-PCR test in the past eight days. Airport sources revealed that passengers are trying to escape tests. “There have been instances where passengers trying to sneak out have been asked to get the tests before leaving the arrivals area. However, this happens when passengers of only one flight are in the arrival area. In the situation where more than two flights land at a time, it gets difficult to keep an eye on every passengers’ movements and they are successful in leaving the airport without undergoing the RT-PCR test. Some passengers do not want to pay, while some others claim they can’t afford the test,” said the source.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/passengers-claim-mandatory-rt-pcr-tests-at-mumbai-airport-leading-to-chaos-delay/story-hW8AVopjTR5z39R4eggmUO.html
05-12-2020||City||Maharashtra Legislative Council elections: BJP loses seats in strongholds Nagpur and Pune||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) suffered a setback in elections to six seats of the Maharashtra Legislative Council (MLC). The ruling three-party coalition, Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) won four seats, while the BJP won one. An independent candidate is leading in the sixth seat and is likely to win. To make it worse for the BJP, it lost Nagpur graduates’ constituency which was its stronghold for decades. The constituency was represented by Union minister Nitin Gadkari as well as former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’ father, late Gangadharrao Fadnavis. Congress’ Abhijit Wanjari won the seat comfortably by defeating Sandeep Joshi, former Nagpur mayor and a close aide of Fadnavis for whom it was a prestigious election. Three graduates’ constituencies from Aurangabad, Nagpur and Pune (in which graduates who had enrolled themselves as voters for these elections voted), two teachers’ constituencies from Pune and Amravati (in which teachers enrolled as voters) and local bodies constituency in Dhule-Nandurbar (which has elected representatives in local government bodies voted) went to polls on November 1. Out of six seats, four are bagged by the MVA. An independent candidate, Kiran Sarnaik, is leading in Amravati teachers’ constituency. The result in the constituency is not announced yet. Of these seats, Nagpur and Pune seats were considered a stronghold of the BJP. The defeat in Nagpur, the hometown of both Fadnavis and Gadkari, is considered significant for the party. All the pre-poll arithmetic, organisational strength, meticulous campaign and the party’s stronghold did not help BJP candidate Sandip Joshi as he lost to Abhijit Wanjari (Congress) by 18,910 votes. This is for the first time a candidate from BJP or its previous avatar, Jansangh, is defeated in this constituency since its inception. A sizable section within the BJP, on conditions of anonymity, pointed out that Nitin Gadkari group didn’t work whole-heartedly for Joshi, as the sitting legislator from the constituency, Anil Sole, a protégé of Gadkari, was replaced by Sandip Joshi at the eleventh hour. Joshi had worked as chief election co-ordinator for Fadnavis in his Assembly elections from Nagpur south-west assembly constituency and the former chief minister made it a prestige issue to get Joshi the ticket and his victory. However, neither Fadnavis nor Joshi succeeded to convince the rank and file the reasons for the denial of ticket to Sole, an ex-college teacher. Moreover, Sole, who knows the constituency well as a sitting MLC and being a campaigner for Gadkari when he represented the region, was not visible during the campaign. He was even not entrusted any election responsibility during the campaign. Besides, Wanjari of Congress also managed to polarise the OBC voters against Joshi, a Brahmin candidate.Both Fadnavis and Gadkari were camping in Nagpur for a week to campaign for Joshi. Sole, however, said that the defeat of the BJP candidate was shocking for them. “Late announcement of the candidate may be one of the reasons. Anyway, we will certainly analyse the reasons and consolidate our base in the constituency in next elections,” he said. Nagpur city BJP chief and party legislator, Pravin Datke said that they could not guess the undercurrent among the voters this time. “The Congress candidate succeeded to polarise the OBC votes against us and it led to the defeat,” he added. The defeats of Pune and Nagpur Graduate Constituencies were an outburst of rank and file of the BJP against the two top BJP leaders of Maharashtra, Devendra Fadnavis and the state BJP chief Chandrakantdada Patil, who have marginalised party leaders, like union minister Nitin Gadkari, Eknath Khadse, Vinod Tawde and Sudhir Mungantiwar said Dilip Deodhar, along-time RSS observer, based in Nagpur. The former editor of Tarun Bharat, the mouthpiece of RSS, Vinod Deshmukh, felt that the entire election was polarised on caste-basis. “In Nagpur, the election was virtually Joshi versus OBC,” he pointed out and claimed that even some Congress leaders, including a cabinet minister, openly said during the election campaign that why people should vote for Joshi, a Brahmin, and appealed to vote for Wanjani, an OBC. Moreover, delay in announcing the candidate by the BJP was another reason for the defeat of Joshi, who could not cover all the six districts in a short period of 20 days. On the other hand, the Congress had given a node for the candidature of Wanjari two years ago, Deshmukh further pointed out.In 2014 elections, Sole of BJP had defeated Baban Taywade of Congress with a margin of 31,259 votes. From 1988 to 2014, the constituency was represented by BJP’s Nitin Gadkari, who later won the Lok Sabha polls from Nagpur, to become Union Transport Minister in the Narendra Modi-led NDA Government at the Centre. Gadkari had emerged victorious from Graduates’ constituency for five times in a row. Before Gadkari, Gangadharrao Fadnavis, father of Devendra Fadnavis was elected from the constituency as Jansangh initially and later as BJP nominee. Following the death of sitting member Gangadharrao Fadnavis, the vacancy was caused and Gadkari was elected in 1988. Both Pune seats were bagged by NCP (Arun Lad in graduates’ constituency) and Congress (Jayant Asgaonkar in teachers’ constituency) defeating BJP candidates on their turf.NCP’s Satish Chavan won from the Aurangabad graduate constituency for the third time in a row. He defeated BJP’s Shirish Boralkar.The lone seat the BJP won was Dhule-Nandurbar local bodies constituency. Party candidate Amrish Patel defeated Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi’s Abhijit Patil by 234 votes. Patel polled 332 votes, while Patil got 98 votes. Congress leaders expressed surprise over defeat as MVA has 213 members in local bodies, while BJP’s strength is 199. Patel had changed sides to join BJP by quitting Congress ahead of Assembly polls last year.In Amravati teachers ‘constituency, independent candidate Kiran Sarnaik of Washim was ahead of his nearest rivals Shrikant Deshpande of Shiv Sena with a comfortable majority.Thursday results are seen as a significant victory for the ruling MVA which has announced to contest all the elections including that to the local bodies together in the future.Ruling party leaders said it is a token of the acceptance of the leadership of MVA. “BJP has been decimated in 24 districts in the state during the council elections which were fought directly from the people. This is ‘Maharashtra Express’ of MVA,” said former chief minister, public works department minister and Congress leader Ashok Chavan.“The results are not as per our expectations as we were expecting more seats to win. We miscalculated the combined power of the three ruling parties under MVA,” said the leader of Opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi’s (MVA) candidate Arun Lad’s victory in the elections to the Pune graduate constituency on Friday has brought much confidence to the MVA camp - leaders and workers - and has forced the BJP on the backfoot.Chandrakant Patil, BJP Mumbai’s unit president, who earlier represented this constituency, said, “Three parties come together and contested against a single party. Shiv Sena is helping the Congress and NCP (Nationalist Congress Party) but is getting nothing in return. Sena must think about it.”NCP leader Ajit Pawar said, “The victory of Arun Lad is the answer to the Opposition party leaders making allegations. Now it is proved that graduate voters also support the MVA.”Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said, “We failed to estimate the power of the three parties unitedly.” BJP’s member of Parliament (MP) Girish Bapat accepted the defeat of the BJP candidate and said, “We must do an analysis.”NCP leader Sharad Pawar said, “The results show that the citizens are expressing confidence in the MVA. The climate is changing in the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-legislative-council-elections-bjp-loses-seats-in-strongholds-nagpur-and-pune/story-PyiZZdLhnepEZ2iPW33rUK.html
05-12-2020||Chandigarh||Year after 26-year-old’s death, 6 engineering students booked for murder in Ludhiana||Over a year after a 26-year-old man was found dead on his scooter at Barota Road near Sidhwan Canal, six engineering students were booked for murder on Friday. The accused Amandeep Singh of Badar Dod village, Moga; Harsimran Singh of Rama village, Moga; Harry of Sandor village, Sangrur; Naman of Chandigarh; Kashyap of Phillaur ;and Sumit of Patiala were engineering students. They lived in the same paying guest accommodation in Bachittar Nagar near Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College, Gill Road as the victim, Daya Singh of Randhirgarh village of Jagraon, who was found dead on the intervening night of October 8 and 9, 2019. Daya’s family filed a case against the six men after they got ahold of CCTV footage from the area where Daya was found dead and spotted the accused roaming in the vicinity. The victim’s father, Balwinder Singh, in his complaint told the police that his son’s body was found lying on the scooter, his clothes were disorderly and there were scratches on the top of his feet which suggested he was dragged to the spot.Police recommend narco-analysisInitially, inquest proceedings had been initiated under Section 174 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). Investigating officer sub-inspector Sukhwinder Singh said, “The post mortem report had found that Daya had suffered a cardiac arrest. However, his clothes were dishevelled and his feet were scratched, which prompted further investigation. I have recommended narco-analysis (truth serum test) of the accused.” A case has been registered under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the accused.Hard road to justice: Victim’s father “I had filed complaints on February 7, 2020 and June 11, 2020 and also handed over the CCTV footage to the police, but the cops kept putting of the matter and did not lodge an FIR against the accuse. We kept persisting and finally the accused were booked,”said Balwinder Singh.However, police say they had to investigate the matter from different angles before booking the accused as the postmortem report did not indicate that the victim was murdered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/year-after-26-year-old-s-death-6-engineering-students-booked-for-murder-in-ludhiana/story-JvSkFBuJpBjmXYEdsB5bYI.html
05-12-2020||City||Maharashtra government to take punitive action against blood banks for malpractices||After receiving several complaints over malpractices by blood banks, such as charging exorbitant prices for blood and plasma, the Maharashtra government’s health department on Friday announced that it will take punitive action against such blood banks if they are found guilty. The action will be taken by the director of the state blood transfusion council. In case of a repeated violation, the department of the food and drug administration will be informed to revoke the licence of such blood banks. A press statement from the state government’s public health department on Friday read, “We have received complaints of malpractices by blood banks from various sources, on many occasions recently. The state has decided to take punitive action against such blood banks.” The statement said if the processing fee charged is found to be more than the fee prescribed by the Blood Transfusion Council, the blood bank will be charged five times the actual processing fee and the patient will be refunded the excess amount, while the remaining penalty amount will be transferred to the Council’s account. If the surged processing fee is charged for thalassemia, sickle cell, anaemia or haemophilia patients, the banks will be fined three times the processing fee. If thalassemia patients are refused blood by the banks, an additional penalty of Rs1,000 will be levied on the blood banks. If the banks do not update the website daily on the availability of the daily stock of blood and plasma, they will be fined Rs1,000 per day. Banks will be given a notice and an opportunity to present their case before punitive action is taken. The development comes amid a shortage of blood in the state. Blood banks in Maharashtra currently have enough blood only to last for five to seven days. At present, there are 19,059 units of blood and 2,583 units of platelets across 344 blood banks in Maharashtra, and 3,239 units of blood and 611 units of platelets in 58 blood banks in Mumbai. Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Friday urged citizens to voluntarily come forward in large numbers to donate at their nearest blood banks. The CM also urged political, religious, social organisations and housing societies to organise blood donation camps. He pointed out that blood donation has decreased during the lockdown months, as colleges are closed and work from home has affected organising such camps at workplaces and institutes across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-government-to-take-punitive-action-against-blood-banks-for-malpractices/story-7VJGfSEFUkbUnZWhozGu8K.html
05-12-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man suffers cardiac arrest during clash over dog, 3 booked||The police on Friday booked a ready-made garments trader and his two sons after their 66-year-old neighbour suffered a cardiac arrest after he was beaten up over a disagreement over the latter’s dog on December 1. The complainant ,Yatin Marwaha, the victim’s son, said on December 1 he had taken his dog for a walk in a park in Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar adjoining the accused’s house around 7am. “The accused, Amarjit Singh and his sons Prabhjot Singh and Charanjit Singh objected to it, which led to a verbal spat and later the trio thrashed me. My parents rushed out on hearing my cries. My father came to my aid but he too was beaten up, after which he suffered a heart attack and fell to the ground.” The victim, RK Marwaha, a hosiery store owner, was rushed to the hospital. Yatin said his fathers reports suggest he had also suffered internal bleeding. Police reluctant to file FIR, alleges victim’s son Yatin alleged that the police were reluctant to lodge an FIR against the accused. “A case was registered two days after the incident but the police did not add relevant sections to protect the accused,” he claimed, adding that the family was planning to report the police personnel who refused to file a report taking his father’s medical report into account. Assistant sub-inspector Salwinder Pal who is investigation the case said a case was registered under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restrain), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code against the accused. He said the police had not received the medical report of the victim and more sections could be added to the FIR after receiving the medical report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/elderly-man-suffers-cardiac-arrest-during-clash-over-dog-3-booked/story-R7ayzpuydGr51owA5LqvWL.html
05-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Students raise objection to TISS’ qualifying criteria for upcoming entrance exam||The latest notification released by the administration of Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) regarding the admission to master’s courses at the institute, has met with criticism from students. The notification released on December 3 mentions the two-stage process— TISS national entrance test (TISSNET) followed by the TISS programme aptitude test (TISS-PAT) along with an online personal interview. It further states that TISSNET will shortlist candidates for stage-two, therefore the institute will not apply any reservation rules for the qualifying exam. The institute’s Progressive Students Front (PSF-TISS) has called this move unjust to students from the marginalised section. “TISS-NET is conducted to shortlist candidates to stage two based on TISS-NET marks and the ratio on the number of seats announced for individual programmes under each category. Hence, for the shortlisting process, no reservation rules will be applied. All rules related to reservation of seats under different categories and priorities will be applied only at the time of final seat allocation through merit/wait list,” states the admission notification. PK Shajahan, dean of academics, TISS told HT that admission rules and reservation policy this year remain the same as the last. “The same ratio of candidates from each separate category is shortlisted at stage one, hence there’s no prejudice. In addition to this, candidates from all categories are considered in the open merit list before being considered for each of their respective categories, thereby giving everyone an equal opportunity in admissions,” said Shajahan. “There is no change in the admission rules and reservation process this year from previous years. The same ratio of candidates from each category separately is shortlisted at this stage as in previous years and hence no prejudice is caused to anyone,” he added.In an Instagram post late on Thursday, members of PSF-TISS called this move ‘unconstitutional’. “Even if the institute makes separate lists at the last stage of the admissions process, students from the weaker sections have a good chance of getting eliminated in the first round itself if there is no reservation applied. Our concern is, with this move, candidates will be filtered in stage one and this will leave seats in reserved categories vacant during the admission process as there won’t be any takers,” said a member of PSF.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-students-raise-objection-to-tiss-qualifying-criteria-for-upcoming-entrance-exam/story-D6XC0AUbkYRyk08NBMrhpM.html
05-12-2020||Chandigarh||Toddler’s kidnapping: Primary accused, aide held in Moga||The primary accused in the kidnapping of the two-year-old son of the Keys Hotels owner was arrested along with an accomplice in Moga on Friday. The main accused, Harjinderpal Kumar, had been in the employ of the family for two years and had kidnapped the child when he took him for a spin in the car on December 1 and demanded ₹4 crore ransom to secure his release. Fearing capture after the police launched an intensive search, the accused had abandoned the child in a car and informed his parents of his whereabouts the next morning. Five people had hatched a conspiracy to adduct a member of the hoteliers’ family and extort money from them, of them Harjinderpal, Sukhdev Singh Sukha and former sarpanch Rachhpal Singh have been arrested, while one Sukhdev Singh and Lal Singh are still absconding. The police only learnt of the involvement of Sukhdev Singh on Friday. Moga senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harmanbir Singh Gill said after arresting the accused near Moga the accused were handed over to the Ludhiana police on Friday evening.Gill said after returning the boy on December 2, the accused had fled to Ferozepur and taken shelter in the house of Sukhdev Singh’ sister. The accused told her that they had met with a minor accident and needed to stay at her house for a night. On December 1, Sukhdev Singh and Lal Singh had come to Ludhiana on a bus. After kidnapping the child, Harjinderpal had doubled back to Hotel Keys, owned by the boy’s father Pankaj Gupta, where Lal Singh was already waiting for him. Since the boy was familiar with Harjinderpal, he did not create a fuss.After reaching Mullanpur, Sukhdev Singh Sukha joined the party and the trio headed towards Moga. They wanted to reach Ferozepur but abandoned the plan upon learning that the police had already initiated a search operation. The accused abandoned Pankaj Gupta’s Maruti Swift, on the state highway Kot Isse Khan village in Moga, where Rachhpal provided them with a Volkswagen Polo.Accused tempered with engine, chassis numbers The police are still trying to trace the owner of the Volkswagen used to commit the crime. The accused had installed a fake number plate and efforts to trace the owner using the engine and chassis number did not garner any fresh leads. The police suspect the accused had tempered with the numbers.Harjinderpal was wanted in three states: Police Additional deputy commissioner of police Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said all the accused were habitual offenders. Harjinder is already facing trial in multiple cases, including robbery, kidnapping and murder. He was wanted by the Haryana, Rajasthan and Punjab Police in many cases. Embarrassed by his criminal proclivities, his family had disowned him a long time ago. The accused have confessed that they had been planning to kidnap a member of Gupta’s family for two years. They had initially planned to kidnap the toddler’s father but had to abandon the plan as he did not venture out much due to his medical problems. It was then that the accused decided to kidnap the child.Credit war After the arrest of two of the accused in Moga, the local police took credit for the arrest and held a press conference claiming that the Moga police had arrested the accused, while the Ludhiana police claimed that it was a joint operation. Teja said, “It was a joint action. A team of the Ludhiana Police had accompanied Moga Police. Earlier, on December 2, too, after recovering the child from an abandoned car in Dagru Railway crossing in Moga Jagatpreet Singh, superintendent of police (SP, Detective) Moga held a press conference and claimed that they had recovered the child with help of the Ludhiana police after a long operation. The SP had handed over the child to his parents in front of the media. Hours later, the Ludhiana police had held a press conference in Ludhiana and handed over the child to his parents again. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/toddler-s-kidnapping-primary-accused-aide-held-in-moga/story-FhgenA3WYaMbeW2FhD10jI.html
05-12-2020||Chandigarh||In search of house in Chandigarh, man loses ₹19.35 lakh||The police on Friday booked four persons after a resident of Sector 51, Chandigarh, looking to purchase a house was duped of ₹19.35 lakh.In his complaint, Partap Chauhan alleged that one Kulbir Kaur had approached him in October 2017 through an acquaintance saying that she was in dire need of money and wanted to sell a house owned by her and her children in Buterla village in Sector 41.As Chauhan was looking to purchase a property, a deal was struck for ₹19.35 lakh of which ₹15.7 lakh were paid by him between November 1, 2017, and January 25, 2018, through various cheques.After making the final payment of ₹3.65 lakh, an agreement to sell was executed on June 20, 2018, by Kuldeep Kaur, Jagdeep Singh, Satbir Kaur and Amanpreet Kaur in favour of Chauhan and the possession of entire first floor (except one room) and second floor was handed over to him.Chauhan further told the police that Kuldeep Kaur had agreed to hand over the possession of the ground floor and remaining one room at the time of registration of sale deed. On asking to get the registration done, she kept delaying and did not even vacate the said portion. Later, they refused to get the sale deed registered or even return the money, Chauhan alleged.A case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against Kuldeep Kaur, her son Jagdeep Singh, Satbir Kaur and Amanpreet Kaur.Man duped of ₹1.5 lakhA resident of Mundi Kharar, Mohali, reported that he was duped of ₹1.5 lakh on the pretext of selling a car on OLX. In his complaint, Raghubir Singh of Golden City, Mundi Kharar, alleged that Jeetender Kumar of Chhattisgarh had neither given him the car nor was the money refunded. A case under Sections 419 (cheating by impersonation), 420 and 120B of IPC was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/in-search-of-house-in-chandigarh-man-loses-19-35-lakh/story-VL5Bke0kRcKYDtsOINeTIN.html
05-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra Legislative Council polls: MVA wins 4 of 6 seats||The first experiment of the three ruling parties – Congress, Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) – in Maharashtra to contest as a coalition against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) proved successful as the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) won four of the six seats in biennial and by-elections to the state legislative Council. This is likely to pave the way for the MVA to contest the upcoming local body polls together to regain ground lost to the BJP since 2014. In a major setback, the BJP lost Council seats in its citadels of Nagpur and Pune. Three graduate constituencies from Aurangabad, Nagpur and Pune, two teachers’ constituencies from Pune and Amravati and local bodies’ constituency in Dhule-Nandurbar went to polls on December 1. Of the six seats, four were bagged by the MVA, one by the BJP and one by an independent candidate. Political analysts and leaders from the ruling parties termed the results “a turning point” in state politics, in the wake of the united show by the MVA. The victory in Council polls is being projected by the MVA as the acceptance of the three-party alliance by the voters spread across 24 districts as elections were held in five revenue divisions of the state. The BJP could bag the local bodies’ seat from Dhule-Nandurbar constituency represented by Congress defector Amrish Patel. Abhijit Wanjari of Congress defeated BJP’s Sandip Joshi, with a huge margin from Nagpur graduate constituency. The BJP had retained the constituency since its inception and was represented by Union minister Nitin Gadkari five times since 1989 and also by the late Gangadharrao Fadnavis, father of former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. A BJP leader said that giving a Brahmin candidate by replacing the sitting MLC Anil Sole was a mistake made by the party leadership, as voters were divided on caste lines. Both the seats in Pune division were won by NCP (Arun Lad in graduates’ constituency, with a margin of more than 50,000 votes) and Congress (Jayant Asgaonkar in teachers’ constituency) defeating the BJP candidates on their home turf. NCP’s Satish Chavan won from the Aurangabad graduates’ constituency for the third time in a row. His margin was more than 57,000 votes and he defeated BJP’s Shirish Boralkar. In Amravati teachers’ constituency, independent candidate Kiran Sarnaik defeated his nearest rival Shrikant Deshpande of Shiv Sena with a comfortable majority. In the outgoing six seats, two were with the BJP (Nagpur and Pune graduates’ constituencies), one each with the Shiv Sena, Congress and NCP (Amravati teachers, Dhule-Nandurbar local bodies and Aurangabad graduates, respectively) and one with the independent (Pune teachers). “This is the victory of the united front put up by three ruling parties and is an indication that people have accepted the alliance and its performance. The picture has changed in Maharashtra,” said NCP chief Sharad Pawar after the results. Pawar said the result of Dhule-Nandurbar by-election was as per the expectations and because of the hold of the candidate (Amrish Patel) in the constituency. “The results are not as per our expectations. We miscalculated the combined power of the three ruling parties under the MVA. It was our strategic mistake which will be rectified in future,” said leader of Opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. Ruling party leaders said it is a token of the acceptance of the leadership of the MVA. “The BJP has been decimated in 24 districts in the state (where the voters were spread) during the Council elections, which were fought directly from the people. This is ‘Maharashtra Express’ of MVA,” said former chief minister, public works department minister and Congress leader Ashok Chavan. “Today’s results show that autorickshaw defeated the bullet train. We lost the Amravati seat, but this was never our seat traditionally. The seat is traditionally won by an independent candidate. Instead of telling us, the BJP should introspect as they have lost a seat that they held for decades,” said Sena minister Anil Parab.“Voters got alternatives to hard-core Hindutva of the BJP and also to Congress’s secularism after the formation of the MVA. If the three ruling parties read the political meaning out of the results, this could have a long-lasting effect, which could dent the BJP significantly in the state. The Hindu votes, which were the monopoly of the saffron alliance of the BJP-Sena over the past few decades, have now been divided,” said Prakash Pawar, political analyst from Kolhapur in Western Maharashtra. The Shiv Sena, however, lost the Amravati teachers’ constituency. The party headed by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray scored a nought in the election, while other two ruling parties won two seats each. Sena deputy leader and spokesperson Neelam Gorhe said the party won’t be surprised if the BJP helped an independent candidate defeat the Sena, as it had done in the past in Konkan. “We will get information and analyse what led to the loss in Amravati. We will not be surprised if the BJP helped the independent candidate win against the Shiv Sena,” said Gorhe. Sena leaders argued the seat was always won by an independent candidate. Deshpande won in 2014 as an independent candidate, who extended support to the Sena subsequently. He was given a ticket by the party in 2020, a senior leader said. Sarnaik, the winner from the seat is a relative of home minister Anil Deshmukh and could lead to discomfort over the results between two ruling parties, according to an insider in Congress. He is also likely to support the ruling MVA on the floor of the Council.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-legislative-council-polls-mva-wins-4-of-6-council-seats/story-b88KceawRGQuF7ZzAZNsWI.html
05-12-2020||City||At 119, Mumbai saw fewest dengue cases in 5 years in 2020: Civic body||The city has recorded the lowest number of dengue cases and deaths in the last five years. Dengue cases year have dropped by 86.3% in Mumbai this year compared to 2015. The death rate has also dropped, with only two deaths from dengue reported this year so far. According to data provided by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), 873 dengue cases were reported between January and November 2015, which increased to 1,130 during the same period in 2016. In 2017, Mumbai witnessed a slight drop in cases when the number fell to 1,102 in the those eleven months. In 2018 and 2019, the caseload further dropped to 884 and 881 respectively. This year, the city has recorded the lowest caseload — 119 — for the corresponding period. Civic officials said the fall in numbers is due to preventive measures taken during the pandemic. “Since the starting of the pandemic in March, we initiated disinfection work in public places. On a larger scale, we carried our sanitation and fumigation work. We also oiled the stagnant water to destroy breeding grounds of mosquitoes,” said Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer, BMC. According to data procured from the insecticide department, compared to last year, more breeding grounds of aedes mosquitoes, which spread dengue, were destroyed this year. While 51,509 breeding grounds were destroyed in 2019, BMC increased its tally to 62,872 this year. The most breeding grounds were found in E (Byculla) and G/South (Elphinstone) wards. A senior officer from the insecticide department said, “Our whole department was given the responsibility of disinfection and sanitisation in societies with infected patients. Despite working round the clock, we paid equal attention to take precautionary measures for mosquito-borne diseases, which helped to control the [number of] cases.” Another reason for lower numbers may be the restricted movement due to lockdown. Dr Manjusha Agarwal, general physician at Global Hospital, Parel said, “During this ongoing pandemic, people have tried to maintain a clean environment and focus on improved sanitation. Also as people are spending less time outdoors due to the restrictions imposed in the lockdown, it could have resulted in fewer dengue cases.”Dr Om Srivastava, an epidemiologist from Khar said, the pandemic had helped to diagnose patients early, which in turn may have prevented fatalities. “As the symptoms of dengue are similar to Covid-19, many dengue patients were diagnosed early at fever camps. This helped to provide treatment without delay,” said Dr Srivastava. Despite the improved figures for dengue, doctors advised that the authorities should not let down their guard. “On a regular basis, the civic body should keep removing the scrap materials and tyres which turn into breeding grounds,” said Dr Srivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/at-119-mumbai-saw-fewest-dengue-cases-in-5-years-in-2020-civic-body/story-du5OeXxl1h6rSjGvbMfW4M.html
05-12-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana logs 5 deaths, 100 fresh infections||Five patients succumbed to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) while 100 tested positive in the district on Friday.The death toll, so far, stands at 913 while 23,261 cumulative infections have been reported. All five victims were between 40 to 73 years in age. Restaurant owner booked for defying curfew ordersA restaurant owner was booked for defying curfew and operating beyond after permissible hours on Thursday night.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Lakhwinder Singh, who lodged the FIR, said that he was on curfew duty when he learnt that Laziz Restaurant near South City was operating during curfew.An FIR was lodged under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been lodged against the owner of the restaurant.With the second wave of the coronavirus seeping through the state, the government has imposed night curfew from 10pm to 5am. This is the third such FIR lodged against violators for defying curfew in the past four days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-logs-5-deaths-100-fresh-infections/story-ZnqkLy7JxfktIU3z8ctt3L.html
05-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: FYJC second merit list to be out today; Mumbai colleges expect marginal dip in cutoffs||Nearly two months after admissions to first-year junior college (FYJC) were stayed owing to the Supreme Court’s (SC) interim stay on Maratha quota, the education department will finally release the second merit list for admissions at 11am today (November 5) without the 12% reservation. After the first admission round, which completed in September, nearly 2.42 lakh seats remained vacant for admissions in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). Principals of coveted city colleges said they were expecting a marginal dip in their cut-offs. “We already had a considerable number of admissions in the first round, so the dip in cut-offs should not be a lot,” said Ashok Wadia, principal, Jai Hind College, Churchgate. The college closed its first merit list at 89.4% for science and 92.6% for both commerce and arts streams. Most prominent colleges also said they only had about 30-40% seats vacant after the first round of admissions which can be filled in this and the upcoming rounds. “Since we had already completed minority admissions and general admissions in the first round, nearly 70% of the total seats were taken up. We hope that the remaining seats will be filled in the days to come so that online lectures for FYJC can begin soon,” said Satram Verhani, vice-principal of CHM college in Ulhasnagar. Some principals said students are likely to prioritise getting into a college and beginning the new academic year soon. “Due to the delay, students are now looking forward to the year to begin. Many students might also be willing to compromise on their college preferences as the mode of learning is going to be online at least for the current year,” said the principal of a South Mumbai-based college.On September 9, in line with the Apex court’s interim stay on Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) quota in jobs and education, the state education department had stayed the admission process for FYJC until further orders. While the state government has revealed that admissions to all courses will now take place without the quota, it has also clarified that students whose admissions in the first merit list were confirmed under the quota will remain intact.Total intake capacity 3,20,830Total seats confirmed by students in the first round 78,596Vacant seats up for grabs in second round 2,42,234||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-fyjc-second-merit-list-to-be-out-today-mumbai-colleges-expect-marginal-dip-in-cutoffs/story-VVGRwjjQNZOqYhzGfw1drL.html
05-12-2020||Mumbai||Anvay Naik suicide abetment case: Alibag police files charge sheet against Arnab Goswami, others||Alibag police filed charge sheet in 2018 abatement suicide case of architect-interior designer Anvay Naik, 53, and his mother, Kumud, in which editor-in-chief of Republic TV and R Bharat news channels Arnab Goswami and two others — Feroz Shaikh and Nitesh Sarda — are accused. Police inspector and investigating officer Jamil Shaikh confirmed that the charge sheet has been filed. Alibag police arrested Goswami, Shaikh and Sarda on November 4 from their residences in Mumbai. They were produced in the Alibag court on same day and sent to judicial custody. Goswami was in jail for eight days and walked out of Taloja jail on November 11 after the Apex court granted him bail.The police filed a charge sheet of around 1,900 pages which includes statement of 65 witnesses. There are statements of Naik’s family members and staff members. The charge sheet also includes statements of the accused’s staff and call data records and retrieval of information from electronic devices.Goswami had filed an application on December 3 before the Bombay high court (HC) urging the court to stay any further probe into the suicide abetment case registered against him. He has also sought an interim order to restrain Alibag police from filing a charge sheet in the case and to transfer the investigation to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or some other independent agency beyond the purview of Maharashtra government.Advocate Niha Raut, who represents Shaikh, said, “The police has filed charge sheet today. However, my client, Feroz Shaikh, was called by Alibag crime branch for interrogation on December 4. Shaikh reached at 10am to Alibag crime branch office and he was asked to go at 6pm”. Naik, architect and managing director of Concorde Designs Private Limited, and his mother Kumud died by suicide at his Alibag farmhouse in Raigad on May 5, 2018. In his suicide note, police said, Naik alleged he was being forced to take this step as he was not paid his dues — ₹83 lakh by Goswami, ₹55 lakh by Sarda of Smartworks and ₹4 crore by Shaikh of IcastX/Skimedia. Acting on a complaint by Naik’s wife, Akshata, police registered an offence booking the trio on May 5, 2018. On April 16, 2019, then investigating officer submitted an A-summary report and sought closure of the case for want of prosecutable evidence against any of the three accused. The jurisdictional magistrate had accepted the report the same day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/anvay-naik-suicide-abetment-case-alibag-police-files-charge-sheet-against-arnab-goswami-others/story-ltQCA9IrUHmn49VFaAmr7N.html
05-12-2020||Mumbai||PNB fraud case: CBI court refuses to grant bail to former VP of Gitanjali Group||The special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court on Friday refused to grant bail to Vipul Chitalia, vice-president of Gitanjali Group of Companies, arrested in connection with the multi-crore Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam. Chitalia was arrested on March 6, 2018 while he was returning from Bangkok. While arresting him, CBI had claimed that he was instrumental in preparing applications seeking Letter of Understanding (LoU) from PNB in connivance with key accused Gokulnath Shetty, who was posted as deputy manager at the mid-corporate branch at Brandy House. The agency also claimed that Chitalia, in connivance with another key accused Mehul Choksi and other accomplices, had fraudulently shown liability in the books of accounts towards two Hong Kong-based firms — 4C’s Diamond Distributors and Shanyang Gong SI Limited — and not towards PNB which had issued the LoUs. Further, it is claimed that Chitalia was an authorised signatory for Gitanjali. This was Chitalia’s second bail plea filed through Vijay Agarwal and Rahul Agarwal on the grounds of delay in conducting trial. The first plea was filed on the merits of the case claiming that he had no role in the fraud and had resigned from the company long back. After it was rejected in 2018, they approached the high court. However, the plea was later withdrawn and they filed a fresh plea citing the merits and delay in trial. The plea was not accepted by the special court. Chitalia is now likely to approach the high court for bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pnb-fraud-case-cbi-court-refuses-to-grant-bail-to-former-vp-of-gitanjali-group/story-LiT1fisRFQaKmpgb60J2ZL.html
05-12-2020||Chandigarh||Winter vacation amid Covid: PGIMER department heads directed to ensure adequate faculty available for emergencies||Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has decided to give winter vacation to the faculty members in a staggered manner. Officials said that the head of departments have been asked to maintain an adequate faculty ratio required to deal with any urgency related to Covid-19.A communication sent to the department heads states that while forwarding the vacation roster of respective departments they should ensure that the adequate faculty is available for smooth functioning due to Covid-19 pandemic. The Covid hospital at PGIMER is one of the biggest facilities in the region to treat moderate to severe cases of Covid-19. Besides, patients from Chandigarh, it caters to patients from Punjab and Haryana as well.Since March, more than 2,000 Covid-19 patients have been treated here. As more healthcare services have been diverted to Covid services, the routine healthcare services have been affected however, emergency services are being provided to patients.“I have received intimation from various faculty members that they won’t go on vacations, but there should be a system under which they can avail their leave, “ PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram said.Usually, a 15-day long winter vacation is provided to around 600 faculty members, during which the departments function at 50% capacity.The department heads have also been asked for strict compliance with the order, and if any faculty is not able to avail the vacation, their leaves will be credited to their accounts as earned leaves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/winter-vacation-amid-covid-pgimer-department-heads-directed-to-ensure-adequate-faculty-available-for-emergencies/story-d5oRODP5sxBUqN6JUX3LxI.html
05-12-2020||Gurugram||‘He would steal, but can’t believe he killed’, says Gurugram serial killer’s ex-colleague||Mohammad Ghufran, the receptionist at guest house ‘Just For You’ — located near Jama Masjid in the heart of Delhi — finds it hard to believe that his former colleague Mohammad Razi stands accused of being a serial killer. Razi, who was arrested by Gurugram Police on Thursday, Ghufran says, can be many things, including a thief. But Razi being a serial killer is something he finds hard to believe.“After quitting his job here, he stole my mobile phone and then went on to call me on another phone number to say that he was the thief and that he wouldn’t return it,” said Ghufran.Among the many places the alleged serial killer worked since the lockdown, was this two-storey guest house located in a narrow bylane, populated with motor spare parts shops, near Jama Masjid. Mohammad Salman, the owner of the guest house, said Razi had come asking for a job sometime in October. “He said he had no home in Delhi. He would sleep in the staff quarters of the guest house,” said Salman. Razi was given a housekeeping job on a daily wage of around Rs 300. Salman said that Razi had been hired through a “reference” and his police verification was never carried out.“I never noticed anything suspicious, else I would have kicked him out ,” said Salman. But Razi himself quit the job, 10 days after joining it, around October 15. “He spoke less and was usually polite. But he would sometimes smoke marijuana outside the hotel premises. He once mentioned to me that he had done many ugly things back in his hometown of Bihar’s Araria. He never shared details though,” recounted Ghufran. Ghufran said Razi had also mentioned about his father having disowned him. But this aspect of his relationship could not be verified. What stuck in Ghufran’s mind was Razi having mentioned that his maternal uncle back home was a police officer.That was one of the reasons Ghufran didn’t file a complaint when Razi allegedly stole his mobile phone. “On November 22, I was out scouting for customers and had left my phone at the hotel’s reception. When I returned, the phone was gone,” said Gufran. That very day, Ghufran received a phone call on another number from Razi. “He confessed that he had taken my phone and that he will not return it. I begged and pleaded, even offered him Rs 5,000, but to no avail,” alleged Ghufran. Since he is a college student and needs a mobile phone for the online classes, Ghufran went on to purchase a new phone. The other details of Razi given by his former employer and colleague are sketchy.“Before working at the guest house, he mentioned that he was employed at a cement and steel rods shop somewhere near Gurugram,” Ghufran recounted. While Ghufran too belongs to Araria in Bihar, it was only on reading news reports of Razi’s arrest that he got to know that their villages are just four kilometres apart. “He has brought shame to our district,” Ghufran said, still unwilling to believe that he had worked with an alleged serial killer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/gurugram-serial-killer-s-ex-colleague-says-can-t-believe-he-murdered/story-TVN5muvrIWVDYvOnHuRLYL.html
05-12-2020||Delhi||Will stay put, join R-Day in tractors, say protesting farmers||Reiterating their stance that they will not settle for anything but a complete rollback of the three new laws that seek to open up farm trade, farmers protesting on the Ghazipur border said they will stay put and participate in the Republic Day parade on their tractors in Delhi, if their demands are not met. Rakesh Tikait, farmer leader and spokesperson, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) said, “Since talks with the government have not yielded any results so far, we are going to camp at the border at least till January 26.” “We have enough ration to camp here till January end. If the situation remains the same, we have planned to march up to the India Gate in our tractors to participate in the [Republic Day] parade. We want the country to see the real farmers,” said Tikait.He added, they will cross the border and March towards Delhi on the night of January 25. “We will respond if the government tries to stop by force.”Thousands of farmers are sitting in protest against the new farm laws on four borders of Delhi --- Singhu, Tikri, Chilla and Ghazipur. Their representatives have held two rounds of talks with the Centre so far, with the third round scheduled for Saturday. On Thursday, farmer leaders had said that they were hopeful of a resolution but will not settle for anything less than the complete revocation of the new laws enacted by the Parliament in September. Mangeram Tyagi, chief secretary, Bhartiya Kisan Union (NCR Unit), said the ball is in the Centre’s court. “It depends on the government for how long we will stay here”. “We are not going to move an inch unless our demands are met. We have been staying here for the past one week, we are strong enough to spend months,” Tyagi said.At Ghazipur, farmers have deployed a volunteer group of 50-60, who are going around the protest venue and registering the names, addresses and contact numbers of the protesters to keep an eye on what they claim were “anti-social elements, who were coming to the protests to disrupt the movement”. A senior police officer deployed at Ghazipur said the security forces are ready to handle any situation. Even as some groups of farmers who had joined the protest in Ghaziabad from Hapur, Bulandshahr, Meerut and Moradabad returned on Friday, a large group of protesters were still camping at the site. Meanwhile, traffic towards Delhi from Haryana and UP continued to be diverted, causing jams on the border points and on the nearby roads. However, the situation was relatively better on Friday as the motorists were aware about the closure of the borders and diversions.Like the last three days, when at least two more borders connecting Delhi to Noida and Ghaziabad, were partially closed, no new blockage was reported on Friday at any border. Gagan Chawla, 41, an IT professional who travelled from Noida to Delhi and back, said due to closure of Chila border the available routes witnessed heavy traffic. “I heard it was even worse on Thursday. However, on the way back to Noida, traffic is relatively smoother,” he said.Vipul Garg, who was travelling from Ghaziabad to Delhi also said traffic on Friday was relatively better than Thursday. “Yesterday, I had to take alternative routes to reach Delhi via Apsara border but today since I was aware I avoided traffic jams,” said Garg, a businessman. The Chilla border (Delhi-Noida Link Road), which was closed completely for at least 22 hours between Tuesday and Wednesday, was partially opened on Thursday. Even on Friday, one carriageway connecting Noida from Delhi remained open while the opposite carriageway towards Delhi was closed. The police diverted the traffic towards DND, Kalindi Kunj, Dallupura, Khoda, New Ashok Nagar, and Kondli. Although heavy traffic was witnessed in the morning and evening hours on Friday, the situation was slightly better than what it was on Thursday.Delhi police issued advisories regarding diversions and road blockages. Anil Mittal, additional spokesperson, Delhi police, said in an advisory, the Chilla border on Noida Link Road is closed for traffic from Noida to Delhi due to farmers protests near Gautam Budh Dwar. “People are advised to avoid Noida link road for coming to Delhi and use DND,” Mittal said.He added, due to the ongoing farmers’ protest, Ghazipur Border on NH 24 and NH 9 are also closed for traffic from UP to Delhi. “People are advised to avoid NH 24 and use Apsara/Bhopura/DND flyover to enter Delhi,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-say-ready-to-wait-till-january-join-r-day-parade-in-tractors/story-vjjKJW3qmwPP3SIVwD7eTO.html
05-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers blocking essential services, increasing Covid-19 threat, says petition before SC||A public interest petition before the Supreme Court on Friday has sought the immediate removal or dispersal of farmers gathered at Delhi borders in order to ease the movement of traffic and prevent a possible spread of Covid-19 among protesters, as the ongoing agitation against the Centre’s new farm laws entered its ninth day on Friday.The petition, filed by law student Rishabh Sharma, also cited the October 7 judgment of the Supreme Court, on the months-long protest at Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh against the amended citizenship rules, in which the apex court had said that while the right to protest and dissent against governments is a fundamental right, it is not an absolute one and public places cannot be occupied indefinitely to stage protests. The court had also held that such protests ought to take place in designated areas and not on public roads.Sharma pointed out that despite farmers being allotted the Nirankari grounds in central Delhi’s Burari to peacefully protest, lakhs of farmers were still gathered at the borders of the capital city, blocking traffic along arterial roads connecting the city with the National Capital Region.“This protest is causing lot of trouble to the citizens of India,” the petition stated and demanded the opening of the borders and a direction to protesters to move to the designated place.Sharma also said such massive gatherings have the potential to become Covid-19 hot spots besides blocking essential medical and emergency services. “The protest is blocking the roads for all the emergency/medical services which are very much required to be supplied within the territory of Delhi in order to stop the spread of coronavirus as the cases of coronavirus are increasing rapidly in Delhi,” stated the petition filed through advocate Om Prakash Parihar.The petition also expressed concern over the health of elderly farmers protesting at the border points. “The coronavirus is affecting mainly elderly people and the protest at Delhi border is mostly consisting of elderly men and women. The petitioner is seeking urgent direction to shift them (protesting farmers) to the place already allotted by the Delhi police in view of immediate threat of coronavirus infection and spread.”Security personnel continued to remain deployed at Singhu, Tikri, Chilla and Ghazipur border points. Several routes in and around the capital are closed on Friday and vehicles are re-routed wherever possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-blocking-essential-services-increasing-covid-19-threat-says-petition-before-sc/story-LsYvCDHGBlgOWoJfepUbMN.html
05-12-2020||Delhi||Journalist arrested in espionage case granted bail by high court||The Delhi high court on Friday granted bail to journalist Rajeev Sharma, who had been arrested for allegedly leaking confidential information to Chinese intelligence officers, while stating that he is entitled to default bail because the charge sheet had not been filed within 60 days of arrest.Justice Yogesh Khanna set aside an earlier order of the trial court — which had said that charge sheets in cases where the suspects had been charged under the Official Secret Act — can be filed within 90 days. The court granted Sharma bail on a personal bond of Rs 1 lakh and a surety of like amount.Sharma, 61, was arrested on September 14 by the special cell of Delhi Police and investigators claimed several articles and some sensitive/confidential documents related to Indian defence department were recovered from him.The prosecution said that during investigations, it was revealed that suspect Rajeev Sharma has been indulged in procurement of secret/confidential/sensitive documents/material information and conveying them to his handlers (foreign intelligence officers) based in China.“In lieu of that, he was getting remuneration/money through illegal means i.e. hawala transactions/funds routed through shell companies being run/operated by Chinese nationals, in Delhi, India. During further investigations, it was found that suspect Sharma was in contact with these officers — namely Michael, Xou and George — through email platforms — like Telegram, WhatsApp — and was conveying the information to these Chinese intelligence officers,” the police had alleged.On November 14, Sharma moved a plea in trial court alleging that he should be allowed default bail because the police had not filed a charge sheet even after 60 days of his arrest. However, that plea was dismissed by a judge stating that the period of 60 days had not yet expired.Sharma, through his counsel, Adish C Aggarwala, filed a revision plea before the Additional Sessions Judge (ASJ) challenging this order which is pending. In the meantime, on November 15, Sharma filed another similar plea seeking release on account of non-filing of the charge sheet within 60 days, before the duty metropolitan magistrate of Patiala House Court, who dismissed it on November 16 and ordered that the time period of filing charge sheet in this offence can be 90 days.However, the high court, in a 10-page judgment, said that under the Official Secrets Act, under which Sharma is being charged, entails punishment which may extend to 14 years. But the section does not talk of a minimum period of punishment.“... as such the period of challan in this case would be 60 days and thus the impugned order passed by the metropolitan magistrate being illegal is set aside and the petition is allowed,” it said, while adding that Sharma is entitled to bail as the charge sheet has not been filed within 60 days.The police had opposed the statutory bail plea on the grounds that the offence where there is no minimum punishment prescribed and the maximum punishment is more than 10 years, the charge sheet can be filed beyond 60 days but before 90 days from the date of arrest.The court asked Sharma to provide his contact number and address to the concerned police official and keep the location app on his mobile open at all time, and not to leave Delhi without seeking permission of the trial court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/journalist-arrested-in-espionage-case-granted-bail-by-high-court/story-lCLtPdzeMd25601umabTzN.html
05-12-2020||Delhi||Decide on reopening of spas, HC tells govt||The Delhi High Court on Friday asked the Delhi government to take a fresh decision on the reopening of the spas, while seeking to know as to why these facilities can’t be opened at a time when salons are operating.Justice Navin Chawla said there is prima facie merit in the submission made by the counsel for various spa owners that if salons, which are offering similar services, can be allowed to function, then why not spas.The court was hearing two pleas moved by multiple people running spas, which have been shut since the first lockdown was enforced in Delhi. They said when businesses such as salons, gyms, restaurants and bars have been granted permission to reopen, and even Delhi Metro has restarted, then spas should also be allowed.The petitioners said spas in other states are running with full safety measures but are not permitted in Delhi.The Delhi government’s standing counsels Anjum Javed and Anupam Shrivastava told the court that spas are not allowed because of the surge in Covid-19 infections.The government said a final decision on the reopening of spas is awaited from the ministry of home affairs (MHA). It said even the lieutenant-governor (LG) had declined to grant the permission as cases are increasing and no physical distancing is possible in spas. The counsels for spa owners said guidelines issued by the Centre permit spas to open, subject to maintenance of social distancing and other Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.But they said the Delhi government was not permitting them to operate even though salons, restaurants and every other business has been allowed in the national capital.“Even salons are open. They have similar work as that of spas. Everything is open. Even today, they said there would be no night curfew because cases have come down,” they said. The spa owners argued that the six-feet distance norm cannot be maintained even in salons but they are allowed. The Centre, who was represented by advocate Anjana Gosain, clarified that all activities that have not been specifically prohibited under its guidelines are allowed to operate outside containment zones. It said now states have to decide what should be allowed.After hearing the arguments, the court said it found merit in the submissions made by the petitioner and asked the Delhi government to file an affidavit within a week, taking a fresh decision on the reopening of spas.The matter would be now heard on December 16.There was no response from the Delhi government spokesperson on the queries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/take-a-fresh-decision-on-reopening-of-spas-delhi-hc-to-govt/story-90oEMRgBFmk4kCZsaOUVTJ.html
05-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt calls out to clinics to enrol their staff for Covid vaccination||The Delhi government on Friday made a public call to all small and independent clinics, both registered and unregistered, to enrol their staff for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccination drive. The clinics have been given a day to register their staff for the nationwide drives that will happen once a vaccine is approved. The government has already collected human resources data from the registered hospitals and nursing homes in the city. There are over 57,000 hospitals, nursing homes and maternity centres across the city as per Delhi’s latest Economic Survey 2020. HT had reported In October that the state government, on the Centre’s directive, had started creating a database of 13 categories of health care workers covering both private and government hospitals, nursing homes, and clinics. According to the draft prioritisation plan of the national expert group on vaccine administration for Covid-19, 30 million front-line workers will be the first to receive the vaccine once it becomes available. The Delhi government’s notice comes two days after the United Kingdom approved the Covid-19 vaccine developed by the Pfizer and BioNTech. UK is the first country to do so and the vaccine will be available in Britain from next week, according to a statement from the UK government. “Health care workers includes medical, paramedical, supporting, security, sanitation, and administrative staff of all allopathic, dental, AYUSH, physiotherapy clinics, diagnostic laboratories, radiology centres and other health care settings,” the public notice read. The clinics – as yet exempt from registration with the government under any rules or regulations – can upload data of their staff by requesting a Login ID on the Delhi state health mission website (dshm.delhi.gov.in). “This data will not be used for any other purpose apart from Covid-19 vaccination,” the notice assured. The government already has cold storage networks, vials, syringes and other logistical requirements needed for a vaccination drive available under the universal immunisation programme. Currently, vaccines under the universal immunisation programme are given at 640 “fixed points”, or delivery centres such as government dispensaries. The government is also looking to create a cold storage centre at the Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality hospital in Tahirpur, where a 5,000 square metre facility has been earmarked for it and is being retrofitted with freezers and power backup. This is in addition to an existing cold storage facility available at Civil Lines that can store up to 5 million doses of any drug at a temperature ranging between 2 and 8 degrees Celsius – the temperature requirement for most vaccines given under the universal immunisation programme. “We have the infrastructure to roll out the vaccine to the entire population of Delhi in a few weeks. We have facilities like mohalla clinics, poly clinics and dispensaries to dispense the vaccine. The road map for vaccination will be developed by the Centre. However, most of the vaccines can be stored in thermocol boxes filled with dry ice; so storage will not be a problem,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain in a press briefing on Friday. “A vaccine essentially injects a form of the virus in a small quantity into your body to fight the virus. For people who have already recovered from Covid-19, their body has produced antibodies naturally so they do not have to be vaccinated in the first phase,” he said.Delhi has been battling a surge in infection and on Friday reported 4,067 fresh cases, taking the tally of total cases to 586,125. Of these, 28,252 are active cases, while 548,376 have recovered, and 9,497 have lost their lives, according to the Delhi government’s health bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-calls-out-to-clinics-to-enrol-their-staff-for-covid-vaccination/story-BktlDmdB2Tu6fNOrEZLDDM.html
05-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s Covid positivity rate below 5% for second day in a row||Delhi’s positivity rate – proportion of samples that return positive among total tested – remained below 5% for two days in a row, for the first time since mid-May, before the first surge in the daily number of cases. The daily positivity rate as per Friday’s bulletin stood at 4.78%, which is the lowest in 218 days, since a positivity rate of 2.08% was recorded on April 30. In April, about 3,600 samples were being tested in a day in comparison to 85,003 samples tested on Thursday, which is the highest number of tests ever conducted in a day in the city so far. On Friday, Delhi reported 4,067 new cases of Covid-19 and 73 deaths. So far, the viral infection has affected over 586,000 people in the city and killed at least 9,497, since it was first detected on March 2. “The positivity has reduced to below 5%. This is a very good sign. The bed occupancy in Delhi has also gone down, over 12,000 beds are vacant. If we look at ICU beds, there are a total of over 5,000 beds and over 2,000 are vacant; meaning over 40% beds are vacant. The situation is slowly improving. I had said earlier that November 7 was the peak of the third wave,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain in a press briefing on Friday. “Let us see for how long this stays below 5%. If this can be sustained for least a week, then the situation will be comfortable. There has been aggressive testing and contact tracing because of which the positivity rate has reduced from over 15%,” he said. Experts believe that the spread of the infection has been controlled when a positivity rate of 5% or less is maintained for over two weeks. “The best way to prevent the infection is to wear a mask, maintain social distancing, and wash hands regularly. The waves of infection are likely to continue just as we had seen during the 1918 Spanish flu. This happens as people get fatigued with following precautions,” said Dr Vikas Maurya, head of the department of pulmonology at Fortis hospital, Shalimar Bagh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-covid-positivity-rate-below-5-for-second-day-in-a-row/story-9xg0W6UCX4zEzy1VHoBTEN.html
05-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt announces common forum to discuss electric vehicle policy||The Delhi government on Friday announced the launch of an “EV forum”, a common platform for multiple stakeholders to hold discussions on the government’s electric vehicle (EV) policy. The first virtual meeting under the forum is scheduled to be held on December 18, the government said in a statement.“The focus of Delhi’s EV forum would be to enable engagement of a wide range of stakeholders in the EV ecosystem for successful implementation of the EV policy. Delhi EV Forum will be the first such forum in India for continuous dialogue and engagement of stakeholders in the implementation of EV policy. The first meeting will be held virtually on December 18,” Jasmine Shah, vice-chairperson of the dialogue and development commission, which advises the Delhi government on policy matters, said.The stakeholders would include e-vehicle manufacturers, fleet operators and charging point operators, the government said.The statement said the focus of the discussions in the first meeting would be on-ground challenges on the deployment of EVs and charging infrastructure and identifying potential solutions, providing clarity related to concerns and questions regarding provisions of the policy, gaining commitments from private players to help achieve the EV and charging infrastructure targets defined in the policy.The forum is supposed to organise quarterly meetings and workshops too.“The forum may conduct additional meetings that focus on specific issues and subjects related to policy implementation. The discussions through the forum workshops will identify measures to establish Delhi as the EV capital of India,” said Shah.For the initiative, RMI India, an independent think tank working in the clean energy transition sector, will support the Delhi government. “Delhi’s ambitious EV targets are a signal of its strong commitment to clean mobility. EV policy formulation has benefited from extensive stakeholder consultations. Delhi’s policy is being hailed as one of the strongest sub-national EV policies globally,” said Akshima Ghate of RMI India.Delhi’s EV policy – notified on August 7 – aims at ensuring at least a 25% share of electric vehicles among all vehicles registered in the capital, by 2024 . The objective of the policy is to combat air pollution in Delhi. In September, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had listed the EV policy in his action plan to tackle air pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-announces-common-forum-to-discuss-electric-vehicle-policy/story-N4e8CxVQPeJkal43F4lvZL.html
05-12-2020||Delhi||WFH employees must remain on call, should not leave city, says fresh Delhi govt circular||Several departments of the Delhi government have issued circulars this week saying officials allowed to work from home in the light of a surge in Covid-19 cases should ensure that they are always available on phone and WhatsApp, and to not leave the city without prior permission of their reporting supervisors.Last week, the Delhi government had issued an order asking departments not directly engaged in Covid-19 management to prepare fresh schedules and to let 50% of their employees work from home till December 31, as a precautionary measure.The provision, however, is not applicable to bureaucrats and employees engaged in Covid-19 duties.“The officials allowed to work from home will remain available at any time, as and when so required, on phone, WhatsApp, messages and email. Any official allowed to work from home may be called to office, if required,” said the latest circular that was issued to departments such as women and child development and social welfare.The departments also asked those working from home to not leave the city unless prior permission is granted by the competent authority in writing, except in case of emergencies.Senior government officials, however, did not comment on specific incidents, if any, which may have prompted these circulars.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/wfh-employees-must-remain-on-call-should-not-leave-city-says-fresh-delhi-govt-circular/story-RoXTTOAJA3ve4fmeFtKlzO.html
05-12-2020||Delhi||BJP councillor arrested for accepting bribe, AAP says it shows deep-rooted corruption in MCDs||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Friday arrested the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) councillor from South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s Vasant Kunj ward, Manoj Mahlawat for allegedly taking bribe of Rs 10 lakh for allowing construction work in his area, people familiar with the development said. He was produced before a court in Delhi and sent to judicial custody. A team of the central agency had laid a trap to arrest Mahlawat after it received a complaint that he had demanded bribe from person for allowing construction. The agency didn’t reveal further details but officials, who didn’t want to be named, said the construction was not legal. Mahlawat was elected councillor from ward number 69, Vasant Kunj of SDMC in 2017.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday hit out at the BJP after Mahlawat’s arrest with the party’s chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj saying that the action against the councillor showed how people have to bribe civic officials and councillors for construction.“Another new feather is being added to the crown of BJP ‘s corruption. The councillor from Vasant Kunj ward number 69 of SDMC, Manoj Mahlawat was caught red-handed by the CBI for bribery. The AAP believes that the top BJP leadership knew about such illegal transactions in civic bodies,” Bharadwaj alleged.He alleged that the BJP-ruled MCDs have designed the building bylaws in such a manner that it is almost impossible for the residents to get construction done legally. “Due to such complex bylaws even the honest people have to bribe the MCD to build a house because there is no other option,” he added.Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta on Friday suspended Mahlawat from the primary membership of the party. “Following its policy of zero-tolerance towards corruption, the Delhi unit of Bhartiya Janata Party suspends you (Mahlawat) from the primary membership of the party due to serious allegations of corruption against you,” Gupta said in the suspension letter to Mahlawat on Friday.Responding to Bharadwaj’s allegations, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said the BJP has zero-tolerance towards corruption and it has suspended Mahlawat from the primary membership of the party.“We do not hesitate in taking action against the corrupt unlike the AAP, which is yet to take any action against jailed MLA Prakash Jarwal, who was accused of water tanker scam and provoking a doctor to suicide,” Kapoor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-councillor-arrested-for-accepting-bribe-aap-says-it-shows-deep-rooted-corruption-in-mcds/story-9sQsNHZ5ly0Bp83gWvzzyL.html
05-12-2020||Delhi||CPCB tells Delhi govt to quickly redress pollution complaints||The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) wrote to the Delhi government on Friday, asking various civic agencies to act immediately on emissions from open burning of waste; improper handling of construction waste; industrial emissions; dust from unpaved roads and open spaces which have been reported by citizens on Centre’s Sameer app.CPCB also shared a November 20 notice issued to Delhi government under section 5 of the Environment Protection Act, 1986. As per the notice, of the 3,094 complaints lodged on Sameer app between October 7 and November 18, only 34% have been redressed and of the 784 complaints lodged on social media during the same period, only 24% have been addressed.In its letter, the agency also shared a list of “hot spots”, where CPCB teams spotted several polluting activities such as open dumping of garbage. These spots are Narela, Anand Vihar, Mundka, Dwarka and Punjabi Bagh in Delhi and Faridabad, Jhajjar, Noida and Bhiwadi in NCR.“Delhi’s pollution levels are still high. Stubble burning has stopped but pollution levels are still in very poor category. CPCB’s 50 teams are monitoring polluting activities in Delhi and NCR and have been informing various agencies but they are yet to act on all complaints. Delhi government agencies should get their act together,” said Prakash Javadekar, union environment minister addressing media on Friday.Reacting to the letter, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai’s office said prompt action is being taken on all the complaints. “Between October 27 and November 30, of the 12,000 complaints received on the Delhi green app, 10,000 have already been resolved. The redressal rate of complaints is around 85%. The complaints redressal is being reviewed from time to time. The app that was launched in October has been a success. Besides, 23 anti-smog guns have been installed at key stretches to suppress dust. Also, intensive campaigns against dust emissions as well as vehicular emissions such as Red Light On, Gaadi off have been taken by the Delhi government to fight local sources of pollution. We have been making all efforts to control emissions on the ground and strict monitoring is being done. Action is also being taken against violators,” the minister’s office said in a statement.CPCB has issued three directions to Delhi government under section 5, which gives the anti-pollution agency powers to issue directions in writing to any person, officer or any authority who shall be bound to comply with such directions. It has said the Delhi government should ensure immediate action for complete redressal of complaints on Sameer app and social media; closely monitor actions taken on polluting events; ensure regular surveillance and strict action against illegal industrial activities, including tyre burning and dumping of construction waste, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cpcb-tells-delhi-govt-to-quickly-redress-pollution-complaints/story-nBsQq8hXYqT9w4Gxz9Oh6N.html
05-12-2020||Pune||Stretch was on land owned by MIT in Pune, says Dr Vishwanath Karad||Dr Vishwanath Karad, founder president and director general, World Peace Centre (Alandi) MAEER’s MIT, Pune, tells Hindustan timesthe reason behind building the road on Vetal tekdi slope that is facing opposition from neighbourhood residents. Karad says that the stretch will help students and public walk up the road and it has no commercial purpose. What are you building on the Vetal hill slope? We are building an alternative road for students and public to reach the top of the hill. The stretch is built on the land owned by MIT and we are doing it from our budget, so no reason for permission arises. What is the reason for building this alternative road? Our campus has over 15,000 to 20,000 students and, over the years, the main road has become crowded and traffic congested with cases of accidents being reported. This alternative road will ease traffic on the main stretch and can be used by both students and public to walk up the hill. PMC states that this road on hill slope is illegal and residents have raised objection? It is unfortunate that our institution is being pulled into shaming and bad names. I think there seems to be vested interest of some political parties to create this kind of stir. MIT has 28 acre in yellow zone and almost 25 acres in green zones, including hill slope. We want to build a road which is of no commercial value, but for public interest. Have you applied for permissions and why build one now? We have already submitted a letter of intent of building a road leading to the Vishwashanti hill atop, where since 1996 we have build a small meditation temple. In 1995, there was a plan to build a Vishwashanti park where we had planted several trees, but due to technical problems and shortage of funds, we had to put the project on hold. Now that we have the funds, we want to complete the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/the-stretch-is-built-on-the-land-owned-by-mit-karad/story-dRWbQ9idMvd1qj6iXa6dxH.html
05-12-2020||Latest||Delhi’s book lovers, rejoice! Full Circle Book Store and Café Turtle set to make a comeback to their beloved Khan Market||One of the city’s most-beloved bookshops is going to be back at its original location. In June this year, Full Circle Book Store had announced the closing down of its Khan Market outlet owing to mounting bills and thinning revenue. But now, along with Café Turtle, the store plans to begin the new year with new tidings.  A post shared by Mayank Austen Soofi (@thedelhiwalla)“We didn’t want to move out in the first place, but had to given the circumstances. The people and various landlords in Khan Market approached us to come back. Both the associations of Khan Market — Traders’ and Welfare — were very helpful. And even though we are not going back to the same location, we hope to recreate our signature look with the blue and green theme, wooden flooring, and a balcony. We will have the café on the second floor and are hopeful that outdoor seating would be permitted,” says its director Priyanka Malhotra. The new bookstore would be at shop number 24, right next to its original shop number 23.Read: Full Circle in Khan Market shuts its 20-year old legacy as it suffers collateral amid the coronavirus pandemicStrict adherence to SOPs and safety protocols is of priority and they are ensuring sanitisation just like it’s done in their other outlets. “We will install a pedal sanitiser at the door and do thermal scans. We will allow people only in sets of four and ensure six feet distancing is practised. The tables at the cafe will be sanitised after every order, and the bookshop will be sanitised every hour. We would be maintaining a register of everyone coming in so that we have a record. It would be mandatory to wear masks,” she explains.She promises that there will be certain new additions to the café as well, so that patrons can have meals on the go. “We will open an extended pantry with the café that will have artisanal products like preserves, natural juices, wholewheat breads and pizza bases. Our hummus and pestos were very popular with the guests, so we will bottle them for takeaway,” she shares. The physical aspect of browsing through bookshelves, getting personalised recommendations and settling in a corner to read is nudging bibliophiles to venture into bookstores. “Even though we were delivering books from our other outlet, we realised that people were choosing to walk-in. There is an increased awareness about supporting local businesses,” she says. Read: Good news for Capital’s bookworms: Bookstores will deliver to your doorstep amid lockdown 3.0On the launch, which will happen sometime in January next year, they plan to run some offers. “We need around 4-5 weeks to be up and running. We will give away gift vouchers, book and café baskets, and of course, there’s our loyalty programme,” she signs off.Interact with Etti Bali @TheBalinianFollow @htcity for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/books/delhi-s-book-lovers-rejoice-full-circle-book-store-and-cafe-turtle-set-to-make-a-comeback-to-their-beloved-khan-market/story-196YysU05umers5b0hSh1I.html
05-12-2020||Pune||Pune civic body digs up road at Vetal tekdi, directs MIT to clear debris within 24 hrs||After the stop-work notice issued to Maharashtra Institute of Technology (MIT) citing unauthorised work on the hill slope at survey number 123 in Kothrud, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Friday dug up the road being constructed and ordered the institute to clear the debris within two days. “After giving them stop work notice yesterday, we have given them another 24 hours to clear the rubble/debris from the sides of the road that they were building. We faced opposition when we started digging up the road, but after talking with the MIT officials we were allowed to continue our work of excavating at the beginning of the illegal road,” said Sudhir Kadam, executive engineer, building permission department, PMC. Meanwhile, deputy chairperson of the Maharashtra legislative Council Neelam Gorhe has written to Eknath Shinde, state urban development minister, requesting immediate suspension of the work. Gorhe said, “Vetal tekdi is known for its biodiversity and its greenery is now under threat for trees on this hill are being cut and a road is being constructed there. The intensity of the anger amongst Punekars caused by this illegal work has raised an issue about keeping the hill safe. Thus, I have written a letter to urban development minister Eknath Shinde asking for strict instructions to be given to the municipal commissioner, Pune to prevent any construction on this draft heritage hill.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-digs-up-road-at-vetal-tekdi-directs-mit-to-clear-debris-within-24-hrs/story-dV0pArdFrDfxotA6HnLnoJ.html
05-12-2020||World||Top US official says China conducted human tests to develop super soldiers||US intelligence has revealed that China conducted “human testing” on members of the People’s Liberation Army in hope of developing soldiers with “biologically enhanced capabilities,” NBC reported citing top American intelligence official.John Ratcliffe, the director of national intelligence, included the explosive claim in a long Wall Street Journal op-ed in which he made the case that China poses the pre-eminent national security threat to the United States, NBC said.“There are no ethical boundaries to Beijing’s pursuit of power,” wrote Ratcliffe, a Republican former member of Congress from Texas.“The People’s Republic of China poses the greatest threat to America today, and the greatest threat to democracy and freedom worldwide since World War II,” he wrote. “The intelligence is clear: Beijing intends to dominate the US and the rest of the planet economically, militarily and technologically,” he added.His office and the CIA did not immediately respond to the claims made by Ratcliffe against China.Last year, two American scholars in a paper examining China’s ambitions to apply biotechnology to the battlefield, including that Beijing was interested in using gene-editing technology to enhance human -- and perhaps soldier -- performance.The scholars have explored Chinese research using the gene-editing tool CRISPR, short for “clusters of regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats.“CRISPR has been used to treat genetic diseases and modify plants, but Western scientists consider it unethical to seek to manipulate genes to boost the performance of healthy people. While the potential leveraging of CRISPR to increase human capabilities on the future battlefield remains only a hypothetical possibility at the present, there are indications that Chinese military researchers are starting to explore its potential,” wrote the scholars, Elsa Kania, an expert on Chinese defence technology at the Center for a New American Security, and Wilson VornDick, a consultant on China matters and former Navy officer.“Chinese military scientists and strategists have consistently emphasized that biotechnology could become a ‘new strategic commanding heights of the future Revolution in Military Affairs,’“ the scholars wrote, quoting a 2015 article in a military newspaper.One prominent Chinese general, they noted, said in 2017 that “modern biotechnology and its integration with information, nano(technology), and the cognitive, etc. domains will have revolutionary influences upon weapons and equipment, the combat spaces, the forms of warfare, and military theories.”In a phone interview, VornDick said that he is less concerned about the battlefield advantage such research might provide than he is about the consequences of tampering with human genes.“When we start playing around with genetic organisms, there could be unforeseen consequences,” he said.Representatives of the Chinese government did not immediately respond to a request for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/top-us-official-says-china-conducted-human-tests-to-develop-super-soldiers/story-xPMv7HPyjAUZYGDmybA0uO.html
05-12-2020||World||Hundreds take to streets in Kathmandu supporting return of constitutional monarchy||A pro-monarch march was held in the capital Kathmandu on Saturday where hundreds took to the streets with national flags to extend their support to a constitutional monarchy.Hundreds of monarch supporters took to the streets in a pre-organised and well-advertised rally on December 5 demanding the reinstatement of constitutional monarchy and declare Nepal a Hindu state.Participants of Saturday’s massive rally chanted slogans in favour of the Hindu monarchy and demanded the reinstatement of constitutional monarchy in the Himalayan Nation which they claimed was for the sake of country’s national unity and well-being of the people.“Today, participants are here without being driven by any impulsive feelings, as the movement led by youths has already set off. We can dream of our beautiful Nepal and this nation would obviously get back its monarch status of a Hindu-state. Until and unless we achieve our aim we would fight for it,” Amir KC, one of the participants in the march who claimed to be leading over 250 youths from Lalitpur to the venue told ANI.Saturday’s demonstration comes as a series of similar protests were held in the past month for a constitutional monarchy.On November 10, a group with banner “Nationalist Civic Society” staged a demonstration in Jamal of Kathmandu, demanding restoration of constitutional monarchy and announce Nepal a Hindu state.Two days later, a group named Nepal Scholar Council held a demonstration in Biratnagar with the same demands.Again on November 19, another group under the banner “Independent Nationalist Citizens Far-West” demonstrated in Dhangadhi followed by a protest in Pokhara on November 25 under the banner “Western Nepali Citizens” and “Nepal Nationalist Group” in Janakpur of Nepal.The trend of staging demonstrations in other parts of the country also continued to rise as a similar protest was held in Hetauda on 29 November under the banner “Restoration of Constitution Movement” and another protest on 30 November in Kathmandu itself.Saturday’s demonstration was held under banner of Rashtriya Nagarik Andolan Samiti 2077 (National Civic Movement Committee 2020). Similar kind of protest was planned by Rastriya Prajatantra Party in Jhapa hometown of incumbent Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli in support of the monarch and monarchy.Observers in Kathmandu claim movement to reinstate the monarch has arisen due to failed attempts of current political parties to cater to public interest.“When democratic forces don’t live up to expectations-- both ruling and opposition parties-- then it’s inevitable that some alternative force will try to take its place. That is how I see the revival of this protest,” Biswas Baral, current affairs commentator in Kathmandu told ANI.“Many people are unhappy with the working of the current government. It has been seen as a failure in controlling COVID-19, in controlling corruption and in implementing federalism. So, there is general disillusionment amongst people so this (protest) could be an expression of that,” Baral said.Protestors on Saturday displayed placards bearing a photo of Prithivi Narayan Shah, the founding father of modern Nepal along with national flags while they chanted slogans against the Federal Democratic Republican System that Nepal adopted in 2008 after the abolition of 240-year-old monarchy.Nepal has transitioned into a federal democratic republic after the promulgation of a new constitution in 2015. First General Election of 2017 held after promulgation charter gave a clear mandate to an alliance of the then CPN-UML and CPN (Maoist Center) incumbent NCP which is now in power.Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli who since then has clung onto power with responsibilities to implement the constitution, strengthen federalism and good governance is now seen to be failing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hundreds-take-to-streets-in-kathmandu-supporting-return-of-constitutional-monarchy/story-td0dQQUUsg42oNNDgAhauL.html
05-12-2020||World||Is Georgia a swing state? Groups spend millions to find out||The Georgia US Senate runoffs don’t take place until Jan. 5. But there are already some clear winners.At the state’s most influential television station, Atlanta’s WSB, an ad that cost candidates $8,000 in July now goes for about $18,000. In the smaller market of Savannah, ad rates have soared nearly twentyfold.With control of the Senate, and the scope of President-elect Joe Biden’s agenda in the balance, the millions in political spending verges on something close to an unlimited budget.The contest will test the limits of how far money can go in a political climate in which both sides are entrenched and few voters seem open to changing their minds. And President Donald Trump has complicated the contest by claiming baselessly that the November election in Georgia was beset by fraud.Also at stake: whether Georgia, long a Republican stronghold, may be on the road to swing-state status, particularly after Biden became the first Democratic presidential candidate since Bill Clinton in 1992 to carry the state.Partisans on both sides are spending big to find out.That puts Georgia’s two Republican senators, David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler, in devilish competitions that kicked off after neither won more than 50% of the vote on Election Day. Perdue is seeking reelection against Democratic challenger Jon Ossoff, while Loeffler, who was appointed to her seat, is looking to complete the term of the retired Sen. Johnny Isakson, running against Democrat Raphael Warnock.If Republicans win one race, they will maintain a narrow majority, and the chamber will serve as a bulwark against Democratic ambitions. But if Democrats carry both, the balance will be 50-50 —with Vice President-elect Kamala Harris delivering tie-breaking votes. That will enable Biden to enact a more ambitious agenda, assuming he can keep fellow Democrats on board.“Everyone is aware of the stakes of these two seats,” said Bradley Beychok, the president of American Bridge, a major Democratic outside group that has pledged to spend millions reaching out to rural voters. “There’s a narrative that Democrats have an uphill battle, but we just won Georgia and we’re ready to go fight.”As both parties shovel resources into the state, some speculate that the cost of the abbreviated contest could approach $500 million. Already, $329 million in advertising has been spent or reserved in the state since Election Day, according to data from the ad tracking firm Kantar/CMAG.Campaign finance disclosures made public Thursday suggest Republican outside groups have a fundraising advantage. The National Republican Senatorial Committee, which has formed a joint big-dollar fundraising operation with the two candidates that is led by longtime Republican operative Karl Rove, reported raising $75.5 million since Oct. 15. Its counterpart, the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, raised $31.6 million during the same period.Senate Leadership Fund, a super PAC aligned with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, reported raising $71 million since Election Day, compared with $10.2 million raised by Senate Majority PAC, its Democratic rival.The candidates won’t have to make the finances public until Dec. 24.“Money isn’t everything, but fundraising is an early leading indicator of enthusiasm,” Steven Law, president of Senate Leadership Fund, said during an appearance on Fox News on Thursday. “Republican voters in Georgia understand that everything is at stake. The Trump legacy, the future of freedom, the future of socialism, and right now they seem very energized to vote.”Much of the money raised by the group came from Republican megadonors, including $15 million from Stephen Schwarzman, the CEO of the private equity firm Blackstone; $10 million from Kenneth Griffin, the CEO of the hedge fund Citadel; and $5 million from Steve Wynn, the former head of Wynn Resorts who stepped down after he was accused of sexual misconduct, allegations he denies.Major Democratic committees focused on the Senate may have posted lackluster fundraising totals on Thursday, but party strategists say donors are instead routing cash to groups that are already established in the state.Many of those groups are holding their strategy, tactics and bottom line close after record-setting hauls for Senate candidates in the fall ended in disappointment for candidates like Jaime Harrison of South Carolina, MJ Hegar of Texas and Steve Bullock of Montana. In some of those cases, the widely publicized fundraising success contributed to perceptions that they were funded by out-of-state interests.While Biden’s campaign ran operations in Georgia until the Nov. 3 election, Senate Democrats’ campaign arm is in charge now. Their efforts include paid door-to-door canvassing — a difference from the fall when the Biden campaign discouraged Democrats from in-person canvassing.Among the most high-profile movers on the left is the Fair Fight organization, which voting rights advocate Stacey Abrams organized after her loss in the 2018 Georgia governor’s race. Abrams’ group on Thursday reported raising $34.5 million between Oct. 15 and Nov. 23. That’s not the same eye-popping numbers of some of the major party PACs, but it’s targeted on voter turnout. As an example, Fair Fight texted 2 million voters within days of the runoffs being set with information about how to secure absentee ballots for the second round. That’s about 80% of the total number of votes that Biden received in Georgia.“People are very inspired by the Stacey Abrams magic,” said Michael Smith, a Los Angeles donor who has given to several groups raising money for the Georgia Democrats. “Everyone in LA is raising money for Georgia. It’s a moral issue.”Another group, called Really American PAC, has raised over $593,000 and hopes to put up 50 billboards in rural counties that urge Trump supporters to sit out the election, echoing a sentiment shared by some of the president’s most dejected supporters.The group says twelve billboards have gone up so far, which state: “Perdue/Loeffler Didn’t Deliver For Trump, DON’T Deliver For Them.” And at first blush, they look like an ad from a right-leaning group.In reality, however, Really American PAC was created by a progressive activist from Chicago named Justin Horwitz, who says he has a “shared interest” with the president’s supporters in “defeating Washington insiders Perdue, Loeffler & McConnell, who happen to be trying to destroy Trump.”That gets to the center of a preoccupation for Republicans.Trump, who will hold a rally in the state Saturday, has refused to concede the election and has repeatedly attacked Georgia’s Republican governor and secretary of state while falsely saying Biden’s win there was the product of voter fraud.That forces Loeffler and Perdue into a delicate dance of needing to both fire up Trump’s core supporters who may distrust the outcome of the election, while not alienating suburban moderates, as well as anti-Trump Republicans, who swung for Biden.Both candidates are scheduled to attend Trump’s rally.“I think it’s fraught with risk. If I’m Loeffler or Perdue, I wouldn’t want him to come,” said Dan Eberhart, a GOP donor who has previously given more than $190,000 to Trump’s election efforts. “With the undisciplined nature of Donald Trump, there could be one, two or three sentences that completely derail and change the direction of the campaign.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/is-georgia-a-swing-state-groups-spend-millions-to-find-out/story-1ts3nC4DtSAONptXfvVLwK.html
05-12-2020||World||A bleak outlook for millions facing cutoff of US jobless aid||Tina Morton recently faced a choice: Pay bills — or buy a birthday gift for a child? Derrisa Green is falling further behind on rent. Sylvia Soliz has had her electricity cut off.Unemployment has forced aching decisions on millions of Americans and their families in the face of a rampaging viral pandemic that has closed shops and restaurants, paralyzed travel and left millions jobless for months. Now, their predicaments stand to grow bleaker yet if Congress fails to extend two unemployment programs that are set to expire the day after Christmas.If no agreement is reached in negotiations taking place on Capitol Hill, more than 9 million people will lose federal jobless aid that averages about $320 a week and that typically serves as their only source of income.Green, 39, and her husband are among them. An end to their unemployment benefits would force them to keep missing rent payments on their home in Dyer, Indiana, near Chicago. The couple have eight children. Green’s husband is a self-employed truck driver whose business disappeared when the pandemic erupted in the spring. Only in October did he start to pick up occasional work.He now receives about $235 a week in unemployment aid. Even so, “all of our bills are late,” Green said. They’ve received several shutoff notices from utilities before managing to pay just before service was to be cut off.“That’s really scary,” Green said, “because what are we going to do when we lose the unemployment money?”The end of jobless aid is approaching at an especially perilous time. Job growth slowed sharply in November, and the resurgence of viral cases appears to be out of control across the country.Even with the prospect of an effective vaccine being widely distributed in coming months, economists say the picture will worsen before it improves. Many foresee a net loss of jobs in December for the first time since April.On Friday, President-elect Joe Biden called on Congress to quickly approve a bipartisan $908 billion package that would establish a $300-a-week jobless benefit as well as send aid to states and localities, help schools and universities, revive subsidies for businesses and support transit systems and airlines. Details are still being worked out, but the outlines of a final bill could emerge soon.More than 20 million people are now receiving unemployment benefits. More than half are beneficiaries of two programs that were part of rescue aid legislation Congress enacted in March. One program made self-employed and contract workers eligible for jobless aid for the first time and provided 39 weeks of support. The other program supplied 13 weeks of extended benefits to the 26 weeks that most states provide.About 9.1 million who are receiving aid from those programs will be cut off Dec. 26, according to a report from the Century Foundation. An additional 4.4 million are expected to exhaust all 39 weeks by year’s end. If Congress agrees to provide more weeks of aid and to revive both programs, those beneficiaries could keep receiving aid next year.That would be a life-saver for Sylvia Soliz who lives in Corpus Christi, Texas. Soliz, 36, who still owes part of her rent for November and December, has received an eviction notice. She’s also just had her electricity cut off.Back in March, Soliz was laid off from her job as a nurse’s assistant at a senior living facility. She’s now receiving $414 in jobless aid every two weeks. With four children, it doesn’t go very far.“The day I get it, it’s already gone because my kids need so many things,” Soliz said. “Of course, I have to pay a portion to whatever bill I have, so that way I can stretch it out. But every time another check comes in, it’s another bill.”Soliz is applying for a new job, and she checks in with her old employer. So far, no luck. She also worries about contracting COVID-19. Soliz is hopeful that Congress will agree to provide more aid, but she feels “they are basically gambling with us.”A cutoff of jobless benefits now, with so many millions of Americans still receiving the aid, would be unusually early compared with previous recessions. In the aftermath of the Great Recession of 2008-2009, the government extended unemployment benefits to 99 weeks, and the additional aid lasted through 2013. When that program ended, about 1.3 million people lost benefits — a small fraction of the number who would lose jobless aid this time.Other government protections will also expire at the end of this year, including a federal moratorium on evictions for renters. A suspension of payments on federal student loans will expire at the end of January.“I am very afraid of people facing homelessness — that’s our top concern,” said Andrew Stettner, a senior fellow at the Century Foundation. “It’s a terrible unforced policy error to make. It will slow the recovery that we’re having by cutting off these benefits so early.”About one in six renters in the United States are behind on their rent, according to a survey from the Census Bureau. And 12% of adults say their families didn’t have enough to eat at some point in the past week, the survey found. That’s up from just 3.7% in 2019, according to the left-leaning Center on Budget and Policy Priorities.A wrenching set of choices has confronted Keli Paaske, who lives in the Kansas City area. Since being furloughed in the spring from her sales job at a company that makes fire doors, Paaske, 56, has cut back her grocery budget. She thought she’d be called back once the virus waned. But when her boss phoned in August, it was with a different message: Her job had been eliminated.Paaske had hesitated to spend $360 needed to euthanize her 15-year old dog, who had a brain tumor, before going through with it. Without unemployment aid, Paaske isn’t sure how she would manage. She may seek financial help from her parents, who are in their 80s, something she has resisted doing. If she doesn’t find a job by March, she said, she’ll stop leasing her car.Across the country, a cutoff of jobless aid would disproportionately affect Black Americans, according to data from the Century Foundation. About 18% of unemployment aid recipients are Black, the Foundation said, though Black Americans make up just 12% of the workforce. More than 57% of recipients are white. Nearly 13% are Latino. (There is no demographic data on about one-fifth of recipients.)Tina Morton used to clean houses near where she lives in Winchester, Kentucky. But there’s been little work since the pandemic struck. Like many other single mothers, she has struggled with the need to find another job while simultaneously caring for children — a son and two nephews she has custody of — who are attending school online at home.“Single parents cannot go out here and ... just find any job,” said Morton, 39. “We’ve got our kids here that are stuck at home.”Last week, Morton had to choose between paying a phone bill and buying one of her nephews a birthday present. (She got him a present). If her jobless aid ends, she expects to face painful decisions.She’s particularly worried about her two nephews.“That’s what hurts me the most,” she said. “My job is to give them more — give them better than where they came from.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/a-bleak-outlook-for-millions-facing-cutoff-of-us-jobless-aid/story-36coPNyDjebtq6uUb0f33M.html
05-12-2020||World||Northeastern US braces for wet, windy, snowy storm||The northeastern US braced Saturday for a powerful, windy storm that forecasters say could bring 18 inches (46 centimeters) or more of heavy, wet snow to parts of the region.The heavy, blowing snow expected in the afternoon in New England may result in near-blizzard conditions that make travel difficult. Power outages are possible.The nor’easter could dump as much as a foot (30 centimeters) of snow on suburban Boston.National Weather Service Meteorologist Michael Clair of the Gray, Maine, office said the storm is beginning as rain and is expected to turn to snow Saturday afternoon. In some areas snowfall of up to 3 inches (7.6 centimeters) per hour is possible.“This is the first big one,” Clair said of the beginning of the winter season. “There has been some snow up in the mountains, but this is the first one across where most people live.”While localized totals of more than 18 inches are possible in the higher terrain, Clair says that in general, the region is expected to get hit hardest just inland from the coast, where forecasts call for about a foot of snow.Areas south of New England, including the New York region, are expected to see heavy rain and strong winds.In Canada, the storm is expected to affect southern Quebec and New Brunswick.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/northeastern-us-braces-for-wet-windy-snowy-storm/story-VPRtJbkcwhmooC56prVFUM.html
05-12-2020||World||China, US need to proceed together with ‘good will’, says Chinese envoy||China and the United States need to proceed together with “good will” to improve relations, the Chinese ambassador to Washington said on Saturday, as ties remained fraught between the world’s two biggest economic powers. Sino-US relations have fallen to their lowest point in decades over issues from trade and security to human rights and Covid-19. On Friday, a Chinese state media editorial said ties are being shifted to “a dangerous path”.“In order to put the relations on the right track, to have real improvement of the relations, both sides have to proceed with good will and good faith,” Ambassador Cui Tiankai told the Annual Conference of the Institute for China-America Studies via video link. “I don’t think that China should just do something to please anybody here,” he said, according to a transcript posted on his embassy’s website. Tensions between the two countries dramatically escalated in July when China closed the US consulate in the southwestern city of Chengdu in retaliation for Beijing’s ouster from its consulate in Houston, Texas.Also Read | US suspends exchange programs with China, calling them ‘propaganda’Earlier in the year, Washington cut the number of Chinese nationals allowed to work at the US offices of major Chinese state media. Beijing then expelled US journalists in the China bureaus of New York Times, Wall Street Journal and the Washington Post.POSITIVE GESTURES When asked by President of the National Committee on United States-China Relations Steve Orlins if China is prepared to reopen the Chengdu consulate among other positive gestures before President-elect Joe Biden takes office in January, Cui did not rule out the possibility. “I have to say we did not initiate the closing of consulates. We were not the first one to ask foreign journalists to leave the country. We did all these things in response to actions taken by the United States. So if the US government is ready to reverse the course, we are ready to look at it,” Cui said. But, Orlins said, Beijing had unilaterally taken measures against US interests, including the blocking of the three newspapers’ websites, as well as Facebook, Google, YouTube and Twitter, and that Washington had not responded to those actions. “There were provocations. If you look at what happened in the past year or so,” Cui replied.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-us-need-to-proceed-together-with-good-will-says-chinese-envoy/story-3A5SFIbFxrtbkxGOF7601N.html
05-12-2020||World||Violence erupts during Paris protest against police brutality||Scores of hooded anarchists launched projectiles at riot police, smashed up shop windows, torched cars and burned barricades during a demonstration in the French capital on Saturday against police violence. The police fired back volleys of tear gas.Thousands of people had began marching peacefully in Paris when the clashes erupted between police and pockets of protesters, most dressed in black and their faces covered. Some used hammers to break up paving stones. The protesters were denouncing police brutality and President Emmanuel Macron’s security policy plans which the demonstrators say would restrict civil liberties.They waved banners that read “France, land of police rights” and “Withdrawal of the security law”.Paris police said that some 500 “casseurs” - which translates as hoodlums or rioters - had infiltrated the protest, according to BFM TV. Twenty-two arrests had been made, the force added.France has been hit by a wave of street protests after the government introduced a security bill in parliament that set out to increase its surveillance tools and restrict rights on circulating images of police officers in the media and online.The bill was part of Macron’s drive to get tougher on law and order ahead of elections in 2022. His government also said the police needed to be better protected from online hate.But the draft legislation provoked a public backlash.The beating of a Black man, music producer Michel Zecler, by several police officers in late November intensified anger. That incident came to light after closed circuit television and mobile phone footage circulated online. In a U-turn earlier this week, Macron’s ruling party said it would rewrite the article that curbs rights to circulate images of police officers. But many opponents say that is not enough.“We’re heading towards an increasingly significant limitation of freedoms. There is no justification,” said Paris resident Karine ShebaboAnother protester, Xavier Molenat, said: “France has this habit of curbing freedoms while preaching their importance to others.” As darkness fell, live television images showed one group of anarchists ransacking the branch office of a bank, throwing piles of paperwork onto a fire burning on the pavement outside.There were peaceful protests in Marseille, Lyon, Rennes and other big cities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/violence-erupts-during-paris-protest-against-police-brutality/story-x3YAIDPUne549wFJuwG1FM.html
05-12-2020||World||Mourners gather for Palestinian youth shot by Israeli forces||Clashes between Israeli security forces and Palestinians erupted on Saturday, at the funeral of a 13-year-old killed by Israeli gunfire in the occupied West Bank.Hundreds of Palestinians had gathered to mourn the death of Ali Abu Alia in the Almugayer village, where the Palestinian youth was hit in the stomach and died later at a hospital Friday.Dozens of people threw stones toward Israeli forces and set tires aflame during the gathering. Israeli soldiers responded with intermittent barrages of tear gas.Late Friday, the top UN political envoy in the region said he was “appalled” by the killing of the teen. Israel should “swiftly” and independently “investigate this shocking and unacceptable incident,” Nikolay Mladenov wrote on Twitter.Also Read | India urges Israel, Palestine to re-engage in direct talks to advance goal of two-state solutionCommenting on the death, the Israeli military said “dozens of rioters” hurled rocks at Israeli soldiers and border police, who responded with “riot dispersal means.” It denied that its forces used live ammunition.Clashes between Palestinian youths and Israeli forces entering Palestinian-controlled areas of the occupied West Bank are common. The military often raids Palestinian towns to arrest people suspected of planning or taking part in attacks.Tensions are also high around the Israeli settlements. Over 400,000 settlers live in the West Bank, which Israel occupied in the 1967 Mideast war.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mourners-gather-for-palestinian-youth-shot-by-israeli-forces/story-t3bn9YRYRzqcjRO7ErclWP.html
05-12-2020||World||Gregory Meeks, new head of US congressional body on foreign policy, is a Gandhi acolyte||Gregory Meeks, who Thursday became the first African-American to head the foreign relations committee of the US House of Representatives, has been a longtime believer in Mahatma Gandhi going back by decades, and he reconnected with its past October 2.As a freshman member of the House in 1998, Meeks had co-sponsored a legislation that allowed the Indian embassy to install a statue of Mahatma Gandhi in a small park across the road.Meeks was chief guest at a Gandhi Jayanti event at the site of the statue last October 2.“Paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi with Congressman @RepGtegoryMeeks, Senior Member of @HouseForeign. Fondly recalled the role of Congressman John Lewis, Congressman Meeks, & @TheBlackCaucus in the establishment of Gandhi Memorial in Washington DC,” Taranjit Singh Sandhu, the Indian ambassador to the US, had tweeted at the time.US civil rights leader Martin Luther King was inspired by Gandhi and travelled to India in 1959 on a visit that he had described as pilgrimage. Congressman Lewis, who passed away earlier this year, was a close associate of King and tried for years to enact a King-Gandhi Knowledge Initiative Bill, which was passed by the House on Thursday. It is co-sponsored by Ami Bera, an Indian-American lawmaker.On Thursday, Meeks was elected to head the next House foreign affairs committee, beating Representative Julian Castro.“The committee under the next Congress will preside over an historic shift in US foreign policy, and there is no shortage of work ahead of us,” Meeks said in a statement after his election.He added, “This will not be a return to normal, but a leap towards a new way of doing business. We will broaden our scope and outreach to parts of the world we’ve historically overlooked. We will return as partners to our European allies, but we will also need to build new multilateral relationships in the Western Hemisphere and Africa. We can only address the systemic challenges posed by Moscow and Beijing with the help of like-minded friends.”Meeks succeeds Eliot Engel, an ardent supporter of strong ties with India, who founded the India Caucus in the House. The longtime congressman from New York lost the 2020 primaries to fellow Democrat Jamaal Bowman, who starts his first term in January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gregory-meeks-new-head-of-us-congressional-body-on-foreign-policy-is-a-gandhi-acolyte/story-PsTL9n4ZvotIZhM8E6h7iM.html
05-12-2020||World||Farmers’ protest in India: UK refuses to take stand on 36 MPs seeking intervention||The UK government on Saturday refused to be drawn into the farmers’ protest in India, hours after 36 British MPs asked foreign secretary Dominic Raab in a letter to raise the issue with the Indian government.A foreign office spokesperson said, “The police handling of protests are a matter for the government of India.”The 36 MPs from various parties - including some of Indian origin and others representing many constituents with links in Punjab - sought an urgent meeting with Raab and an update on representations the foreign office may have made on the issue, including during the recent visit to London of foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla.UK foreign office officials said on condition of anonymity that Raab’s office had not yet received the letter, which has been coordinated by Labour MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi and circulated on social media. Signatories to the letter include MPs from Labour, Conservative, Liberal Democrats and Scottish National Party, including former Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn, Virendra Sharma, Seema Malhotra, Valerie Vaz, Nadia Whittome, Peter Bottomley, John McDonnell, Martin Docherty-Hughes and Alison Thewliss.The letter says, “This is an issue of particular concern to Sikhs in the UK and those linked to Punjab, although it also heavily impacts other Indian states. Many British Sikhs and Punjabis have taken this matter up with their MPs, as they are directly affected, with family members and ancestral land in Punjab.”Stating that several MPs had recently written to the Indian high commission about the impact of India’s three farm laws, the letter alleges that they fail “to protect farmers from exploitation and to ensure fair prices for their produce”.British MPs have also been commenting on the farmers agitation on social media in recent days.Preet Kaur Gill, Labour MP from Birmingham Edgbaston and chair of the All Party Parliamentary Party for British Sikhs, reacted to images of protests from New Delhi, saying, “This is no way to treat citizens who are peacefully protesting over the controversial farmers’ bills in India.”“Shocking scenes from Delhi. Farmers are peacefully protesting over controversial bills that will impact their livelihoods. Water cannons and tear gas, are being used to silence them,” she tweeted.Dhesi posted images from the protests and said, “It takes a special kind of people to feed those ordered to beat and suppress them. I stand with farmers of #Punjab and other parts of #India, including our family and friends, who are peacefully protesting against the encroaching privatisation of #FarmersBill2020.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/farmers-protest-in-india-uk-refuses-to-take-stand-on-36-mps-seeking-intervention/story-FJyuJKDfgxAlYgyACkb8xL.html
05-12-2020||World||More lawmakers faced human rights violations in 2020: IPU||The Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU) – the global organisation of national parliaments of which India is a member – has reported a rise in the number of MPs facing human rights violations during 2020, including some in Sri Lanka, Pakistan and Bangladesh.No such violation was reported from India during the year, the IPU it said in its annual report ahead of the Human Rights Day on December 10. Its committee on human rights of parliaments examined 552 cases against MPs in 42 countries; compared to 533 in 2019.The figures, it said, reveal an uptick in acts of intimidation and violence, with women MPs suffering more. Of the 552 cases, 43 were reported from Venezuela, and 83 from 13 countries were new this year. Opposition MPs accounted for 85% of the cases.The most common human rights violations, the IPU said, were undue suspension and loss of parliamentary mandate; lack of fair trial and other unfair proceedings; threats, acts of intimidation; and violation of freedom of expression.The figures reveal that women MPs are significantly more exposed to torture, ill treatment and acts of violence, with 34% of women parliamentarians considered by the IPU affected compared with 18% of male colleagues. In 2020, the IPU examined 98 cases concerning women parliamentarians, up from 85 in 2019. This represented 18% of all cases before the committee and almost three times higher than the figure from six years ago (34 women in 2014).Lobbying from the IPU and the global parliamentary community contributed to the release of some parliamentarians from detention; for example, four MPs were freed in Ivory Coast.For the fifth year in a row, the IPU said the Americas account for the greatest proportion of human rights violations against parliamentarians: 32% (178 cases out of 552) - driven by a large caseload from Venezuela.“The coronavirus pandemic has provided an opportunity for some governments to act against opposition MPs using lockdown laws to detain or otherwise infringe upon the rights of opposition parliamentarians, notably in Venezuela, Uganda and Zimbabwe,” IPU said. Founded over 130 years ago, the IPU describes itself as the first multilateral political organisation in the world, encouraging cooperation and dialogue between all nations. Its membership comprises 179 national parliaments and 13 regional parliamentary bodies.The IPU convenes twice a year over 1,500 parliamentary delegates and partners in a world assembly, bringing a parliamentary dimension to global governance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/more-lawmakers-faced-human-rights-violations-in-2020-ipu/story-rIGtjDyAsEuAVCph2uN68L.html
05-12-2020||World||German court upholds ban on Covid-19 demonstration||Germany’s highest court upheld on Saturday a ban on a demonstration in the northern city of Bremen planned by opponents of lockdown measures aimed at containing the spread of the coronavirus.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Lower courts had already denied permission for the protest, planned for Saturday afternoon, at which 20,000 demonstrators were due to convene in the city centre of Bremen.Last month, German police unleashed water cannon and pepper spray in an effort to scatter thousands of protesters in Berlin angry about coronavirus restrictions.Although most Germans accept the latest “lockdown light” to curb the spread of the coronavirus in a second wave, critics say the amendment endangers citizens’ civil rights.The head of Germany’s public health agency said on Thursday that the country’s success in dealing with the first wave of the coronavirus pandemic in March and April had led many people to doubt the virus’s severity or even its existence.Lothar Wieler, head of the Robert Koch Institute for Infectious Diseases (RKI), said this meant many were now failing to take social distancing and quarantine rules seriously enough, leading to the high level of cases Germany is now seeing.While daily infection numbers are no longer rising as sharply as previously, case numbers have stagnated at a high level, and Germany reported its highest single-day death toll since the start of the pandemic on Wednesday.On Saturday, the number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Germany increased by 23,318 to 1,153,556, RKI data showed, while the reported death toll rose by 483 to 18,517.Chancellor Angel Merkel and state leaders agreed on Wednesday to extend restrictive measures, which include keeping restaurants and hotels shut and limiting private gatherings to five people from two households, until Jan. 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/german-court-upholds-ban-on-covid-19-demonstration/story-PwNoUhOVHA5GeHUkOKegcI.html
05-12-2020||World||South Korea diplomat says hard to believe North Korea has no Covid-19 cases||South Korea’s Foreign Minister Kang Kyung-wha cast doubt on Saturday over North Korea’s claim that it has no coronavirus cases, while offering the South’s help in combating the pandemic.In an unusually clear official statement, Kang told the annual IISS Manama Dialogue security conference that Pyongyang has not been very responsive to Seoul’s offer to help.“They still say they don’t have any cases, which is hard to believe,” Kang said. “All signs are that the regime is very intensely focused on controlling the disease that they say they don’t have, so it’s a bit of an odd situation.”In its most recent weekly report to the World Health Organization, North Korea said it had no confirmed cases of coronavirus, although it cited 8,594 “suspected cases.”The pandemic has further isolated North Korea, which has turned toward more top-down decision making where little is discussed on the country’s measures to tackle Covid-19, Kang said.North Korea’s state news agency KCNA said this week the country has imposed “top-class emergency measures” to prevent the coronavirus that cause Covid-19 from making inroads in the country, making stringent anti-virus efforts.South Korea’s National Intelligence Service has said an outbreak in the North cannot be ruled out as the country had trade and people-to-people exchanges with China - where the disease emerged a year ago - before shutting the border in late January.Analysts said an outbreak could be devastating for the economically and politically isolated country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-korea-diplomat-says-hard-to-believe-north-korea-has-no-covid-19-cases/story-FN6usHfVr57vLxZ8gOLbWI.html
05-12-2020||World||Germany can keep spending to contend With Covid-19 pandemic, says Angela Merkel||Germany will be able to continue to spend “large sums” next year to contend with the economic fallout from the pandemic, Chancellor Angela Merkel said as the country’s parliament prepares to vote on the federal budget next week.“We were able to deploy large sums in 2020 and we will be able to do so in 2021 because we have managed our finances well in the past years,” Merkel said. She cited Germany’s ability to avoid building up new borrowing and touted its position as the least-indebted country in the Group of Seven.Merkel defended the debt-funded stimulus measures her government undertook this year, saying that the cost of not acting would have been far higher because companies would have gone bust and millions of jobs would be lost.“Of course we cannot maintain this level of support forever and it’s also clear that we will have to work off this exceptional debt from 2023,” Merkel said in her weekly podcast. “We already see enormous budgetary challenges for the coming years.”Merkel suggested those challenges will have to be shouldered by Germany’s different levels of government, saying federal, state and municipal authorities “have to work together constructively to master the pandemic and its consequences as well as we can.”The chancellor said she hopes that one or more vaccinations will be available soon, but she damped expectations for a quick end to the coronavirus. “This will not be a question of just a few months, let’s be very realistic,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-can-keep-spending-to-contend-with-covid-19-pandemic-says-angela-merkel/story-BbmqfAmFUSxXUzMF98Gv5L.html
05-12-2020||World||Rohingya refugees relocating to Bhasan Char voluntarily, hoping for ‘peace, comfort and nice housing’||As the process to shift the Rohingyas from Bangladesh’s Cox’s Bazar to Bhasan Char begins, a sense of excitement has spread among the refugees, who are seeking “peace, comfort and nice housing”.“We will find peace, comfort and nice housing in Bhasan Char,” a 60-year-old Mahmuda Khatun told The Daily Star.She further said, “We had to live under tarpaulin in the camps in Cox’s Bazar in too much heat and among too many people. We couldn’t bathe and suffered very much.”“Bhasan Char has building to live in and other facilities, we will find comfort and peace there. That’s why I am going there on my own will,” she added.While echoing similar sentiments, the Rohingya refugees have emphasised that their decision to shift is not due to any pressure from the government authorities.They said that the pictures and videos of Bhasan Char have made them feel that the place will ensure the safety, The Daily Star reported.The refugees further said that there was a lot of discord among people and “ little to no scope for work or proper education” in the Cox’s Bazar refugee camps.“There was unrest in the camps and too many fights used to take place,” said Khatun.Earlier, Foreign Minister Dr AK Abdul Momen had said in a statement that the government will not be forcing the Rohingyas to shift to Bhasan Char.“We are not taking Rohingyas to Bhasan Char forcibly. We’re taking those who are willing to go. They are going to Bhasan Char voluntarily,” he said.Nearly one million Rohingyas, who fled from their native Myanmar in 2018 to escape atrocities from the armed forces, are living in refugee camps across the world, mostly in Bangladesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/rohingya-refugees-relocating-to-bhasan-char-voluntarily-hoping-for-peace-comfort-and-nice-housing/story-FYEWO5g9YfKNdzYIAKnyRP.html
05-12-2020||World||Romanian election expected to usher in ‘European’ generation||Romanians will vote Sunday in a legislative election expected to restore some measure of stability in a country with one of the European Union’s highest emigration rates, and bring to power a generation that came of age in a time of national turmoil and strongly identifies as European Union(EU).Cabinet shakeups and no-confidence votes have given Romania five prime ministers in as many years. According to most pre-election polls, the weekend vote is likely to favor reform-oriented politicians united in their resolve to keep Romania in step with the EU mainstream and away from the camp of other post-communist nations, such as Hungary and Poland, with their populist, euroskeptic leaders.The center-right National Liberal Party, known by its Romanian acronym PNL, appears set to become the top vote-getter. But the mainstay party of Romania’s EU-aligned, austerity-prone social conservatives is expected to fall far short of a parliamentary majority.Its main rival, the left-leaning, Populist Social Democratic Party, or PSD in Romanian, won the last election in 2016 and ran through three prime ministers before PNL first took the reins of a minority government a year ago. The PSD-led government had drawn heavy criticism from the EU for its interference with the judiciary and a cascade of corruption scandals involving some of its most prominent members.The Social Democrats’ chaotic tenure triggered two years of massive street protests that gave voice to a new generation of relatively young, foreign-educated and proudly European politicians who point to widespread graft and fraud in Romanian government ministries and state institutions. Some of them now are running for seats in parliament.“There are many state institutions under political control which function really badly, and the problems there need to be exposed,” said Valeriu Nicolae, a human rights activist who is running as an independent candidate. “MPs never tackled these issues because everyone has an interest in these state institutions. They either have relatives working there, friends or party members, and it’s not nice to expose your friends.”Nicolae is an initiator of the RESPECT anti-racism campaign in football, launched at the 2010 World Cup in South Africa, one of the most visible campaigns of this sort in the world, and says that in the past he was “treated horribly (for) being Roma” in Romania.He said he decided to run after witnessing what he considered to be a weak effort to prevent “a man accused of horrible things and a very dubious person” winning a district mayor’s election in the capital, Bucharest. In one week, Nicolae collected 13,000 qualifying signatures, 3,500 more than he needed to get on Sunday’s ballot.“I am convinced that (change) is possible,” he said. “I am not bound by an interest to protect my political career. My life quality will suffer if I get into parliament.”A more organized new force is USR-PLUS, a mix of pro-EU technocrats, and social-justice, and anti-corruption activists that coalesced last year into a progressive political alliance. Polls predict the alliance, whose members hold divergent views on many cultural issues, will get around 20% of Sunday’s vote for both chambers of parliament.That’s the same share forecast for the PSD, which has dominated Romanian politics since the fall of communism in 1989.The alliance has targeted young and disillusioned voters, including with pledges to depoliticize and fully reform Romania’s civil service and eradicate corruption. It has also promised to eliminate income tax for minimum-wage workers and create well-paying jobs to lure back young, highly educated Romanians who have been leaving in droves since the country joined the EU in 2007.“It’s good to see a new generation of leaders who understand the needs of our society and are professionally and personally fit to meet them,” said Dacian Ciolos, who represents Romania in the European Parliament and is one of the progressive alliance’s top leaders. “It puts pressure on us, as a new political entity, because we have to meet higher expectations.”The alliance has pledged not to be part of a parliamentary majority that would include the PSD, which has accused prominent USR-PLUS members of being part of a dark anti-Romanian conspiracy linked to Hungarian-American philanthropist George Soros, a favorite bogeyman of Central European populists. At the same time, USR-PLUS has indicated it has no intention of playing second fiddle to the PNL in a future coalition government.Some analysts predict the USR-PLUS alliance will try to assert itself in a future governing coalition by demanding a reconfiguration of the government and the prime minister’s job for Ciolos, 51. He served a stint at the helm of Romania’s first, short-lived technocratic government several years ago.It would be a bitter pill for the PNL, but one it might be forced to swallow if it wants to preserve its image as a party driven by a genuine desire to rid Romania of a corruptive welfare state model, which it blames on PSD’s decades-long dominance. Most analysts think the conservative PNL and the progressive alliance will find a compromise.“It’s in their best interest to govern together despite their (ideological and economic) differences which are incomprehensible to most of their supporters,” political analyst Andrei Taranu said.Romania was plagued by widespread poverty before the coronavirus pandemic, with over 25% of the population of 19 million living on less than $5.50 a day. The pandemic has exacerbated structural problems, including the near collapse of the public health care system.To date, the EU’s seventh-most populous country has confirmed over a half-million virus cases and more than 12,000 deaths. As a result of the pandemic and virus containment measures, Romania’s fiscal deficit is expected to widen this year to around 9% of gross domestic product, compared with 4.3% in 2019.Nicolae, who himself grew up in poverty, has dedicated his life to helping vulnerable children escape a life of misery and drug-abuse, and giving them access to education.“Although I say all the time ‘I’m a gypsy I’m a gypsy,’ people no longer register me like that” he said. ”That I, a Romanian Roma, ran as an independent and I managed to gather the necessary signatures, is a very good signal. And if I win, it would be a great signal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/romanian-election-expected-to-usher-in-european-generation/story-bxNLCebtORLtlGwfM4m3lM.html
05-12-2020||World||Covid-19: No UK quarantine for business activity from today||There will be no mandatory 14-day Covid-19 quarantine from Saturday for individuals arriving in England for business activity that delivers significant benefit to the British economy, the UK government said, announcing a list of exemptions.From 4am on Saturday, individuals undertaking specific business activity that would deliver a significant benefit to the economy - including activity that creates or preserves more than 50 UK jobs - will no longer need to self-isolate when travelling or returning from non-exempt countries.Scheduled international flights are currently suspended, but a limited number of flights are operating between the UK and India under a bilateral agreement. Such flights are subject to eligibility criteria and details may change at short notice, the foreign office said.Individuals will only be exempt from quarantine requirements when undertaking the specific business activity and will only be able to meet with others as required by that specific activity, the announcement said.Exemptions will also come into force at the same time for domestic and international performing arts professionals, TV production staff, journalists, and recently signed elite sportspersons, to ensure that industries that require high-talent individuals who rely on international connections can continue to complete their work.Health officials at Public Health England do not anticipate that the exemptions will raise the risk of domestic transmission, due to the protocols being put in place around these exemptions, but add that all exemptions will remain under review.From December 15, the quarantine period for all others arriving in England will be reduced to five days if a test taken five days after arrival proves negative. The relaxation has been welcomed by the struggling tourism and airline sectors as being “long overdue”.Passengers arriving into England from countries not on the government’s travel corridor list will have the option to take the test after five days of self-isolation, with a negative result releasing them from the need to isolate.Under the plan called “test to release”, officials said passengers arriving into England by plane, ferry or train should book their test before they travel; must complete a passenger locator form; and will still need to self-isolate for five days before taking the test.The test will need to booked at the traveller’s expense from an approved list of providers. Those choosing not to take a test when arriving from a non-exempt country must continue to follow the current self-isolation requirements of 14 days.The plan has been put in place based on advice from a consortium of expert representatives from the aviation, maritime, international rail, tourism and hospitality industries to boost international travel for all modes, whilst safeguarding public health in the UK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-no-uk-quarantine-for-business-activity-from-today/story-rOF6Frqj6504dgR4RhwtaP.html
05-12-2020||World||Russia starts preparing for lower budget revenues as global oil demand declines||The finance ministry of the world’s biggest energy exporter has started preparing for the possibility of lower budget revenues in case global oil demand declines sooner than expected.“The peak of consumption may have already passed,” Deputy Finance Minister Vladimir Kolychev said in an interview in Moscow. “The risk is rising in the longer term” that hydrocarbon revenues could come in below the current outlook, he said.The comments are a rare admission from a senior Russian official that the best days may be over for the energy revenues that drive the economy. President Vladimir Putin said in October that growing demand from Asia will support Russian energy exports in the coming decades and the Economy Ministry forecast in March that oil consumption will peak around 2045.The Finance Ministry is currently weighing scenarios for different levels of demand, said Kolychev, one of the architects of a mechanism that funnels proceeds from energy taxes into a rainy-day fund. Putin has promised for years to reduce Russia’s dependence on energy, but the sector still makes up a third of budget revenues.A drop in mobility due to the coronavirus has coincided with increased efforts to combat climate change this year to completely alter the outlook for fossil fuel demand. BP Plc became the first major oil giant to admit in September that oil consumption may never return to levels seen before the pandemic. Since then China and the US, the world’s two biggest economies, have stepped up commitments to transition to clean energy.Russia, which generates less than 1% of power from renewables, has so far been slow to adapt to the transition and is still investing in new oil exploration projects in the Arctic. Analysts at Moscow’s Skolkovo Energy Center warned in May that economic growth may be limited to less than 0.8% a year for the next two decades if the country doesn’t adapt.“Russia’s economy is clearly not ready for a hydrocarbon shift,” said Natalia Orlova, chief economist at Alfa-Bank in Moscow. “The government and business don’t have a clear understanding of what direction Russia should go if it moves away from oil.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-starts-preparing-for-lower-budget-revenues-as-global-oil-demand-declines/story-HUpNeZh2zVzTn2nKc4plBK.html
05-12-2020||World||Biden clinches electoral college win as California certifies||Joe Biden now officially has more than the 270 Electoral College votes he needs to claim the presidency after California certified its election results on Friday evening.Secretary of State Alex Padilla approved the results of Biden’s victory, according to his office, which Democratic Governor Gavin Newsom will use to prepare the Certificate of Ascertainment appointing the state’s 55 electors for Biden.The electors will meet in their states on Dec. 14 to cast their votes, which Congress will tally in a joint session on Jan. 6.Even as Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris proceed with the transition to a new administration, President Donald Trump continues to make unsubstantiated allegations of massive voter fraud, on Twitter and in a lengthly video released this week. But his already slim chances of reversing the election outcome have narrowed even more as courts in several several states have rejected legal challenges brought by his campaign and supporters.Courts in Nevada and Minnesota handed him two more losses on Friday, dismissing lawsuits seeking to decertify Biden’s victories in those states.A state court judge in Nevada threw out a lawsuit brought by six Republican voters who requested a court order nullifying Biden’s win or declaring Trump the winner, saying they utterly failed to meet the burden of producing “credible and relevant evidence” of massive voter fraud.Hours earlier, the Minnesota Supreme Court dismissed a Republican-led suit that aimed to decertify the Biden win there, ruling the case had been filed too late to challenge mail-in-voting rules that were made public long before the Nov. 3 election.Biden’s lead in the popular vote is now more than 7 million votes.States that voted for Biden that have yet to certify their presidential election results are New Jersey, which plans to do so Monday, Colorado, which plans to certify early next week after an automatic recount in a judicial race, and Hawaii, which is waiting for the resolution of two pending lawsuits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-clinches-electoral-college-win-as-california-certifies/story-FLrijJTgrNmBHwCXAfmUqN.html
05-12-2020||World||Joe Biden says jobs report ‘grim,’ relief package needed now and in January||US President-elect Joe Biden said in a statement on Friday the November US jobs report underlined the need for urgent action on coronavirus relief but that any package passed by Congress now would not suffice and that more would be needed in January.“This is a grim jobs report. It shows an economy that is stalling,” he said, adding he was “encouraged” by bipartisan Senate efforts on a $900 billion relief package. “Congress and President Trump must get a deal done for the American people. But any package passed in the lame duck session is not enough. ... Congress will need to act again in January.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-says-jobs-report-grim-relief-package-needed-now-and-in-january/story-LatSuuaq4b2G2c0ozEHShN.html
05-12-2020||World||The cost of failure: What’s at stake if Brexit talks collapse||Negotiations between the UK and European Union over a post-Brexit trade deal are heading into a crisis weekend as both sides try to salvage an accord. With a deal hanging in the balance, here’s a summary of what’s at stake if the talks fail.If no agreement is reached, it would be a hammer blow for businesses and consumers on both sides. Decades of free movement of goods, services, people and capital would come to an abrupt end when Britain leaves the EU’s single market and customs union on Dec. 31.Companies would face tariffs, quotas and potential chaos as they move goods across the border; finance firms in the City of London would lose their passport to offer services across the EU; and consumers would see their rights to live and stay on the other side of the English Channel curtailed. Even taking a pet dog to the continent would become more difficult.The Economic HitWithout a trade deal, the U.K. economy would suffer a near-term shock of around 1.5% of GDP, according to Bloomberg Economics. The Office for Budget Responsibility, Britain’s independent spending watchdog, forecasts a 2% GDP decline.TariffsInstead of frictionless trade with a market of more than 400 million consumers, British firms would revert to trading with the EU under rules established by the World Trade Organization in 1995. That means imports and exports to the EU would be subject to WTO-negotiated tariffs -- essentially a tax on goods.The EU’s average tariff rate is 3%, but some products would attract much higher levies: British automakers would face a 10% tariff on all auto exports to the EU, while farmers exporting dairy products would see a 35.4% charge.The car industry alone would face a 55 billion-pound hit due to a collapse in demand and local production due to tariffs, according to the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders.Tariffs could also lead to increased prices for companies and consumers. For supermarkets, the cost would be 3.1 billion pounds ($4 billion) a year, according to the British Retail Consortium. Some 85% of foods imported from the EU would attract tariffs of 5% or more.About 43% of the UK’s exports, valued at about 300 billion pounds, go to the EU each year, and the bloc is the source of 51% of its imports.City of LondonFinance firms will lose their passport to offer services across the EU, whether there’s a trade deal or not, forcing them to shift staff and beef-up their operations in the bloc. Their access to customers would depend on the EU judging U.K. rules to be equivalent to its own in 40 areas. Failure to reach a trade accord would set back that process. Even if permission is granted, the EU would still be able to withdraw it with little notice.CustomsBusinesses exporting to the EU will have to file customs declarations with or without a trade deal. To move goods from Dover to Calais -- the UK’s busiest crossing point with the EU -- trucks will need a government-issued permit indicating they have the correct paperwork and won’t be held up by French officials.Delays at the border would threaten to throw manufacturers relying on parts arriving just-in-time into chaos, including companies in car-making and aerospace, while fresh food produce might rot in queuing trucks.Animal products will need to move through designated border inspection posts accompanied by export health certificates issued by a veterinary professional.While goods moving out of the UK will face checks from the year-end, Britain is deferring full import controls on those arriving from the EU until July 2021. However, companies will still need to keep records of their transactions and file the customs declarations in July.StandardsCompanies may have to comply with two separate regimes for product standards and regulations, needing approvals from UK and EU bodies to have the right to sell in both markets. For example, some goods will need to bear a new UK Conformity Assessed (UKCA) mark from Jan. 1, instead of the EU’s CE mark, in order to be sold in Britain.ServicesThe services sector -- which make up 80% of Britain’s economy -- would face new restrictions. British architects and consultants would be among professionals who would lose their automatic right to offer their services across Europe. Firms may need to establish an office in the EU to continue trading, and may have to seek local approval for their professional qualifications.PassportsEven with a trade deal, British visitors to the EU will need more than six months left on their passport in order to travel. Those staying in the EU for longer than 90 days may require a visa.Motorists may need an international driving permit. Traveling with pets to the EU will become more difficult, too. Animal owners will face a four-month process involving blood tests, vaccinations and health certificates.ImmigrationThe free movement of people between Britain and the EU will end. The U.K. is planning to use a so-called points-based immigration system, where overseas workers must prove they meet certain criteria before being allowed to come to Britain for a job. The criteria include speaking English, having an existing employment offer and earning more than 20,480 pounds a year.Wine and CigarettesBritish travelers to the EU will be able to benefit from duty-free shopping in ports and airports. However, it will no longer be possible to return with unlimited quantities of products such as alcohol and tobacco from the bloc without paying the appropriate taxes. Instead, shoppers will have more limited, tax-free allowances -- 200 cigarettes, 18 liters of wine, and four liters of spirits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/the-cost-of-failure-what-s-at-stake-if-brexit-talks-collapse/story-l35YWfkCIrGLYgJTeZd6DN.html
05-12-2020||World||British PM Johnson to speak to EU chief as Brexit talks stall||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson will speak to European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen on Saturday to try to break an impasse in trade talks with time running out before Britain completes its departure from the bloc.British and EU negotiators paused trade talks on Friday to call in their leaders to try to narrow gaps and get an agreement after a week of negotiations failed to bridge “significant divergences” between the two sides.Britain left the EU on Jan. 31 but rules governing trade, travel and business have remained unchanged during a transition period which ends on Dec. 31, when a new relationship will be established - with or without a deal. “We keep calm, as always, and if there is still a way, we will see,” EU chief negotiator Michel Barnier told broadcasters in London as he entered the train station to head back to Brussels after the talks were paused.It was the latest twist in months of negotiations which have barely moved on the three thorniest issues - fisheries, ensuring fair competition guarantees and ways to solve future disputes.Read more| 36 British MPs back farmers’ protest, want UK to raise issue with IndiaSources from both sides said the deadlock was centred on French demands over fishing rights in British waters.But neither side has walked away from the talks, suggesting they still hold out some hope of securing a deal governing almost $1 trillion of annual trade to avoid a disorderly end to more than 40 years of British membership of the European club.If the two sides fail to reach a deal, the five-year Brexit divorce will end messily just as Britain and Europe grapple with the vast economic cost of the Covid-19 outbreak.In the absence of a trade deal, the United Kingdom would trade with the EU on World Trade Organization terms, which would lead to new tariffs and potentially significant price rises for some goods. A no-deal exit is the nightmare scenario for businesses and investors, who say it would snarl borders, spook financial markets and sow chaos through supply chains that stretch across Europe and beyond.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/british-pm-johnson-to-speak-to-eu-chief-as-brexit-talks-stall/story-Bv0HkNQNPPmXfzx5DUmBwI.html
05-12-2020||World||Pakistan on brink of bankruptcy under Imran Khan govt: PDM||While addressing a public meeting at the Bacha Khan Chowk, leaders of the Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM) consisting of an 11-party alliance, said that the wrong policies of the Imran Khan-led government had brought the country to the brink of economic disaster.Dawn quoted PDM as saying, the struggle they had launched would continue until the ouster of the rulers who had been “imposed on the country after stealing the people’s mandate in the 2018 elections.”Jamiat Ulema-i-Islam’s chief Maulana Abdul Wasey, Senator Usman Kakar of the Pakhtunkhwa Milli Awami Party, Agha Hassan of the Balochistan National Party-Mengal, Khair Jan Baloch of the National Party, Rasheed Khan Nasar of the Awami National Party, Wali Mohammad of the PPP and Abdul Wahab Atal of the PML-N were among the leaders who spoke on the occasion, Dawn further reported.The opposition alliance also organised protest meetings and demonstrations in Khuzdar, Gwadar and Hub, where local leaders spoke to the public.Also Read | At UN Covid meet, cash-strapped Pak PM Imran Khan seeks debt reliefThey criticised the Imran Khan-led government and its leadership saying that their wrong policies had resulted in the country “becoming bankrupt”.Those who had promised to provide 10 million jobs to the people were snatching the existing jobs from them, thus making them think in terms of committing suicide adding that despite arrests and “other excesses” committed by the government they would continue their struggle until its logical conclusion, said the leaders.The PDM has held five similar rallies in Peshawar, Gujranwala, Karachi, Quetta and Multan since October 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-on-brink-of-bankruptcy-under-imran-khan-govt-pdm/story-Doa1DZP1XU5D3HBSVmXn3N.html
05-12-2020||World||The cost of failure: What is at stake if Brexit talks collapse||Negotiations between the UK and European Union over a post-Brexit trade deal are heading into a crisis weekend as both sides try to salvage an accord. With a deal hanging in the balance, here’s a summary of what’s at stake if the talks fail.If no agreement is reached, it would be a hammer blow for businesses and consumers on both sides. Decades of free movement of goods, services, people and capital would come to an abrupt end when Britain leaves the EU’s single market and customs union on Dec. 31.Companies would face tariffs, quotas and potential chaos as they move goods across the border; finance firms in the City of London would lose their passport to offer services across the EU; and consumers would see their rights to live and stay on the other side of the English Channel curtailed. Even taking a pet dog to the continent would become more difficult.The economic hitWithout a trade deal, the UK economy would suffer a near-term shock of around 1.5% of GDP, according to Bloomberg Economics. The Office for Budget Responsibility, Britain’s independent spending watchdog, forecasts a 2% GDP decline.TariffsInstead of frictionless trade with a market of more than 400 million consumers, British firms would revert to trading with the EU under rules established by the World Trade Organization in 1995. That means imports and exports to the EU would be subject to WTO-negotiated tariffs -- essentially a tax on goods.The EU’s average tariff rate is 3%, but some products would attract much higher levies: British automakers would face a 10% tariff on all auto exports to the EU, while farmers exporting dairy products would see a 35.4% charge.The car industry alone would face a 55 billion-pound hit due to a collapse in demand and local production due to tariffs, according to the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders.Tariffs could also lead to increased prices for companies and consumers. For supermarkets, the cost would be 3.1 billion pounds ($4 billion) a year, according to the British Retail Consortium. Some 85% of foods imported from the EU would attract tariffs of 5% or more.About 43% of the UK’s exports, valued at about 300 billion pounds, go to the EU each year, and the bloc is the source of 51% of its imports.City of LondonFinance firms will lose their passport to offer services across the EU, whether there’s a trade deal or not, forcing them to shift staff and beef-up their operations in the bloc. Their access to customers would depend on the EU judging UK rules to be equivalent to its own in 40 areas. Failure to reach a trade accord would set back that process. Even if permission is granted, the EU would still be able to withdraw it with little notice.CustomsBusinesses exporting to the EU will have to file customs declarations with or without a trade deal. To move goods from Dover to Calais -- the UK’s busiest crossing point with the EU -- trucks will need a government-issued permit indicating they have the correct paperwork and won’t be held up by French officials.Delays at the border would threaten to throw manufacturers relying on parts arriving just-in-time into chaos, including companies in car-making and aerospace, while fresh food produce might rot in queuing trucks.Animal products will need to move through designated border inspection posts accompanied by export health certificates issued by a veterinary professional.While goods moving out of the UK will face checks from the year-end, Britain is deferring full import controls on those arriving from the EU until July 2021. However, companies will still need to keep records of their transactions and file the customs declarations in July.StandardsCompanies may have to comply with two separate regimes for product standards and regulations, needing approvals from UK and EU bodies to have the right to sell in both markets. For example, some goods will need to bear a new UK Conformity Assessed (UKCA) mark from Jan. 1, instead of the EU’s CE mark, in order to be sold in Britain.ServicesThe services sector -- which make up 80% of Britain’s economy -- would face new restrictions. British architects and consultants would be among professionals who would lose their automatic right to offer their services across Europe. Firms may need to establish an office in the EU to continue trading, and may have to seek local approval for their professional qualifications.PassportsEven with a trade deal, British visitors to the EU will need more than six months left on their passport in order to travel. Those staying in the EU for longer than 90 days may require a visa.Motorists may need an international driving permit. Traveling with pets to the EU will become more difficult, too. Animal owners will face a four-month process involving blood tests, vaccinations and health certificates.ImmigrationThe free movement of people between Britain and the EU will end. The UK is planning to use a so-called points-based immigration system, where overseas workers must prove they meet certain criteria before being allowed to come to Britain for a job. The criteria include speaking English, having an existing employment offer and earning more than 20,480 pounds a year.Wine and cigarettesBritish travelers to the EU will be able to benefit from duty-free shopping in ports and airports. However, it will no longer be possible to return with unlimited quantities of products such as alcohol and tobacco from the bloc without paying the appropriate taxes. Instead, shoppers will have more limited, tax-free allowances -- 200 cigarettes, 18 liters of wine, and four liters of spirits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/the-cost-of-failure-what-is-at-stake-if-brexit-talks-collapse/story-tPTvIrSzsKDfXZacPMvFuJ.html
05-12-2020||World||Now that Covid-19 vaccines are coming, what about poor countries?||It’s now just a matter of weeks before shoulders are bared, syringes primed and vaccines injected. If last year was the one that gave Covid-19 its name and 2020 was defined by masks, gowns and swabs, 2021 will be the year of the vial.This being a pandemic (from the Greek word for “all people”), that welcome development presents all the usual problems of global differences in wealth, power and equity. Rich countries have already placed their orders. Poor countries can only hope not to be left out. What should be done?The question doesn’t just tap into the debate between nationalists and multilateralists that polarizes many Western countries. It’s also a timeless ethical conundrum. In a famous dialogue by Plato, an Athenian macho named Callicles argues that justice is merely the law of nature — meaning, of the strong. In our pandemic context: Why wouldn’t politicians in rich countries buy up the vaccines and give herd immunity to their own electorates first?Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageSocrates, in that conversation, counters that justice demands cooperation and a view that encompasses strong and weak alike. Translated for today: The world is better off sharing vaccines because survival shouldn’t depend on where you live.But this purely moral case isn’t the only one to be made for cooperation. It turns out that multilateral sharing of vaccines would also save many additional lives.A lab at Northeastern University in Boston has modeled two counterfactual scenarios of what would have happened if a vaccine had been available in March 2020. In one, the first two billion doses are snapped up by rich countries, while only the remaining billion are allocated among all others. In the second, all three billion are distributed from the start to all countries in proportion to their populations.In the first or “uncooperative” case, the vaccine would have averted 33% of global deaths through Sep. 1. In the second or “cooperative” scenario, it would have prevented 61%. That’s a lot of lives saved — even in countries that would have had the vaccine in either scenario.The situation is therefore a bit like the famous Prisoner’s Dilemma in game theory. If all countries cooperate, the world can achieve an optimal outcome and defeat the pandemic soon and decisively. If they don’t cooperate, Covid will drag on and there’ll be many more deaths. The dilemma is that each individual country also has an incentive to “cheat,” relying on others to do the sharing while snatching all the doses it can. But this leaves the others even worse off than if no one cooperated.In game theory, the various outcomes can be tweaked by changing the mathematical parameters. And this — at least in my interpretation — is what the Eurasia Group, a geopolitical risk consultancy, is now trying to do with a new report commissioned by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. The nonprofit is a lead sponsor of the ACT-Accelerator, a collaborative effort between governments, companies, scientists, and philanthropists, to get tests, treatments and of course vaccines to developing countries.The idea is that rich donor countries pitch into a pot that funds distribution in poorer nations. But donor nations have so far ponied up only $5.1 billion. An additional $28.2 billion is needed to deliver the shots and other tools as they become available. How can we get all prisoners in this dilemma to cooperate?By showing them that any money paid in will earn them a huge return with no downside, Eurasia Group’s report implies. The group has analyzed the geopolitical and economic costs to rich countries if the pandemic were to rage on in poor ones. These include the obvious — the impact on the Japanese economy of the Summer Olympics being cancelled, say — and the oblique, such as the effects on international demand for German exports or U.S. fracking gas.Overall, Eurasia Group found that the economic benefit of controlling the pandemic everywhere would be $153 billion next year for the ten top donor nations, or $466 billion over the next five years. That’s more than ten times the amount ACT-Accelerator asks for. Moreover, if you compare the ACT-A pot to the gargantuan domestic stimulus programs rich countries have passed, it starts looking almost trivial.Rich countries have a lot of big decisions to make in the coming weeks — whether and how fast to approve which vaccine, how to allocate scarce shots in the domestic population, how to fight disinformation by anti-vaxx conspiracy theorists, and so forth. These fights may get nasty, as I predicted in July.But the decision about whether to include poor countries in our common human struggle against a pandemic shouldn’t be so hard. If there’s any good argument for not fully and immediately funding the ACT-Accelerator, I have yet to see it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/now-that-covid-19-vaccines-are-coming-what-about-poor-countries/story-hTa4U93IGiuvhTNJRAvinJ.html
05-12-2020||World||Tesla ordered to pay Chinese Model S buyer for concealing damage||Tesla Inc. was ordered by a Beijing court to compensate the buyer of a used Model S car after concluding the electric automaker concealed structural damage on a vehicle it sold on its official website.The court ruled that Tesla should pay more than 1.1 million yuan ($168,420) to compensate the buyer, after it was discovered that part of the vehicle had been cut and welded back together, according to online media outlet Sina on Friday.Tesla confirmed the decision in a statement to Bloomberg News, and said it would appeal the ruling to a higher court.The Tianjin-based buyer purchased a used Model S for 379,700 yuan last year which the automaker guaranteed had no “significant” damage, according to the report. He then sued the automaker after the vehicle had multiple breakdown issues and subsequently discovering that part of the body had been cut and welded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tesla-ordered-to-pay-chinese-model-s-buyer-for-concealing-damage/story-vKiAszT30cDuEJ1FptEgOJ.html
05-12-2020||World||South Africa expects first virus vaccine delivery by mid-2021||South Africa will probably take its first delivery of coronavirus vaccines by the middle of next year after agreeing on an initial payment, according to the Health Ministry.The government will pay about 327 million rand ($22 million) to take delivery of the vaccines under the Covax initiative that will cover about 10% of the population, the ministry said in a statement. The total cost of the vaccines could amount to more than 2 billion rand. The World Health Organization-backed Covax initiative aspires to give lower-income countries the same access to vaccines as wealthier nations.“Our understanding from the production estimates we have been provided with at this stage is that we should expect to receive the first batch of stock in quarter two of 2021,” the ministry said.South Africa is seeing a surge in coronavirus cases in some districts just as millions of people prepare to travel to their home towns and holiday destinations during the festive season. President Cyril Ramaphosa on Thursday reintroduced restrictions aimed at containing the spread of the virus in Nelson Mandela Bay, the nation’s sixth-largest city, with a population of 1.3 million people.The government is also considering buying vaccines from other potential producers, including Johnson & Johnson, Novavax Inc., AstraZeneca Plc and the Pfizer Inc. and BioNtech partnership. It needs to ensure it has funds and resources for the distribution, storage and administration of the vaccines, the ministry said.“While the Covax facility is our favored vehicle for accessing vaccines, we will always explore all options to ensure that the process of rolling out vaccines is safe and cost-effective,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-africa-expects-first-virus-vaccine-delivery-by-mid-2021/story-FPjlnBbWvKX0cteprb3EDO.html
05-12-2020||World||Trump campaign files election lawsuit in Georgia, suffers more legal defeats||Donald Trump’s campaign said it filed a lawsuit in Georgia state court on Friday seeking to invalidate the presidential election results there, the latest in a series of legal challenges aimed at reversing his loss that have so far gone nowhere.The Trump campaign said in a statement its new lawsuit would include sworn statements from Georgia residents alleging fraud.Georgia’s Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger, a Republican, like Trump, and other state officials have said repeatedly they have found no evidence of widespread fraud in the November 3 election won by Democrat Joe Biden.Trump’s team and various individuals backing him have suffered a string of legal defeats around the country, including in cases filed in Nevada and Wisconsin that sought court orders to reverse those states’ election results.President-elect Biden won the election with 306 Electoral College votes - against the 270 required - to Trump’s 232. A district judge in Nevada on Friday dismissed a case brought by would-be Republican presidential electors and said they must pay defendants’ legal costs after failing “to meet their burden to provide credible and relevant evidence to substantiate” any of the lawsuit’s claims.The Wisconsin Supreme Court in a 4-3 decision declined to act on a case that sought to have the court nullify the presidential election in the state and pave the way for the state legislature to choose Wisconsin’s 10 presidential electors.“Such a move would appear to be unprecedented in American history,” Wisconsin Supreme Court Justice Brian Hagedorn wrote in his concurring opinion of four justices issued on Friday.Trump’s campaign has spent nearly $9 million on its unsuccessful bid to overturn the results of the election, including nearly $2.3 million to lawyers and consultants.The campaign and the Republican National Committee have raised at least $207.5 million since Election Day, much of it from solicitations asking for donations to an “Official Election Defense Fund”.The fine print made clear most of the money would go to other priorities through Trump’s new political action committee, which could fuel his future political endeavors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-campaign-files-election-lawsuit-in-georgia-suffers-more-legal-defeats/story-L8sTV9HY5S7Lmo4UeQY4qO.html
05-12-2020||World||Moscow starts mass Covid-19 vaccination with its Sputnik V shot||Moscow began distributing the Sputnik V Covid-19 shot via 70 clinics on Saturday, marking Russia’s first mass vaccination against the disease, the city’s coronavirus task force said.The task force said the Russian-made vaccine would first be made available to doctors and other medical workers, teachers and social workers because they ran the highest risk of exposure to the disease.“You are working at an educational institution and have top-priority for the Covid-19 vaccine, free of charge,” read a phone text message received by one Muscovite, an elementary school teacher, early on Saturday and seen by Reuters.Moscow, the epicentre of Russia’s coronavirus outbreak, registered 7,993 new cases overnight, up from 6,868 a day before and well above the daily tallies of around 700 seen in early September.“Over the first five hours, 5,000 people signed up for the jab - teachers, doctors, social workers, those who are today risking their health and lives the most,” Mayor Sergei Sobyanin wrote on his personal website on Friday.The age for those receiving shots is capped at 60. People with certain underlying health conditions, pregnant women and those who have had a respiratory illness for the past two weeks are barred from vaccination.Russia has developed two Covid-19 vaccines, Sputnik V which is backed by the Russian Direct Investment Fund and another developed by Siberia’s Vector Institute, with final trials for the both yet to be completed.Scientists have raised concerns about the speed at which Russia has worked, giving the regulatory go-ahead for its vaccines and launching mass vaccinations before full trials to test its safety and efficacy had been completed.The Sputnik V vaccine is administered in two injections, with the second dose is expected to be given 21 days after the first.Moscow closed down all public places including parks and cafes, with exception for delivery, in late March, with police patrolling the streets looking for whose violating the rules. Restrictions were eased from mid-June, however.Russia as a whole reported 28,782 new infections on Saturday, its highest daily tally, pushing the national total to 2,431,731, the fourth-highest in the world.In October, certain restrictions such as remote learning for some secondary school children and a 30% limit on the number of workers allowed in offices were introduced again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/moscow-starts-mass-covid-19-vaccination-with-its-sputnik-v-shot/story-pvK6GIqq8yUo6AkcDnWoqK.html
05-12-2020||World||For North Korean spies, Vienna provides key gateway to Europe||The bestselling author of espionage novels, John le Carré, often places his spies in Vienna. So does Kim Jong Un.The Austrian capital has long been a smuggling hub for the heavily sanctioned North Korean regime and a gateway to Europe for the small number of spooks it has based on the continent. But the city could grow in importance to Pyongyang if US President-elect Joe Biden convinces Kim to consider rolling back his weapons program: As home to the United Nations’ top nuclear watchdog, Vienna would potentially play a monitoring role.Interviews with a senior western intelligence official with knowledge of North Korea’s espionage network paint a vivid picture of its activities in Europe, including the presence of as many as 10 Ministry of State Security agents. At least one agent operates regularly out of Vienna, according to the official.Besides basic information-gathering, the agents’ primary mission is keeping the regime’s own embassies and diplomats under surveillance.They also oversee illegal procurement operations, carry out investigations into missing people and retrieve cadres who have been summoned home.Austria is central to those activities, according to the intelligence official, who asked not to be identified. While the Kim family’s travel and studies in Switzerland have long been the subject of discussion, less known are their ties to its German-speaking neighbour.At times desperate and clumsy, North Korea’s operations in Austria and elsewhere in Europe have grown more imperative for Kim as his country struggles under sanctions. North Korea’s economy is headed this year for its biggest contraction in more than two decades, according to Fitch Solutions, due in part to Kim’s decision to close borders during the coronavirus pandemic. On top of that, natural disasters including floods wiped out farmland.North Korea’s trade with China, by far its largest economic partner, shrank 73% through September and is on course to plunge 80% for the year, the Korea International Trade Association said in late November. Kim issued a rare warning for the economy in August, telling party leaders the country “faced unexpected and inevitable challenges,”For years Austria has been a source of items that can’t be legally imported by the regime, including Glock pistols and a cable car that Kim rode on with South Korean President Moon Jae-in during a 2018 visit to a North Korean ski resort.A spokesperson for the Austrian Interior Ministry said the agency couldn’t comment on specific cases or operations for legal reasons. The ministry, which oversees the domestic intelligence agency, investigates any crimes that are detrimental to Austria, the spokesperson said. A spokeswoman for Chancellor Sebastian Kurz directed a request for comment to the ministry.Two people who picked up the phone in separate calls to the North Korean embassy in Vienna were unable to comment, and an email to the embassy went unanswered.The country’s annual intelligence report acknowledged that “intelligence actors operate both in Austria and against Austrian interests” due to local business networks plus easy access to the European Union and multinational organizations. Such ties are one reason Vienna has so often featured in Le Carré espionage novels, such as “A Perfect Spy.”Its role could deepen if Biden has more success than current President Donald Trump in getting Kim to agree to reduce his nuclear arsenal, a likely pre-condition to a face-to-face meeting. The locally based International Atomic Energy Agency(IAEA) would almost certainly play a part in ensuring North Korea abides by any pledge to disclose or shut weapons related facilities.Close and frequent contact would be needed to carry out the detailed work of placing a freeze on North Korea’s nuclear system. This requires closing labs, reactors and fissile materials production sites, as well as installing monitoring equipment in one of the world’s most secretive and paranoid states. As well as potentially allowing IAEA teams into North Korea, it would mean more North Korean officials traveling regularly to Vienna.“Once a political agreement has been reached among the countries concerned, the agency is ready to return promptly to the DPRK,” the IAEA said in a September report, using North Korea’s formal name.European cities with North Korean missions such as Geneva and Stockholm have often hosted meetings between representatives of the US and North Korea, who have never had official relations. In March, Kim named Choe Kang Il -- one of his top experts on US affairs -- to succeed his uncle, Kim Kwang Sop, as ambassador to Vienna.Other high-ranking officials, including members of the secretive personal secretariat, which has direct links to the Kim family, have traveled through Austria, where they shopped and worked on illegal procurement, according to the intelligence official. In one instance, agents were able to search a rented apartment because the North Koreans had failed to put it under diplomatic cover.According to the UN, North Korea uses its embassies and overseas missions for “illicit activities for generating illegal revenues” that include trade in luxury goods forbidden under sanctions and procuring banned equipment essential for its nuclear program. North Korea has generated billions of dollars a year dealing drugs, selling weapons, counterfeiting currencies and exploiting guest workers, says the International Network for the Human Rights of North Korean Overseas Labour.For poorly paid North Korean diplomats in Europe, smuggling is not only a service to the regime. It can be a means of sustenance.Tae Yong-ho -- a former North Korean deputy ambassador to the UK, who defected to South Korea in 2016 -- said in a phone interview the regime’s envoys are “required to earn money” and face harsh criticism if they fail to meet quotas. “The pressure is tremendous,” said Tae, who was elected to a South Korean parliamentary seat in April.Austria is home to about 100 North Korean nationals and has historically housed one of the regime’s largest embassies in Europe. Agents and some bomb material connected to the downing of Korean Air Flight 858 in 1987 passed through its doors.Kwon Yong Rok, described by the North Korea Leadership Watch website in 2009 as the one-time central executive for the country’s Vienna-based financial management, was named in a 2012 UN Security Council report for being part of a scheme to export illicit goods including Mercedes Benz E-class E350 series cars.Kwon has not publicly commented, and it’s unclear where he is now. North Korea provides few public details of top officials, especially those who may be involved in questionable activities overseas and could be at risk of US sanctions. A search of North Korea’s official media for the past 20 years shows no mention of Kwon.Another member of Kim’s inner circle, whom the intelligence official declined to name, recently traveled through Austria’s capital and may still be in Europe.The regime’s last financial institution in Europe, Golden Star Bank, was based in Vienna before it was ordered to shut more than a decade ago. Its network of contacts and clients remained, however, making Vienna a continued focal point for money flows linked to attempts to get around sanctions.The blocked sale of two luxury yachts in Italy in 2009, which investigators suspected were destined for Kim’s family during Kim Jong Il’s rule, shed light on how North Korea tries to procure sanctioned goods via Austria, the person familiar with the operation said. Several embassy staff in Vienna each acquired 50,000 euros ($70,000 at the time), wired through multiple offshore entities based in places such as the Cayman and Virgin Islands.The diplomats transferred the money to an Austrian businessman, who forwarded it to companies that purchased the boats. UN Security Council reports published in 2012 and 2016 found the businessman had been involved in an array of other orders for items ranging from Mercedes cars to pianos.In more recent years, security services have intercepted rented crates at Austrian ports filled with medicine, wine, liquor and other luxury items that were traced back to embassy staff, said the person familiar with the activities. In 2010, a MSS officer appeared in Vienna looking for equipment typically needed in the aftermath of an earthquake and on another occasion second-hand ski lifts and gondolas were purchased for a resort in Masikryong via a Chinese shell company, they said.The North Koreans tasked with such missions often live in fear, dreading that one misstep that could prompt a return to their home country and its political prisons. Kim, and his father before him, has used arbitrary detention as punishment for officials he deems to have stepped out of line. In some cases he has had them killed, including his own uncle, whose execution he ordered.Defectors from North Korea have spoken frequently about how the constant pressure breeds paranoia, infighting and mistrust.The intelligence official recalled an incident involving a group of North Korean diplomats who were eating at a restaurant in Austria.When one diplomat stood up suddenly and rushed toward the rear of the building, another member of the party jumped to his feet and chased him clumsily through the restaurant.But it turned out the man was not trying to make a run for it -- he just needed the toilet in a hurry. Both men later sheepishly returned and sat down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/for-north-korean-spies-vienna-provides-key-gateway-to-europe/story-DtZPOSw0L951Eb84qyIuUM.html
05-12-2020||World||WHO warns virus crisis not over as vaccine rollout approaches||The World Health Organization has warned that vaccines will be no magic bullet for the coronavirus crisis as nations gear up for a massive rollout to tackle surging infections.The word of caution comes as the United States clocked a record number of Covid-19 cases for a second day in a row, with the country preparing for what US President-elect Joe Biden has called a “dark winter”.America’s Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on Friday recommended “universal face mask use” indoors and Biden said he would scale down his January inauguration ceremony to mitigate the virus risk.It comes as countries prepare for the approval and rollout of several vaccines that have proven effective in trials.The WHO however warned against vaccine complacency on Friday and what it said was an erroneous belief that the Covid-19 crisis is over with jabs on the horizon.“Vaccines do not equal zero Covid,” said WHO emergencies director Michael Ryan, adding that not everyone will be able to receive it early next year.“Vaccination will add a major, major, powerful tool to the tool kit that we have. But by themselves, they will not do the job.”WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said progress on vaccines signaled “light at the end of the tunnel.”But he cautioned against the “growing perception that the pandemic is over” with the virus still spreading fast, putting enormous pressure on hospitals and health care workers. - Massive logistical effort -The WHO says 51 candidate vaccines are currently being tested on humans, with 13 reaching final-stage mass testing.Britain on Wednesday became the first Western country to approve an inoculation, from Pfizer-BioNTech, for general use, piling pressure on other countries to swiftly follow suit.The United States is expected to give a green light later this month.Belgium, France and Spain have said jabs will begin in January for the most vulnerable.With the imminent arrival of vaccines that need storage at ultra-low temperatures, US companies are preparing for a massive logistical effort to aid their distribution. Firms specializing in insulating containers are on a war footing after Pfizer and BioNTech said their vaccine needs to be stored at -94 degrees Fahrenheit (-70 Celsius).Meat processing giant Smithfield said it was ready to put the cold rooms at its abattoirs at the disposal of rollout operations.And US logistics giant UPS is producing 1,100 pounds (500 kilograms) of dry ice an hour in its depots and has developed portable freezers capable of storing the vaccines at temperatures down to -112 Fahrenheit.- ‘Follow the science’ -Standing in the way of success are growing signs of vaccine skepticism, with misinformation and mistrust coloring public acceptance of inoculation.Several high-profile figures have pledged to receive the vaccine in public in an effort to build confidence, including Biden, Tedros and former US presidents Barack Obama, George W. Bush and Bill Clinton. The United States recorded 225,000 new infections on Friday -- the second daily record in a row for the world’s worst-hit nation.Biden said the surging number of cases meant he would scale back his inauguration ceremony set for January.“We’re going to follow the science and the recommendations of the experts,” Biden told reporters.“So it’s highly unlikely there’ll be a million people on the mall.”- Christmas spike expected -More than 65 million people have contracted Covid-19 globally with the death toll from the disease topping 1.5 million.British medical chiefs said the arrival of a vaccine should see deaths reduce “significantly” by early next year but warned social mixing over Christmas could cause another spike before then.“By spring the effects of vaccination will begin to be felt in reducing Covid admissions, attendances and deaths significantly but there are many weeks before we get to that stage,” they said.Italy is seeing a dramatic resurgence of infections after it largely tamped down an earlier outbreak by enforcing a strict lockdown, while Latin America and the Caribbean has seen an 18 percent spike in cases in a week.Other countries are unveiling holiday restrictions, with Switzerland banning Christmas carolling in the streets and Madrid canceling most New Year events in the city centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-warns-virus-crisis-not-over-as-vaccine-rollout-approaches/story-zEgvrv3i0AFzIVN5BdBIAP.html
05-12-2020||World||Swedish vaccine skepticism is latest obstacle to herd immunity||Swedish health authorities acknowledged they need to convert vaccine doubters -- currently just over a quarter of the population -- if they’re to reach enough people to achieve herd immunity.“I can understand that the acceptance level is fairly low at this point,” Anders Tegnell, Sweden’s state epidemiologist, said in an interview. “It is still a very theoretical question, as we know very little about the vaccines that are in the pipeline, and the general population knows even less.”Only 46% of Swedes say they want to be vaccinated, while 26% say they don’t, according to a recent Novus poll. Herd immunity comes when enough people in a community have developed immunity through being either infected or vaccinated. For Covid-19, the percentage is estimated to range from 55% to 82%.“This will be a very important communication effort, to communicate wisely about vaccines and their effects, to the population,” Tegnell said.Sweden famously avoided a lockdown, allowing the virus to spread more rapidly than elsewhere. Though herd immunity through exposure was never a declared strategy, Swedish authorities had hoped enough people would develop antibodies to protect against new outbreaks.The second wave Tegnell once thought Sweden could avoid, however, has now hit the country with a vengeance.Sweden expects to get enough Covid-19 vaccines to immunize about a fifth of the population in the first quarter, Prime Minister Stefan Lofven said on Friday. But authorities are bracing for at least another year with the virus.The country’s national vaccine coordinator, Richard Bergstrom, said he’s urging skeptics to “keep an open mind.”“I hope there’s confidence in the regulatory process,” he said. “And to those who hesitate, I would like to say: Wait and see.”Click here for complete coverage of the coronavirus pandemicTegnell said he’s hoping more Swedes will accept the vaccine with time. A key strength in Sweden’s favor, he says, is its national health-care system, which has the infrastructure needed to get the vaccine to as broad a segment of the population as possible.“We have a system that involves many people in health care, whereas in many other countries it is only doctors that administer vaccinations,” he said.Swine FluMany Swedes still remember the country’s efforts a decade ago to fight the H1N1 virus. Following the outbreak of swine flu in 2009, Sweden saw a sudden jump in narcolepsy cases, which was later found to be a side effect of its mass vaccination program. The sleep disorder was particularly widespread among children and adolescents.The side effects were “extremely unfortunate,” said Tegnell, who was one of the people in charge of the inoculation plan at the time.Though participation in Sweden’s voluntary child immunization programs remains almost universal, the swine flue episode appears to have dented confidence in new vaccines.“I think it’s fairly natural that a lot of people have questions,” Tegnell said. “We need to keep on working and give good information.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/swedish-vaccine-skepticism-is-latest-obstacle-to-herd-immunity/story-XqSq2U2r4DImskUlsbBagI.html
05-12-2020||World||South Korea urges vigilance as Covid-19 clusters emerge in third wave||South Korean authorities urged vigilance on Saturday as small coronavirus clusters emerged in a third wave, centred in the Seoul area, with infections near nine-month highs.The Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency (KDCA) reported 583 new coronavirus infections, down from the 629 reported on Friday, which was the highest since the first wave peaked in February and early March.After implementing tighter restrictions on Saturday, the government is to decide on Sunday whether to further tighten curbs in a country that had seen initial success through aggressive contact tracing and other steps.Infections of the virus that causes Covid-19 averaged 487.9 this week, up 80 cases from the week before. This wave of infections is different from the first two, which were driven by large-scale transmission, said KDCA official Lim Sook-young.“The recent outbreaks are small, multiple and is spread in people’s everyday lives,” Lim told a news briefing. “Please keep in mind that the current wave is not limited to a specific group or place but may be around our homes, family and acquaintances.” Click here for complete coverage of the Coronavirus pandemicSeoul accounted for 235 of the new infections. More than half of South Korea’s 52 million people live in the capital and surrounding areas.Among Seoul’s small but widespread clusters, confirmed cases linked to a dance class rose by nine to 249 in less than two weeks, while 21 people tested positive in a cluster related to a wine bar.Seoul launched unprecedented curfews on Saturday, shuttering most establishments and shops at 9 p.m. (1200 GMT) for two weeks and cutting back public transportation operations by 30% in the evenings.Tighter restrictions would be a blow to Asia’s fourth-largest economy, which reported a seasonally adjusted unemployment rate of 4.2% in October, the highest since July.The number of people seriously or severely ill with Covid-19 rose by five to 121, using more of the nation’s swindling sickbeds, KDCA reported.The health authorities said on Friday there were just 59 sickbeds immediately available for serious or severe cases and that the beds might run out in less than two weeks.South Korea has reported 36,915 coronavirus infections and 540 deaths, the KDCA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-korea-urges-vigilance-as-covid-19-clusters-emerge-in-third-wave/story-noHDi7o5gq5K05Nri8D2YP.html
05-12-2020||World||US decision to withdraw troops from Somalia ‘will have a huge toll on counterterrorism efforts’||President Donald Trump’s decision to pull US troops out of Somalia in the waning days of his presidency triggered dismay on Saturday from some Somalis, who appealed to the incoming US president to reverse the decision.“The US decision to pull troops out of Somalia at this critical stage in the successful fight against al-Shabaab and their global terrorist network is extremely regrettable,” Senator Ayub Ismail Yusuf told Reuters in a statement, referring to the al Qaida-linked al Shabaab insurgency.“US troops have made a huge contribution and had great impact on the training and operational effectiveness of Somali soldiers,” said Yusuf, a member of Somalia’s Senate Foreign Affairs Committee.He tagged US President-elect Joe Biden in a tweet criticising the decision.The Somali government could not immediately be reached for comment early on Saturday to Friday’s decision to withdraw almost all the roughly 700 US troops by January 15.Somalia’s fragile internationally backed government is due to hold parliamentary elections this month and national elections in early February, a precursor to the planned drawdown of the 17,000-strong African Union peacekeeping force.US troops have been in Somalia, mostly supporting Somali special forces known as Danab in operations against al Shabaab, whose attacks in nations like Kenya and Uganda have killed hundreds of civilians, including Americans.Supporting Somali forcesDanab punches above its weight because regular forces are often poorly trained and equipped, frequently desert their posts or become enmeshed in power struggles between the national and regional governments.If the withdrawal is permanent, “it will have a huge toll on counterterrorism efforts,” said Colonel Ahmed Abdullahi Sheikh, who served for three years until 2019 as the Danab commander.He fought alongside US forces, he said, and during his command two Americans and more than a hundred of his own men had died. Both US and Somali forces opposed the withdrawal, he said.The US program to expand Danab to 3,000 men was supposed to continue until 2027, Sheikh said, but its future is unclear.Airstrikes will likely continue from bases in Kenya and Djibouti, which could also provide a launchpad for cross-border operations. Rights group Amnesty International says the airstrikes have killed at least 16 civilians in the past three years.The US withdrawal comes at a turbulent time in the region. Ethiopia, which is a major troop contributor to the peacekeeping forces and has thousands more troops in Somalia bilaterally, is distracted by an internal conflict that broke out last month. It has disarmed hundreds of its peacekeepers already.Somalia has been riven by civil war since 1991, but the entry of the peacekeeping force in 2008 helped incubate fledgling government structures that allowed for gradual reforms of the military, such as a biometric system to pay soldiers and the formation of Danab.But many problems with the Somali military remain, including corruption and political interference. Perhaps a withdrawal will force Somalia to confront them, said Sheikh. Or perhaps it will make them worse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-decision-to-withdraw-troops-from-somalia-will-have-a-huge-toll-on-counterterrorism-efforts/story-7f41W5PRpEH0KOBPM6Lk5K.html
05-12-2020||World||Revamped, less political, UNESCO sets sights on tricky US return||Three years after the United States quit UNESCO, the United Nations’ cultural agency, over accusations of anti-Israel bias, diplomats say the Paris-based body has managed to put its house in order, potentially easing the way for Washington’s return.The agency, founded in the ashes of World War Two to protect the common cultural inheritance of humanity, was thrown into turmoil after the United States, which provided a fifth of its funding, pulled out.It underscored the skepticism expressed by Republican President Donald Trump about the need for the United States to remain engaged in multilateral bodies and set the tone for a review and exit of several international accords and organizations.But that could be about to change. While no direct contact has taken place with the incoming administration, diplomats say Democratic President-elect Joe Biden is open to a return, although congressional issues may slow that down.“The US withdrawal was tough, but it enabled it (UNESCO) to go back to basics,” said a European diplomat. “That meant trying to depoliticize it, especially with regard to the Israeli-Palestinian issue, which took precedence over everything.”UNESCO - the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization - is best known for designating and protecting archaeological and heritage sites, from the Galapagos Islands to the tombs of Timbuktu.Most of its activities are uncontroversial, but when it came to, say, resolutions about how religious sites should be run in Jerusalem, every word was studied for accusations of bias.According to diplomats, those tensions have calmed with resolutions now passing more easily after direct mediation between UNESCO and the two parties, even though Israel also pulled out of the organization.“UNESCO made very good improvements in terms of appeasing some of the political tensions and polarizations. It’s better managed and better managed financially,” Henok Teferra Shawl, Ethiopia’s envoy to the body, told Reuters.He added that its director-general, Audrey Azoulay, was last week endorsed by a majority of the 58 Executive Board member states ahead of next year’s election, opening the door to her re-election - in stark contrast to a bitter campaign in 2017.The body has had to fill a gaping financial hole. The United States left with $542 million in arrears. By 2017, UNESCO’s budget of about $300 million was half of its 2012 budget, meaning it was forced to freeze hiring, cut programs and fill gaps with voluntary contributions.UNESCO says the budget from member states is now $534.6 million, with a further $189 million coming from extra voluntary budgetary contributions.A U.S. return, done through a letter informing the body, would also mean that Washington would repay its arrears at some stage.Biden has a history with the organization. He went to UNESCO when he was vice president and his wife, Jill, has been involved in past teaching programs.But things may prove complicated given a U.S. law that forbids the United States from funding U.N. bodies that have admitted Palestine as a full member, although a waiver can be sought.“Biden has said that he wants to renew with multilateralism, so UNESCO should be one of those which benefits from that, but the Palestinian issue may complicate the speed of that return,” said a U.S. official who asked not to be identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/revamped-less-political-unesco-sets-sights-on-tricky-us-return/story-971yXzVSgTzK4FVwFOtxgO.html
05-12-2020||World||Biden weighs pick for agriculture chief from diverse slate||One leading candidate for agriculture secretary hails from Cleveland, has the backing of progressives and has worked for years to boost food stamp programmes. Another is a former senator from farm-state North Dakota who has championed production agriculture and boasts of a voting record squarely in the middle.Three other possible selections have similarly varied backgrounds — one helped write and implement federal regulations for organic foods, another is California’s agriculture secretary and represented wine grape growers, and a third has spent his career ensuring protections for farm workers.President-elect Joe Biden’s choices for secretary of agriculture are as diverse as the department of 100,000 employees that she or he would represent — and is especially critical this year as USDA provides extra aid for the hungry and oversees food production amid the pandemic.For Biden, the emerging choice between Rep. Marcia Fudge of Ohio, former Sen. Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota and several other potential candidates seems like another test of his vision for the Democratic Party — a contest between urban and rural and liberals and moderates, with the pick potentially placing an added emphasis on anti-hunger programs, farm subsidies or worker protections.Besides Fudge and Heitkamp, other candidates mentioned for the post — and who have been pushed by some advocacy groups — are Kathleen Merrigan, deputy agriculture secretary under President Barack Obama and one of the architects of federal organic rules; Karen Ross, California’s agriculture secretary, former USDA chief of staff and a former longtime president of the California Association of Winegrape Growers; and Arturo Rodriguez, the former president of the United Farm Workers.Former Iowa Gov. Tom Vilsack, who served as Obama’s agriculture secretary for eight years, is also being considered.“This isn’t like the secretary of defense where you’re a hawk or a dove,” says Eric Kessler, a Democrat who has long worked around agriculture policy and has been holding private calls with other influencers to speak with some of the possible candidates.“The Department of Agriculture is a massive enterprise that is led by a manager who is dependent on a diverse team of people.” And as Biden has said he wants his Cabinet to reflect the country’s diversity, Kessler says the decisions on USDA and other agencies will “be driven by lots of factors, not just the individual’s specific resume.” The agriculture post has been closely watched as all but two agriculture secretaries in the last 120 years have been white men. If chosen, Fudge would be the first Black woman to lead a department that has for years reckoned with a history of discriminating against both Black people and women.Read more| Joe Biden officially secures enough electors to become presidentUnder Obama, the department paid out more than a billion dollars in a settlement with Black farmers and a smaller amount to female farmers, along with Hispanics and Native Americans who had repeatedly been denied farm loans over many decades.Fudge enjoys the strong backing of South Carolina Rep. Jim Clyburn, the No. 3 House Democrat who gave Biden a key nod of support in the primaries. Biden has said he wants a diverse Cabinet, and some Black leaders have said he needs to do more to achieve that.Clyburn has aggressively pushed Fudge for the post, saying Biden should pick someone who “understands the other side of agriculture ... It’s one thing to grow food, but another to dispense it, and nobody would be better at that than Marcia Fudge.″ As a member of the House Agriculture Committee, Fudge has fiercely advocated for food stamps and other federal programs that help urban areas stem hunger and grow food.Beyond Clyburn, she has the backing of progressive groups who hope she could turn the department’s focus. In a joint letter to Biden, several of those groups said Fudge “has long been an ally to farmers, food-chain workers, consumers and rural communities.’‘ Some unions have also backed her as she has pushed for worker protections in meatpacking plants during the pandemic.Heitkamp is a favorite of farm groups that have worked closely with her and of Democrats who want to improve their outreach to rural areas. But she has also been a strong supporter of food aid programs, having represented swaths of rural poverty until her reelection defeat in 2018. And her family relied on food stamps intermittently when she was growing up as one of seven children from a town of 90 people in the state.Farm programmes — billions of dollars in subsidies for commodity crops and grants for rural infrastructure, among other benefits — and food aid for the poor have long been welded together in Washington. Lawmakers of both parties who support one piece have traditionally supported the other, creating a compact that has held firm amid growing partisanship.Though they have different backgrounds, Fudge and Heitkamp have helped craft and voted for several multibillion-dollar farm bills that supported both sectors.“Agriculture is one place that in a post-Trump world the secretary will play a very important role in bringing different perspectives and parties together,” said Matt Paul, a longtime aide to Vilsack who worked at USDA with him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-weighs-pick-for-agriculture-chief-from-diverse-slate/story-bSVcnI1Vtecw0JbDYMeyWO.html
05-12-2020||World||36 British MPs back farmers’ protest, want UK to raise issue with India||Thirty-six British MPs from various parties - including some of Indian origin and others representing many constituents with links in Punjab – have written to British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab, asking him to raise the issue of farmers’ agitation with the Narendra Modi government.Coordinated by Labour MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi, the letter seeks an urgent meeting with Raab and an update on representations the foreign office may have made with India on the issue, including during the recent London visit by foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla.Signatories to the letter include MPs from Labour, Conservative and Scottish National Party, including former Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn, Virendra Sharma, Seema Malhotra, Valerie Vaz, Nadia Whittome, Peter Bottomley, John McDonnell, Martin Docherty-Hughes and Alison Thewliss.The letter says: “This is an issue of particular concern to Sikhs in the UK and those linked to the Punjab, although it also heavily impacts on other Indian states. Many British Sikhs and Punjabis have taken this matter up with their MPs, as they (are) directly affected with family members and ancestral land in the Punjab”.Stating that several MPs had recently written to the Indian high commission about the impact of India’s three farm laws, the letter alleges that they fail “to protect farmers from exploitation and to ensure fair prices for their produce”.British MPs have also been commenting on the farmers’ agitation on the social media in recent days. Also Read: ‘Canada has scarce interest in the well-being of Indian farmers’, opposes MSP at WTO: BJPPreet Kaur Gill, Labour MP from Birmingham Edgbaston and chair of the All Party Parliamentary Party for British Sikhs, reacted to images of protests from Delhi: “This is no way to treat citizens who are peacefully protesting over the controversial Farmers Bill in India”.Also Read: ‘Last day of discussion’: Farmers ahead of talks with Centre on farm laws“Shocking scenes from Delhi. Farmers are peacefully protesting over controversial bills that will impact their livelihoods. Water cannons, and tear gas, are being used to silence them”, she added on Twitter.Dhesi posted images from the protests and said: “It takes a special kind of people to feed those ordered to beat and suppress them. I stand with farmers of the #Punjab and other parts of #India, including our family and friends, who are peacefully protesting against the encroaching privatization of #FarmersBill2020”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/36-british-mps-back-farmers-protest-want-uk-to-raise-issue-with-india/story-tyXApoXTtKJyIkXEcDdUVP.html
05-12-2020||World||‘No presents’: Mexicans urged to embrace muted Christmas to stop pandemic||Mexicans should cancel celebrations and even avoid exchanging Christmas presents to beat the coronavirus, the president said on Friday, pitching a frugal festive season to one of the world’s largest capital cities as infections scaled new heights.“Let’s leave Christmas presents for another time,” President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador said, urging people to scale down or forego traditional family gatherings over Christmas and New Year.Lopez Obrador said people should stay at home unless they had something “truly important to do” as he announced hospitals would increase patient capacity, equipment and staff. However, he said there would be no mandatory lockdowns.Mexico reported 12,127 new coronavirus infections on Friday, a record number for a single day rise, barring one day in October the government has said was due to a statistical blip. It was also the first time Mexico had recorded more than 10,000 new cases three days in a row.The president said his proposals to control the virus were especially important for residents of the metropolitan area of Mexico City, a vast sprawl with a population of over 20 million where the festive shopping season has already caused alarm.On Thursday, crowds converged on Best Buy stores to look for bargains ahead of the company’s planned departure from the country, forcing stores to temporarily close.Mayor Claudia Sheinbaum on Friday asked businesses to stop employees working from offices and resume work-from-home schemes. Local government would cut operations to a minimum but restaurants in the city could stay open, she said.Mexico has recorded just over 1.15 million Covid-19 cases and almost 110,000 deaths, the fourth-highest death toll worldwide. Officials acknowledge the true extent of the pandemic is likely significantly higher due to limited testing, while the World Health Organization warned the country was in “bad shape”. Deputy Health Minister Hugo Lopez-Gatell this week said the outbreak would likely get worse until January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-presents-mexicans-urged-to-embrace-muted-christmas-to-stop-pandemic/story-NnnKt8gQKv4mdlnDDP9rVL.html
05-12-2020||World||Firefighters move in on southern California blaze as wind gusts seen||Firefighters have made some progress reining in a blaze in a Southern California canyon, but faced more high winds and low humidity on Friday that threatened to stoke the flames which had forced thousands to leave their homes.The Bond Fire was less than a third contained after it broke out on Wednesday on the road for which it is named and quickly engulfed much of Silverado Canyon, driven by strong Santa Ana winds.“Continued mapping of the Bond fire has it at 7,375 acres with 30% containment,” fire officials in Orange county said on Twitter, or an area of 2,985 hectares.“Firefighters worked through the night extinguishing hot spots, mopping up around structures and stopping the forward spread of this fire,” county fire official Paul Holaday said in a video posted to Twitter. Air and ground units were focused on protecting the canyon communities of Silverado, Santiago, Williams and Modjesca, he added.Two firefighters taken to hospital with injuries on Thursday were released and were “doing okay,” the fire officials said on Twitter.The National Weather Service issued a red flag warning of gusty winds until 10 p.m. on Saturday for the inland part of the county.Utility Pacific Gas and Electric Co said it stood ready to cut power in some northern and central parts of the state form early on Monday as dry conditions and expected high winds heighten damage risks.As many as 25,000 people had been forced to flee the blaze but by Friday morning officials had lifted some evacuation orders, including those for the Lake Forest community.On Twitter, the Orange County Fire Authority said the blaze started as a structure fire in Silverado Canyon on Bond Road that “fully engulfed a home.” Strong winds then drove the flames into nearby vegetation, officials said. Residents said the flames erupted when a home generator exploded.Since the start of the year, wildfires have scorched more than 6,500 sq miles (17,000 sq km) of California land, the state’s forestry department says.The land area burned each year in the western United States has grown eight times larger in less than four decades, US Forest Service researchers said last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/firefighters-move-in-on-southern-california-blaze-as-wind-gusts-seen/story-Lu7oG7nr3mPVnw9pnK4UzM.html
05-12-2020||World||Chinese scientists make world’s first light-based quantum computer||Chinese scientists claim to have created the world’s first light-based quantum computer which can solve problems far faster than a classical supercomputer, an advance hailed by experts as a “major achievement” that provides a fundamentally different approach to designing such powerful machines, the official media reported on Saturday. Jiuzhang, the quantum computer, can reliably demonstrate “quantum computational advantage”, a milestone in computing, state-run China Daily quoted a study published in the journal Science.Quantum computers excel at running simulations that are impossible for conventional computers, leading to breakthroughs in materials science, artificial intelligence and medicine.Jiuzhang takes its name from an ancient Chinese mathematical text. It can perform an extremely esoteric calculation, called Gaussian boson sampling, in 200 seconds. The same task would take the world’s fastest classical supercomputer Fugaku around 600 million years, the report said.It is the second such milestone after Google declared its 53-qubit quantum computer had achieved such a breakthrough last year.Jiuzhang used a new method of manipulating 76 photons to do calculations instead of Google’s, which uses superconductive materials, the report said.Experts hailed China’s quantum computer as a “state-of-the-art experiment” and a “major achievement” in quantum computing, as it proves the feasibility of photonic quantum computation, thus providing a fundamentally different approach to designing such powerful machines, it said.China has been investing heavily in mastering the quantum technology in recent years.In 2017, China had launched quantum communication satellite boosting hack proof and ultra-high security features, the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) said.The Quantum Experiments at Space Scale (QUESS) satellite is the first-ever space-ground test platform for quantum communication, Wang Jianyu, executive deputy chief engineer of the project had told the official media earlier.Chinese officials claimed that the quantum satellite was expected to provide a full proof hack-free communications which make foreign powers to monitor or intercept China’s communication systems.Later in the year, China has launched a 2,000-km “hack proof” quantum communication line between capital Beijing and its commercial headquarters Shanghai which cannot be wiretapped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-scientists-make-world-s-first-light-based-quantum-computer/story-Rtf1Jy61up9v348iCrTrVN.html
05-12-2020||World||Japan awaits spacecraft return with asteroid soil samples||Japan’s space agency said its final checks confirmed the Hayabusa2 spacecraft is on track to return to Earth a capsule containing samples from a distant asteroid that could provide clues to the origin of the solar system and life on our planet.The spacecraft is making its final approach on its planned trajectory and is scheduled to separate the capsule Saturday afternoon from 220,000 kilometers (136,700 miles) away in a challenge requiring precision control. The capsule is programed to land in a remote, sparsely populated area of Woomera, Australia, on Sunday.Hayabusa2 left the asteroid Ryugu, about 300 million kilometers (180 million miles) away, a year ago and was flying smoothly as planned, the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency said.“We trained ourselves and now we are fully prepared. So I’m just praying that equipment that hasn’t been used yet will work well and that there will be good weather in Australia,” Yuichi Tsuda, Hayabusa2 project manager at JAXA, said Friday. “We are so excited.”Many Hayabusa2 fans gathered to observe the moment of the capsule separation at public viewing events across the country, including one at the Tokyo Dome stadium.In the early hours of Sunday, the capsule, protected by a heat shield, will briefly turn into a fireball as it reenters the atmosphere 120 kilometers (75 miles) above Earth. At about 10 kilometers (6 miles) above ground, a parachute will open to slow its fall and beacon signals will be transmitted to indicate its location.JAXA staff have set up satellite dishes at several locations in the target area to receive the signals, while also preparing a marine radar, drones and helicopters to assist in the search and retrieval of the pan-shaped capsule, 40 centimeters (15 inches) in diameter.Scientists say they believe the samples, especially ones taken from under the asteroid’s surface, contain valuable data unaffected by space radiation and other environmental factors. They are particularly interested in analyzing organic materials in the samples.JAXA hopes to find clues to how the materials are distributed in the solar system and are related to life on Earth.For Hayabusa2, it’s not the end of the mission it started in 2014. After dropping the capsule, it will return to space and head to another distant small asteroid called 1998KY26 on a journey slated to take 10 years one way.So far, its mission has been fully successful. It touched down twice on Ryugu despite its extremely rocky surface, and successfully collected data and samples during the 1½ years it spent near Ryugu after arriving there in June 2018.In its first touchdown in February 2019, it collected surface dust samples. In a more challenging mission in July that year, it collected underground samples from the asteroid for the first time in space history after landing in a crater that it created earlier by blasting the asteroid’s surface.Asteroids, which orbit the sun but are much smaller than planets, are among the oldest objects in the solar system and therefore may help explain how Earth evolved.Ryugu in Japanese means “Dragon Palace,” the name of a sea-bottom castle in a Japanese folk tale.___Follow Mari Yamaguchi on Twitter at https://www.twitter.com/mariyamaguchi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-awaits-spacecraft-return-with-asteroid-soil-samples/story-LsaSPZbEFLn0wvuQeOVvXI.html
05-12-2020||World||‘Canada has scarce interest in the well-being of Indian farmers’, opposes MSP at WTO: BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP) on Saturday slammed Canada’s stand on farmers’ protests in India as “nothing but hypocrisy”, saying it is a strident critic of minimum support price and other agricultural policies at the World Trade Organization(WTO), and often questions India’s domestic agricultural measures, including food and livelihood security.“It (Canada) also opposes import restrictions to protect India’s farmers. The questions posed by Canada to India regarding India’s agri policies in WTO are evidence of the fact that Canada has scarce interest in the genuine well-being of Indian farmers and agriculture producers,” BJP’s foreign affairs department in-charge Vijay Chauthaiwale tweeted.Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau had recently backed the agitating farmers in India, saying his country will always be there to defend the rights of peaceful protests. He had expressed concern over the situation.Reacting strongly, India on Friday summoned Canadian High Commissioner Nadir Patel and told him that the comments made by Trudeau and others in his cabinet on the protests were an “unacceptable interference” in the country’s internal affairs and these actions, if continued, will have a “seriously damaging” impact on bilateral ties. In a series of tweets tagging Trudeau and Patel, Chauthaiwale said, “Canada’s criticism of India on farmer’s issues is nothing but hypocrisy. Canada is strident critic of MSP and other agriculture policies at the WTO, and often questions India’s domestic agriculture measures including food and livelihood security.”  Noting that Canada is a member of the Cairns Group of agri exporters, he said the body’s objective in WTO negotiations is to seek increased market access in countries like India. It also seeks reduction in the agri subsidies provided to domestic producers, even if such subsidies are subsistence-level, he said. “It also opposes import restrictions to protect India’s farmers. The questions posed by Canada to India regarding India’s agri policies in WTO are evidence of the fact that Canada has scarce interest in the genuine well-being of Indian farmers and agriculture producers,” the BJP leader said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given topmost priority to enhance farmers’ income by increasing minimum support price, giving better access to technology and providing adequate insurance cover for agri products against natural calamities, he said, adding that “Unfortunately, Canada has refused to acknowledge it”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-has-scarce-interest-in-the-well-being-of-indian-farmers-opposes-msp-at-wto-bjp/story-R4ZcJAJRyEIgJW3zXqyQFL.html
05-12-2020||World||US suspends exchange programs with China, calling them ‘propaganda’||The US State Department said late Wednesday it has terminated five cultural exchange programs with China, calling them “soft power propaganda tools.”“While other programs funded under the auspices of the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act are mutually beneficial, the five programs in question are fully funded and operated by the (Chinese) government as soft power propaganda tools,” Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-suspends-exchange-programs-with-china-calling-them-propaganda/story-dJseB8EvqqQilFZkLKQXEI.html
05-12-2020||World||Coal mine accident in China’s Chongqing kills 18||Eighteen people have died after being trapped in a mine in China’s southwestern city of Chongqing, the official Xinhua news agency said on Saturday, the region’s second such accident in just over two months.The dead were among 24 people trapped underground by excessive levels of carbon monoxide gas at the Diaoshuidong coal mine, the agency said, adding that one survivor had been rescued while search efforts continue. Friday’s incident, which occurred at about 5 p.m. (0900 GMT) in a mine shut for more than two months as the company dismantled underground equipment, is being investigated, it added.China’s mines are among the world’s deadliest, with 16 deaths reported in late September after high levels of carbon monoxide trapped miners at the Songzao coal mine in Chongqing.Diaoshuidong, built in 1975 and run since 1998 as a private enterprise, is a high-gas mine with annual capacity of 120,000 tonnes of coal, Xinhua said.In 2013, three people were killed and two injured in a hydrogen sulphide poisoning incident at the mine, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coal-mine-accident-in-china-s-chongqing-kills-18/story-7Wr63GoICLfFAoRglxfO9J.html
05-12-2020||World||Top 5 countries with most number of Covid-19 deaths||Amid reports about the safety and efficacy of vaccines being developed by leading biotech firms, new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and related deaths continue to surge. The cases of the coronavirus disease have crossed the 65 million mark worldwide. The highest number of cases so far have been registered in the United States, India, and Brazil. The US continues to the worst-affected country with the highest number of deaths so far, followed by Brazil and India.Here’s the list of top 5 countries with the most number of Covid-19 deaths:1. US: The country has recorded 14,355,366 cases so far since the pandemic started and has recorded 279,753 deaths so far.2. Brazil: The Latin American nation is at the second spot with over 175,964 deaths. The total number of cases in the country stands at 6,533,968 with the second-highest number of deaths in the world at 175,981. The Brazilian president has been highly criticised for the handling of the pandemic.3. India: India’s caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is currently at 9,608,211 while the death toll has mounted to 139,700 making it the country with the third-highest number of coronavirus related deaths.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19 pandemic4. Mexico: US’ neighbouring country Mexico has nearly 108,863 deaths due to Covid-19 so far. The total number of coronavirus disease cases in the country has reached 1,156,770. WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus has said that “Mexico is in bad shape” with the pandemic and urged its leaders to be serious about the coronavirus and set examples for its citizens.6. United Kingdom: It has recorded at least 60,714 deaths with the total number of cases at 1,694,800. England’s new three-tier system came into effect on December 2 after the national lockdown was lifted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/top-5-countries-with-most-number-of-covid-19-deaths/story-hx1hNIAvaCuRIV6f84dbHM.html
05-12-2020||World||Setback for Donald Trump: US government ordered to reinstate protections for ‘Dreamers’||In a rebuke to President Donald Trump’s administration, a judge on Friday ordered the US government to reopen to first-time applicants a program that protects from deportation and grants work permits to hundreds of thousands of immigrants who live in the United States unlawfully after arriving as children.The action by US District Judge Nicholas Garaufis in Brooklyn centered on the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program created by Trump’s Democratic predecessor Barack Obama in 2012. The Supreme Court in June blocked Trump’s 2017 bid to end DACA. His administration, however, continued its policy of not accepting new applications for the program.Democratic President-elect Joe Biden, who takes office on Jan. 20, has said he plans to revitalize DACA.Garaufis directed the Department of Homeland Security to post a public notice “displayed prominently” on its websites by Monday announcing that it is accepting new DACA applications. The judge also ordered that the notice make clear that employment authorization under DACA would last for two years rather than one.Read more| Presidential pardons: Here’s the list of key allies, family members Trump could pardonThe Supreme Court decided that the administration’s attempt to end DACA was “arbitrary and capricious” and violated federal law. Following the ruling, acting DHS Secretary Chad Wolf in July issued a memo that continued to block new applications to the program while he subjected it to a “full reconsideration.” The memo also limited employment authorization to one year and curtailed recipients’ ability to travel outside the United States.Garaufis found in November that Wolf had been unlawfully appointed to his post, meaning he did not have the authority to issue the July DACA memorandum.DHS did not immediately respond to a request for comment.Trump’s administration had argued that Obama exceeded his constitutional powers when he created DACA by executive action, bypassing Congress. Obama created DACA after Congress failed to pass bipartisan legislation to overhaul U.S. immigration policy. DACA recipients often are called “Dreamers” based on the name of legislation considered but never passed in Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/setback-for-donald-trump-us-government-ordered-to-reinstate-protections-for-dreamers/story-DO3duBipEpM6B66pcwJpjM.html
05-12-2020||World||What’s in a name?: ‘Adolf Hitler’ wins vote in Namibia||While many Namibians have names originating from the ex-colonial power Germany, a newly-elected municipal councillor has overnight romped to prominence not because of his victory but because he is called Adolf Hitler.Adolf Hitler Uunona, 54, a politician of the ruling SWAPO party was last week elected local government councillor for Ompundja constituency in northern Namibia, with 85 percent of the ballots cast. Sounding a tad annoyed, Uunona told AFP on Thursday he was perplexed that people were intrigued by his being named after one of the world’s most notorious dictators. He refused to discuss the reasons he was named Adolf Hitler.“I am not going to entertain the conversation, there is no reason we should be sitting here, having an entire conversation about my name,” he retorted.“You really want us to have an entire conversation about my name? How will that make Namibia a better country, how will it contribute to the development of our country?” Uunona asked when contacted by an AFP journalist. Germany colonised Namibia -- then South West Africa -- from 1884 to 1915. After World War I, the League of Nations mandated South Africa to administer the territory as a protectorate which ruled for 75 years. German occupiers in Namibia killed tens of thousands of indigenous Herero and Nama people in massacres from 1904 to 1908, which historians have called the first genocide of the 20th century.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/what-s-in-a-name-adolf-hitler-wins-vote-in-namibia/story-j4gXchWR5lWPWKDjqgrG6O.html
05-12-2020||World||Student, scientist, baker: Meet Gitanjali Rao, Time’s first-ever ‘Kid of the Year’||Selected from more than 5,000 nominees as Time’s first-ever ‘Kid of the Year’, 15-year-old Gitanjali Rao was chosen for her “astonishing work” and using technology to tackle issues from contaminated drinking water to opioid addiction and cyberbullying.Time said Rao, a sophomore at STEM School Highlands Ranch in Colorado’s Denver, stood out for creating a global community of young innovators and inspiring them to pursue their goals. Rao told The Associated Press in a Zoom interview from her home that the prize is “nothing that I could have ever imagined. And I’m so grateful and just so excited that we’re really taking a look at the upcoming generation and our generation since the future is in our hands.” Humbled, honored, and excited! Special thanks to all my mentors, teachers, family, and friends who believed in me and supported me. Congrats to all the finalists and many of them are my friends @jordanjustright from @TheSTEAM_Squad @MightyRebekah @ElijahLee07. They inspire me! https://t.co/wr8EPhauw9Here is what you should know about the Indian American:1. Rao developed a portable device to detect lead in water when she was 12 years old. She told actor, activist and Time contributing editor Angelina Jolie in a Zoom interview that the drinking water crisis in Flint, Michigan, inspired her work to develop a way to detect contaminants and send those results to a mobile phone.2. “I was like 10 when I told my parents that I wanted to research carbon nanotube sensor technology at the Denver Water quality research lab, and my mom was like, “A what?” Rao told Jolie. She said that work “is going to be in our generation’s hands pretty soon. So if no one else is gonna do it, I’m gonna do it.” The sensor technology involves molecules of carbon atoms that can detect chemical changes, including chemicals in water.3. She has created Epione, a device that diagnoses prescription opioid addiction at an early stage.4. She’s also devised an app called Kindly that uses artificial intelligence to help prevent cyberbullying. It allows teens to type in a word or phrase to find out if the words they are using are bullying and lets them decide to edit what they are sending or to proceed.5. Rao has partnered with rural schools; museums; science, technology, engineering and mathematics organisations; and other institutions to run innovation workshops for thousands of other students.6. She was featured in the web series Marvel’s Hero Project as Genius Gitanjali for her valuable contributions to society. “I think that being a scientist is like being a superhero, because superheroes save people, and want to do what is best for their society – scientists do the same exact thing,” she had earlier told Google.7. The high school student has been featured in the Forbes 30 under 30 list and spoken at several TED events.8. She has also won the EPA Presidential Award, George Stephenson Innovation Award 2020, Kumon 2019 Student Inspirational Award, TCS Ignite Innovation Top Health Pillar Award among others.9. She is also an author. Her A Young Innovative Guide to STEM was published by Simon and Schuster in March this year. She has also written Baby Brother Wonders on the curiosity of her younger brother.10. Rao is also a baker. “Actually, I spend more time doing 15-year-old things during quarantine. I bake an ungodly amount. It’s not good, but it’s baking. And, like, it’s science too,” she said when asked by Jolie if she does things that kids her age do.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/student-scientist-baker-meet-gitanjali-rao-time-s-first-ever-kid-of-the-year/story-bKVzskvtwJblCohz7cmvkJ.html
05-12-2020||World||US urges countries to make law over access to Tibet||Slamming China for its alleged repressive regime in Tibet, a top American diplomat has urged other countries to pass their own versions of a US law that calls for denying access to the US for Chinese officials known to be involved in restricting visits to the remote Himalayan region. Robert A Destro, Special Coordinator for Tibetan Issues, on Friday said that together with partners around the world, the US has and will continue to call on China to provide unhindered access to foreigners travelling in Tibetan areas, including for diplomats  and  journalists, just as other countries give Chinese diplomats, journalists and citizens access to their respective countries. “The US adopted the Reciprocal Access to Tibet Act to press for greater access and transparency. Today, I call on our like minded friends  and partners  to pass their own versions of the Act,” he said in his remarks at a virtual event: “Religious Freedom in Tibet: The Appointment of Buddhist Leaders and the Succession of the Dalai Lama.” The Act, signed into law by President Donald Trump in December 2018 calls for denying access to the US for Chinese officials known to be involved in restricting visits to Tibet. The Dalai Lama, Tibet’s exiled spiritual leader has been demanding meaningful autonomy for Tibetans. The 85-year-old Dalai Lama fled to India in 1959 following a crackdown on an uprising by the local population in Tibet. India granted him political asylum and the Tibetan government-in-exile is based on Dharamsala in Himachal Pradesh since then. China views the 14th Dalai Lama as a “separatist” working to split Tibet from China. Destro said it is no accident that the Chinese Communist Party claims the right to direct the  selection of the next Dalai Lama, and through that process to remake or in its words to “Sinicize” Tibetan Buddhism in its own Communist image.Read more| China ‘planned’ Galwan Valley clash, US commission says in report to Congress “Nor is it a surprise that the  Chinese Communist Party  is ramping up its efforts to eliminate Tibetan language and culture.  It’s doing precisely the same thing with our  Uyghur and Kazakh Muslim brothers and sisters in Xinjiang, and in its efforts to replace the teachings of Jesus and the Prophets with the state-inspired drivel of a ‘patriotic’ church,” he alleged. “This is what information warfare looks like.  In all it says and does, the Chinese Communist Party aims to control not only the information landscape, but the very thoughts of all whose perspectives and approaches to life in community differ from  those of  the Communist Party,” he alleged. “Consider the case of the Panchen Lama.  It’s no accident that he was abducted when he was six years old.  What better way to Sinicize Tibetan Buddhism by installing their own pliable and fake replacement who would promote the Communist Party and weaken Tibetan Buddhist individuality,  while  Sinicizing the real Panchen Lama from youth, relegating his traditional roots to what Leon Trotsky derisively called, quote “the dustbin of history”?” he said. Unfortunately, Tibetan Buddhists are not alone, the American diplomat said. “The Communist Party  feels so threatened by faith in something other than the Party that its leaders are bent on controlling all aspects of religion, from the selection of Catholic bishops and the training of monks, to the content of scripture and the succession of Buddhist spiritual leaders,” he said.  “Driven by a need to control anyone or anything that exists independent of the Party, Communist Party officials use force, intimidation, censorship, and coercion  to shape both the medium and the message,” he alleged.   He alleged that the Communist Party  forces  Chinese citizens into “re-education” and slave labour camps, threatens the families of regime critics, censors  the brave scientists who sought to warn the world about  Covid-19, and corrupt the short-sighted  around the world  with their bribes.  And  the  Communist Party have the audacity to complain that  we  are interfering in their internal affairs.” The United States, he said, is committed to helping Tibetans safeguard their way of life – not  just in Tibet but  also  in India, Nepal, Bhutan and everywhere that it flourishes.  “Within a day of announcing my appointment, China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs criticized the US for interfering in China’s internal affairs, as if Tibetan Buddhism belongs  to China.  It  doesn’t.  Tibetan Buddhism belongs to Tibetans and to its adherents everywhere.  If our commitment to human rights means anything, it is our collective duty to bring attention to this unfolding tragedy – for  Tibetans’ sake and for our own,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-urges-countries-to-make-law-over-access-to-tibet/story-VJcTyh23KZRUSMQWls1iOM.html
05-12-2020||World||Trump wins court ruling allowing money to be shifted for Mexican border wall||President Donald Trump can redirect $3.6 billion in US military funds to build a wall along the Mexican border because Texas groups that challenged the decision have no legal right to complain, a federal appeals court said.The ruling late Friday from the appeals court in New Orleans overturns a decision by a judge in El Paso, Texas, who said Trump broke the law by declaring a national emergency to redirect military money to the wall project after Congress specifically refused to pay for it.A three-judge panel, in a split decision, ruled that El Paso County and a group of border-community activists didn’t prove they’ve been sufficiently harmed by Trump’s wall to challenge the funding shift.The local community may have lost tourism and economic activity because of Trump’s rhetoric alleging the area is dangerous and crime-ridden because of an “invasion” of undocumented immigrants but that harm can’t be tied directly to the Pentagon’s funding shift, the majority ruled.“A direct link, such as the loss of a specific tax revenue, is necessary to demonstrate standing,” wrote the majority, both of whom appointed by President George W. Bush. “Holding otherwise might spark a wave of unwarranted litigation against the federal government.”Read more| Revival of US navy formation focused on Indian Ocean, partnership with India: US OfficialOpponents of the wall, including a bipartisan group of constitutional scholars and former government officials, claim Trump’s funding shift is an abuse of executive power that usurps Congress’s authority to control federal spending. Lawmakers refused to give Trump more than $1.37 billion of the $5.7 billion he sought for the border wall, leading to a standoff that shut down the government for 35 days in early 2019.U.S. District Judge James Dennis, appointed by President Bill Clinton, dissented, writing that the region’s economic loss of military spending earmarked for nearby Fort Bliss -- the second-largest domestic US Army base -- and damage to El Paso’s reputation as a safe place for tourists and investors provided sufficient grounds for local officials to sue.Dennis also chided his colleagues for letting Trump make an end run around Congress’s “power of the purse” and for setting the bar too high in defining conditions under which communities wronged by federal actions can legally sue.The majority acknowledged it reached the opposite decision than did the San Francisco appellate court, which blocked the Pentagon from shifting a different pot of military funds to border wall construction. The US Supreme Court has agreed to hear the administration’s appeal in that related case, and the Texas border wall opponents are expected to also appeal to the high court.The case is El Paso County, Texas, et al v Donald Trump et al, 19-51144, US Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (New Orleans).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-wins-court-ruling-allowing-money-to-be-shifted-for-wall/story-HiYRyRs6ofe9DAUrdD7paM.html
05-12-2020||World||WHO hopes to have 500 million vaccine doses via COVAX scheme in first-quarter 2021||The World Health Organization hopes to have half a billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines available for distribution by the global COVAX initiative in the first quarter of 2021, its chief scientist said on Friday.To date 189 countries have joined the COVAX programme, which is backed by the WHO and seeks to ensure equitable distribution of vaccines. The United States is not among them, having secured bilateral deals. The initial COVAX plan is to vaccinate the 20% of populations at highest risk, including health workers and people aged over 65. “The goal is to get at least 2 billion doses by end of 2021 which will be enough to vaccinate 20% of the populations of countries that are part of COVAX,” chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan told a Geneva news conference.This would be enough to “bring to an end the acute phase of the pandemic” by reducing mortality and the impact on health systems, she said.“Our goal, our hope is that in the first quarter of 2021 that we would have about half a billion of doses available to be distributed across the countries, in a fair manner,” Swaminathan said.“So countries can start expecting doses toward the end of the first quarter of 2021. A few countries may start earlier, it’s likely, possible, that we may have some learnings by going early into a few countries,” she said without elaborating.“But then the majority, the bulk of the tranches would probably start moving out in the second quarter of 2021.”COVAX is co-led by the GAVI vaccines alliance, the WHO and the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-hopes-to-have-500-million-vaccine-doses-via-covax-scheme-in-first-quarter-2021/story-nq4JjeBtq4evDvNB1PKLYL.html
05-12-2020||World||Joe Biden plans scaled-back inauguration to avoid spreading coronavirus in crowds||Setting a sharp contrast with President Donald Trump, whose administration began with a fight over the size of his inaugural crowds, President-elect Joe Biden said on Friday he plans a scaled-back event for safety’s sake during the pandemic.The Democratic former vice president said he does expect to be sworn in on Jan. 20 on the platform already being constructed on the steps of the U.S. Capitol, but wanted to avoid the crowds that typically gather on the National Mall and along Pennsylvania Avenue to view the ceremony and parade.“My guess is there probably will not be a gigantic inaugural parade down Pennsylvania Avenue. But my guess is you’ll see a lot of virtual activity in states all across America, engaging even more people than before,” Biden said in his hometown of Wilmington, Delaware, where he is preparing his new administration.Trump’s administration memorably began in January 2017 with then-spokesman Sean Spicer berating the news media for publishing photos that showed far smaller crowds than had gathered for President Barack Obama’s historic swearing in as the nation’s first Black president eight years earlier.Biden said his staff is working with the same team that produced August’s largely online Democratic National Convention to plan a swearing-in that did not raise the risks of accelerating the spread of Covid-19, which has surged to a fresh record high in the United States.“People want to celebrate,” said Biden. “People want to be able to say we’ve passed the baton. We’re moving on. Democracy has functioned.”The ceremony typically begins with the outgoing president and the president-elect riding together from the White House to the Capitol. After the new president is sworn in, he rides back along Pennsylvania Avenue to assume his new duties while the former president departs, typically by helicopter.Trump, who has refused to concede the election, has not said if he will attend the ceremony. Instead, according to a source familiar with the internal White House discussion, he is considering launching his bid to run again in 2024 that day.The pandemic has killed more than 273,000 people in the United States and cases and hospitalizations are surging as the winter months approach.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-plans-scaled-back-inauguration-to-avoid-spreading-coronavirus-in-crowds/story-dL5I1bz28kL5e1I4XT0gKJ.html
05-12-2020||World||US firms gear up for distribution of Covid vaccines||With the imminent arrival of coronavirus vaccines that will need to be stored at ultra-low temperatures, US companies are gearing up for a massive logistical effort to aid their distribution.Automaker Ford has ordered its own freezers while meat processing giant Smithfield said it is ready to put the cold room at its abattoirs at the disposal of vaccine roll-out operations.Companies specializing in insulating containers have been on a war footing for weeks after Pfizer and BioNTech said the vaccine they had jointly developed needs to be stored at -94 degrees Fahrenheit (-70 Celsius).US logistics giant UPS is already producing 1100 lbs (500 kilos) of dry ice an hour in its depots and has developed portable freezers capable of storing the vaccines at temperatures of between -4 to -112 Fahrenheit.But companies not directly linked to the manufacture, storage or transport of vaccines are also stepping up.“We have assessed our ultra-low freezer capabilities and capacity and are ready and willing to assist health agencies if storage capacity becomes constrained,” said meat giant Smithfield’s chief administrative director, Keira Lombardo.The meatpacker, which suffered a large number of cases of Covid-19 in some of its US slaughterhouses, said it now stands ready to help authorities distribute the vaccine, particularly to workers in the agricultural and food-supply sector, Lombardo said.For its part, Ford has ordered a dozen ultra-cold freezers in anticipation of the arrival of vaccines, to offer them to employees who want them when they are available.When the virus began to spread in the spring in the United States, the company had to temporarily close its factories. The group has since resumed its activities but with strict health precautions.“The health and safety of our workforce is our top priority,” a spokesman told AFP. General Motors has not gone as far as procuring freezers but said it was in contact with US government agencies and health officials to “coordinate as needed when the distribution plans are made available.”Meanwhile, US refrigerator manufacturer So-Low reported a “tremendous surge” in orders for its freezers that can maintain temperatures as low as -120 Fahrenheit.The company, which supplies industry and research centers, was deluged with orders beginning in late September, sales manager Danny Hensler told AFP.It has also seen a jump in demand for its freezers that get down to -22 Fahrenheit, suitable for storing the vaccine made by Moderna.“We now have a backlog of orders to produce,” Hensler said. “Our employees are working overtime five days a week and we added Saturday to the production schedule.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-firms-gear-up-for-distribution-of-covid-vaccines/story-B51JWhaKfVDTTZKBlSN9jM.html
05-12-2020||World||Pakistan woman gets $1.5 mn life insurance claims on false death certificate||Pakistani authorities have launched an investigation after a woman fraudulently got herself declared dead and claimed two life insurance policies worth $1.5 million.According to an official of the Federal Investigating Agency (FIA), which is looking into the case, Seema Kharbay travelled to the US in 2008 and 2009, and bought two hefty life insurance policies in her name.In 2011, she bribed some local government officials in Pakistan including a doctor and got a death certificate issued in her name. The document also showed that she had been buried.The certificate was used by her children to claim two life insurance policy payouts worth $1.5 million (approximately 23 crore Pakistani Rupees), the official said.Kharbay, after being declared dead, travelled at least 10 times abroad from the Karachi International Airport, apparently under assumed identities with none of the airlines being able to detect the fraud.“She visited some five countries, but every time she returned home,” the official said.The FIA human trafficking cell has now registered criminal cases against the woman, her son and daughter and some local government officials, including a doctor.“The American authorities alerted us about this woman and we started investigation into this large-scale fraud,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-woman-gets-1-5-mn-life-insurance-claims-on-false-death-certificate/story-pBBkRCwIf7Bkl417pXeK4J.html
05-12-2020||World||Joe Biden officially secures enough electors to become president||California certified its presidential election Friday and appointed 55 electors pledged to vote for Democrat Joe Biden, officially handing him the Electoral College majority needed to win the White House.Secretary of State Alex Padilla’s formal approval of Biden’s win in the state brought his tally of pledged electors so far to 279, according to a tally by The Associated Press. That’s just over the 270 threshold for victory.These steps in the election are often ignored formalities. But the hidden mechanics of electing a U.S. president have drawn new scrutiny this year as President Donald Trump continues to deny Biden’s victory and pursues increasingly specious legal strategies aimed at overturning the results before they are finalized.Although it’s been apparent for weeks that Biden won the presidential election, his accrual of more than 270 electors is the first step toward the White House, said Edward B. Foley, a law professor at Ohio State University.“It is a legal milestone and the first milestone that has that status,” Foley said. “Everything prior to that was premised on what we call projections.”The electors named Friday will meet Dec. 14, along with counterparts in each state, to formally vote for the next president. Most states have laws binding their electors to the winner of the popular vote in their state, measures that were upheld by a Supreme Court decision this year. There have been no suggestions that any of Biden’s pledged electors would contemplate not voting for him.Results of the Electoral College vote are due to be received, and typically approved, by Congress on Jan. 6. Although lawmakers can object to accepting the electors’ votes, it would be almost impossible for Biden to be blocked at that point.The Democratic-controlled House and Republican-controlled Senate would both vote separately to resolve any disputes. One already has arisen from Pennsylvania, where 75 Republican lawmakers signed a statement on Friday urging Congress to block the state’s electoral votes from being cast for Biden. But the state’s Republican U.S. senator, Pat Toomey, said soon afterward that he would not be objecting to Pennsylvania’s slate of electors, underscoring the difficulty in trying to change the election results through Congress.“As a practical matter, we know that Joe Biden is going to be inaugurated on Jan. 20,” Foley said.That was clear in the days after the election, when the count of mail ballots gradually made clear that Biden had won victories in enough states to win the Electoral College. It became even more apparent in late November, when every swing state won by Biden certified him as the winner of its elections and appointed his electors to the Electoral College. Trump has fruitlessly tried to stop those states from certifying Biden as the winner and appointing electors for the former vice president.He made no effort in deeply Democratic California, the most populous state in the nation and the trove of its largest number of electoral votes. Three more states won by Biden — Colorado, Hawaii and New Jersey — have not yet certified their results. When they do, Biden will have 306 Electoral College votes to Trump’s 232.Trump and his allies have brought at least 50 legal cases trying to overturn the results in the swing states Biden won — mainly Arizona, Georgia, Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. More than 30 have been rejected or dropped, according to an AP tally.Trump and his allies have also raised the far-fetched notion that Republican state legislatures in those states could appoint a rival set of electors pledged to Trump.But state Republican leaders have rejected that approach, and it would likely be futile in any case. According to federal law, both chambers of Congress would need to vote to accept a competing slate of electors. If they don’t, the electors appointed by the states’ governors — all pledged to Biden in these cases — must be used.The last remaining move to block the election would be the quixotic effort to vote down the electors in Congress.This tactic has been tried — a handful of congressional Democrats in 2000, 2004 and 2016 objected to officially making both George W. Bush and Trump president. But the numbers were not enough to block the two men from taking office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-officially-secures-enough-electors-to-become-president/story-FZ66HK7q8tv4NRMrbXhXyJ.html
05-12-2020||World||US not extending TikTok divestiture deadline, but talks expected to continue: Report||The Trump administration on Friday opted not to grant ByteDance a new extension of an order requiring the Chinese company to divest TikTok’s US assets, but talks between the company and government are expected to continue over the short video-sharing app’s fate, two sources briefed on the matter said.Last week, the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States granted ByteDance a one-week extension until Friday over the order to shed TikTok’s US assets. President Donald Trump’s August order gave the Justice Department the power to enforce the divestiture order once the deadline expired, but it is unclear when or how the government may seek to compel divestiture.The Justice Department and Treasury Department did not immediately respond to requests for comment, while the White House did not comment. TikTok declined to comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-not-extending-tiktok-divestiture-deadline-but-talks-expected-to-continue-report/story-vCi5rgMgAtCO4PD7yOWZrM.html
05-12-2020||World||Covid-19 vaccine will not be mandatory: Joe Biden||US President-elect Joe Biden said on Friday that Americans will not be forced to take the coronavirus vaccine and he is willing to get vaccinated publicly to assuage any concerns about its efficacy and safety. “I don’t think they should be mandatory. I wouldn’t demand it to be mandatory, but I would do everything in my power just like I don’t think masks have to be made mandatory nationwide,” Biden told reporters at a news conference in Wilmington, Delaware. Biden was responding to a question if Covid-19 vaccine be made mandatory. Biden, who is due to take office on January 20, said he will make sure that the vaccine is both free and available and that any follow up on the vaccine is free and available that relates to any health complications from it. “I will do everything in my power as the president of the United States to encourage people to do the right thing, and when they do it, demonstrate that it matters. That’s why I said in my inaugural speech I’m going to ask people to commit for 100 days to wear a mask, not because I’m asking it for any reason to punish-this is not a political issue,” he said. “It has become one. But if people do it for 100 days in the middle of what will be still a raging crisis and the vaccine is able to be distributed, they are going to see deaths drop off the edge,” he said. “They are going to see hundreds of thousands of people not getting sick; and my hope is they will be then inclined to say okay, it’s worth the patriotic duty to go ahead and protect other people,” Biden said. On Friday the US recorded 2,861 new deaths. It has seen more than 14 million confirmed cases in total and more than 275,000 deaths. Biden said he is willing to get inoculated in public to assuage any concerns about its efficacy and safety. “I think that my taking the vaccine and people seeing me take that vaccine is going to give some confidence,” Biden said, responding to a question adding that what bothers him the most is the wild assertions the Trump administration is making about how this is going to go away. “It was diminishing confidence across the board and the American people overall, but particularly in this administration with the African American and Latino community, what I heard from my friends in the community who are not but blocks from here as we stand, is that, “We’re not going to be the guinea pigs. We’re not going to be the guinea pigs.” Well, the fact of the matter is that they won’t be,” he said. “You’re going to see tens of millions of Americans taking the vaccine and you’re going to see the president of the United States and three of the four living former presidents doing it publicly as well. It’s going to take some effort to rebuild confidence in science because it’s been so diminished in this administration thus far,” Biden said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-vaccine-will-not-be-mandatory-joe-biden/story-b4SpbSAYDElfBriDDiAJOL.html
05-12-2020||World||World can start dreaming of pandemic’s end: UN health chief||The UN health chief declared Friday that positive results from coronavirus vaccine trials mean the world “can begin to dream about the end of the pandemic,” but he said rich and powerful nations must not trample the poor and marginalized “in the stampede for vaccines.”In an address to the U.N. General Assembly’s first high-level session on the pandemic, World Health Organization Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus cautioned that while the virus can be stopped, “the path ahead remains treacherous.”The pandemic has shown humanity at “its best and worst,” he said, pointing to “inspiring acts of compassion and self-sacrifice, breathtaking feats of science and innovation, and heartwarming demonstrations of solidarity, but also disturbing signs of self-interest, blame-shifting and divisions.”Referring to the current upsurge in infections and deaths, Tedros said without naming any countries that “where science is drowned out by conspiracy theories, where solidarity is undermined by division, where sacrifice is substituted with self interest, the virus thrives, the virus spreads.”He warned in a virtual address to the high-level meeting that a vaccine “will not address the vulnerabilities that lie at its root” -- poverty, hunger, inequality and climate change, which he said must be tackled once the pandemic ends.“We cannot and we must not go back to the same exploitative patterns of production and consumption, the same disregard for the planet that sustains all life, the same cycle of panic and meddling and the same divisive politics that fueled this pandemic,” he said.On vaccines, Tedros said, “the light at the end of the tunnel is growing steadily brighter,” but vaccines “must be shared equally as global public goods, not as private commodities that widen inequalities and become yet another reason some people are left behind.”He said WHO’s ACT-Accelerator program to quickly develop and distribute vaccines fairly “is in danger of becoming no more than a noble gesture” without major new funding.He said $4.3 billion is needed immediately to lay the groundwork for mass procurement and delivery of vaccines and a further $23.9 billion is required for 2021. That total, Tedros said, is less than one-half of 1 percent of the $11 trillion in stimulus packages announced so far by the Group of 20, the world’s richest countries.U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres made a similar appeal for funding for the ACT-Accelerator at Thursday’s opening of the two-day General Assembly session. U.N. spokesman Stephane Dujarric said Friday that Guterres is frustrated and would have liked see “a much much higher rate of investment by those countries who can.”Despite years of warnings, Tedros said, many countries were unprepared for the pandemic and assumed their health systems would protect their people. Many countries that have done best dealing with the crisis had experience responding to the outbreaks of SARS, MERS, HINI and other infectious diseases, he said.WHO has been sharply criticized for not taking a stronger and more vocal role in handling the pandemic.Tedros told the meeting that “clearly, the global system for preparedness needs attention.”He said a WHO commission established in September is reviewing international health regulations. WHO is also working with several countries on developing a pilot program in which countries agree to regular and transparent reviews of their health preparedness, he said.The pandemic also showed the need for a global system to share samples of viruses and other pathogens that cause disease to facilitate development of “medical counter-measures as global public goods” he said, welcoming Switzerland’s offer to use a high-security laboratory to manage a new biobank.Tedros also backed European Union chief Charles Michel’s proposal for an international treaty under which WHO would monitor the risks of emerging infectious diseases in animals for transmission to humans, ensure alerts of health risks, improve access to health care, and address financing needs. He said this would provide “the political underpinning” for strengthening the global health sector.The world spends $7.5 trillion on health every year, almost 10% of global GDP, Tedros said, but most of that money is spent in rich countries on treating disease rather than on “promoting and protecting health.”“We need a radical rethink on the way we view and value health,” he said.“If the world is to avoid another crisis on this scale,” Tedros said, “investments in basic public health functions, especially primary health care, are essential, and all roads should lead to universal health coverage with a strong foundation of primary health care.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/world-can-start-dreaming-of-pandemic-s-end-un-health-chief/story-dZ6Da6VFNAIN30uxcLmKZP.html
05-12-2020||World||US imposes visa restrictions on more Chinese citizens||The State Department said Friday that it would deny visas to Chinese citizens linked to overseas influence operations involving violence and other means of intimidation.Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said the restrictions would apply to Chinese Communist Party officials or anyone else taking part in such propaganda or influence campaigns affiliated with the United Front Work Department.The United Front has been involved in efforts to put pressure on people outside China’s borders who raise concerns about human rights abuses in the Uighur region, Tibet and elsewhere. Its “coercive tactics” have included publicly releasing personal details about critics and their family members online as a means of intimidation, Pompeo said in announcing the new restrictions.The measure is intended to show that “those responsible for actions that contravene the rules-based international order are not welcome in the United States,” he said.The restrictions are the latest punitive measure taken against China’s leadership and economy in response to sharpening disputes over human rights, the coronavirus pandemic, trade, technology, Taiwan and a host of other issues.Chinese citizens would be denied a visa to enter the United States if they have taken part in United Front efforts using violence, threats or other means of pressure against overseas Chinese communities, academics or civil society groups in the U.S. or elsewhere to advance the “CCP’s authoritarian narratives and policy preferences,” the State Department said in a separate statement on the measure.It wasn’t immediately clear how many people would potentially be covered by the new restrictions.The move comes the same week that the U.S. announced plans to place new time limits on visas for members of the Chinese Communist Party and their families, cutting the time that the travel documents are valid from 10 years to one month.China responded to those restrictions by accusing the U.S. government of “an escalation of political suppression.” Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying said Thursday that the travel restrictions were “totally inconsistent with the U.S.’s own interests” and would damage America’s global image.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-imposes-visa-restrictions-on-more-chinese-citizens/story-b4YKopIkx1VchECLY4PGfK.html
05-12-2020||World||Joe Biden to ask Americans to wear masks for 100 days||President-elect Joe Biden has said he will ask Americans to wear masks for the first 100 days of his presidency to help fight the continuing spread of the Covid-19 pandemic.He has also said he had asked Dr Anthony Fauci, the top epidemiologist who was often at odds with President Donald Trump, to stay on as a chief medical adviser. Both Biden and Vice-President-elect Kamala Harris spoke to CNN in a joint interview on a wide range of issues ahead of the inauguration day on January 20.“The first day I’m inaugurated ...I’m going to ask the public for 100 days to mask. Just 100 days to mask, not forever,” Biden said. Masks will be mandated, however, in federal buildings and on public transport.He expressed hope that vaccinations and masking would drive down Covid numbers considerably. Asked if he had spoken to Fauci and whether he will ask him to stay, Biden said, “Yes and yes. I asked him to stay on in the exact same role as he’s had for the past several presidents, and I asked him to be a chief medical adviser for me as well and be part of the Covid team.”Biden will join his predecessors Bill Clinton, George W Bush and Barack Obama to take Covid-19 vaccination publicly to reassure Americans who are sceptical. “It’s important to communicate to the American people it’s safe, safe to do this.”Harris, meanwhile, has announced an all-female White House team: Tina Flournoy as chief of staff; Rohini Kosoglu, a longtime associate of Sri Lankan descent, as domestic policy advisor; and Nancy McEldowney, a career diplomat, as national security advisor.There are reports Biden will name Indian American Vivek Murthy to serve as Surgeon General, reappointing him to a position he held in President Barack Obama’s second term. This time, Murthy, who co-chairs Biden’s Covid-19 advisory board, will have a broader mandate. Murthy was in running for secretary of health and human services, but Biden is reportedly looking at Michelle Lujan Grisham, New Mexico’s Hispanic governor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-to-ask-americans-to-wear-masks-for-100-days/story-FNS0VT2ZDuDX1RaU7xKlQL.html
05-12-2020||World||Trump campaign spent over $2 million on election lawyers||US President Donald Trump’s campaign paid nearly $9 million in its so-far unsuccessful bid to overturn the results of the presidential election, including nearly $2.3 million to lawyers and consultants who helped bring a series of longshot court cases.Jenna Ellis, 36, the attorney who has been one of the most prominent faces of the Trump legal and public relations blitz, was paid $30,000 in November, according to a report the campaign filed with the Federal Election Commission late Thursday.In October, Ellis, a senior legal adviser to the campaign, was paid $138,258, according to a previous filing.Rudy Giuliani, Trump’s personal attorney who has spearheaded the campaign’s post-election legal efforts, does not appear in the disclosures.Giuliani and Ellis have barnstormed a series of legislative meetings over the past couple of weeks to promote unsubstantiated claims that fraud was rampant in the November election and to urge state lawmakers to step in and declare Trump the winner.Giuliani and Ellis did not respond to requests for comment.Spokesmen for Trump’s campaign did not immediately respond to questions.The FEC filing, which covers the period from October 15 through November 23, classified about $8.8 million in expenses as “recount” related.Legal consulting was the campaign’s second-biggest recount expense, according to the disclosure report. The first was $3 million to pay the cost of a partial recount in Wisconsin that ended up increasing Biden’s lead by 87 votes. The third largest recount expense was nearly $2.2 million for text message advertising as the campaign bombarded his supporters with requests for money.The legal effort has been a powerful fund raising tool. Trump’s campaign reported that it had raised more than $207 million since the election.Trump’s attorneys have mounted a series of lawsuits in battleground states, hoping to persuade state and federal judges to overturn President-elect Joe Biden’s victory in the November election. Despite the president’s repeated, and unsubstantiated, claims that the election was “rigged,” the court cases have focused on more narrow claims of mail-in voting irregularities.Judges have largely rejected those claims. The US Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit last week ruled against Trump in a case in which he was seeking to overturn the results of Pennsylvania’s election, saying “Charges require specific allegations and then proof. We have neither here.”A law firm that has done extensive personal work for Trump, Kasowitz Benson Torres, the highest paid member of the recount team, received $600,000 in November, according to the FEC filing. Kasowitz is not listed as counsel of record on any post-election lawsuits that the campaign has brought.Marc Kasowitz did not return requests for comment.Another firm, Marks & Sokolov, of Philadelphia, received $161,841. The company is best known for its work in Russia and Ukraine. The firm, for example, represents Ihor Kolomoisky, a Ukrainian billionaire.“The Trump campaign has engaged our firm to provide legal advice,” Bruce Marks told Reuters, “I’m not going to discuss anything that’s not public about the work we’ve done for the campaign.” Marks said he first met Trump in 1994, when Marks was a state senator, and Trump came to a fund raising event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-campaign-spent-over-2-million-on-election-lawyers/story-LNtcPetKDEtToQjJqsCdYI.html
05-12-2020||World||US House votes to decriminalize marijuana at federal level||The US House of Representatives voted on Friday to decriminalize marijuana at the federal level, but the legislation is not expected to advance further as long as the Senate remains in Republican hands.It was the first time either chamber of Congress has voted to end the federal ban on marijuana since the drug was listed as a “controlled substance” in 1970. Fifteen US states and the District of Columbia have legalized recreational use of marijuana, and over 30 states allow some form of the drug for medicinal purposes. US cannabis sales hit record levels over the Thanksgiving weekend. But the federal ban on the drug persists, which creates conflicts with state laws and limits cannabis companies’ access to banking services and funding.The Democratic-majority House voted 228-164, largely along party lines, to lift the federal prohibition. But Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, a Republican, is an opponent of the change, meaning a decriminalization proposal is unlikely to see Senate action unless Democrats manage to win both Georgia Senate seats and with them Senate control in a January 5 run off election. The bill the House passed would allow states to regulate marijuana, Representative Earl Blumenauer, a Democrat and co-chairman of the Congressional Cannabis Caucus, said in debate.“This legislation does not legalize cannabis across the country. It stops the federal government from interfering with what states have decided to do,” he said.Republican representative Debbie Lesko said she found it incredible that Democrats were talking about “legalizing marijuana” instead of focusing on passing more relief from the coronavirus pandemic. “Sometimes I think that the world is turned upside down,” she said.In fact, the House in May passed a mammoth coronavirus aid bill, but it did not advance in the Republican-run Senate. Negotiations are underway on a smaller compromise bill.The cannabis bill would expunge federal marijuana convictions and impose a 5% tax on cannabis products. The revenue raised would help reinvest in communities most adversely impacted by enforcement of the law, Blumenauer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-house-votes-to-decriminalize-marijuana-at-federal-level/story-jJh4otiYFjkyTkiYeeCAQP.html
05-12-2020||World||Carbon emissions close to record price ahead of EU Summit||The price of European Union carbon emissions hit 30 euros a metric ton for the second time this week as traders prepare for stricter measures from the bloc to address climate change.Breaching the 30-euro mark is seen as a key trigger that could usher in a new era for the pollution market, as Europe looks to speed up its decarbonization plans and reach net zero by 2050. Next week the EU leaders will gather for a summit to potentially agree an emissions plan that could push carbon through a 14 year high.Carbon has hit this price range twice before this year, in July and September, before falling back down. Each time the surge has been driven by market expectations about the EU’s climate plans.EU leaders are expected to clash over whether to cut emissions by at least 55% by 2030, up from a current goal of 40%. A decision next week could push carbon prices beyond the record high of 31 euros a ton set in April 2006.“The belief in the market is that the political ambition or regulatory ambition is going to be raised,” said Marcus Ferdinand, head of European carbon and power analytics at ICIS. “The market is really in high expectation mode for a combined effort to hammer out a 2030 agreement.”Breaking that record is imminent, especially as the supply of permits is set to be unusually low this winter after the European Commission decided to delay the start of 2021 auctions until at least late January, according to Tom Lord, head of trading and risk management at Redshaw Advisors Ltd.“We think it is coming,” he said. “With this auction shutdown we feel that we could quite easily get over 31 euros in the coming weeks with no auction supply.”Ferdinand, the ICIS analyst, said he expects prices to continue higher and end next year at 32.50 euros a ton then go to as much as 50 euros by 2023.The persistent upward shift of carbon prices is helping drive out coal from Europe’s power grid. Even some of the newest and most efficient plants bid in a recent German auction to get paid to close down as operators see the rising carbon price cutting into potential profits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/carbon-emissions-close-to-record-price-ahead-of-eu-summit/story-jpznXrRTwTHprAXHBRwRPK.html
05-12-2020||World||UK, EU trade talks at ‘difficult’ point as deadline approaches||UK and EU trade talks are at a “difficult” point, the British government said on Friday, as UK officials poured cold water on hopes of an imminent breakthrough — and France said it could veto any agreement it didn’t like.As the intense talks approached crunch point, UK Business Secretary Alok Sharma said Britain was “committed to reaching an agreement.”“But, of course, time is short and we are in a difficult phase. There’s no denying that,” he told the BBC. “There are a number of tricky issues that still have to be resolved.”EU chief negotiator Michel Barnier, his British counterpart David Frost and their teams remained locked in talks in a London conference center after a week of late-night sessions fuelled by deliveries of sandwiches and pizza.Philip Rycroft, former chief civil servant in the UK’s Brexit department, said negotiations were “now very close to the endgame.”“This can’t go on for much longer,” he told Sky News.UK officials sought to dampen hopes of an imminent deal, briefing media outlets that the EU had set back negotiations by making last-minute demands, an allegation the bloc denies.The UK left the EU early this year, but remains part of the 27-nation bloc’s economic embrace during an 11-month transition as the two sides try to negotiate a new free-trade deal to take effect January 1. Any deal must be approved by lawmakers in Britain and the EU before year’s end.Talks have dragged on as one deadline after another has slipped by. First, the goal was a deal by October, then by mid-November. On Sunday, Britain said the negotiations were in their final week.European Council President Charles Michel noted that it wasn’t the first time that deadlines had slipped.“We will see what will happen in the next days,” he said in Brussels. “But the end of December is the end of December and we know that after the 31st of December we have the 1st of January, and we know that we need to have clarity as soon as possible.”A trade deal will allow goods to move between Britain and the EU without tariffs or quotas after the end of this year, though there would still be new costs and red tape for businesses on both sides of the English Channel.If there is no deal, New Year’s Day will bring huge disruption, with the overnight imposition of tariffs and other barriers to UK-EU trade. That will hurt both sides, but the burden will fall most heavily on Britain, which does almost half its trade with the EU.Months of tense negotiations have produced agreement on a swath of issues, but serious differences remain over the “level playing field” — the standards the UK must meet to export into the bloc — and how future disputes are resolved. That’s key for the EU, which fears Britain will slash social and environmental standards and pump state money into UK industries, becoming a low-regulation economic rival on the bloc’s doorstep.But the UK government, which sees Brexit as all about “taking back control” from Brussels, is resisting curbs on its freedom to set future economic policies.Another sticking point is fish, a small part of the economy with an outsized symbolic importance for Europe’s maritime nations. EU countries want their boats to be able to keep fishing in British waters, while the UK insists it must control access and quotas.Fishing is especially important to France, which is seen by many on the UK side as the EU nation most resistant to compromise.“If there was to be an agreement and it was not good, we would oppose it,” Clement Beaune, France’s junior minister in charge of European Affairs, told Europe 1 radio. “France like all its (EU) partners has a veto right.”If there is no weekend breakthrough, next week will bring more complications. On Monday Britain’s House of Commons will vote on a bill that gives Britain the power to breach parts of the legally binding withdrawal agreement it struck with the EU last year.Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s government acknowledges that the Internal Market Bill breaches international law, and the legislation has been condemned by the EU, US President-elect Joe Biden and scores of British lawmakers, including many from Johnson’s own Conservative Party.The House of Lords, Parliament’s upper chamber, removed the law-breaking clauses from the legislation last month, but Johnson’s government says it will ask lawmakers to reinsert them.That would further sour the talks, demolishing any good will that remains between the two sides.German government spokesman Steffen Seibert stressed that EU nations wanted a deal, “but not at any cost.”“And of course we must also prepare for all scenarios, including for the possibility that there won’t be an agreement,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-eu-trade-talks-at-difficult-point-as-deadline-approaches/story-XzbpOOBbfokwhgZV083k4K.html
05-12-2020||World||Pak issues special permit to Saudi Crown Prince, two others to hunt rare houbara bustards: Report||Pakistan has issued special permits to Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman and two other members of the royal family to hunt the internationally protected houbara bustards during the hunting season 2020-21, according to a media report on Friday.Sources said the two other hunters are governors and one of them is a defaulter as he has not paid the hunting fees for last year.The hunters had been allocated certain hunting areas in two provinces — Balochistan and Punjab, the Dawn newspaper reported. Also Watch | ‘Pakistan can’t make its own roads’: Rajnath Singh mocks China dependenceThey said that though the foreign ministry was expected to maintain the protocol and official hierarchy, the name of the most powerful person and “real” ruler of Saudi Arabia Mohammed bin Salman has been mentioned at the bottom of the list of hunters sent to the Saudi Embassy in Islamabad.The houbara bustard is a resident of the colder Central Asian region. It migrates southwards every year to spend its winters in a relatively warmer environment in Pakistan.Arab hunters are specially invited by the Pakistan government to hunt them.Owing to its dwindling population, the houbara is not only protected under various international nature conservation treaties but is also protected under local wildlife protection laws. Pakistanis are not allowed to hunt it.The sources told the newspaper that earlier Prime Minister Imran Khan, when he was in the Opposition, used to criticise the then federal government for issuing houbara hunting permits and had not allowed houbara hunting in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, where his Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf ruled, but now has issued the permits to hunters from Saudi Arabia.The sources said that the hunting permits issued by the foreign ministry’s deputy chief of protocol (P&I) on October 16 were delivered to the Saudi Embassy to be sent to the hunters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-issues-special-permit-to-saudi-crown-prince-two-others-to-hunt-rare-houbara-bustards-report/story-ZkNCyvxae4zC4rfWLhdGjP.html
05-12-2020||World||China has eradicated absolute poverty: President Xi Jinping||Chinese President Xi Jinping has declared victory in the country’s drive to eliminate extreme poverty, a major goal for the ruling Communist Party of China (CPC) as it approaches its centenary in 2021.Xi announced the verdict at a meeting of the seven-member CPC politburo standing committee, the highest decision-making body in China, on Thursday, official news agency Xinhua reported on Friday.“China has removed all poor counties from the poverty list, and eradicated absolute poverty and regional poverty,” Xi was quoted as saying.The announcement is a propaganda victory for the Communist Party - and a personal one for President Xi - capping an eight-year anti-poverty drive, and coming in a year in which China’s economy has been battered by the Covid-19 pandemic.It is part of China’s efforts to, what the CPC calls, a “moderately prosperous” society - possibly the most critical component on which its political legitimacy among the 1.4 billion people in China depends. “We have achieved in a timely manner the poverty alleviation goal of the new era,” Xi said at the meeting. “Through eight years of sustained work, China has lifted all rural poor populations under the current standard out of poverty and nearly 100 million poor people have shaken off poverty.”The anti-poverty drive has to be sustained, the meeting discussed, according to the Xinhua report.“At present, the country still faces acute problems caused by unbalanced and inadequate development as well as onerous tasks of consolidating and expanding poverty alleviation achievements,” said the meeting.The meeting called for efforts to keep the existing supportive policies, financial support and assistance basically stable.Chinese government statistics say the country has lifted some 850 million out of poverty, contributing over 70% to global poverty reduction, in the last few decades.The country’s rural poor population was slashed from 98.99 million at the end of 2012 to 5.51 million at the end of 2019, with the poverty ratio in rural regions dropping from 10.2% to 0.6%, according to government statistics.Chinese government’s own flattering statistics on poverty alleviation have been questioned.The debate over the number of poor in China was reignited last May when Premier Li Keqiang said the monthly income of some 600 million Chinese was 1000 yuan (Rs 10,000).“It’s barely enough to cover monthly rent in a mid-sized Chinese city,” Li said at his annual press conference at the closing of China’s legislature, the National People’s Congress (NPC) in Beijing.“Extreme poverty is officially gone and millions of villagers have been moved off mountaintops, but many more continue to live with significant privation. The uneducated and elderly will struggle to move up further, and there’s plenty of penury in urban areas and among migrants, often excluded from official discourse that has focused on rural poverty. Inequality is rising, too,” a Bloomberg report said in late November after China’s last nine counties were removed from the poverty list last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-has-eradicated-absolute-poverty-president-xi-jinping/story-Tss8ZE4vRzbrgtl2Hi2lCM.html
05-12-2020||India||Jewellery worth lakhs go missing from check-in bag of Bengaluru-bound couple, FIR lodged||A passenger couple, who travelled from Darbhanga to Bengaluru onboard Spicejet flight no SG-494 on December 2, have alleged theft of gold jewellery worth nearly Rs 5-6 lakh from their check-in baggage. Durgesh Kumar, a software engineer, along with his wife Nikeeta and a kid, was flying to Bengaluru from Darbhanga airport on December 2 when the lock of one of his baggages was broken and jewellery was stolen from the box. The couple discovered the theft only after reaching Bengaluru. Jaiprakash, Durgesh’s relative from Muzaffarpur, has lodged an FIR ( 545/2020) at Sadar police station in Darbhanga. When contacted, Station House Officer of Sadar Police Station, Girija Baitha said that the police were investigating the case. A case under section 379, 34 of the India Penal Code has been registered.He, however, said that the CCTV footage at Darbhanga airport didn’t provide many clues as surveillance camera could not cover the area beyond the luggage dropping point after scanning. What happened thereafter is not clear.Earlier, Durgesh had complained to Bengaluru airport police in this regard. However, they responded that the jewellery was not stolen from the airport after reviewing the surveillance footage at Kempegowda International Airport, Bengaluru.The Bengaluru police concluded that the jewellery might have been stolen from the bag during the transit of baggage after scanning was done at Darbhanga airport.Also read: ‘People have right to demonstrate...’ - UN spokesman on farmers’ protestDurgesh, a native of Motihari, meanwhile, alleged that he did not doubt that jewellery might have been stolen by unscrupulous ground staff at Darbhanga airport. The lock was broken and the luggage tag of Spicejet was pasted over it. “During security scanning at Darbhanga Airport, the concerned staff assured me that it was quite safe to carry the jewellery in check-in baggage. He didn’t ask me to fill up any declaration form regarding the same. There were a couple of ground staff listening to our conversation,” he quipped. The FIR also mentions the name of six ground staff who were on duty. Darbhanga airport was started in a hurry and not all the strategic points have been brought under coverage of surveillance area, the passenger alleged. According to an informed source, at smaller airports after the scanning of luggage, the responsibility to transfer the bag from terminal to cargo rests with the concerned airliner’s staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jewellery-worth-lakhs-go-missing-from-check-in-bag-of-bengaluru-bound-couple-fir-lodged/story-5Lemnex8dev0NfAQhs5HNK.html
05-12-2020||India||UP CM Yogi Adityanath launches app to locate free Covid-19 test centres||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday launched a mobile application that gives users the locations of free Covid test centres within a radius of five kilometres in the state.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Launching the “Mera Covid Kendra” app, Adityanath said it was an initiative of the state government to help people who want to get themselves tested for the virus.Stressing that the state government has been making efforts at every level to check the spread of Covid-19, Adityanath said all districts of Uttar Pradesh have free testing facilities, and rates have been fixed for tests done in private labs.It is because of the high number of tests being conducted that the state has managed to check the spread of the infection, he said, adding this is a result of inter departmental coordination and teamwork.The chief minister congratulated frontline Covid warriors and the Health department, saying conducting over two crore tests, the highest for any state in the country, was an achievement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-cm-yogi-adityanath-launches-app-to-locate-free-covid-19-test-centres/story-VL7KA4HYD02RitTnfoslRK.html
05-12-2020||India||‘People have right to demonstrate peacefully, let them’: UN chief’s spokesman on farmers’ protest||Authorities should allow people to exercise their right to demonstrate peacefully, UN Secretary-General António Guterres’ spokesman has said regarding the farmers’ protest in India.The remarks came close on the heels of Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau saying his government had conveyed its concerns about the farmers’ protest to India, and Indian-origin British MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi sending a letter on behalf of a group of lawmakers to foreign secretary Dominic Raab on the issue.India dismissed Trudeau’s remarks as interference in the country’s internal affairs and summoned the Canadian envoy on Friday and told him the comments have the potential to damage bilateral ties. There was no immediate response from Indian officials to the UN spokesman’s comments or the British MP’s letter.When Stéphane Dujarric, spokesman for the UN Secretary-General, was asked about the farmers’ protest at a daily news briefing on Friday, he replied, “As to the question of India, what I would say to you is what I’ve said to others when raising these issues is that people have a right to demonstrate peacefully, and authorities need to let them do so.”Also read: Maun vrat, food from langar - Key takeaways from farmers’ protestThe reporter who asked the question also contended the farmers involved in the protest were being met with “repressive measures” and this had a bearing on India’s democracy. Dujarric responded by saying, “We want to see people have a voice in their lives.”Thousands of farmers have been protesting for more than a week at the borders of Delhi against a set of laws to liberalise farm trade and open up agricultural markets. The government is trying to end the protest through talks with the farmers’ leaders. Trudeau was the first world leader to comment on the farmers’ protest, telling a Facebook video interaction on Tuesday that the situation in India was “concerning”. He added, “Let me remind you, Canada will always be there to defend the right of peaceful protest. We believe in the importance of dialogue and that’s why we’ve reached out through multiple means directly to the Indian authorities to highlight our concerns.” On Friday, the external affairs ministry summoned Canada’s envoy Nadir Patel and told him the remarks by Trudeau and Canadian lawmakers had the potential to “seriously” damage bilateral ties. The ministry also said the comments by Trudeau, some cabinet ministers and MPs amounted to an “unacceptable interference in our internal affairs”.Also read: Farm leaders hopeful govt will repeal laws but will continue with Bharat BandhIn a separate development, British MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi sent a letter on behalf of 35 MPs to foreign secretary Dominic Raab seeking “an urgent meeting... to discuss the deteriorating situation in Punjab and its relationship with the Centre”. Dhesi also asked Raab to make a representation to his Indian counterpart about “the impact on British Sikhs and Punjabis with longstanding links to land and farming in India”.Dhesi wrote in the letter that several British MPs had written to both Raab and the Indian high commission in London about “the impact of three new Indian laws on exploiting farmers and those dependent on farming in India”. “This is an issue of particular concern to Sikhs in the UK and those linked to Punjab, although it heavily impacts other Indian states,” Dhesi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-have-right-to-demonstrate-peacefully-let-them-un-chief-s-spokesman-on-farmers-protest/story-9fd1RmPzzvLATcHcmAGExH.html
05-12-2020||India||PM Modi to inaugurate construction work of Agra metro project on Dec 7||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the construction of the Agra Metro Rail Project (AMRP) on December 7 at 11.30 am through video conference.Union Minister of Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and other dignitaries will also attend the event that will be held at 15 Battalion PAC parade ground in Agra.A PMO release said that Agra Metro project comprises two corridors with a total length of 29.4 km and connects major tourist attractions like Taj Mahal, Agra Fort, Sikandra with railway stations and bus stands.Apart from benefiting 26 lakh residents of the city, the project will also cater to more than 60 lakh tourists who visit Agra every year.It will provide environment-friendly Mass Rapid Transit System to the historic city. The estimated cost of the project will be Rs 8,379.62 crore and it will be completed in 5 years.The Prime Minister had, on March 8 last year, inaugurated the Agra Metro project along with the commencement of commercial operations of Lucknow Metro on the entire 23 km long North-South corridor from CCS Airport to Munshipulia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-construction-work-of-agra-metro-project-on-dec-7/story-h5dFSm2suzn4pFjHUIEg4M.html
05-12-2020||India||Tourists violating Covid-19 preventive norms in Nainital to be fined||To check the spread of Covid-19 in Uttarakhand’s famous tourist hill town of Nainital during Christmas and New Year, the municipal body of town has decided to issue challans to tourists who do not follow Covid-19 preventive norms.Tourists who do not wear masks or fail to maintain social or physical distance will be challaned.According to officials, following the directions of Uttarakhand High Court, a district monitoring committee has been formed in Nainital for preventing further spread of coronavirus disease. The committee has given instructions to the police, administration and municipal bodies to strictly ensure that Covid-19 appropriate behaviour is followed in the upcoming tourist season.Additional district magistrate, KS Toliya, has directed all civic bodies, including Nainital, Bhowali and Ramnagar Palika, Bhimtal, Kaladhungi, Lalkuan Nagar panchayat, to conduct a checking drive and challan tourists who do not follow the rules.CS Martoliya, municipal commissioner of Haldwani-Kathgodam municipal corporation, confirmed the development and said, “We will conduct drives to ensure that tourists are wearing masks and following social distancing. Different teams have been made to check tourists coming from other states. If they are found to be violating the norms, they will be fined.”Also read: Joe Biden’s China plan and India’s roleIn August, the Uttarakhand government had announced that those not wearing masks in places will be fined between Rs 200-500. First-time offenders will have to pay a fine of Rs 200 and second-time offenders will have to pay a fine of Rs 500.Uttarakhand has so far reported over 76,000 Covid-19 cases of which over 69,000 have recovered successfully. The positivity rate in the state now stands at 5.51 per cent and over 1,200 Covid-19 positive patients have died in the state so far. Dehradun district has so far reported the maximum Covid-19 positive cases (22,149) followed by Haridwar (12,295), US Nagar (10,410) and Nainital (8,799). The state health department has so far tested 13.96 lakh people of which results of over 16,900 are pending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tourists-violating-covid-19-preventive-norms-in-nainital-to-be-fined/story-VFYK40NPAeB7cDaNslE0HO.html
05-12-2020||India||Tamil Nadu govt seeks Rs 3,758 crore as ‘Nivar’ relief from Centre||The Tamil Nadu government has asked the Centre to provide a financial assistance of Rs 3,758 crore for relief and restoration work in the cyclone ‘Nivar’-ravaged districts of the state. The sum is the estimated loss to human lives in terms of compensation, property, cattle and installations and infrastructure of various government departments, including TANGEDCO and civic bodies, state Revenue and Disaster Management Minister R B Udayakumar said on Saturday. This was conveyed to the visiting Central team when it held a meeting with senior officials at the Secretariat here, the Minister told reporters.Also Read | Rajinikanth’s aides urge him to project himself as CM candidate The state officials, following an instruction from the Chief Minister K Palaniswami, briefed the team about the losses and sought immediate disbursal of Rs 3,108 crore to take up the restoration work without delay. “We have sought Rs 650 crore as temporary relief and Rs 3,108 crore for taking up relief and restoration work on a permanent basis,” Udayakumar said. Nivar, which ravaged at least 18 coastal districts, had caused widespread damage to crops and property, when it crossed the coast between Puducherry and Tamil Nadu on November 26. The eight-member team, which arrived this evening, split into two groups to assess the damage in south and north Chennai, Chengalpattu, Puducherry, Villupuram, Cuddalore, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram, Ranipet and Vellore districts. The team would wrap up the visit by holding a discussion with the Chief Minister on December 8, Udayakumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-govt-seeks-rs-3-758-crore-as-nivar-relief-from-centre/story-1LzSGNdA4EaHKRZW9Yp9QP.html
05-12-2020||India||FIR lodged against Tejashwi, others for demonstrating against farm laws in prohibited area||At least 18 leaders of the RJD, Congress and the Left Parties, including Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, have been booked for staging demonstration in prohibited area without permission. Tejashwi Yadav and those from allies Congress and CPI held demonstration in front of gate number four of the Gandhi Maidan during the day in protest against the new farm laws. An FIR was lodged against 18 named and 500 unnamed persons in this connectioin with the Gandhi Maidan police station under various sections of the IPC and the Epidemic Act, police sources said.Also Read | RJD to stage dharna to support agitating farmers, urges Bihar cultivators to join inThe FIR has been registered for allegedly violating the government orders and putting peoples lives at risk by holding demonstration near the historic Gandhi Maidan in the heart of the city, a police official said on condition of anonymity. He said these people have violated Covid-19 norms as per which every individual has to maintain social distancing besides wearing masks and taking other preventive measures against the virus.Besides, Tejashwi those named in the FIR included RJD leaders Shyam Rajak, Brishen Patel, Alok Mehta and Mrityunjay Tiwary, the police official said. Some Congress and CPI leaders have also been named in the FIR, he added.Earlier in the day,a senior Patna district administration official had said that dharna inside Gandhi Maidan is not allowed as it is a ‘prohibited area’. If any individual, political party or organisation have to hold a sit-in they can do so at Gardanibagh which has been declared as designated place to stage dharna, the official added. Besides, the administration has to ensure that Covid-19 rules are strictly adhered, he said adding that gathering or any sort of procession, dharna are not allowed at any public place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fir-lodged-against-tejashwi-others-for-demonstrating-against-farm-laws-in-prohibited-area/story-HCC6gdG5Q7VsbUcXAZnTyO.html
05-12-2020||India||Maun vrat, food from langar, returning awards: Key takeaways from farmers' protest||Thousands of farmers initially from Punjab and Haryana and later from other states started a protest on November 26 against three farm laws that they fear will corporatise farming. Braving police resistance and freezing weather, they have now reached Delhi — with several groups laying siege to various borders of the national capital — engaged in talks with the Centre. The protest as it is going on has established several hallmarks.No politician allowed to speak at farmers gatheringAmid allegations that the protest is politically motivated, the farmers’ organizations had said in the beginning that no political leaders will be allowed to give a speech from the protest platform. Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad and Jan Adhikar party chief Pappu Yadav visited the protest site at Ghazipur border and pledged their support. On Saturday, singer, actor Diljit Dosanjh visited Singhu border and addressed the farmers. “Farmers have created a new history. This history would be narrated to future generations. Farmers’ issues should not be diverted by anyone,” Diljit said. Several Punjabi singers, including Gurshabad Singh Kular and Harf Cheema, performed at Singhu border on Saturday.Also Watch | Farmers in ‘maun vrat’, demand for proposal before next meeting Also Read: Farm leaders hopeful govt will repeal laws but will continue with Bharat BandhRefusing government hospitality at meetingsThe protesters have opened a community kitchen at Singhu border which supplied the lunch of the union leaders who went to Vigyan Bhawan for the meeting with the Centre. This happened both on Thursday and Saturday as the leaders refused to accept government hospitality.Maun vrat During Saturday’s meeting, the union leaders went on a ‘maun vrat’ seeking a clear ‘yes’ or ‘no’ reply on whether the laws will be withdrawn or not. Some of the leaders also showed the ‘yes’ or ‘no’ placard refusing to take part in the consultation.Returning awardsAfter Former Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal (Padma Vibhushan) and Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic) chief and Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Dhindsa (Padma Bhusan) returned their awards, several sportspersons are also ready to return their awards in support of the protest. “We have left for Delhi today and will join the farmers’’ protest,” said former wrestler Kartar Singh, who is a Padma Shri and Arjuna awardee. Other former sportspersons who are headed to the national capital are Dhyan Chand awardee hockey Olympian Gurmail Singh, Arjuna awardee Kabaddi player Hardeep Singh, and Arjuna awardee weightlifter Tara Singh. On Friday, former national boxing coach Gurbax Singh Sandhu, during whose tenure India won its maiden Olympic medal in the sport, Padma Shri boxer Kaur Singh and Arjuna awardee boxer Jaipal Singh had announced that they would return their awards.Farmers have been protesting since the bills were passed in September. The first round of talks with the Centre had taken place in October, but the farmer leaders had walked out from that meeting as no minister was present. This was followed by the second round on November 13. The last three rounds have taken place after ‘Dilli Chalo’ protest began.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maun-vrat-food-from-langar-returning-awards-key-takeaways-from-farmers-protest/story-1FKKMkFWZlhaXQ98oMRlSP.html
05-12-2020||India||Advocate writes to AG seeking consent to initiate contempt proceeding against Prashant Bhushan||An advocate has written to Attorney General K K Venugopal seeking his consent to initiate criminal contempt proceedings against activist lawyer Prashant Bhushan for his remarks made during a recent interview to a newspaper.The letter by advocate Sunil Kumar Singh claimed the November 29 interview of Bhushan makes an “insinuation that Supreme Court of India does not function in an impartial manner.” According to the lawyer, the contents of the interview were prima facie “contumacious” and a “gross insinuation against the entirety of the top court”.“This is a gross insinuation against the entirety of the Supreme Court, that the Supreme Court of India is not an independent and impartial institution but is willing to kowtow to the government. It is highly objectionable and audacious. It is a malicious attack on the hon’ble Supreme Court,” the letter stated.Also Read | Attorney General denies consent for contempt proceedings on BhushanThe lawyer claimed that such statements were “mala fide and motivated to denigrate the highest judiciary as part of an orchestrated campaign.” “The statements made by Prashant Bhushan are of a very serious nature. They are mala fide and motivated to denigrate the higher judiciary. The insinuation against the entire Supreme Court of India that it is not an independent and impartial institution but is willing to kowtow to the government is clearly calculated to undermine the public confidence in the independence and impartiality of Supreme Court of India,” the letter stated.Terming Bhushan a “chronic contemnor”, Singh said despite being there many contempt proceedings before the Supreme Court pending against him, he is not desisting from making “irresponsible, contemptuous and contumacious statements” against the honourable judges of the apex court.Earlier, the attorney general had declined consent for initiation of criminal contempt proceedings against Bhushan for his tweets in which he was critical of Chief Justice of India (CJI) S A Bobde being provided a special helicopter by the Madhya Pradesh government, saying the activist-lawyer later expressed regret.The Supreme Court had on August 31 imposed a “nominal fine” of Re 1 on Bhushan after he was convicted of criminal contempt for his two tweets against the judiciary, observing it was “showing magnanimity” instead of handing out any severe punishment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/advocate-writes-to-ag-seeking-consent-to-initiate-contempt-proceeding-against-prashant-bhushan/story-9FKezkngvQqfxJrRjCwg1I.html
05-12-2020||India||ICMR study reveals unsafe injection exposure as cause of HIV surge in UP’s Unnao||“Unsafe injection exposure during treatment-seeking” and “receipt” of intramuscular injection in the past five years were reasons behind surge of HIV infections in Uttar Pradesh’s Unnao district in 2017-18, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Saturday.The ICMR released its findings from a case-control study conducted on the sudden increase in the detection of HIV among attendees of an Integrated Counselling and Testing Centre (ICTC) located in a district hospital in Unnao in 2017. “Through the study and evidence generated, it was established that ‘unsafe injection exposure during treatment-seeking’ and receipt of intramuscular injection in the last five years were independently associated with HIV sero-reactive (presence of antibodies) status,” the ICMR said in a statement.Also Read | Bill Gates hails Indian-origin couple for pioneering work in fight against HIV, Covid-19The findings have helped establish that the infection arising from blood transfusion, undergoing invasive surgical procedures, tattooing, tonsuring of head or skin piercing was not related to the surge in the cases. The ICMR said the study was done on individuals detected HIV seroreactive during November 2017-April 2018 from three locations -- Premganj, Karimuddinpur and Chakmeerapur in Bangarmau block of Unnao.The study participants were interviewed based on various risk practices and invasive treatment procedures, it said.“They were also tested for HIV and other bio-markers reflecting unsafe injecting and sexual exposures. Along with this, secondary data analysis on three time points was performed which revealed a rising trend of HIV among attendees of specific ICTCs in the district,” it said.Speaking about the study, the corresponding author, Samiran Panda, director of ICMR National AIDS Research Institute, Pune, said, “The study has been critical to understanding the outbreak and the challenges associated with unsafe injection practices.” “A comprehensive approach to tackle the problem should be adopted with interventions like increasing access of auto-disabled syringes and needles, empowering the local communities and implementing effective regulatory practices across care settings,” Panda said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-study-reveals-unsafe-injection-exposure-as-cause-of-hiv-surge-in-up-s-unnao/story-zk6TEZlXLPD8xlT9oqLHEI.html
05-12-2020||India||Farm leaders hopeful govt will repeal laws but will continue with Bharat Bandh||Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Saturday said that the Bharat Bandh announced on December 8 will go as planned despite repeated assurances from the Centre regarding resolving issues concerning the farm bills.“The government will prepare a draft and give (it to) us. They said that they’ll consult the states too. Discussions were held on MSP too but we said that we should also take up laws and talk about their roll back. Bharat Bandh will go on as announced,” Tikait was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Farmer leaders earlier on Saturday said that they do not have any qualms when it comes to staying put on roads and said that they will continue to hold agitations if the government does not listen to their demands. A farm leader told ANI, “We’ve material with us to last a year, we’ve been on (the) road for the past several days. If the government wants us to stay on the road, we’ve no problem.”Farmer leaders are hopeful that the government will repeal the newly introduced farm laws and are firm that they do not seek any amendments. Hannan Mollah of the All India Kisan Sabha said, “We said at the beginning of the meeting that our demand is the withdrawal of laws, don’t want amendment. We took a firm stand. Finally, we were told that the next meeting will be held on December 9. It seems govt will definitely roll back the laws.”The fifth round of talks over the three bills - Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill - between farmers and the union government remained inconclusive. Farmers fear that these will pave the way for private players to enter the market and affect MSP procurement.Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar who along with Union ministers Piyush Goyal and Som Prakash attended the meet tried to alleviate the concerns raised regarding MSP and said that the system will not be affected and called the doubts baseless. The Centre has said that it will resolve every query and strengthen APMCs if needed in order to address the concerns raised by farm leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-leaders-hopeful-govt-will-repeal-laws-but-will-continue-with-bharat-bandh/story-TyvOoZLRf4LCfOdew1ZJYP.html
05-12-2020||India||Farmers deny government’s hospitality during fifth round of talks||Meeting the government for the fifth time on Saturday with their demands for scrapping the three new farm laws, union leaders decided to have their own tea and food, ferried from their langar (community kitchen) at Singhu border, where thousands of farmers are protesting for over a week. The fifth round of talks began at 2.30 PM and was attended by 40 representatives of various farmer organisations. Union leaders said they had their own food and tea during a break, rather than having what was arranged by the government at Vigyan Bhawan, the meeting venue. During their last meeting on Thursday also, the farmer leaders had their own lunch, tea and even water. Farmers’ leaders had earlier on Thursday told the government to focus on resolving the issues instead of trying to be a good host by offering lunch.  Thousands of farmers have been camping at various borders of the national capital as part of their protest against the laws. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash, who is an MP from Punjab, are holding talks with the representatives of the farmer groups at the Vigyan Bhawan. Enacted in September, the laws have been presented by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector by removing middlemen and allowing farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have been worried that the new laws will eliminate the safety cushion of a Minimum Support Price (MSP) and procurement system, while rendering ineffective the mandi system that ensures earnings for various stakeholders in the farm sector. On Wednesday, agitating farmers demanded that the Centre convene a special session of Parliament and repeal the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-deny-government-s-hospitality-during-fifth-round-of-talks/story-RjsKP0JnUgg8tfBkloBCII.html
05-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9pm: Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot alleges, ‘BJP out again to topple my govt’ and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘BJP out again to topple my govt,’ alleges Rajasthan chief minister Ashok GehlotRajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday again blamed the BJP for trying to topple his government, four months after a political crisis, triggered by the then deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot’s rebellion, was resolved. Read moreFarmers’ protest: No headway yet, next meeting to be held on December 9Even after four hours of consultation for the third time after the ‘Dilli Chalo’ protests began, the farmers and the Centre could not reach a common ground on Saturday and the next meeting will be held on December 9, ANI reported. Read more New Parliament building will be temple of Aatmanirbhar Bharat: Lok Sabha speaker Om BirlaLok Sabha speaker Om Birla on Saturday gave details about the new parliamentary building highlighting that the new building will be able to host proceedings with 1,224 parliamentarians during sessions. Read more 2nd T20I, Preview: In-form India aim to cash in against injury-plagued AustraliaHow things have changed over the course of the week. Last Sunday, India were on the cusp of enduring a series defeat against Australia. But following a couple of wins, including the 11-run victory in Canberra on Friday, India have staged a gutsy comeback in the tour to stand on the verge of a T20 series win. Read moreFardeen Khan undergoes dramatic weight loss, fans shower his new photos with love and say ‘good to see him back’Actor Fardeen Khan seems to have lost weight. In new photos outside casting director-turned-filmmaker Mukesh Chhabra’s office, he is seen looking considerably leaner, much to the delight of fans. Read moreMira Rajput is a vision in quirky white chanderi silk cape worth Rs 35kEven after not being from tBollywood industry, Shahid Kapoor’s wife Mira Rajput has made a name for herself as a fashionista. The diva has a girl-next-door vibe and a sartorial sense that everyone not only relates with but also looks up to. Read moreKid’s viral haircut video gets remixed with Bollywood songs. Perfect ‘lip-synching’ is must-watchIf you’ve been around the Internet recently, then you have seen the viral video of an adorable kid named Anushrut. The recording shows the child being less-than-pleased about getting a haircut. Read moreWatch: Farmer protest: Diljit Dosanjh visits Delhi border after Kangana Ranaut fight||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9pm-rajasthan-chief-minister-ashok-gehlot-alleges-bjp-out-again-to-topple-my-govt-and-all-the-latest-news/story-xVRYbrefezjNHc5QCukVaJ.html
05-12-2020||India||Seeing their families’ plight, farmers’ children don’t wish to get into agriculture||As thousands of farmers dig their heels in at Delhi’s borders bracing chilly winter winds and preparing for a long fight to press for their demands, some rue that seeing their plight, their children no longer wish to get into agriculture.Hasseb Ahmed, who has been on a sit-in against the Centre’s new farm laws here at the Ghazipur border since last Saturday, says he has two school going children, who are busy with their online classes back in his village in Rampur district of Uttar Pradesh, want a better standard of living.His elder son is in Class 12, while the younger is in class 9. “Neither of them wished to get into farming. They have their ambitions and want to land a good job. They say they don’t want to be farmers,” Ahmed said.Also Read |  Farmers’ group hold silent protests at government meeting; want ‘yes’ or ‘no’ answer to their demands“With the price that we are offered for our crops, all we can afford to give them is food and basic education. Nothing beyond that. They get disappointed to see that despite all the handwork that goes in it, we don’t receive appropriate returns,” he added.Another farmer, Sita Arya, who is from Amroha district in Uttar Pradesh, said her children too were slowly trying to detach themselves from farming. “They are even ready to sit in a bidi, tabocco or a paan shop to earn a living.” “We work day and night on the fields but don’t get the required profit. Getting into farming is like falling into a pit. Unless there is profit, our children don’t wish to get into it. If only the government had focused on turning farming into an employment opportunity and set a standard price for our crops, our children would not have been so against this profession, which is in every sense the backbone of this country,” she added.Agitating farmers have stressed that unless their demands are met and the new farm laws repelled, they will not move anywhere from the borders of the national capital and their protest will continue.Daryal Singh, a 65-year-old farmer from UP, pointed out that the young people in his village were ready to work even under a trader for Rs 2,000 but they do not wish to become farmers.“For ages they have seen their families struggle to get farm loans. Whatever money they make out of farming, a good portion of it goes into repaying the loan, and they are left with a meagre sum. How do we change their perceptive? Has any government ever acted for the farmers till date,” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seeing-their-families-plight-the-farmers-progeny-don-t-wish-to-get-into-agriculture/story-bQ6775EDo50XXVWGTVi5UN.html
05-12-2020||India||‘Leave path of agitation,’ agriculture minister urges farmers ahead of December 8 Bharat Bandh||As the protesting farmers on Saturday made it clear that there will be no change in their protest schedule, including the proposed Bharat Bandh on December 8, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar urged the farmers to leave the path of agitation and come to the path of discussion. The next round of discussion is scheduled to be held on December 9 after the Centre sends the farmers’ organisations a new draft.“I’d not like to comment on program of Unions. But I’d like to urge farmers & Unions to leave path of agitation and come to path of discussion. Govt has had several rounds of talks with them and is ready for further discussion for a solution,” the minister said.Though talks are going on, the agitating farmers have not softened their ground. They have maintained that the protest will never become violent, but will continue unless the Centre fulfils their demands. On Friday, the unions announced a Bharat Bandh for December 8 and threatened to block more roads leading to Delhi. All toll plazas will be occupied on that day, the unions have announced.As farmers have occupied Delhi borders, traffic in and around the city has been hit. Borders closedSinghu, Lampur, Auchandi, Safiabad, Piao Maniyari, and Saboli borders. National Highway-44 is closed on both sides.Tikri and Jharoda borders are closed for all traffic. Badusarai border is open only for light motor vehicles like cars and two-wheelers. Jhatikara border is open only for two-wheelers.Chilla border on Noida link road and Ghazipur border on National Highway 24 are also closed.Alternative routes to go to HaryanaDhansa, Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri National Highway-8,Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera Borders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leave-path-of-agitation-agriculture-minister-urges-farmers-ahead-of-december-8-bharat-bandh/story-D6z9Dz8095n2tmx5UIooaL.html
05-12-2020||India||Despite Opposition unity in Bihar, we emerged victorious: BJP’s Nadda||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda on Saturday came heavily on the opposition parties as he kick-started his 120-day nationwide tour from Dehradun, Uttarkhand. Addressing a gathering in Dehradun, Nadda lashed out at Congress party and Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) while hailing its victory in the recently held Bihar Assembly elections“Marxist-Leninist ideology had made Bihar a bloodied land. ‘Gunda Raj’ joined hands with them.” “Then Congress joined them. The Congress which has gradually started opposing the nation while opposing Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” he added.“They opposed abrogation of Article 370. Imran Khan (Pakistan Prime Minister) goes to United Nations Security Council (UNSC) with argument of Rahul Gandhi,” Nadda also said, adding, “former defence minister P Chidambaram says they will bring back Article 370.”“Even when all of these people came together, we emerged victorious in Bihar with your blessings. That is the strength of BJP and PM Modi,” Nadda also said.BJP fought Bihar elections in alliance with Janata Dal (United) Party and other regional parties, including HAM.In a bid to strengthen the party machinery in every nook and corner of the country for the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, BJP national president JP Nadda is undertaking a 120-day nationwide tour.He launched his 120-day nationwide tour on Friday by visiting Dev Sanskriti Vishwavidyalaya in Shantikunj, Haridwar.Earlier in November, BJP national general secretary, Arun Singh had said that Nadda during his country tour will give priority to visiting the constituencies where the BJP had lost in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-emerged-victorious-in-bihar-even-when-all-opposition-parties-came-together-nadda/story-Led4QU3rRt5FgXtrNVVB8O.html
05-12-2020||India||Farmers’ group hold silent protests at government meeting; want ‘yes’ or ‘no’ answer to their demands||Farmers’ group went on a ‘maun vrat’ (vow of silence) during their fifth round of talks with the government and sought a reply in ‘yes’ or ‘no’ on their key demand of repealing the three new farm laws, union leaders said. As their meeting with three union ministers, including Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, continued for nearly four hours, farmer leaders told the government to reply in “black and white” that whether it will repeal the laws or not.“Farmer union leaders are sitting on a ‘maun vrat’,” Punjab Kisan Union leader Ruldhu Singh said.Kavitha Kuruganti of AIKSCC (All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee) said the government was not responding to the pinpointed question of farmer leaders.Gurlabh Singh Mahal, legal advisor to Punjab Kisan Union, also said the farmer leaders wanted the government to answer in ‘Yes or No’. Some farmer leaders present in the meeting were seen putting finger on their lips and holding a paper written ‘Yes or No’ on that.“All members of delegation have decided to keep silent. The government side is trying to draw us out. But there is utter silence from our side,” Kuruganti said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-group-hold-silent-protests-at-government-meeting-want-yes-or-no-answer-to-their-demands/story-vzZvqVcIwdaE0h2DtTVJYK.html
05-12-2020||India||Kamal Haasan sets up ‘Maiam women’s task force’||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Saturday announced setting up a ‘Maiam women’s task force,’ as part of his party’s efforts to ensure equality and more role for them in various activities.This was an attempt at ensuring the subject of women’s equality was not a mere talk but give them better role in the party’s affairs, Haasan said in a statement here.“Towards that, a new Maiam Women’s Task Force is being formed,” he said.Women office-bearers and those belonging to families of party functionaries can join the initiative to take forward various activities, he said.Also Read | Kamal Haasan criticises government inquiry on Anna University VC “Those not connected to the party, but interested in public welfare and that of Tamil Nadu will work along,” he said. The task force will primarily focus on general welfare across the state and involving women interested in alternative politics in the party’s activities among others, he added. Meanwhile, the actor-politician extended his support to beleaguered Anna University Vice-Chancellor MK Surappa, facing government inquiry over allegations of corruption and irregularities in the premier technial varsity here. He alleged Surappa was being targeted for being ‘honest’ and said “when one is hunted down for his honesty, I won’t be a mere spectator.” The Makkal Needhi Maiam won’t keep quiet,” he said in a video message.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kamal-haasan-sets-up-maiam-women-s-task-force/story-NrvG2XVyAGQQRtl24lrf9N.html
05-12-2020||India||Charge sheet filed against Arnab Goswami says accused ignored Anvay Naik’s suicide threat||The charge sheet filed against Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and two others in a 2018 abetment of suicide case says that the accused did not pay heed to victim Anvay Naik’s threat that he would end his life if his dues were not cleared by the trio.The charge sheet also said that Naik, who was under mental stress due to non-payment of dues by the accused, first strangled his mother Kumud, a partner in his business, before hanging himself to death.The police on Friday filed the charge sheet before a court in Alibaug in neighbouring Raigad district, where the case for alleged abetment of suicide of interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother has been registered.Besides Goswami, the other two accused named in the charge sheet are Firoze Sheikh and Nitish Sarda.“The victim (Naik) had told them (accused) that he would commit suicide if they don’t pay his dues. However, the accused ignored his threat and told him to do whatever he wants,” the charge sheet said.“The accused didn’t pay his dues, which caused mental stress to Naik. He first strangulated his mother, thinking that she might land in trouble as she was also a partner in his business,” it said.Naik later wrote a suicide note and then hanged himself, the charge sheet added.Police said that they have relied on the purported suicide note as the “dying declaration”.Naik’s handwriting has been matched with the writing in the suicide note and forensic report indicated that he was not under pressure while writing it, police said.Police had earlier said that in his suicide note, Naik, who owned Concorde Designs Pvt Ltd, had claimed that he was ending his life due to non-payment of dues by Goswami, Firoze Sheikh of IcastX/Skimedia and Nitish Sarda of Smartworks.Police said that as per the note, the three firms owed Naik’s company Rs 83 lakh, Rs four crore and Rs 55 lakh respectively.The court will take cognisance of the charge sheet on December 16, Rahul Agarwal, advocate for one of the accused, said on Saturday.The accused trio has been charged under IPC sections 306 (abetment to suicide), 109 (punishment for abetment) and 34 (common intention).As many as 65 persons were named as witnesses in the charge sheet that runs into 1,914 pages.Police have listed statements of family members and staff of Naik, call data records, and information retrieved from electronic devices as evidence in the case.In May this year, Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh had announced that he has ordered a fresh probe in the case after a complaint by Adnya Naik, daughter of the architect Anvay Naik.Goswami, Sheikh and Sarda were arrested by Alibaug police on November 4 in the case, but they got bail from the Supreme Court on November 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/charge-sheet-filed-against-arnab-goswami-says-accused-ignored-anvay-naik-s-suicide-threat/story-ZDOEx3WxmhIAs9LIwnsXpL.html
05-12-2020||India||Women protesters at Ghazipur border face inconvenience due to lack of clean toilets||Sita Arya, 34, who is part of the farmers’ protest at the Ghazipur border, wakes up at 4 am and walks nearly two kilometres to use a public lavatory. This has been her routine for the past few days as there are no clean facilities available at the demonstration site.“If we use toilets at the protest site, if not of the coronavirus, we will die due to the unhygienic conditions of the toilets,” Sita, who hails from Amroha in Uttar Pradesh, said, citing instances where women were forced to defecate in the open. Sita, who is herself a farmer, is among 50 other women from various parts of UP who have been camping at the border for the last five days along with their male counterparts as part of the protest against the Centre’s new farm laws.The uncleaned temporary toilets have forced the protesting women to either use empty plots or agriculture fields nearby. The women protestors complained that even though temporary toilets have been set up by the authorities at the border, none of them can be used as they are in a very unhygienic condition and stink because there is no facility to clean them after usage.This has compelled Sita to wake up early morning daily just to use a toilet.She along with two other women walk around two kilometres from the protest site and pay Rs five to use the toilet and Rs 10 to take a bath there.The protesting woman said unhygienic toilets and defecating in the open are not the only problems, their safety is also a big concern. They are compelled to spend sleepless night under the flyover, another woman protester said. “Our safety is in our hands,” said the women, who take turns to sleep in the night. They said at least three women stay awake all night to ensure that the group of women can sleep in peace.“We take turns to sleep at night. We have to look out for our own safety. Since we are under the open, we need to stay extra vigilant especially at night because any outsider can enter the area. “So we take turns to sleep,” said Seema, another protestor, who has left her two young children back home at her village to participate in the protest.Forty-year-old Jayanti, who along with her husband came from Shahjahanpur district said, “We will continue to protest here until our demands our met. We don’t have proper sanitization facilities, lack hygienic toilets, no space to change clothes but still we are ready to fight our battle.” Sita said the woman have no other option than walking through the empty road early morning to use the toilet. She said “Are we even left with any option? I sit for ‘havan’ here and without taking a bath, I cannot perform the rituals. “We don’t have bathing facilities and the temporary toilets set up here are so unhygienic that once used, it cannot be used again because it is not being cleaned on a regular basis.” Recalling an incident where a woman had to defecate in an empty plot due to uncleaned toilets, Sita said “Yesterday afternoon, one of our women wanted to go to the toilet. But when she went to the jungle area behind, a man came there and she had to run from there. This is how unsafe it is for women and then our Prime Minister has given the call of ‘Beti Bachao Beti Padhao’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/women-protesters-at-ghazipur-border-face-inconvenience-due-to-lack-of-clean-toilets/story-tYg9eeV1mpnjublwQ9yc5M.html
05-12-2020||India||New Parliament building will be temple of Aatmanirbhar Bharat: Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla||Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla on Saturday gave details about the new parliamentary building highlighting that the new building will be able to host proceedings with 1,224 parliamentarians during sessions.“This will be one such temple of Aatmanirbhar Bharat that will reflect the diversity of the nation. It will be 17,000 sq.m bigger than the old Parliament building,” Birla was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Birla also said that the new Parliament building will be earthquake resistant and more than 11,000 people will be involved in building the Parliament. On September 29, Tata Projects Limited was awarded the contract for construction of the new building.Birla told PTI that the new building will cost Rs 971 crore and will span across 64,000 sq.km. area.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will perform Bhumi Pujan and lay the foundation of the new building on December 10.Birla also said that a new complex will be built for MPs of both houses at the existing Shram Shakti Bhawan.The deadline for completion of the new Parliament building is 2022. The Central Public Works Department, which is the ministry of housing and urban affairs arm for implementation of the project, has specified that at least 50% of the workforce involved in the construction of the new building will be skilled in stone masonry, carving, and fresco, according to an October 17 HT report.The CPWD said it would ensure that all safety protocols are maintained during the construction in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-parliament-building-will-be-temple-of-aatmanirbhar-bharat-lok-sabha-speaker-om-birla/story-5DktkUrfknNzOCg3wbsY7K.html
05-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: No headway yet, next meeting to be held on December 9||Even after four hours of consultation for the third time after the ‘Dilli Chalo’ protests began, the farmers and the Centre could not reach a common ground on Saturday and the next meeting will be held on December 9, ANI reported. The proposed Bharat Bandh on December 8 will go on as announced, Bharatiya Kisan Union president Rakesh Tikait said. It has been learnt that the government side sought some more time to come up with some concrete proposals to which the farmers’ leaders agreed. Click here for live updates farmers’ protestsBefore the protests began on November 26, both the sides met twice to deliberate over the concerns. However, the meetings have recorded some developments as the farmers have accepted the government’s standpoint on minimum support price that MSPs won’t be done away with. The government has also agreed to proper registration of traders. But the discussion is hitting the wall as the farmers are now stern in their demand of a complete withdrawal of all the three laws. All eyes were on Saturday’s meeting as the farmers earlier said that this was the last chance and the government, on the other hand, assured that a solution will come out after Saturday’s meeting. The meeting assumed much importance as ahead of the meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi was briefed about the current situation. Earlier, Union home minister Amit Shah, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh discussed farmers’ issues. Coming out of the meeting, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait said the government will prepare a new draft and the future course of action will be decided on that. Meanwhile, the Bharat Bandh that the unions have called will be on track, he said. “Government will prepare a draft and give us. They said that they will consult the states too. Discussions were held on MSP too but we said that we should also take up laws and talk about their roll-back. Bharat Bandh (on 8th Dec) will go on as announced,” Tikait said.Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and railways minister Piyush Goyal, who is also in-charge of the food ministry, addressed Saturday’s meeting. Tomar requested senior citizens and children who are at various protesting sites to go home, as the talks between the two sides will be going on. The farmers maintained their stand throughout that they don’t want amendment as the laws, they said, have been designed to make government and corporates benefit, not the farmers. The leaders also said that they are well-equipped to go on with their protest. They will not indulge in any violence. “Intelligence Bureau will inform you what we are doing at the protest site. If the government wants us to stay on road, we have no problem,” a leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-no-breakthrough-yet-next-meeting-to-be-held-on-december-9/story-vey13iUMtYj22PWWxb9sUK.html
05-12-2020||India||Republic TV official, another accused get bail in TRP scam||A court here on Saturday granted bail to Republic TV’s western region distribution head Ghanshyam Singh, arrested last month in the alleged TRP (Television Rating Points) rigging scam.Singh, who is also assistant vice president at Republic Media Network, had been arrested on November 10.The sessions court also granted bail to Vishal Bhandari, a former employee of Hansa Research Agency, who had been arrested on October 8 in the case.The order was passed by judge D S Deshmukh.Also Read | TRP Scam: Hansa Research hid info on commercial interests with TV channels says Mumbai PoliceThe police began to probe the alleged scam after ratings agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) filed a complaint through Hansa about rigging of TRP by some channels.BARC has engaged Hansa to install and maintain barometers which record TV viewership data at sample households on which TRP is based. Advertising revenue of channels depends of the TRP numbers.It was alleged that some of these families were being bribed to tune into certain channels to ramp up their TRP.In a charge sheet filed last week, the police alleged that Bhandari, who was a relationship manager with Hansa, paid money to sample households to tune into Box Cinema, Fakt Marathi, Maha Movie and Republic TV.Republic TV had denied wrongdoing.The police have arrested a total of 12 persons in the case so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-tv-official-another-accused-get-bail-in-trp-scam/story-X4pPzsb3oo65CrK6T5qshK.html
05-12-2020||India||Pakistan opens heavy fire in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch, Kathua||With no let-up in ceasefire violations, Pakistan opened heavy fire along the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch district and along the International Border (IB) in Kathua district on Friday and Saturday, prompting India to hit back in equal measure.“Pakistani Rangers opened fire on forward posts and villages along the International Border in Kathua district,” officials said on Saturday.Firing from across the border started around 9.50 pm on Friday in the Hiranagar sector’s Pansar Border Outpost area, drawing a strong and an effective retaliation by the Border Security Force (BSF), they said.Also read: Top BJP leaders add fuel to speculations of TMC heavyweight switching sidesThe officials said that firing between both the sides continued till 3.35 am, but there was no report of any damage on the Indian side.Pakistani troops also fired for a few minutes in Gurnam and Karol Krishna border outpost areas in the same sector, they said.Pakistan also violated ceasefire in Balakote sector of Poonch district on Saturday, said a defence spokesperson.“At about 1140 hours (11.40 AM) Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and shelling with mortars along the LoC in Balakote sector. Indian Army retaliated befittingly,” he informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-opens-heavy-fire-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-poonch-kathua/story-LWBPlVOmvS24hUrhsyc7zM.html
05-12-2020||India||‘Hats off to all of you’: Diljit Dosanjh visits Singhu border, praises farmers||After extending his support to the cause of the protesting farmers on social media, which led to an ugly spat with actor Kangana Ranaut, singer and actor Diljit Dosanjh on Saturday joined the farmers’ protest at Singhu border and addresses the protesters from the stage. “We have only one request to Centre..please fulfil the demands of our farmers. Everyone is sitting here peacefully and entire country is with farmers,” Diljit said. Diljit’s presence at the gathering was a surprise as Delhi Police said they had no prior information on Diljit as he came to the site from Haryana.WATCH | Farmer protest: Diljit Dosanjh visits Delhi border after Kangana Ranaut fightClick here for live updates farmers’ protestsThe protesting farmers earlier decided that they would not allow any politicians to speak from their platform. Lauding the farmers for embarking on this ‘Dilli Chalo’ protest amid freezing cold, police resistance, the singer said, “farmers have created a new history. This history would be narrated to future generations. Farmers’ issues should not be diverted by anyone.”On Friday, Diljit posted two photos of the farmers’ protest with #standwithfarmerschallange. Rab Da Roop 🙏🏾🙏🏾#farmerProtest #standwithfarmerschallange pic.twitter.com/kaEcZlFHVk Diljit’s visit to the Singhu border comes as the crucial talks between the farmer union leaders and the Central ministers are going on at Vigyan Bhawan. Protests will continue in the peaceful way it has been going on if the Centre doesn’t agree to withdraw the laws, the farmers have already warned. They have also called for a Bharat Bandh on December 8 and threatened to intensify their agitation and block more roads leading to the national capital.The overall protest against the three farm laws that the farmers fear will coporatise farming has gathered steam on Saturday as farmers from Bilaspur, Uttarakhand reached UP-Delhi border.The Centre has reiterated that it is open to address all concerns raised by the farmers. The union leaders too are stern on their point that they won’t settle for anything short of the withdrawal of the laws. They have made it clear that they don’t want any amendment. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar had earlier urged the farmers to withdraw their protests as talks are going on. On Saturday, the minister urged the senior citizen and the children at the protest sites to go home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/diljit-dosanjh-attends-farmers-protest-at-singhu-border-says-entire-country-in-with-farmers/story-ZH4J4LX3NqJ851DBg7RyvI.html
05-12-2020||India||SpiceJet flight undershoots runway in Guwahati; DGCA grounds 2 pilots, pending inquiry||A SpiceJet plane undershot the runway while landing at the Guwahati airport on Friday, but no one was hurt in the incident, senior DGCA officials said. Aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation has grounded the two SpiceJet pilots who were operating the SG960 Bengaluru-Guwahati flight, they said on Saturday. “They (pilots) have been off-rostered. It (matter) is under investigation,” one of the officials told PTI. Officials said that while the plane landed before the designated point on the runway, none of the passengers were affected.ALSO WATCH | Amid cyclone, plane skids off runway in Mumbai  “However, some of the runway lights were damaged while landing the SG960 Bengaluru-Guwahati flight,” an official said. SpiceJet did not respond to PTI’s queries on this matter. It was not clear how many passengers were on board the plane when the incident occurred. The SpiceJet plane, which has registration number VT-SLL, is fit for flying and has conducted multiple flights post the runway incident on Friday, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spicejet-flight-undershoots-runway-in-guwahati-dgca-grounds-2-pilots-pending-inquiry/story-zsmDgaWDXc0ZvWasZ8E0hL.html
05-12-2020||India||Bereaved father seeks Delhi HC’s intervention in bringing back Covid-19 infected son’s body from Jordan||A bereaved father has moved Delhi High Court on Saturday seeking direction to Delhi International Airport Limited to grant permission for repatriation of the body of his son, a migrant labourer who succumbed to Covid-19 on November 4 in Jordan, in accordance with the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) issued by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.Jahiruddin, through his advocate Subhash Chandran KR told the court that his son Abdul Kalam, 26, an Indian Citizen passed away at his workplace in Jordan due to Covid-19. After the intervention of the International Labour Organization (ILO) Jordan office and Embassy of India at Jordan, the employer has agreed to meet the expenses for sending the mortal remains of Kalam to India. Thereafter, Embassy of India completed the formalities for repatriation of Kalam’s remains and Emirates Airline has agreed to carry his body from Amman to Delhi Airport.According to the petition, Lawyers Beyond Borders (LBB) India, an international organization advocating for the rights of migrants made arrangements for receiving, transporting and cremation of the Covid positive dead body with the help of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Sewa Dal (SBS Foundation, Delhi) as per the request of ILO and Embassy of India at Jordan.The petitioner also pointed out the work of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Sewa Dal, a Non-Governmental Organization and said that it has cremated more than 525 Covid positive dead bodies so far adhering to proper corona protocol to handle the bodies.Unfortunately, even after completion of most of the formalities, Embassy of India informed the petitioner that Delhi International Airport Limited authorities have objected for sending the body of Kalam to Delhi Airport.“It is pertinent to mention that staffers at Delhi Airport need not handle the dead body of Abdul Kalam at all as SBS Foundation have already given an undertaking to the concerned authorities for receiving, handling and transportation of the Covid positive body of son of the petitioner. All they need to do is to issue entry passes to 4-5 volunteers from SBS Foundation along with a hearse van/ambulance for receiving the body from airport/cargo/receiving point at Delhi Airport,” the petitioner said.Mentioning that Ministry of Health had issued guidelines and framed Standard Operating Procedure for bringing back mortal remains of Covid-19 patients/suspects into India, the petitioner submitted that Indian airports are already granting permission for transportation of Covid positive bodies in domestic carriers.Henceforth, the petitioner urged the Delhi High Court to issue direction to Delhi International Airport Limited to issue entry pass to hearse van/ambulance along with 4-5 volunteers of SBS Foundation for receiving the body of Abdul Kalam from airport/cargo/receiving point at Delhi Airport in accordance with the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) issued by Ministry of Health & Family Welfare.The petitioner also told the court that through Lawyers Beyond Borders, he sent a memorandum to DIAL requesting for permission to repatriate mortal remains of Abdul Kalam but no reply has been received yet.The matter is likely to be heard next week in the Delhi High Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bereaved-father-seeks-delhi-hc-s-intervention-in-bringing-back-covid-19-infected-son-s-body-from-jordan/story-jL87t24Pjc4oSyzqavoSgO.html
05-12-2020||India||‘Join service only after ensuring self-protection’: Tripura govt doctors appeal co-workers||Protesting against alleged attacks on doctors during their duty and claiming that no safety has been ensured to them, Tripura government doctors made an online appeal to their co-workers to be in service only after ensuring their protection by themselves and withstanding insults by outsiders.The appeal was made after a doctor, Dr Tamal Sarkar was attacked by some people at a hospital in Khowaion Thursday after he refused to visit a patient outside the hospital during his hospital duty hours.The All Tripura Government Doctors’ Association ( ATGDA) made this appeal through social media recently and claimed that as doctors are responsible to cater proper health services to the patients in hospitals, likewise the government has the responsibility to ensure safety to the doctors. They also claimed that such assault on doctors also happened in different hospitals in different times.The doctors’ association asked its members to become mentally prepared to protect themselves as the administration is busy in doing much more vital jobs.Also read: Covid-19 virus type has changed since June, says expert in Pune“You all need to become mentally prepared while working in a government hospital, that anyone can come and slap or punch you anytime for any or no reason. If you silently accept such insult, then do government service. Otherwise, leave the job and join politics, contest elections, do business or open paan shop or any other thing. Your dignity will be maintained. No one will slap you,” the ATGDA wrote on Facebook.“If they are unable to ensure protection to the health workers, then it is our misfortune. We have accepted this misfortune and that’s why we will not appeal for this (safety) to anyone anymore,” said ATGDA.They also said that if the health workers don’t feel secure in their workplace and cannot provide services to the patients, then the hospitals with tiles, modern equipment, medicines and tall speeches could not improve health care services for the people.However, they also added that the government or administration will take legal action against doctors if they are found doing anything wrong or showing negligence towards their duty.Director of Directorate of Health Services Dr Subhasish Debbarma said, “The concerned chief medical officer lodged a case in this regard. He also forwarded a report of the incident to me today (Saturday). We will forward the same to the state government. They will decide their course of action.” However, he said that he is not aware of any such social media post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/join-service-only-after-ensuring-self-protection-tripura-govt-doctors-appeal-co-workers/story-NHbyY0A94CdwlU3DavGLKO.html
05-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: BJP leader G Krishna Reddy hints at secret coalition between AIMIM, TRS and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Owaisi and KCR eat biryani together,’ says Kishan Reddy hinting at AIMIM-TRS Hinting at a secret coalition going on between the Telangana Rashtra Samithi and AIMIM for the mayor and the deputy mayor posts in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, minister of state (home) G Kishan Reddy on Saturday said. Read MoreCovid-19 vaccine update: Bahrain gives nod to Pfizer, India’s purchase will cover 60% population, Moscow begins mass vaccinationAfter the United Kingdom gave nod to the emergency use of Pfizer vaccine, the worldwide race for vaccinating people has become more intense. After the UK, Bahrain has become the second nation in the world to grant an emergency authorisation for Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine. Read More NGT rejects review plea against Mercedes on false emission readingsThe National Green Tribunal (NGT) has junked a plea seeking review of its order dismissing a petition alleging falsification of emission readings by car manufacturer Mercedes-Benz. Read More‘Would you rather be on the beach or gawk at it from space?’ asks NASA while sharing this imageLaying on a beach whilst listening to sounds of the waves crash onto the shore as sea breeze lightly blows through one’s hair sounds ideal. Read MoreSonam Kapoor Ahuja-Anand Ahuja throw romance in the air like confetti and these mushy messages are proofMaking us wonder where our Cupid got struck, Bollywood’s dapper couple Sonam Kapoor Ahuja and Anand Ahuja painted the Internet red with love. Read More‘Very few players come like him’: Mohammad Kaif names India batsman who reminds him of Rahul DravidIrrespective of how a great a modern-day batsman one is, a comparison with Rahul Dravid is considered a big deal. Dravid, one of India’s greatest batsmen of all time, had a stellar India career filled with numerous batting accomplishments, but it was his demeanour that people still remember Dravid for. Read MoreCyclone Burevi: Orange alert issued for four districts in Kerala for Dec 6Cyclone Burevi remained practically stationary for 30 hrs over Tamil Nadu’s Rameswaram. Severe waterlogging was witnessed in Rameswaram & Puducherry following heavy rainfall. Residents of Rameswaram also suffered power outages due to the cyclone. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5pm-bjp-leader-g-krishna-reddy-hints-at-secret-coalition-between-aimim-and-trs-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Pvhosuhv1MUOJxrdBPQrZM.html
05-12-2020||India||A day after theft gang busted, MP police ask villagers to share details of their children||The Madhya Pradesh police on Saturday asked residents of three villages in the state’s Rajgarh district to share details of their children away from their homes or face tough action. This came a day after the Delhi Police busted a gang and arrested five people for having children from the region commit thefts at weddings in the National Capital Region and some other big cities. The gang’s alleged leader, 26, has told investigators the villagers “leased” their children aged between 9 and 15 to them for a year at Rs 10 to 12 lakh for the thefts. The gang would allegedly use them to steal items at weddings. “The gang members used to train these kids to mingle with people at high-profile weddings,” said Delhi police’s additional commissioner Shibesh Singh. He added they have taken two juveniles into custody. A Madhya Pradesh police officer, who did not wish to be named, said over 15 children from three villages left in August and September to join the gang. He added their parents and other villagers refused to accept this. The Madhya Pradesh police were tracing these children. “We are yet to receive any communication from the Delhi Police,” said Bhopal division’s additional director general Upendra Jain. “We have registered six cases against parents in the past two years for giving their kids on annual contract to gangs. Now, we have asked the local police station Pachore in Rajgarh to get all the details of the kids, who are not present in the three villages...We will take tough action against those who will not share details.” He said they were holding a campaign with the help of the district administration to bring these children into the mainstream. “We enrolled them in schools and also counselled their parents. Many people have discontinued this old-age profession of wedding theft but a few people are still involved in the thefts.” Child rights activist Prashant Dubey asked the state government to take more corrective measures to save these kids. “A large number of children are becoming part of these gangs as not only parents but villagers get good money from gangs to keep it secret. The police should maintain a proper record of the kids and others. The regular monitoring of the movement of these kids is very necessary.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-day-after-theft-gang-busted-mp-police-ask-villagers-to-share-details-of-their-children/story-vN8qUMrk7QjuNRei5lh31I.html
05-12-2020||India||Hyderabad, Delhi airports ready for Covid-19 vaccine transportation||With Prime Minister Narendra Modi asserting that a Covid vaccine could be ready within weeks, Delhi and Hyderabad airports’ air cargo services are all set to play a pivotal role in its distribution through state-of-the-art time and temperature-sensitive distribution systems.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19As per the Delhi airport, it has two cargo terminals with world-class infrastructure that provides a GDP (Good Distribution Practice)-certified temperature-controlled facility for handling temperature-sensitive cargo.With the capacity to handle over 1.5 lakh metric tonne cargo per annum, the Delhi airport facility has state-of-the-art temperature-controlled zones with separate cool chambers ranging from -20 degrees to 25 degrees Celsius, which would be extremely conducive for the distribution of the Covid-19 vaccines.Delhi airport authorities said that besides the cool chamber, it also has “cool dollies” at the airside that ensure an unbroken cool chain during temperature-sensitive cargo movement between terminal and aircraft.“The terminals have separate gates dedicated for fast movement of vehicles carrying vaccines in and out of the airport. In line with the Ministry of Civil Aviation’s vision to create metro airports as transshipment hubs, the Delhi airport has set up a dedicated Transshipment Excellence Centre spread over an area of 6,500 square m at the airside that will help in the fast movement of vaccines through transshipment,” a Delhi airport spokesperson stated.The Delhi airport’s QR code-based e-Gate Pass facility will provide an automated process for paper documentation and reduce human interface, thereby making the fast movement of imported vaccine deliveries.Notably, in the recent past, the Delhi airport had acted as a hub to distribute millions of PPE kits across the country. Meanwhile, GMR Hyderabad Air Cargo (GHAC), located at the centre of one of the vaccine production regions in the country, is also a key stakeholder in the global vaccine logistics with facilities such as modern temperature-sensitive pharma and vaccine storage and processing zones.“GMR Hyderabad Air Cargo boasts of India’s first Pharma Zone with GDP-certified temperature-controlled facility for handling temperature-sensitive cargo. The terminal is equipped with various temperature zones from -20 degrees Celsius to 25 degrees Celsius and with state-of-the-art equipment and cool containers to cater to product-specific requirements,” said a Hyderabad airport spokesperson.Also Read | Covid vaccine will be in India within weeks: PM ModiThe spokesperson stated that the freighter parking stands are just 50 m away from the terminal, thereby minimising the ramp exposure timing and ensuring a quick turn around of the aircraft.The airport also recently launched the latest cool dollies to eliminate any temperature excursions and to maintain the unbroken cool chain.The GHAC also boasts of one of India’s largest storage facility for cool containers like envirotainer, c-safe, unicooler, and vaqtainer within its premises to make sure the service is available for customers 24x7.The GHAC has also taken several paperless initiatives like e-reception, e-OOC, e-LEO, e-AWB among others to minimise human interface.During the Covid, the GHAC operated 24x7 to provide unhindered air cargo service delivering medical supplies, and perishables to the frontline warriors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-delhi-airports-ready-for-covid-19-vaccine-transportation/story-VT7nM9XrZBsrh5tbaEiYgN.html
05-12-2020||India||‘Owaisi and KCR eat biryani together,’ says Kishan Reddy, AIMIM says no decision on alliance yet||Hinting at a secret coalition going on between the Telangana Rashtra Samithi and AIMIM for the mayor and the deputy mayor posts in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, minister of state (home) G Kishan Reddy on Saturday said Owaisi and KCR eat biryani together and they fought the elections together too. “Hyderabad is mini Telangana. People showed support and gave blessings to BJP with 48 seats. People are against Asaduddin Owaisi. Neither Owaisi nor KCR nor anyone else can stop BJP from forming govt in 2023,” Reddy said.The TRS has emerged as the single largest party as it won 56 wards but it is still short of 20 wards to claim the stake in GHMC. The BJP stood second with 48 wards and AIMIM finished third with 44 wards. WATCH | GHMC polls: TRS wins 55 seats, BJP emerges 2nd largest party, secures 48 seats Reports said talks have begun between the parties and Kishan Reddy alleged that KCR has planned a meeting at his home to figure out the way ahead with the AIMIM. If there is an alliance between the TRS and the AIMIM, then it won’t be the first time for GHMC. In 2010, Congress and AIMIM shared the mayor post for two years each. This time, the mayor post is reserved for a woman candidate.However, Owaisi said his party has not decided anything on mayor and deputy mayor election. “Until the State Election Commission does not officially declare the result of the 150 wards in the municipal elections, the question of the mayor and the deputy mayor does not arise. Our party still has not discussed this matter,” Owaisi said.Though AIMIM contested against the TRS, am alliance between the two in which the TRS may get to keep the mayor post and the AIMIM may get the deputy mayor post is possible. Owaisi too praises KCR and TRS after the announcement of the results on Friday as he said, “TRS in our opposition but in Telangana, it is a formidable political party, it has to be accepted. It represents the regional sentiment of Telangana. I am sure K Chandrashekar Rao will review the party’s performance in these elections. I am sure he will be a big challenge for the BJP.”On Saturday too, Owaisi heaped praises on KCR as he said, “GHMC is a part of Telangana but mainland Telangana has a regional aspiration with a different political demography. KCR reflects all of these. TRS is a formidable force in mainland Telangana. KCR should think about the result. He’s an able politician.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/owaisi-and-kcr-eat-biryani-together-says-kishan-reddy-hinting-at-trs-aimim-alliance/story-PKIDa3ADY1xGHtomGNa4RK.html
05-12-2020||India||Row over naming of Kerala science institute campus after RSS ideologue||Kerala’s ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist), or CPI(M), and opposition Congress have opposed the move to name the new campus of Thiruvananthapuram’s Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology (RGCB) after Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) ideologue Madhav Sadashiv Golwalkar and have demanded that it be named after some well-known scientist. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Friday said the first phase of the premier research centre’s new campus was ready and it will be named after Golwalkar, who headed the RSS until the 1970s. RSS is the ideological fountainhead of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the ruling party at the Centre.“Golwalkar’s main contribution was hatred and division. We want the institute to be named after a senior scientist or some other national leaders,” said CPI (M) leader M A Baby.The Left has suggested the new campus be named after Dr Palpu, who was the chief medical officer of the erstwhile Mysore kingdom. Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala said he has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him to have the new campus also named after late former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. “It is big paradox that a research institution is named after the ideologue of an organisation that was responsible for many riots in the country,” he said.Shashi Tharoor, the Congress member of Parliament from Thiruvananthapuram, has also opposed the move.Congress lawmaker K S Sabarinathan said the Sangh Parivar—RSS and its affiliated bodies—is on a name-changing spree. “Many cities in North India have been renamed under its diktats. The same ploy is being used here. We will oppose it.” He said former chief ministers K Karunakaran and A K Antony toiled to set up the RGCB two decades ago and it was unfair to name the new campus after Golwalkar. The BJP has justified the decision saying there is no written agreement that all major institutions should be named after either India’s first prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru or the Gandhi family members. “Let the world know there are many national heroes,” said BJP leader Sandeep Warrier. “Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel was not a BJP or RSS leader. Modi took the initiative to build a befitting memorial to the tall leader [in Gujarat]. There is only a flyover in the name of P V Narasimha Rao, who ruled the country at a critical juncture [in the 1990s],” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/row-over-naming-of-kerala-science-institute-campus-after-rss-ideologue/story-lKNARf20wRnEeEbqwermCP.html
05-12-2020||India||Cong says several BJP leaders are associated with actor Rajinikanth’s political party||The Congress said on Saturday it’s too early to make an assessment on the likely impact of Rajinikanth’s party in poll-bound Tamil Nadu, citing lack of clarity on ideology, programme and electoral roadmap of the proposed outfit.The party’s in-charge of Tamil Nadu affairs, Dinesh Gundu Rao also claimed that “many of the BJP people” are associated with the Tamil superstar now.He said Rajinikanth’s party is not yet registered, his proposed outfit’s ideology and programme are not known and there is no clarity on whether it will fight next year’s Assembly polls in Tamil Nadu independently or strike an electoral alliance.“Once that clarity comes, we will be able to assess (the possible political impact of the party); right now, it’s too early to say”, the former Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee President told PTI.“What is his party structure, what exactly he is going to do, no body knows”, the Karnataka MLA and a former State Minister said.“Till then, how can we judge anything?” “Is he going to be with the BJP... what he wants to do...that all has to be seen”, the son former Chief Minister late R Gundu Rao added.Rajinikanth announced on Thursday he would launch a political party in January 2021 to contest in the Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-says-several-bjp-leaders-are-associated-with-actor-rajinikanth-s-political-party/story-rGt9PeAn2pgpBmM31su0TK.html
05-12-2020||India||‘Govt will benefit from farm laws, not us’: Farmers’ leaders at meeting with centre||As the deadlock over contentious farm laws entered ninth day on Saturday, farmers’ leaders and government are holding a fifth round of talks at Vigyan Bhavan, Delhi. During the meeting, the farmers insisted on a commitment from the government’s side while asserting that they “don’t want any further discussion and want to know what they have decided,” news agency ANI reported.“We have material with us to last a year. We’ve been on road for past several days. If government wants us to stay on road, we’ve no problem. We won’t take path of non-violence,” news agency ANI quoted farmer leaders as saying at the meeting.ALSO WATCH | Farmer protest: Parliament gherao threat amid talks; PM Modi meets ministers“We do not want corporate farming. The government will benefit from this law, not the farmer,” they also said, as per ANI report.Thousands of farmers from Haryana and Punjab are protesting in and around Delhi against the three farm laws, passed by Parliament in September. While the Central government has assured that the laws are in favour of the agriculture sector, farmers have raised concerns regarding the Minimum Support Price (MSP). They also fear that after these laws will leave them at the mercy of big corporates.Click here for live updates farmers’ protestsBefore Saturday’s talks, four rounds of negotiations have taken place between Union ministers and farmers’ representatives. Among them, two rounds of talks took place amid the ongoing protests. So far, the talks have been inconclusive.However, the Centre did agree to review the recently enacted legislation and bring amendments if required to address the farmers’ demands after Thursday’s discussion. The farmers, however, said that they did not want amendments to the new laws but want them rolled back entirely.The farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Meanwhile, the agitating farmers called for a ‘Bharat Bandh’, a nationwide strike, on December 8 where they said they will block all toll plazas and roads leading to Delhi.The call for the Bharat Bandh was supported by various other farmers’ organisations. Hannan Mollah, general secretary of All India Kisan Sabha, said, “We need to take this protest forward.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-want-any-further-discussion-farmers-leaders-ask-centre-its-decision-over-farm-laws/story-nM7hVy7ejpTJMvBCY3yuPM.html
05-12-2020||India||JD(U) leader who was a former village head shot dead||Ruling Janata Dal (United) functionary Rajesh Kumar Raman, who was a former village head, was shot dead in Bihar’s Bhagalpur district on Friday evening. Raman’s supporters said they caught one of the assailants, Ratan Kumar Shah, and lynched him. Shah’s post-mortem report suggested he died of two bullet injuries. Police said Raman earlier survived an attack in November 2019. Bhagalpur senior police superintendent Ashish Bharti said raids were on in Munger and Khagaria to nab the accused. He added it would be premature to comment on the motive behind the killing as police were investigating the matter. Bharti did not rule out the involvement of hired assassins.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jd-u-leader-who-was-a-former-village-head-shot-dead/story-lMgZ5rsHzZpdl7KjgjjGGI.html
05-12-2020||India||Youth ready to contribute for self-reliant J-K, says LG Manoj Sinha||Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Saturday said that the youth is ready to become entrepreneurs and contribute for self-reliant Jammu and Kashmir.Delivering a keynote address at the IIT-2020 Global Summit, organised by PanIIT USA, he also said that growth prospects depend on inclusive, people-centric policies to create sustainable development.“The young population is ready to be an entrepreneur and contribute to ‘AatmNirbhar Jammu Kashmir’. We have a conducive environment, a robust grass-root democratic system and talented young men and women armed with new ideas to set up innovative business and services,” he said.“We are devising new path, new policies, new technological tools to strengthen our business ecosystem for the post-pandemic world,” he said.The Lieutenant Governor also suggested four mantras for the ‘Present’ and a ‘New Future’-Peace, Progress, Prosperity and People-First.“In order to create sustainable development, our growth prospects must depend on policies that are inclusive, people-centric. We are nourishing our business ecosystem to life and engineering the sustainable future,” he added.Sinha said now that we are becoming a ‘remote society’ in which virtual is the new normal, there is a hasten demand for closer cooperation between the academia and the industry.“In India we have an oasis of talent, it may look like a small drop on the global stage, but they are tributaries of a great river of technology innovation and evolution. IITs and IITians have again demonstrated their capabilities by coming up with innovative solutions to tackle Covid,” he said.He further emphasised that the ‘appetite for solutions’ that is in harmony with nature and humankind is much more today to ‘facilitate the smoother transformation from withering away pre-covid to post-covid era world is eagerly awaiting for’.The Lieutenant Governor said that the world economy would require an extensive focus on at least 6 sectors- Infrastructure, Services, Industries, Start-ups, Agriculture and Technology where new entrepreneurs would need handholding and other assistance.“The industry sector in today’s environment requires a new language - of re-engineering, of creative solutions, of transforming small and medium enterprises,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/youth-ready-to-contribute-for-self-reliant-j-k-says-lg-manoj-sinha/story-bGTuvwBd2qyDnNqkmKHYkJ.html
05-12-2020||India||Several AAP members in Goa resign alleging interference from Delhi||Amidst allegations of ‘undue’ interference by the team deputed from Delhi to Goa, Elvis Gomes, the former state convenor of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), party leader Sidharth Karapurkar, and several other core group members resigned from the primary membership of the party on Friday.While tendering his resignation, Gomes alleged that AAP despite opposition from within the party is compromising on the core values it propagated.“For the past two months, we had problems with how the Goa unit of AAP was running with a team from Delhi camping here. We were having a problem working on the instructions of the Delhi unit. We feel that for running a party, autonomy should be given to the regional units. We were told that ‘Swaraj’ is the voice of the people, but there is no ‘Swaraj’ in getting instructions,” said Gomez told reporters.He said that with him, various regional teams have also resigned from their primary membership because AAP is not following the values it stood for.“We were influenced by the India Against Corruption movement, but now they are taking in people facing criminal charges. The people who joined voluntarily in 2016 were all honest people. They came to the party for the message of no corruption, no criminalisation, and no communalisation,” he stated.Gomez added that things were going smooth with the party in Goa, and then the team from Delhi came and started working without taking them into confidence.“Then it felt like there were two units of the party working independently in the state. Our volunteers have tried to resolve the issues. They met the senior national leaders and also wrote to them, but when any satisfactory answers were not given, we resigned,” he stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/several-aap-members-in-goa-resign-alleging-interference-from-delhi/story-p7K4qz4AHeHLbqGj3MjjWJ.html
05-12-2020||India||Proposal to commute Rajoana’s sentence yet to be sent to President, Centre tells SC||Fourteen months after it declared that Balwant Singh Rajoana will not hang in former Punjab chief minister Beant Singh’s assassination case, the central government has revealed in the Supreme Court that the papers related to the commuting of the sentence are yet to be placed before the President of India. Additional solicitor general KM Nataraj informed a top court bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, that the file was yet to be sent by the Cabinet to the President for granting Rajoana pardon under Article 72 of the Constitution, despite a recommendation of the ministry of home affairs (MHA) to the effect in September 2019. Article 72 empowers the President to grant pardons and issue other orders to suspend or remit the remaining part of the sentence of convicts. Beant Singh and at least 16 others were killed in an explosion outside the Civil Secretariat in Chandigarh in 1995. Rajoana was sentenced to death in 2007 by a special court. While he refused to file a mercy petition, Shiromani Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee (SGPC), the apex religious body of the Sikhs, filed a petition on his behalf before the President in 2014. The decision to commute his death penalty was taken ahead of the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev in 2019, but with the decision yet to be implemented, Rajoana moved the Supreme Court in September this year, asking for clarity. In the apex court, ASG Nataraj submitted: “No decision has gone to the President. The Cabinet has to send the file to the President but it hasn’t happened so far.” He pointed out that appeals by some of the other convicts in the former CM’s murder case are still pending in the top court. Unconvinced by this submission, the bench said that someone in the government seems to be “highly mistaken” that appeals by other convicts have anything to do with Rajoana’s clemency. “This petitioner has not filed an appeal in this court. Your letter in September 2019 to the Punjab government says that commutation has to be processed under Article 72 which has nothing to do with pendency of any appeal. You answer a question in law. Once the central government has decided to commute the death sentence, it had to proceed,” the bench told the law officer. It emphasised that a deputy secretary in the MHA must have written to the Punjab government’s chief secretary about the decision to commute only after such a decision was taken by someone competent. “Now we are asking you why has this not been processed so far? Your argument about pending appeals by others is untenable. If you have communicated to Punjab that you have commuted his sentence on Guru Nanak Jayanti, it means you have already decided to do it,” added the court.Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, representing Rajoana, pressed for an early hearing since the convict has been in jail for more than 25 years now. The court accepted his request and fixed the matter for a hearing in the first week of January.Former SGPC president Bhai Gobind Singh Longowal and its honorary chief secretary Harjinder Singh, criticised the government for dragging its feet in spite of publicly announcing the decision to commute his death sentence. “SGPC has been repeatedly making requests to all authorities in the government to end this injustice but nothing seems to be moving while Rajoana’s sufferings prolong. SGPC is providing the best legal assistance to him and we hope the Supreme Court will come to his rescue,” they told HT||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/proposal-to-commute-rajoana-s-sentence-yet-to-be-sent-to-president-centre-tells-sc/story-p7IK8MtQpe7J8x1OyMKcvJ.html
05-12-2020||India||We want ‘natural death’ of TMC, don’t want President’s Rule in West Bengal: BJP leader||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Samik Bhattacharya said his party do not want President’s Rule to be imposed in West Bengal, adding that they want “natural death” of the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC). “We don’t want Article 356 (President’s Rule) in West Bengal. It is Mamata Banerjee and her party who are inviting Article 356. We want the natural death of the TMC and in 2021, this will happen as the people of Bengal desperately want BJP,” Bhattacharya said. Earlier, BJP MP Saumitra Khan has said there is a possibility that Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar may ask Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to prove the majority in the state Assembly.“The Governor may all of a sudden ask Chief Minister to prove the 149 figure (majority). There is a possibility,” Khan said at an event here on November 28.Over the past several months, Dhankhar has been at loggerheads with Banerjee over several issues. Banerjee had earlier also accused Dhankhar of running a “parallel administration” in the state.The BJP made deep inroads in West Bengal winning 18 parliamentary seats in the state 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Several TMC leaders have also joined the BJP ahead of the 2021 Assembly polls.In 2016, the Trinamool Congress had bagged a total of 211 seats in the 294-member state Assembly while BJP could win only three.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-want-natural-death-of-tmc-don-t-want-president-s-rule-in-west-bengal-bjp-leader/story-zwioQmPC6J21Sg5yeOXMhI.html
05-12-2020||India||Khalistan Liberation Force narco-terror case: NIA files supplementary chargesheet||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday filed a supplementary charge-sheet in Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF) Narco-terror case in the NIA Special Court, Punjab’s Mohali.The agency filed the charge-sheet against “narco-terrorist” Dharminder Singh alias Dhana (32) under sections 120B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), sections 25, 27, 27A and 29 of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985.“The accused used to receive Heroin smuggled from Pakistan from accused Jajbir Singh Samra and further distribute/sell it to local traffickers. The proceeds so generated used to be deposited with Jajbir Singh for further strengthening the activities of KLF,” NIA said in a release.Earlier, a charge-sheet was filed on May 29 against ten accused persons namely Jajbir Singh Samra, Harpreet Singh, Varinder Singh Chahal, Nirmal Singh alias Neeldhari, Satpal Singh, Hiralal, Harjit Singh alias Bagga, Jasmeet Singh Hakimzada, Harmeet Singh and Jasbir Singh alias Shera under sections 120B of IPC, Sections 13, 17, 18 & 40 of UA (P) Act, Section 21, 25, 27 A, 29 of NDPS Act in the Special NIA Court, Mohali, Punjab.According to the NIA release, the case arose out of PS Tarsikka, Amritsar (Rural) FIR no. 75 dated May 31, 2020, under sections 21 and 29 of NDPS Act. “It pertains to the seizure of 500 gms of Heroin and drug money Rs 1.20 lakh on 31.05.2020 from accused Jajbir Singh Samra and two others.The case was re-registered by NIA on January 22, 2020, and an investigation was taken up.“Role of Harmeet Singh alias PhD, Pakistan-based self-styled Chief of Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF) and Jasmeet Singh Hakimzada, a Dubai-based international drugs smuggler and money launderer, has prominently emerged in running a Narco-terror network to strengthen the terrorist activities of KLF.The NIA investigation has revealed that a network of persons consisting of narco-traffickers, militant elements and Hawala Operatives based in Punjab, Delhi and Dubai was operating at the behest of Harmeet Singh and Jasmeet Singh Hakimzada.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/khalistan-liberation-force-narco-terror-case-nia-files-supplementary-chargesheet/story-vUrpFVooYUhRcmWS0Y5iQM.html
05-12-2020||India||Draw definite plan for labourers’ rehab: HC tells MP govt||The Madhya Pradesh High Court has directed the state government to draw a definite plan to rehabilitate the migrant workers, who returned to the state after being rendered jobless during pandemic Covid-19 outbreak.It also expressed dissatisfaction over the information provided by the state government about the steps it has taken for these labourers.A division bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Sanjay Yadav and Justice V K Shukla gave the direction on Friday.“We are not satisfied by the chart produced by the state and its functionaries. Instead, they are required to draw out a definite plan to rehabilitate these migrated labourers so that they can earn livelihood in their home state,” the court said in its order.“Let the needful be done by the next date (of hearing) along with the status report qua other facilities that are being extended to the labourers, who have been identified for extending benefits under respective schemes,” it said.The court’s direction came after a social organisation raised objection to the way the government filed a reply to its petition, the petitioner’s counsel Shanno S Khan counsel said.The government’s reply carried only a chart and some information, but there were no details about the nature of job provided to the labourers, who are natives of Madhya Pradesh, and returned home during the coronavirus-induced lockdown, she added.The government’s reply stated that there are about 7,40,440 migrant labourers registered during the pandemic and employment was given to 44,634 of them, the counsel said.“There are no details about various welfare schemes meant for the labourers, including provision of loan under Centre/state schemes and how many labourers got benefit of MNREGA,” Khan added.Social organisation Bandhua Mukti Morcha had filed the petition seeking direction to the state government to grant relief to the labourers, who returned to MP from other states during the pandemic.The court has fixed the next date of hearing for January 18, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/draw-definite-plan-for-labourers-rehab-hc-tells-mp-govt/story-7eRbxhVIJmuz7zePrQee8O.html
05-12-2020||India||Plea in Supreme Court seeks refund of‘exorbitant money’ charged for RT-PCR tests||A plea was filed on Saturday in the Supreme Court seeking a direction to the Centre to ensure refund of “exorbitant” amounts charged by private labs and hospitals for conducting Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) tests to detect Covid-19. The interim application has been filed by lawyer and The Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP) leader Ajay Agrawal in his pending Public Interest Litigation(PIL), in which he had sought fixing of uniform rate of Rs 400 across India, as done by Odisha, for the RT-PCR test. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, on November 24, had issued notice to the Union Health Ministry on Agrawal’s PIL and had sought its response within two weeks. The fresh plea said that when hospitals and laboratories were charging Rs 4,500 for the test, the actual cost, including that of the testing kit, was between Rs 800 to Rs 1,200, and even now, “exorbitant rates” are being charged in various states when the total cost incurred is about Rs 200 only. “This exorbitant over and above amount charged from poor and innocent people of this country needs to be refunded immediately as it is not only unrealistic and unreasonable but shocking. “In a country like India where crores of people are living Below Poverty Line and the country’s GDP has gone down to minus 23.9 per cent (-23.09 per cent) during the lockdown period, and therefore, this over charged amount be refunded to the affected people forthwith,” it said. The exorbitant money taken from the people is nothing but extortion and the responsible persons be punished and the excess amount be refunded at the earliest, it said. The plea said that Odisha has fixed Rs 400 as the maximum rate for RT-PCR test after examining and analysing all aspects. “For the last several months these private labs and hospitals were looting the poor people of this country. Like in Delhi the notification was issued on 18.6.2020 fixing the maximum rate Rs 2400 and the cost of the kit and other things used in the test has gone down in the month of April-May itself, at the rate which is available at present,” it said. Agrawal, in his PIL in which the interim plea has been filed, had sought direction for fixing the maximum rate as Rs 400 for RT-PCR test for Covid-19 uniformly all over India. While issuing the notice, the top court had said that the PIL would be heard with another pending plea of Sachin Jain pertaining to the cost of treatment for Covid-19. “There is no other cost as the machines used for the RT-PCR test are already there with the laboratories as they conduct a large number of tests. And the matter is concerned with 135 crore citizen of the country as everybody is worried about the coronavirus and forced to get their test done at this exorbitant price,” the PIL said. The plea alleged that the owners of the private laboratories and hospitals are using the calamity into opportunities for minting crores and crores of rupees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-in-supreme-court-seeks-refund-of-exorbitant-money-charged-for-rt-pcr-tests/story-HDlcmtdWMcNEuduvqz1TnK.html
05-12-2020||India||Maharashtra forms five-lawyer panel for coordination on Maratha quota||The Maharashtra government has set up a coordination committee of five lawyers in connection with the hearing before the five-judge Constitution bench of the Supreme Court regarding lifting of interim stay on the Maratha quota.State PWD Minister and Congress leader Ashok Chavan, who heads the cabinet sub-committee on Maratha quota, said this in a statement issued on Saturday.He said that as per the state’s demand for vacation of the interim stay on Maratha reservation, the top court’s Constitution bench will hear the government’s petition on December 9 at 2 pm.“If members of the Maratha community, historians, researchers wish to give suggestions,they should communicate with this coordination committee of lawyers. It will study the suggestions and forward them to the government lawyers appearing in court,” Chavan said.In September this year, the Supreme Court had stayed the implementation of Maharashtra’s 2018 law Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act that granted 16 per cent quota to the Maratha community.The government had filed an application seeking vacation of the apex court’s stay amid protests from pro-quota organisations.The Bombay High Court, while upholding the Act, had earlier said that 16 per cent reservation was not justified and that the quota shouldn’t exceed 12 per cent in jobs and 13 per cent in admissions to educational institutions.The Supreme Court had said that appeals challenging the high court order were required to be considered by a larger bench. Accordingly, the hearing will take place before a five-judge Constitution bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-forms-five-lawyer-panel-for-coordination-on-maratha-quota/story-51FJ06BKO6n5nWhG74B3CO.html
05-12-2020||India||Stop commenting on our leadership if you want stable govt: Cong leader to Maha allies||The Congress on Saturday appealed to its allies in the ruling Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) to refrain from commenting on the party’s leadership if they want a “stable” government in the state. Congress’s state working president Yashomati Thakur, who is also a minister, made the appeal after Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar said Rahul Gandhi’s leadership seems to lack “consistency”. Pawar’s remarks came in an interview with Marathi daily Lokmat. In a series of tweets in English and Marathi, Thakur referred to interviews and articles of MVA leaders. “…I must appeal colleagues in MVA if you want stable govt in Maharashtra, then stop commenting leadership of Congress. Everybody should follow the basic rules of the coalition. Our leadership is very strong and stable,” said Thakur. “Formation of MVA is the result of our strong belief in democratic values,” she said. NCP and Shiv Sena leaders have played down Pawar’s remarks saying they have no connection with the stability of the three-party state government. NCP spokesman Umesh Patil said Pawar’s statement must be taken positively looking at his age and experience. “Thakur’s comment on the stability of the government is unnecessary. There is good coordination within the MVA. Just recently, we saw celebrations on the first anniversary [of the government]. The alliance registered wins in the [legislative] council elections [on Friday].” Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said whatever Pawar might have said about Rahul Gandhi has nothing to do with the stability of the MVA government. “I have always stood behind Rahul Gandhi when his leadership was being damaged. Sharad Pawar is a tall leader. The opposition parties in the country consider Pawar their leader. When an experienced leader like him says something, it must be viewed as directions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stop-commenting-on-our-leadership-if-you-want-stable-govt-cong-leader-to-maha-allies/story-NsaT9Vll5FyO2lGfqF2NlN.html
05-12-2020||India||India’s active Covid-19 caseload at 409,689 lowest in over 4 months||With a one-day jump of 36,652 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), India’s infection tally has surpassed 9.6 million while as many as 9,058,822 people have recovered pushing the recovery rate to 94.20%, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s daily bulletin on Saturday. Reviving hopes for a return to “normalcy”, the country’s active caseload has dropped below 0.41 million. Of the total 9,608,211 total confirmed cases in India, only 409,689 are active, which means the active caseload stands at 4.35%.“India’s total active caseload has dropped below 4.10 lakh (4,09,689) today. This is the lowest after 136 days. The total active cases were 4,11,133, on July 22,” the health ministry said in a statement.Also, the daily new recoveries recorded in the country have been more than the everyday cases registered from the last eight days, the ministry added. A total of 42,533 people has recovered and/or been discharged from Covid-19 designated hospitals in the last 24 hours. The rising recoveries have also improved the recovery rate to 94.28%, according to the health ministry. “The gap between recovered cases and active cases is nearing 86.50 lakh and presently, stands at 8,649,133,” the statement said.The drop in active cases comes at a time when Prime Minister Narendra Modi said India is set to get a Covid-19 vaccine within weeks. While briefing an all-party meeting on the preparations for “cheap and safe” Made in India vaccines, PM Modi assured the political leaders that immunisation would start as soon as scientists give a go-ahead.“There are 8 potential vaccines at different stages of trials and their production will be in India. Three indigenous vaccines are also at different levels of trials. Experts believe it will not be a long wait for a Covid vaccine. It is believed that in the next few weeks, a Covid vaccine will be ready. As soon as scientists give the green signal, immunisation will start in India,” the PM at the virtual meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-active-covid-19-caseload-at-409-689-lowest-in-over-4-months/story-lbrQsOtkKcWT7Qcg9lMZdM.html
05-12-2020||India||Traders down shutters, feel the heat as Delhi border blockade continues||As thousands of farmers continued to camp on Delhi’s borders demanding the withdrawal of the three farm laws passed in September, traders and shopkeepers around the protest sites have expressed concerns over the mounting losses and said the government should intervene to resolve the impasse at the earliest. Rampal, a motor mechanic whose workshop is located next to the protest site at the Singhu border, said he has been working on machines he got before the protests began and his new customers are only the farmers. “I have decided not to take any money from them. In fact, I leave my shop open through the night and go home so that if any farmer needs to use the tools, they do not have to return disappointed,” he said. Ajeet, who sells snacks and soft drinks at the Singhu border, said his daily business has shrunk to Rs 2,000-3,000 from Rs 10-15,000. “If this continues for long, how will we pay the rent this month? The farmers are protesting for their cause and we should not bear the brunt. The government should immediately break this deadlock,” he said. Most businesses around Rampal’s workshop and Ajeet’s shop have remained closed for days. These include banks, alcohol shops, offices of property dealers, restaurants and outlets that do not cater to the farmers. Shyam Singh, the chief caretaker of Cost To Cost, an outlet selling branded clothes and electronic goods, said that most employees have been sent on leave. The outlet has placed a large hoarding outside its gates to ensure outsiders do not get a view of the premises. “We live in constant fear of the protests turning violent, but fortunately nothing has happened after the first day,” he said. Among businesses that have remained open are primarily small eateries and those catering to farmers’ needs. The scene is quite similar at the Tikri border. There are six fuel stations around the protest site and though they have remained open, there are hardly any sales. Neeraj Verma, an employee at a petrol pump in Tikri, said the only customers he receives are farmers themselves or local motorcyclists managing to find their way to the station. A showroom of Maruti Suzuki has remained closed since day one of the protests. “Cars have been promised to customers but they are not able to take delivery,” said Bhupender Negi, a cashier at the showroom. Near the Tikri protest site is the busy Hira Market. Shops in one row are in Delhi and those on the opposite side are in Haryana. Businesses on both sides have suffered. Tarun Gupta, a grocery wholesaler, said he had just begun recovering from the losses incurred during the Covid-19 lockdown when his business was jolted again. “We hear that farmers intend to stay here for months. We will be destroyed. My business is just 10% of what it was before the protests,” said Gupta. Right across his shop, a garments store is getting customers—mostly farmers. “Earlier we would get customers travelling on the highway. Now, only those on motorcycles or on foot are able to access our shop. People are worried about venturing into this market,” said Rahul Mishra, an employee at the store. “When we fell short of essential items, these shopkeepers stood for us. We wish our protest did not harm these businesses, but the government would not agree to our demands otherwise,” said Hardeep Singh, a farmer. He said he would take back some clothes home as “mementos”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/traders-down-shutters-feel-the-heat-as-delhi-border-blockade-continues/story-N8wmLH4FjrE1nu8P5RsaHI.html
05-12-2020||India||Kamal Haasan criticises government inquiry on Anna University VC||Actor-turned-politician Kamal Haasan on Saturday backed Anna University vice-chancellor M K Surappa, who is facing a probe over corruption charges. “When he was appointed, we did raise questions if no one else is qualified in Tamil Nadu for this post,” said Haasan. “That question remains but Surappa is an honest man who is being hunted down for his honesty”. He added his party Makkal Needhi Maiam would not be mute spectators even though they “may differ with Surappa’s political ideology”. The Tamil Nadu government last month asked retired high court judge P Kalaiyarasan to look into charges of financial irregularities and malpractices against Surappa. “They have formed an inquiry commission based on an anonymous letter written by a coward,” said Haasan. Surappa has said the government should have checked with him before ordering the inquiry since the complaints were anonymous.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kamal-haasan-criticises-government-inquiry-on-anna-university-vc/story-rzss2uw0NeEnUqD3qGi8GJ.html
05-12-2020||India||BJP govt only understands language of street protests, says Congress leader Adhir Chowdhury on farmers stir||Ahead of the farmers scheduled meeting with the Union ministers on new farm laws, senior Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Saturday said the BJP-led government at the centre only understands language of street protests. He said the party had sought more consultation and scrutiny of the legislations through Parliament Standing Committee, but the plea was turned down and instead Congress MPs were suspended from Parliament when they opposed it. “When Congress opposed the anti-farmers Bills, the ruling party accused us of undermining the interest of farmers, and even suspended our members in Parliament when division was sought before clearance of the legislations,” Chowdhury,leader of the Congress party in the Lok Sabha, said in a series of tweets. “Now the same government has been forced to bow down and concede to demands of the farmers in a very reluctant manner,” he said. The Congress leader said the present central government only understands the language of agitation.Also Read | Stalin stages protest against farm laws in Tamil Nadu “Now the same government has been eager for more discussion with the agitators...government only understands the language of agitation on the streets,” he said. Farmers are scheduled to meet Union ministers for the fifth-round of talks on the new farm laws Saturday after the government conveyed its proposals or concessions which it can offer to them, sources said. Ahead of the crucial meeting with the protesting farmer organisations, Union ministers, including Rajnath Singh and Amit Shah, met Prime Minister Narendra Modi to deliberate over proposals likely to be made to the agitating groups, they said. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Railway Minister Piyush Goyal were also present in the meeting with the prime minister.The fourth-round of talks between the government and the agitating farmer unions Thursday had failed to end the standoff over the new farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-govt-only-understands-language-of-street-protests-says-congress-leader-adhir-chowdhury-on-farmers-stir/story-bO3P2apphXOJi7P04Oy4PL.html
05-12-2020||India||Villagers in Chhattisgarh district protest over mining nod, arrest of 6 tribals||Thousands of farmers have been staging a sit-in in Chhattisgarh’s Naryanpur district over mining permission given to a company and against the arrest of six tribals last week. They blocked a road, which connects Narayanpur district headquarters to Abujmaad forest, on Friday. Tribal leaders of the Bastar region have supported the protest and demanded an immediate release of the six alleged Maoists. Tribal leader Arvind Netam, who met the protestors, said the area comes under a reserve forest and hence permission should not have been granted. “Thousands of trees will be cut if the mining starts… the permission should be taken back,” said Netam. Netam alleged six innocent tribals have been arrested and they should be released immediately. Dasharatha Kashyap, a member of a tribal organisation, said the mining lease was granted without consulting the local village council. He added it is a serious issue. “The tribals are protesting to save their water, forest, and land. The government will have to accept their demands… otherwise, [the protest] will continue,” said Kashyap. Narayanpur district collector Abhijit Singh said he has not received any demand in writing yet. “We have provided food and drinking water to the protestors and they have been allowed to meet the six arrested tribals. A team of administrators will meet them today [Saturday],” he said. Police superintendent Mohit Garg said the protest site is remote and blamed Maoists for forcing about 2,000 tribals to protest. “The villagers have been forced to join from as far as the Maharashtra border, Bijapur, Sukma, Dantewara.” He said the six arrested tribals were actively involved in planting IEDs. “…Maoists have lost their crucial supply line and safe haven and that is why they are agitated and forcing people to protest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/villagers-in-chhattisgarh-district-protest-over-mining-nod-arrest-of-6-tribals/story-lqfbcSmh0AtixR8cU0hPUK.html
05-12-2020||India||Safety primary criteria in vaccine development: Covaxin maker Bharat Biotech after Anil Vij contracts Covid-19||Covaxin, the vaccine indigenously developed by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited, is currently the most promising among the candidates in the country. Bharat Biotech recently announced the beginning of Phase 3 trials of Covaxin among 26,000 volunteers across 25 sites in partnership with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). It is the largest clinical trial conducted for a Covid-19 vaccine in India.“Safety is our primary criteria in vaccine development. Inactivated vaccines technology has delivered the safest form of vaccines for the past several decades, as apposed other new and unproven technologies. The vero cell manufacturing platform used for COVAXIN has delivered more than 300 million doses till date, with an excellent safety track record,” the company said in a statement on Saturday.The statement came after Haryana health minister Anil Vij tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and was admitted to a hospital. Vij, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader, volunteered to be a part of the third phase trial of Covaxin, which started in Haryana on November 20. He was administered a trial dose but it’s not immediately clear whether he was given the vaccine candidate during the trial or a placebo.Here’s everything you need to know about Covaxin and its trial phases:1. The Phase 3 trials of Covaxin is the only efficacy trial being conducted in India for Covid-19 vaccines, to determine its suitability to the diverse Indian population.2. Trial volunteers will receive two intramuscular injections approximately 28 days apart. The vaccine efficacy will be determined 14 days after the second dose. The trial is double-blinded and randomised — the investigators, participants and the company will not be aware of who is assigned to which group — where 50% of subjects will receive the vaccine and 50% of subjects will receive a placebo.3. Covaxin has been evaluated in approximately 1,000 subjects in Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials, with promising safety and immunogenicity data. Volunteers who wish to participate in this trial should be over 18 years of age.4. In case of any adverse event, the reporting process is as per CDSCO-DCGI guidelines according to which volunteers can contact the principal investigator at the site or during active follow up. The principal investigator determines the severity of the adverse event after which reports are submitted to site Ethics Committees, CDSCO-DCGI, Data Safety Monitoring Board and Sponsor.Click her for the complete coverage of the Coronavirus pandemic5. Bharat Biotech, the company which is developing Covaxin, has in two decades conducted more than 80 clinical trials, across 18 countries, in 600,000 subjects and has supplied more than 4 billion doses, to more than 80 countries. Bharat Biotech is one of the few companies to conduct human challenge studies at Oxford University, United Kingdom. The company is also conducting other clinical trials in the US and the UK. 6. In India, the Phase 3 trials of India’s first Covid-19 vaccine have begun in Haryana, Delhi, West Bengal, Gujarat, Odisha and Madhya PradeshBesides the Hyderabad-based firm’s Covaxin in the country, four other potential vaccines are under various phases of the human clinical trial. Serum Institute of India is conducting Phase 3 trial of the Oxford-Astrazeneca Covid-19 vaccine and the indigenously developed vaccine by Zydus Cadila has completed Phase 2 trial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/safety-primary-criteria-in-vaccine-development-covaxin-maker-bharat-biotech-after-anil-vij-contracts-covid-19/story-1v50cEAGMCDKFjzLDY4uSN.html
05-12-2020||India||Calcutta HC closes petition last heard 23 years ago||The Calcutta high court on Friday closed a petition filed 23 years back about a hospital’s failure in handing over a newborn to his mother after his birth after the officials stumbled upon the plea’s file gathering dust in one of the court’s cupboard for over two decades. The matter was last heard on December 22, 1997. A division bench of chief justice TB Radhakrishnan and justice Arijit Banerjee lamented the “great misfortune” that the matter remained pending for so long while closing it. “Though different directions were issued with the further order to the registry of this court to list the matter after three months [from December 22, 1997], it is a matter of great misfortune that this matter is listed today [Friday] after 23 years of hibernation of this file in the cupboard of the high court,” the bench said. The court directed the police to have a case registered and investigate the matter when it was last heard in December 1997. “We are in a judicial system. We cannot afford to stack files without the same being listed in spite of judicial orders,” the bench said. The bench added it should consider initiating action for misconduct against officers responsible, more so because it was a Habeas Corpus petition. “When matters are not listed by the office of the high court in spite of judicial orders, it may, at least in certain situations, be appropriate that the courts should consider initiating action for misconduct against the officers concerned for having deflected the course of justice by disobeying judicial orders for posting a case,” the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/calcutta-hc-closes-petition-last-heard-23-years-ago/story-PlggPGR3PQT5aWTiA8FTKI.html
05-12-2020||India||Gulabi Gang to be formed in Indore next month||Asserting that the security of women and children can’t be left alone to the government as rape and sexual harassment cases are increasing, Gulabi Gang, a women support group, is all set to come to Indore next month, said Commander Purnima Verma.“Next month we are likely to form a Gulabi Gang in Indore as youngsters here are on the verge of getting destroyed mainly because of drug and alcohol abuse. The Gulabi Gang will start a movement against it,” Verma, who is also the Maharashtra in-charge of Gulabi Gang, told ANI.Verma said as a moral principle, society has to come forward for the protection of women and children.“In Chindwara, we have established a women’s self-defense training centre, which is the country’s first-of-its-kind by Gulabi Gang. Here, we train women in aikido, judo, karate, desi akhada (country wrestling) and the use of chilli spray, besides other means of self-defence. Besides, physical safety, we also train women to be mentally strong to overcome dangerous circumstances. We will open more such centres in Madhya Pradesh,” she said.On Love Jihad, she said the government should have all the details of registration of marriages in temple or mosque. “Every state should have its own laws on this. The parents should take moral responsibility for what their children are doing.”She went on to talk about their fight to bring the OTT platforms under the censor board, slamming film and television producer Ekta Kapoor and Vice-President, Content, Netflix India, Monika Shergill. “It does not seem that they have dedication towards the country. I appeal to the government to boycott their production houses.” On drugs in Bollywood, she said it has always been there and now it is coming to light as the suicides are “actually murders”. “Whether it is Divya Bharti or Jia Khan, many suicides have come to the fore that indicate murder, so there should be an enquiry.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gulabi-gang-to-be-formed-in-indore-next-month/story-PIJpw07QgVzLlDVWd1bjVO.html
05-12-2020||India||Chhattisgarh govt to procure 52 forest produce items||The Chhattisgarh government will now procure 52 forests produces in the state with an increase of seven new ones, officials said on Saturday. “The seven new minor forest produces that were added to the list of forest produces procured at minimum support price by state government includes Kusmi seed, Reetha fruit (dry), Shikakai, Satavar roots, Kaju Guthli, Malkangani seeds, and Mahul leaves,” said forest minister Mohammad Akbar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-govt-to-procure-52-forest-produce-items/story-3j1u288l7ED4pAr5bG36hI.html
05-12-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine should be given free to everyone, says NCP’s Nawab Malik||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi held an all-party meeting on Covid-19 vaccination in the country, Maharashtra Cabinet Minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik has said that Covid-19 vaccine should be given free to every citizen of the country.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Speaking to ANI, Malik said, “The Prime Minister held an all-party meeting and now they are saying State and Centre will decide the price, how can it be? In Bihar, they have given the assurance that vaccination will be free. We demand vaccine should be given to each Indian free of cost.”During an all-party meeting on Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi informed the opposition leaders that the Centre is in talks with all the state governments over the price of the vaccine and that the decision regarding the pricing will be taken keeping public health as the topmost priority.He said that a Covid-19 vaccine is expected to be ready in the next few weeks, and as soon as scientists give a green signal, vaccination will start in India.“Teams of central and state governments are working together for the vaccine distribution. India has the expertise and capacity in vaccine distribution and fares better compared to other nations,” said PM Modi.“As soon as scientists give a green signal, vaccination will start in India. Healthcare, frontline workers, and the elderly people suffering from serious diseases will be given priority in vaccination,” he stated while asking suggestions from the representatives of the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-should-be-given-free-to-everyone-says-ncp-s-nawab-malik/story-lXJHAnsI5T09p1CsfrN2aM.html
05-12-2020||India||Stalin stages protest against farm laws in Tamil Nadu||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) President MK Stalin on Saturday held a protest rally in Salem against the farm laws introduced by the central government and also extended support to farmers’ agitation.“We went to the Court against the laws. Kerala and Punjab have already approached Court. Our Chief Minister says he’s a farmer first, why has he not taken any step?” he asked.Attacking Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he said: “Farmers have waged war against Modi. PM Modi says he is the son of a poor family and campaigned that no farmers will die. But in reality, thousands of farmers died. If PM is really a son of the poor, he should convene a Parliament session and solve it amicably. DMK will continue to support farmers protest in Delhi.”The DMK chief said that there is no mention of minimum support price (MSP) in the farm laws and farmers are demanding that only. Farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The fifth round of talks between the Centre and farmer union leaders will take place today.Key routes at Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh remained choked as thousands of farmers held demonstrations for the tenth consecutive day in their quest to get the three farm laws abolished.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalin-stages-protest-against-farm-laws-in-tamil-nadu/story-ddcJnXrZuzGZDPEbTkXGGP.html
05-12-2020||India||Chhattisgarh govt increases procurement number of minor forest produces from 7 to 52||In a bid to help the forest dwellers, the number of minor forest produces procured in Chhattisgarh has been increased from seven to 52 in the past two years, an official statement said on Saturday.“As per the vision of Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel and in the larger interest of forest dwellers, the state government has taken an important decision of increasing the number of minor forest produce procured at support price in Chhattisgarh from 31 to 38 and of procuring 14 minor forest produces at the support price decided by the sangh,” the statement said.Forest Minister Mohammad Akbar informed, in this way, the number of minor forest produces procured at support price has been increased from seven to 52 in just two years.The seven new minor forest produces that were added to the list of forest produces procured at support price by state government includes kusmi seed, reetha fruit (dry), shikakai, satavar jad, kaju guthli, malkangani beej and mahul leaves.Similarly, 14 minor forest produces to be procured at the support price includes Pallas (flower), White Musli (dry), Indrajou, Patal Kumhara, Kutj, Ashwagandha, Amla (raw), Savai grass, kanta jhadu, Tikhur, Behan Lakh-Kusumi, Behan Lakh, bel (raw) and berries (raw).Speaking about the development, Chhattisgarh Minor Small Forest Produce Association Managing Director Sanjay Shukla said that Pallas (flower) will be procured at the rate of Rs 1,000 per quintal at the support price fixed by the Association.“Similarly, white musli (dry) will be purchased at the rate of Rs 65,000, Indrajou at Rs 15,000, patal kumhara at Rs 3,000 and kutaj (bark) at the rate of Rs 1,100 per quintal, Ashwagandha will be procured at the rate of Rs 32,500, Amla raw at Rs 2,800, Savai grass at Rs 1,400 and kata jhaadu at Rs 2,300 per quintal,” Shukla said.The 31 small forest produces, which were being purchased at support price earlier, were sal seed, harra, tamarind seeds, chironji kernels, mahua seeds, kusumi lac, rangini lac, kal megh, bahera, nagarmotha, kullu gond, puwar, bel guda, honey, kata jhadu and Mahua flower (dry), Jamun seed (dry), Kaunch seed, Dhawai flower (dry), Karanja seed, and Amla (with seed) and flower tamarind (seedless), Giloy and Bhelwa, basil seed, cumin seed, Tamarind seed, Behera Kacharia, Harra Kacharia, Neem seed.According to officials, the state government has also been providing bonuses in addition to the procurement of Kusumi Lakh, Rangini Lakh and Kullu Gond at the support price.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-govt-increases-procurement-number-of-minor-forest-produces-from-7-to-52/story-zsubo10Xte2T1x84JzFUWP.html
05-12-2020||India||NGT junks review plea alleging falsification of emission readings by Mercedes Benz||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has junked a plea seeking review of its order dismissing a petition alleging falsification of emission readings by car manufacturer Mercedes Benz. The NGT dismissed the plea saying there is no tangible material to support that there has been violation of law. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice A K Goel said that the review application is an attempt for re-hearing, which is not permissible. “It is submitted that there was a prospectus dated May 12, 2020, on the website of the German Federal Motor Transport Authority, KBA, indicting the company which by itself was enough for taking action. We do not find any ground to revisit the order,” the bench said. The NGT on October 19 had refused to entertain the plea alleging falsification of emission readings by the company. “We find that neither the applicant claims to be a victim nor there is any material showing the loss suffered by the applicant. Nor he has shown his representative capacity to safeguard the rights of people who may not be able to directly take the remedy. In absence of adequate particulars, we do not find it appropriate to entertain this application,” the tribunal said. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by Tanuj Mittal alleging falsification of emission readings by Mercedes Benz. The plea stated that as per the prospectus issued by the company in May, the installation of cheat device in the engine and findings recorded by the German Federal Motor Transport Authority are mentioned.On this basis, the plea sought action be taken against the management of the car manufacturing company||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ngt-junks-review-plea-alleging-falsification-of-emission-readings-by-mercedes-benz/story-zi3XDkcVocJgoHNZBT5hgL.html
05-12-2020||India||Add a boost of nutrition to your diet||Pear is a powerhouse of nutrition. They are an excellent source of fiber, potassium vitamins A, B, C, and E, folic acid, mineral salts, sugars, iodine, iron and calcium. They are Sodium free, fat free and cholesterol free which may reduce the risk of heart disease. “Pears are a fruit that needs more attention. They are special because of their nutritional properties and we often seem to miss it in our shopping baskets. Pears are an excellent source of fiber, potassium and Vitamin C. A single medium pear contains nearly 24 per cent the daily fiber needs – and is only 100 calories,” says Kinita. If you trying to manage your weight, pears are a great option. They help fill up small tummies. Pears are also portion-controlled and portable, so they make for a healthy snack.Sometimes people think that since fruit naturally contains sugar, eating fruit is not appropriate for managing diabetes. This is not true! Pears are not only full of vitamins, minerals, water, and fiber but are also low on Glycemic Index. Foods high in fiber, such as pears, taste sweet without having the deleterious effect of spiking blood sugar. They are now seasonlessIf you thought pears is only available in summer that’s not true anymore. Telling us about the same, Sumit Saran, India Representative for USA Pears say, “USA Pears perfectly complement the Indian Pear season. The Indian Pears season ends in October and USA Pears start arriving in the market from November giving Indian consumers more choice. India is one of the key growth markets for USA Pears. We have launched a large consumer outreach program in India by partnering retailers and media.Things you can make with pearChefs say pears are versatile and can be used to cook many innovative dishes. “I am a fan of pears since it’s a versatile fruit and can be used in different ways right from appetizer to desserts. It fits in all kind of cuisine significantly and is quite handy to use. Poached pear with feta, semi dried tomato and garden greens, Pear and cilantro marinated chicken kebab, Pear millefeuille with jaggery, Pear Malpua with Rabri, Pear achar, Pear lassi Malai, Pear kulfi and Pear and sriracha stuffed paneer tikka are a few dishes you can make,” says chef Nishant Choubey. USA Pears presents HT CITY SPOTLIGHTIn conversation with nutritionist Kinita Kadakia Patel, chef NISHANT CHOUBEY and brand representative, SUMIT SARAN. Date: 5th December 2020Time: 5pmLive on: https://www.facebook.com/hindustantimes/||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ht-spotlight/add-a-boost-of-nutrition-to-your-diet/story-VhCvMT534MtvWYdCGpE1OO.html
05-12-2020||India||UN spokesperson Stephane Dujarric says farmers’ ‘have a right to demonstrate peacefully’||People have a right to demonstrate peacefully and authorities should let them do so, spokesperson for UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has said on the farmers’ protests in India.India has called the remarks by foreign leaders on protests by farmers as “ill-informed” and “unwarranted” as the matter pertained to the internal affairs of a democratic country.“As to the question of India, what I would say to you is what I’ve said to others when raising these issues is that people have a right to demonstrate peacefully, and authorities need to let them do so,” Stephane Dujarric, Spokesman for the Secretary-General, said on Friday.Dujarric was responding to a question on the farmers’ protest in India.Reacting to the comments by the foreign leaders, External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava on Tuesday said, “We have seen some ill-informed comments relating to farmers in India. Such comments are unwarranted, especially when pertaining to the internal affairs of a democratic country.” In a terse message, the ministry further added that “it is also best that diplomatic conversations are not misrepresented for political purposes.” On Friday, India summoned Canadian High Commissioner and told him that the comments made by Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and others in his Cabinet on the farmers’ protest constituted an “unacceptable interference” in the country’s internal affairs and these actions, if continued, will have a “seriously damaging” impact on the bilateral ties.Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and several other states have been protesting for the last nine days at the borders of Delhi against three farm laws. Dubbing these laws as “anti-farmer”, these farmers claim that the newly enacted legislations would pave the way for dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporations.However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture. The government and the farmers unions are scheduled to hold the fifth round of talks on the new farm laws on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/un-spokesperson-stephane-dujarric-says-farmers-have-a-right-to-demonstrate-peacefully/story-5UrpAcwbJqkI4ib5hIt6jP.html
05-12-2020||India||Rajasthan CM approves amnesty schemes for mandi traders||Keeping in view the Covid-19 impact, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has provided relief to the mandi traders and land allottees by approving two amnesty schemes submitted by the Agricultural Marketing Department.According to a state government’s release, on the instructions of Gehlot, “interest waiver scheme” has been implemented in various Agricultural Produce Market Committees of the state for 75 per cent interest waiver on interest payable in respect of Mandi fee, allocation fee and other dues for disposal of cases.“Under this scheme, valid licensees of Mandi committees as well as non-licensed holders such as retail shops/plot allottees/farmers plot allottees and other allottees of mandi premises will also be eligible to avail this scheme. Under this scheme, on 30 September 2019, the entire outstanding amount can be deposited by December 31, 2020, of 25 per cent interest,” the release said.The scheme will be applicable to the outstanding mandi duty on sugar and agricultural commodities imported from April 27, 2005, to December 31, 2019, for agricultural processing from outside the state.The agro-processing unit obtained from the mandi committee will be eligible to take advantage of this scheme. Under this, a provision of 75 per cent exemption in the remaining basic mandi duty and 100 per cent exemption in interest and penalty has been made.A copy of the bills and other documents of imported agricultural commodities will have to be attached along with the application for exemption on the remunerative outstanding mandi duty. The scheme can be availed till March 31, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-cm-approves-amnesty-schemes-for-mandi-traders/story-3EJFdTw56GYVVRlVQGgzwI.html
05-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1pm: 36 British MPs write to Dominic Raab in support of farmers’ protests and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.36 British MPs back farmers’ protest, want UK to raise issue with IndiaThirty-six British MPs from various parties - including some of Indian origin and others representing many constituents with links in Punjab – have written to British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab, asking him to raise the issue of farmers’ agitation with the Narendra Modi government. Read MoreHaryana health minister Anil Vij tests Covid-19 positive, weeks after first Covaxin doseHaryana health minister Anil Vij, who was administered a dose of Covaxin last month, said on Saturday he has tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and has been admitted to a hospital. Read MoreAll states accept Rs 1.1 lakh crore borrowing option to meet GST shortfallAll states and Union territories have decided to go for the first option given by the Centre to meet the revenue shortfall arising out of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) implementation with Jharkhand becoming the latest state to join the list, the government said on Saturday. Read MoreThird aircraft carrier an operational necessity to counter expansionist ChinaIndian Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh has pitched for a third aircraft carrier with the Narendra Modi government calling it a necessity in the current security environment in Asia. Read MoreReddit shares picture of ‘floating’ Christmas tree. Would you try it?With December having begun, it is safe to say that the festive season is upon us. If you’re currently decorating your house with fairy lights and various winter-themed ornaments. Read MoreMank movie review: David Fincher demolishes Hollywood mythmaking in delicious new Netflix filmAlternately hard-nosed and dewy-eyed, Mank is the most fiendishly entertaining movie about movies since Ben Affleck’s Argo. It’s satirical but sweet, weary but vengeful — it’s unlike anything director David Fincher has ever made. Read MoreBhumi Pednekar shows who’s the boss in Rs 1 lakh outfit at Durgamati promotionsChannelling her inner girl boss vibe while promoting her upcoming film Durgamati, Bhumi Pednekar recently stunned in a gorgeous power suit and we can’t help but take fashion inspiration. Read More‘Govt committed to principle of reform, perform & transform’: PM ModiWhile delivering a keynote address at IIT 2020 Global Summit via video conference, Prime Minister Narendra Modi asserted that his government is fully committed to the principle of reform, perform and transform. He said that India is witnessing a sea change in the way it works. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1pm-36-british-mps-write-to-dominic-raab-in-support-of-farmers-protests-and-all-the-latest-news/story-njhG6lIDbI5jwfQSz3PIOJ.html
05-12-2020||India||China plants its flag on moon as lunar probe takes off for earth||China has become the second country in the world to unfurl its flag on the moon after the United States, which put its flag on the lunar surface some 50 years ago. China’s National Space Administration released pictures of the five-starred red flag on the moon, taken by the Chang’e-5 spacecraft’s camera. The spacecraft “unfolded the five-star red national flag, a genuine one made from fabrics, marking a first in the country’s aerospace history,” the Chinese state media said.Chang’e 5 is the third Chinese spacecraft to successfully land on the moon and the first to take off from it again. It is the latest achievement for Beijing’s ambitious space program, which also has an orbiter and rover heading for Mars.The Chang’e, named after the Chinese moon goddess, is also scheduled to bring back the first lunar samples in four decades. China is now the third nation in the world, after the United States and the Soviet Union, to collect lunar samples for scientific purposes.The soil and rock samples obtained from the moon by the Chinese spacecraft are expected to provide information about the moon’s origin, geological evolution, lunar volcanic activity, and also offer insights into solar activities in the universe, according to the mission team. The space probe is expected to land in Inner Mongolia on December 16. From there, the samples will be transported to specialised labs for analysis.The tradition of unfurling flags on the moon was started by the United States. The US planted the first flag on the moon during the manned Apollo 11 mission in 1969. Five more US flags were planted on the surface during subsequent missions till 1972.During its first manned mission to the moon, a Lunar Flag Assembly kit was designed and sent aboard the Apollo mission, astronauts assembled the flag and put it on the lunar surface. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Nasa) specially designed a flag that would not droop due to the lack of atmosphere in the moon.Chang’e-5’s successful mission vindicates President Xi Jinping’s “space dreams”. The latest mission sets the tone for the upcoming slew of ambitious targets, which includes creating a rocket capable of delivering payloads heavier than those Nasa and the private spaceflight firm SpaceX, a lunar base, and a permanently crewed space station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-plants-its-flag-on-moon-as-lunar-probe-takes-off-for-earth/story-77oITjrOb9IYXwxRa94DHL.html
05-12-2020||India||Covid-19: Social activist asks India to make travel smoother for Indians in US to their homeland||A prominent social activist here has requested the Indian authorities to initiate measures such as granting emergency visas on departure to help Indian-origin families travel to their homeland for health or other emergencies amid the Covid-19 pandemic.India’s aviation safety regulator DGCA has extended the suspension of scheduled international commercial passenger flights till December 31. The restrictions, however, will not apply on international all-cargo operations and flights specifically approved by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA).In the absence of regular flight service on overseas routes, special international flights are being operated under the Vande Bharat Mission since May and under bilateral “air bubble” arrangements with selected countries since July.Jaipur Foot USA Chairman Prem Bhandari said he has written to the Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla, as well as the Civil Aviation Secretary Pradeep Singh Kharola and Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla outlining some of the hardships faced by Indian-origin families in travelling to India for emergency reasons and suggesting measures that can be taken to ensure smoother travel for these families. Bhandari said in the letter that there should be more clarity in information that educates travellers on visa eligibility and required travel modalities. In the letter, he suggested that all airlines flying into India under the air-bubble arrangement should proactively verify that travellers with foreign passports have eligible visas at the time they book their tickets. Key airlines in the air-bubble programme and relevant government departments should advertise eligible and ineligible visas for travel on their websites and on social media platforms, he said. Bhandari voiced appreciation for the efforts made by the Indian government to facilitate smooth travel for many stranded travellers during the Covid-19 pandemic. “The progress made since May 2020 in gradually restoring travel, offering multiple options and keeping safety upmost is truly commendable. These tireless efforts have resolved many travel grievances by NRIs and their immediate family members in a very difficult time,” he said. In the letter, he cited a few instances where Indian-origin families were facing difficulties in travelling to India, including cases where families were not allowed to board as some members of the family, mostly minor children, had unexpired multi-entry visas and tourist visas. Noting that the continued suspension of tourist visas is creating difficulty, Bhandari said during the difficult times presented by the pandemic, the only reason for Indian-origin families to travel to their homeland is for emergencies such as death, funeral in family, work-visa related matters and not for tourism. “Corona-related deaths of relatives in India has become a compulsive cause for an otherwise avoidable travel endeavour for them to reach India at the earliest possible,” he said. Bhandari suggested that holders of Indian passport/PIO/OCI card be allowed to travel with their US-born minor children under the age of 14 with any unexpired visa obtained anytime without applying emergency visa at consulates. He added that in case it is difficult to carry out these measures, authorities may consider either granting Emergency Visa on Departure (E-VoD) or restoring immediate e-Visa process for approval online. In October this year, the Indian government had decided to restore with immediate effect the validity of all existing visas, except electronic, tourist and medical category visas, almost eight months after their suspension following the coronavirus outbreak and subsequent imposition of a nationwide lockdown.The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had also granted permission to all Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) and Person of Indian Origin (PIO) card holders and all other foreign nationals to visit India for any purpose, except for tourism. When the Covid-19 virus hit India, the government had taken a series of steps to curtail the inward and outward movement of international passengers since February, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-social-activist-asks-india-to-make-travel-smoother-for-indians-in-us-to-their-homeland/story-rIUWkzw3Gh5cT4fsLMgViI.html
05-12-2020||India||‘Last day of discussion’: Farmers ahead of talks with Centre on farm laws||Farm union leaders and the government will meet for the fifth round of talks on Saturday to resolve the deadlock over the three new legislation enacted earlier this year. Delhi’s border points remained choked as thousands of farmers from Haryana, Punjab, and other states are holding demonstrations for the ninth consecutive day.Union ministers Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah, Narendra Singh Tomar and Piyush Goyal are meeting at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s residence in New Delhi Hours ahead of the talks between the government and protesting farmers over the contentious farm laws. The farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Here’s what farmers and their leaders have said so far on the issue:1. “The government has just been issuing dates. All the organisations have unanimously decided that today is the last day for discussion,” a protesting farmer said.2. Farmer leader Rampal Jat, president of Kisan Mahapanchayat, said that if Saturday’s talks are not concluded on a positive note, farmers from Rajasthan will march along National Highway-8 towards Delhi and camp at Jantar Mantar. “The government should announce to withdraw the three black laws and give in writing that minimum support price will continue. If any positive result doesn’t come out of today’s talks, farmers from Rajasthan will march along NH-8 towards Delhi and camp at Jantar Mantar,” said Jat.3. A protester said they are hoping Saturday’s meeting with the government will be positive. “We won’t stop until the government agrees to our demands. We will make the movement bigger,” he added.4. “If anything concrete doesn’t happen in today’s meeting with the central government then we will gherao Parliament,” another farmer said.5. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) general secretary Harvinder Singh Lakhwal has called for a Bharat Bandh on December 8 if the government does not withdraw contentious farm laws, enacted in September. “We have planned to block all roads leading to Delhi in the coming days if new farm laws are not scrapped,” said Lakhwal. “Yesterday (Thursday), we told the Government that the farm laws should be withdrawn. On December 5, effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be burnt across the country,” news agency ANI quoted Ladkhwal as saying. “We have given a call for Bharat Bandh on December 8,” he added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/last-day-of-discussion-farmers-ahead-of-talks-with-centre-on-farm-laws/story-DeF5H2eOP5Ow1iDdP0z4JL.html
05-12-2020||India||Jharkhand man chased for Rs 3.5cr GST fraud turns out to be a daily wage worker||A daily wage labourer earning Rs 198 per day under the rural jobs guarantee scheme or MGNREGS was in shock when a police team reached his thatched house in Raipahari village under Mosaboni block of East Singhbhum district in Jharkhand on Thursday to arrest him for alleged non-payment of Rs 3.50 crore in goods and services tax (GST).The police team from Mosaboni was equally shocked to see that the accused named in the multi-crore tax evasion case was actually living hand-to-mouth. 48-year-old Ladun Murmu, named in the official records as the managing director (MD) of MS Steel, has been charged with GST evasion of Rs 3.50 crore over transactions of Rs 5.58 crore, according to the FIR lodged by the Jharkhand state GST department. “The police team had gone to arrest the MD of a fake company MS Steel, Ladun Murmu, on the basis of an FIR lodged by the GST department for non-payment of GST even after a notice was served on the firm in this regard last year. The team found Ladun to be a poor daily-wage worker under MGNREGA and realised that the conmen set up a fake company in his name using his duplicate PAN and Aadhar cards. A special police team has been asked to do a detailed investigation into the case,” said Dr M Tamil Vanan, Jamshedpur senior superintendent of police (SSP).Ladun was released late last evening from police detention after strong protests by the villagers. Ladun clarified that he had no clue how was he made the MD of a company when his MGNREGA enlisting earned him no more than Rs 198 a day, making it an everyday struggle to make both ends meet.“My nephew Baila Murmu had taken my cooperative bank passbook, PAN and Aadhar cards in 2018 on the pretext that after submission of these, I will receive Rs 2000 per month from the government in my bank account. Baila handed over the documents to his son-in-law Sunaram Hembram, a resident of Galudih Dewli. Sunram, in turn, handed my documents to Sushant Kumar Samanto who lives in Sonari, Jamshedpur. I have no idea what happened thereafter and no money came to my bank account either,” said Ladun.Also Read: Jharkhand, the only remaining state, accepts Centre’s Rs 1.1L cr borrowing option He added that commercial tax officials had visited his house in September last year and handed him a notice for payment of Rs 3.50 crore as GST due to him. As he couldn’t pay anything, a case was lodged against him at Mosaboni PS under section 70 of GST Act and IPC. “My statements were also recorded in Jamshedpur GST court where I was asked seven questions about the company. I had denied forming any company or any knowledge of any transactions. I am a poor daily wage worker, where would I get so much money. I can’t even dream of any such company, please forgive me Sarkar. My wife died last year and I am struggling to survive with my son,” said Ladun. Also Read: In new policy, Jharkhand to tap private investment for boosting tourismAs per the FIR lodged by the state tax officer (STO) Santosh Kumar after the expiry of GST payment notice, MS Steel had sold steel worth Rs 5.58 crore to Trinetra Traders, Omkar Traders Trinath Enterprises, Alam Metal Stores, Sidhuja Steel and Subhadra through 87 E-way bill in November-December 2018-19 fiscal. The state GST department is now under fire for allotting GST registration number (No-20AWVPM0673QIZV) to MS Steel on the basis of Ladun Mumru’s PAN and Aadhaar numbers, allegedly without verification.Jamshedpur divisional joint commissioner of state GST department, Sanjay Kumar Prasad said they have already provided the secret code number of the laptop/computer and server through which the GST registration application and accompanying PAN and Aadhaar details were uploaded for MS Steel. “We are helping the police to arrest the real culprits,” said Prasad.“Such GST frauds were rampant across India earlier. But now some checks and balances have been in place after the Government of India made PAN and Aadhaar mandatory for GST registration. Yet, fraudsters have still been registering fake companies by uploading fake or duplicate scanned copies of PAN and Aadhaar cards. Another such case was cracked by the police last month involving Rs 1 crore GST evasion. Half a dozen such GST fraud cases are under probe in Jamshedpur division,” added Prasad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-man-chased-for-rs-3-5cr-gst-fraud-turns-out-to-be-a-daily-wage-worker/story-VQI4qc21wQ8ChJNNrxzEkI.html
05-12-2020||India||Mizoram’s first solar power plant commissioned||Mizoram’s first solar power plant has been commissioned at Tlungvel about 58 km from here, an official said on Saturday. The grid connected 2 megawatt solar photovoltaic (SPV) solar power plant was opened by state Power minister R Lalzirliana on Friday, he said.Speaking on the occasion, Lalzirliana said that Mizoram has made its entry into the solar map of the country with the commissioning of the 2 MW SPV solar plant.He said that the commissioning of the solar power plant was a milestone in the history of the state.Besides solar energy, the hydroelectric potential of the state must be harnessed to produce more power so that the vision of the government with respect to self sufficiency in power can become a reality, he said.The minister said that a 20 MW solar power plant and 5 MW solar power plant are being currently constructed at Vankal in Khawzawl district and near Saitual town respectively.State assembly deputy speaker Lalrinawma also attended the event.According to an official of state Power and Electricity department, the construction of the newly commissioned solar power plant started in August, 2018 and was completed for a trial in November this year.The power plant was constructed with Rs 14 crore funds wholly provided by the state government, he said.While Rs 213 lakh was spent on civil and general components, Rs 11.87 crore was spent for solar and electrical components.The SPV power plant is spread over 5 acres and has 5,340 solar modules. The solar plant is expected to generate 3 million units annually.Operation and maintenance of the solar power plant will be overseen for the next five years by the company, which installed the solar plant.It is expected to generate Rs 169 lakh in revenue annually, according to the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mizoram-s-first-solar-power-plant-commissioned/story-VRqeDceY2RErHmpOCez3iN.html
05-12-2020||India||Haryana health minister Anil Vij tests Covid-19 positive||Haryana health minister Anil Vij said on Saturday he has tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and has been admitted to a hospital. “I have been tested Corona positive. I am admitted in Civil Hospital Ambala Cantt. All those who have come in close contact to me are advised to get themselves tested for corona,” he tweeted. I have been tested Corona positive. I am admitted in Civil Hospital Ambala Cantt. All those who have come in close contact to me are advised to get themselves tested for corona.Vij, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader, volunteered to be a part of the third phase trial of Covaxin, which started in Haryana on November 20. He was administered a trial dose. However, it’s not immediately clear whether he was administered the vaccine candidate during the trial or a placebo. I Will be administered trial dose of Coronavirus vaccine #Covaxin a Bharat Biotech product Tomorrow at 11 am at Civil Hospital, Ambala Cantt under the expert supervision of a team of Doctors from PGI Rohtak and Health Department. I have volunteered to take the trial dose.Also, the antibodies against the infection build up only after a specific number of days pass after the second dose of the vaccine is taken, since it is a two-dose vaccine, according to a health ministry official who did not want to be named. The official said this was not solely in the context of Vij, who got just one dose -- of either the vaccine or a placebo. Vij’s media coordinator, Vijender, Chauhan said the minister was in Chandigarh on Friday afternoon and had reported fatigue later. “He got tested himself today morning and the result is positive. The staff will be tested today itself,” Chauhan said. Bharat Biotech had said that phase 3 trials would involve a total of 26,000 people and be conducted at 25 centres across the country. “After successful completion of the interim analysis from the phase 1 and 2 clinical trials of Covaxin, Bharat Biotech received Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) approval for phase 3 clinical trials in 26,000 participants in over 25 centres across India,” the company had said in a statement. This will be India’s first phase 3 efficacy study for a Covid-19 vaccine, and the largest such trial ever conducted in the country, the statement added.According to top officials of the National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases (ICMR-NICED) in Kolkata, the results of the phase-III trial of the indigenously developed coronavirus vaccine candidate, Covaxin, will be available in November 2021. The interim report may be available by May 2021 at the earliest, they added||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-health-minister-anil-vij-tests-covid-19-positive-was-administered-covaxin-last-month-as-part-of-phase-3-trials/story-NVmq3W27TQSN3fi8TUJozN.html
05-12-2020||India||World Soil Day 2020: Theme, significance and history||Every year December 5 is celebrated as World Soil Day to bring people’s focus and attention on the importance of healthy soil as well as stress on the importance of sustainable management of soil resources. In 2019, the day was celebrated in more than 100 countries through 560 events.Here’s everything you need to know about World Soil day:World Soil Day 2020The theme of World Soil day 2020, according to the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) campaign, is “Keep soil alive, protect soil biodiversity”. By encouraging people around the world to engage in proactively improving soil health, the campaign aims to fight soil biodiversity loss. If the fertility of the soil is not ensured, it could threaten global food supplies and thereby food safety. Therefore, according to FAO, the campaign aims to raise awareness of the importance of maintaining healthy ecosystems by addressing the growing challenges in soil management, fighting soil biodiversity loss and encouraging governments, organisations, communities and individuals around the world.History of World Soil DayWorld Soil Day became an international day after the International Union of Soil Sciences (IUSS) recommended it in 2002. Under the leadership of Thailand and within the framework of the Global Soil Partnership, FAO supported the formal establishment of World Soil Day. The FAO Conference unanimously endorsed World Soil Day in June 2013. It even requested its official adoption at the 68th United Nations General Assembly. As a result, in December 2013, the UN General Assembly responded by designating December 5, 2014, as the first official World Soil Day.The day also corresponds with the official birthday of King Bhumibol Adulyadej of Thailand, who had officially sanctioned the event. In 2016, this day was officially recognised in memory and with respect for the monarch after he died in October 2016 working as the head of state for seven years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-soil-day-2020-theme-significance-and-history/story-Jny184ZBa1mCvdFwfim0WO.html
05-12-2020||India||At all-party meet, leaders warn PM of misinformation on Covid vaccine||New Delhi Leaders cutting across political parties hailed India’s efforts to contain the Covid-19 pandemic but cautioned the government on the hurdles lying ahead at the all-party meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, people familiar with the matter said on Friday. Even as many Opposition parties are up in arms against the Union government over the three new farm laws and are supporting the farmers’ protest in the national capital region, most political leaders stood by the government on the Covid issue. Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Ghulam Nabi Azad, said the pandemic should be a part of India’s national security policy, given the devastating impact of Covid on the lives of millions of Indians and the economy. Azad said the political leadership must be ready to counter the possible misinformation campaign over vaccines in the near future, according to the people cited above.In the second all-party meeting with Modi since the pandemic, Azad mentioned how he took a jab of H1N1 vaccine along with Zydus scientists to dispel public fears and malicious rumours. While he maintained that India’s Covid management was “very good” in terms of the country’s size and population, he demanded that vaccines should be affordable and cold chains be set up across the country. The Trinamool Congress’s Lok Sabha floor leader Sudip Bandopadhyay sought “the PM’s advice” to the states and read out from a paper on how West Bengal was taking innovative measures to combat the pandemic. He said the Union government should extend full support to all vaccine producers. The DMK’s TR Balu asked the Prime Minister to take “a serious note” of the fact that the virus spread from China but “their Covid tally remains lower than most of the country”. The DMK leader also sought uniform rates for RT-PCR tests and suggested mobilising public sector units, CSR (corporate social responsibility) and government funds to create a buffer stock of vaccines. At this point, Balu picked up the farmers’ protests and said they were suffering in the cold weather of Delhi. Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi told him to stick to Covid. Balu hit back, saying the minister should not interrupt when he is talking to the PM. YSRCP leader Vijayasai Reddy asked for a financial package from the centre for Telangana as the state government spent a large amount on bio-safety of hospitals. Lauding India’s fight against Covid, NCP supremo Sharad Pawar said it was clear there were huge differences between many advanced nations and India, which was in a far better position in tackling the outbreak. While Pawar, a partner in Maharashtra’s coalition government, asked for the Centre’s help for the economic revival of states, RCP Singh of the JD(U) spoke about strengthening the cold chain to the last mile||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-all-party-meet-leaders-warn-pm-of-misinformation-on-covid-vaccine/story-J1RM0EZYmKbkF9d9uNfQeL.html
05-12-2020||India||UP’s Dandupur railway station to be renamed as Maa Barahi Devi Dham||The Dandupur railway station situated between Pratapgarh and Badshahpur on Lucknow-Varanasi rail section will now be named Maa Barahi Devi Dham.The Union government has given its consent after which Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath gave his nod to the renaming of the railway station.Giving this information on Twitter, the Chief Minister’s Office posted that a notification would be issued in this regard after getting approval from the chief minister.There has been a long-standing demand to change the name of Dandupur railway station in Raniganj tehsil of Pratapgarh.Yogi Adityanath has initiated the process to give recognition to local religious and spiritual sites while respecting public aspirations.Many express and passenger trains, including Kashi-Vishwanath Express, Rae Bareli-Jaunpur Express, Lucknow-Varanasi Intercity, and other trains have a halt at Dandupur railway station. There is a temple of Maa Barahi Devi in Parasrampur village, six kilometres from the railway station and an annual fair is organised there that is visited by a large number of devotees.Many railways stations have been renamed so far. Allahabad Junction is now known as Prayagraj Junction, Allahabad City was renamed as Prayagraj Rambag, Allahabad Chhioki has been changed to Prayagraj Chheoki and the name of Prayagghat has been changed to Prayagraj Sangam. In October 2017, the name of Mughalsarai Junction, which is a prominent station in Uttar Pradesh near Varanasi, was changed to Deen Dayal Upadhyay junction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-s-dandupur-railway-station-to-be-renamed-as-maa-barahi-devi-dham/story-nSaohbnmVYw08VAY04WpdN.html
05-12-2020||India||Kolkata to enforce ‘no helmet, no fuel’ rule from December 8||The Kolkata Police will launch the “no helmet, no fuel” campaign from December 8 to February 5 as part of efforts to check fatalities because of two-wheeler accidents. “No petrol pumps in the city shall sell petrol to any such two-wheeler rider who arrives at the petrol pump without a helmet or is carrying a pillion rider without a helmet,” said a police officer.Earlier authorities in Noida, Aligarh and Bengaluru enforced such rules. “We welcome the rule. But sometimes it becomes difficult to enforce such a rule without police protection,” said a petrol pump owner in Kolkata. Nearly half of over 1.8 million vehicles registered in Kolkata in 2019 were two-wheelers. The number of two-wheelers went up from around 83,00,00 to around 93,00,00 between 2017 and 2019. “It has been observed that the number of cases involving two-wheeler riders riding without helmets and carrying pillion riders without helmets has gone up manifold despite prosecutions,” said a second police officer. The police registered around 93,855 cases of rash driving in 2019. One out of every three such rash driving cases, around 32,600 cases, involved two-wheelers. According to the police’s annual review, they pursued 96,00,00 prosecutions in 2017. Around 11,000 involved violation of the helmet rule. The number of such prosecutions went up to over 2.1 million in 2019. It included over 60,00,00 cases involving two-wheeler drivers without helmets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-to-enforce-no-helmet-no-fuel-rule-from-december-8/story-z0WKZdmJbWu2Wlni92cclM.html
05-12-2020||India||The steady rise, and sharp fall of BJD lawmaker Pradeep Panigrahy||Till less than a year before Pradeep Panigrahy’s expulsion from the party on Sunday and his arrest soon after, the Biju Janata Dal legislator was considered the first among equals in the 23-year-old regional party and one of the very few with direct access to chief minister Naveen Patnaik. That Patnaik immensely trusted the 56-year-old Panigrahy became clear back in 2004 when the chief minister named him to oversee his assembly constituency Hinjili in Ganjam district for nearly a decade. Panigrahy delivered and was rewarded with a party ticket in 2009 from the seaside Gopalpur constituency from where he has won on a trot three times. The dream run ended this week when Panigrahy was arrested by police officers investigating Indian Forest Service officer Abhay Pathak and his son Akash Pathak, who were arrested last week on charges of holding disproportionate assets. The Pathak family had come to the notice of investigators for flying in and out of Odisha in chartered planes on at least 20 occasions during the Covid lockdown. The MLA, who also travelled with them on many occasions, faces charges of cheating, forgery and impersonation. Before he was arrested, Panigrahy insisted that he was innocent but the police don’t believe him. There was a time when this would have been unthinkable. Ramesh Chandra Chyaupatnaik, president of BJD in Ganjam district, recalls the influence that Panigrahy wielded. “While we needed an appointment to meet the CM, Panigrahy did not because the CM was fond of him. He had earned the CM’s trust,” said. Ahead of the 2019 assembly elections, Panigrahy was given charge of 12 of the 15 assembly constituencies of the undivided Ganjam district. Unlike many politicians of Odisha who worked their way up, BJD leaders said Panigrahy, who had been president of the Berhampur University Students’ Union in 1994, had it easy. He had a very humble beginning as an advocate in the local courts, but it was the ambition that set him apart from fellow lawyers. When the Tatas came to Ganjam to build a 10 million tonne port-based steel plant in Gopalpur in association with Nippon Steel of Japan, Panigrahy was among the first to sell his land for the project that others from the area were opposing. It helped the JB Patnaik government tide over the public agitation and was followed by the government acquiring around 3,000 acres of the land under the emergency clause of Land Acquisition Act in 1997-98. The proposed steel plant, however, never took off and Tatas, a few years ago, turned it into SEZ. Former Chhatrapur MLA N Narayan Reddy, who played a crucial role in the public agitation against the Tatas, said Panigrahy seemed to parachute to power. “Any grassroots politician would have supported the public agitation against a corporate. But Panigrahy did not help... Santosh Satpathy, then district collector of Ganjam had introduced Panigrahy to JB Patnaik as he had expressed solidarity for Tata’s land acquisition,” said Reddy. After Naveen Patnaik became chief minister for the first time in 2000, Panigrahy was made president of Berhampur central cooperative bank. A few years later, he became the chief minister’s nominee to nurture the Hinjili assembly constituency which fuelled his rise in the party. Among all the BJD politicians of Ganjam, he was the youngest at that time and educated too. By most accounts, he soon became the chief minister’s favourite too. Despite his faltering English, it was his can-do ability that probably endeared him to the anglophile chief minister. His stock also went up when in 2003 he obtained Ph.D in law from Berhampur University on “Conservation of Biodiversity under International Law with special reference to Law in India”. In 2006, his name cropped up in a hooch tragedy of Ganjam involving the death of 40 people, but a commission of inquiry cleared him of any role 2 years later. In 2009, he got the BJD ticket for the first time from Gopalpur. He won. But the victory, Pradeep Panigrahy’s rivals and party colleagues said, seemed to change him. It was the arrogance of power, said Ganjam BJD leaders. There were also allegations that were levelled at him. President of BJP’s Ganjam district unit, Bibhuti Jena, who lost to him in the 2019 assembly election, said Panigrahy had always been rude to people. “He used official machinery to browbeat his opponents as well as common people. The BJD too turned a blind eye to his actions,” said Jena. As per Panigrahy’s own admission early this week, Patnaik told him not to bother about his Hinjili constituency in 2013 that BJD leaders said would ordinarily have implied a loss of trust. But, in 2014, Patnaik made him minister of three departments including the rural development, higher education and science and technology. He was dropped from the cabinet in 2017 but was still seen to be powerful. He was made BJD’s Ganjam district president in 2015 despite the district having 3 senior cabinet ministers. In 2019, he was made responsible for 15 assembly constituencies of undivided Ganjam district in recognition of his organisational skills. His troubles started soon after when he was blamed for the party’s defeat in 3 of the 15 constituencies. He retained his own seat Gopalpur by a slim margin of 2,600 votes, the lowest margin in Ganjam district. There were allegations that he had sabotaged the BJD’s prospects in these constituencies. BJD leaders said they noticed that his access to the chief minister ended soon after. His rivals within the party had claimed he was in talks with BJP for a possible switch. Political analyst Rabi Das said Panigrahy was perhaps the last BJD politician who enjoyed unfettered access to the chief minister who had come to depend on his team of trusted bureaucrats. “He was among the senior BJD MLAs whom the coterie wanted to be cut down to size. In the BJD’s churn, Panigrahy was up against a powerful section,” said Das. That he was out of favour became evident when he wrote several letters to the chief minister, to demand that Odisha bring back migrant workers from Gujarat during Covid lockdown and then to complain that the state government was ignoring local MLAs in the fight against Covid-19. “I raised the issues of mismanagement in Covid centres as well as the treatment procedures of Covid patients. This probably did not go down well with some bureaucrats,” Panigrahy said days before his arrest. Now in jail over charges of forgery, the 56-year-old politician may have to fall back on his legal acumen to see him through the troubled days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-steady-rise-and-sharp-fall-of-bjd-lawmaker-pradeep-panigrahy/story-Xeq1GPZmddBWPUsAXWYHZP.html
05-12-2020||India||Pro-Kannada outfits call for Karnataka bandh: Here’s what you need to know||Karnataka will witness a shutdown on Saturday called by several pro-Kannada organisations to protest the state government’s move to set up a development board for the Maratha community. These organisations had said on Friday that they will go ahead with the bandh demanding that the government give up its decision to form the Maratha Development Authority (MDA).Vatal Nagaraj, who is leading the agitation, said the agitation is for Kannada pride and alleged that the government threatened various organisations using police to withdraw support to the Karnataka bandh but it will not work. “I want to tell Yediyurappa -- You withdraw the ‘Authority’ (MDA), I will garland you at the Vidhana Soudha. But don’t threaten us. We will not get scared of it,” Nagaraj said, according to PTI.Here’s what you need to know:1. These pro-Kannada organisations are up in arms against the formation of the Maratha Development Authority, which the chief minister BS Yediyurappa had announced on November 14 and earmarked Rs 50 crore for the ‘overall development of Maratha people’.2. Various factions of Karnataka Rakshana Vedike (Forum for the Protection of Karnataka), Jaya Karnataka, Karnataka Nava Nirmaana Sena, Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha, Hasiru Sena, Ola and Uber taxi drivers’ association, auto-rickshaw drivers association and a few others have called for the 12-hour strike.3. The shutdown is scheduled from 6am to 6pm, however, essential services have been exempted.4. The state government has indicated that bus and train services would run as per the normal schedule. Metro services will operate as usual in Bengaluru. The Bengaluru Metropolitan Transport Corporation and Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation buses will also run as usual.5. Petrol pumps will also remain open and hotel owners and travel operators have said they will not close their businesses but have extended moral support to the bandh.6. According to Bengaluru Police commissioner Kamal Pant, permission has not been taken for the shutdown. Pant said action will be taken against anybody trying to force business and commercial establishments to shut or disrupt normal life. Pant also said an additional 14,000 police and security personnel would be deployed to ensure law and order.7. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa has appealed to the organisations to not go ahead with the shutdown. “Kannada has been given importance and we will do even more for promoting the language,” he said on Friday.8. Yediyurappa said the development board was for the welfare of the Maratha community and not for the promotion of the Marathi language as some fear. Several border areas, including Belgavi and Bidar in Karnataka, have often seen tension between the Kannadigas and the Marathas.9. Opposition parties have criticised the setting up of such community-specific development boards and alleged that this was an electoral tactic by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) meant to divert attention from its governance failures.10. According to political analysts, the move to set up MDA has electoral connotations. Assembly by-polls are due in Basava Kalyan following the death of the sitting Congress MLA B Narayan Rao and Maski apart from the vacancy caused in the Belgavi Lok Sabha seat after the death of Union minister Suresh Angadi. Maratha votes can play a decisive role in deciding the outcome in all these seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pro-kannada-outfits-call-for-karnataka-bandh-here-s-what-you-need-to-know/story-78uHehb25vFXFlK8VvZzyK.html
05-12-2020||India||Widespread snowfall likely in the hills due to western disturbances||Widespread snowfall is expected in the upper reaches of the Western Himalayas with two western disturbances (WD) impacting the region. The first WD started impacting the region from Friday onwards and brought rain and snow mainly to Jammu & Kashmir. The second WD is likely to be more intense and impact the region from December 7, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Both maximum and minimum temperatures in most parts of Northwest India are likely to be marginally above normal till December 10 due to clouding and a change in wind direction associated with the WDs. But the temperatures are likely to fall significantly once both WDs pass and icy cold winds from the Himalayas start blowing over northwest India, scientists said.“There is a change in wind direction to easterly already due to the WD which is why temperature is also marginally higher. Air pollution levels may go up over the weekend due to a reduction in wind speed. The second WD is likely to be more intense and bring widespread snowfall to Jammu & Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh. Until December 10, we are expecting the minimum temperature to hover around 8 degrees C,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, who heads the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre.The air quality in Delhi and National Capital Region deteriorated on Friday. It is likely to improve marginally but will remain in the “very poor” category on Saturday and Sunday. The Air Quality Index on Friday was 382 in the “very poor” category in Delhi. Ghaziabad, Greater Noida, Kanpur, Lucknow, Meerut, and Noida recorded severe air quality.Cyclone Burevi, which weakened to a depression on Thursday close to Ramanathapuram coast, remained stationary for 30 hours till Saturday morning. The associated wind speed is about 40 to 50 km per hour gusting to 60 km per hour. It is likely to remain stationary and weaken further, scientists said. Thereafter it will move west-south-westwards across Ramanathapuram towards Kerala and then weaken into a well-marked low-pressure area.“We are expecting the deep depression to degenerate in the Gulf of Mannar because the water is very shallow there. The depression, or low-pressure area, may emerge into the Arabian Sea but its intensification is unlikely. Consecutive cyclones also lead to marginal cooling of seawaters which is why there is no intensification of cyclones which develop later,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, climate change and meteorology at Skymet Weather.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-snowfall-likely-in-the-hills-due-to-western-disturbances/story-FTLdSo51V5Id6vuEhDNO3J.html
05-12-2020||India||Government asks for mandatory warning message with online gaming ads||The Union information and broadcasting ministry has asked TV channels to carry statutory warnings whenever they carry advertisements of online gaming or fantasy sports sites.In an advisory issued on Friday, the ministry said that it has come to its notice that channels were showing ads of gaming sites but did not inform the viewers of the financial risks associated.Online gaming is associated by many with gambling and following concerns, the Advertising Standards Council of India (ASCI) has released guidelines for issuing these ads, the ministry said.According to the guidelines, which become effective from December 15, no person below 18 years of age should be shown playing such games for real money winnings.Print ads have also been asked to display a disclaimer that playing these games may involve financial risk and can be addictive. The guidelines suggest that the disclaimer should not occupy less than 20% of the space of the print ad.Also Read: India forms high-level committee to implement Paris Agreement targetsA similar method has been suggested for audio-visual and audio ads. The guidelines suggest that the disclaimer should come after the ad and should be in the same language. They also suggest that the audio be in a normal voice.The guidelines also suggest that online gaming should not be depicted as an income opportunity or an alternate employment option. They also suggest that the people in the ad should not be depicted as more successful than others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-asks-for-mandatory-warning-message-with-online-gaming-ads/story-nJ2NXwTFjg0lc0NEr7esrN.html
05-12-2020||India||Third aircraft carrier an operational necessity to counter expansionist China||Indian Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh has pitched for a third aircraft carrier with the Narendra Modi government calling it a necessity in the current security environment in Asia. Given that an aircraft carrier takes 18 years to build also keeping in mind the cabinet approval, as in the case of 37,000 tonne Vikrant, the Indian national security planners will have to take a call on the sea behemoth now with China planning six aircraft carriers of its own. Rising India, or what Admiral Karambir Singh defines as a five trillion-dollar economy, must have the tools of not only protecting itself but also projecting power.The third aircraft carrier has become a subject matter of debate within Indian military circles with the navy having to counter an equally potent argument on the survivability of the platform in the era of long-range stand-off weapons. China, in fact, has DF-21 missile with 1700 km range which its propaganda machines call ship killer.While the Indian Navy believes that it should not be tethered to the Indian peninsula for power project but be present on high seas and deep ocean, the current economic environment is not in favour of a machine that will cost nearly $10 billion. The navy wants a 65,000-tonne carrier with electromagnetic aircraft launch system unlike the ski jump STOBAR (short take-off, barrier arrested recovery system) onboard INS Vikramaditya and soon to be launched INS Vikrant.The counter-argument of Indian security planners is that if India invests the same kind of money into converting some of its 1,062 island territories in Bay of Bengal, Arabian Sea and the Indian Ocean into military bases, then it can project air power beyond the horizon towards Malacca Straits and the Persian Gulf. The collateral benefit would be the development of the island territories as a replenishment bays for ships passing between nine degree and six-degree channels.However, the first negative against permanent bases in island territories is that they would present a more vulnerable target to a stand-off weapon like Chinese “Guam killer” DF 26 missile than a moving airfield with both aircraft and missiles on board in either the Indian Ocean or the South China Sea.With the Modi government’s doctrine post-Balakot and Uri being to extinguish the threat by hitting at the source, an aircraft carrier becomes a must-have operational requirement. The role of an aircraft carrier assumes much more significance in the context of China as Han power is buffered by occupied territories of Uighur dominated Xinjiang and Buddhist dominated Tibet, who don’t have a single issue with India. Hence, to deter Han China, India must have expeditionary force capability beyond Malacca Straits. To top it all, the geographical location of Indian island territories can project power deep into the Indian Ocean below the Bay of Bengal and south-east Asia but not towards the tip of Africa.With Pakistan’s P 3C Orion armed with 280km range air to surface Harpoon missiles, the Indian Navy warships are vulnerable to the aerial threat unless there is a carrier force to not only nullify the threat but also deter the adversary. The time lag in getting a land-based fighter to take care of the aerial threat to an Indian ship also works in favour of an aircraft carrier, whose aircraft can take out a target within a range of 300 to 400 kilometres. “The air bubble of a carrier task force is a potent deterrent to any adversary. It has a sub-surface, surface, aerial and electronic warfare platforms to nullify the threat from all dimensions. The argument that carrier is vulnerable to stand-off weapons does not work as all systems are vulnerable,” said a top Indian admiral who once commanded the INS Viraat fleet.The argument that India should go for more nuclear-powered submarines or SSNs with conventional weapons stands but a sub-surface platform cannot take care of an aerial threat carrying depth charges for anti-submarine warfare.While it is nobody’s case that a third aircraft carrier should be given a priority by the national security planners in the current economic scenario, a token amount should be set aside for getting the plans developed as getting an aircraft carrier into sea takes a whole lot of time. India should not wake up a decade later to challenge the expansionist China, which has set its eyes on the Indian Ocean through satellite states like Pakistan and Myanmar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/third-aircraft-carrier-an-operational-necessity-to-counter-expansionist-china/story-F1MO2L6acdR48EPw3RL15L.html
05-12-2020||India||BJP’s rise, TRS’ decline and AIMIM’s best strike rate: Key takeaways from Hyderabad civic poll results||The ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) has emerged as the single-largest party, winning 55 of the 150 wards in the closely-fought Hyderabad municipal elections. However, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) stole the show, making huge gains to bag 48 wards, following a strong campaign that saw several Union ministers and senior leaders visiting the city in the run-up to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) polls.The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) trailed the BJP, but performed well. Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM has emerged as the kingmaker with 44 wards and 10 ex-officio members. His party continued to hold sway in Hyderabad as it held on to its 2016 tally. The Congress, which has been pushed to the sideline, has only two seats. The results have been declared for 149 out of 150 divisions of GHMC.The TRS this time won fewer seats than it won in the 2016 elections when it had won a majority in the elections to GHMC.How parties fared in previous polls?In the last GHMC elections in 2016, the TRS won 99 wards, the AIMIM 44, the BJP four, Congress two and Telugu Desam Party (TDP) one. Before that in 2009, the Congress had bagged 52 wards, TDP 45, AIMIM 43 and the BJP four in the GHMC elections. This time, the BJP is hoping to better its tally as its vote share has gone up in the state. Its confidence also went up after winning election in the Dubbak assembly constituency.In the 2018 assembly polls, the BJP had won only one seat with just little over 7 per cent vote share. But just a year later in the Lok Sabha polls, it won four parliamentary seats with 19.45 per cent vote share. The BJP had also won the high-profile Nizamabad seat, where Arvind Dharmapuri defeated chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao’s daughter K Kavitha.The Congress, which was in alliance with the TDP, won 19 seats with 28.43 per cent vote share in 2018 assembly polls. But in 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the Congress fell behind the BJP in terms of seats and could win just three seats with 29.48 per cent vote share.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-s-rise-trs-decline-and-aimim-s-best-strike-rate-key-takeaways-from-hyderabad-civic-poll-results/story-BF18rMfWvG4L0FkYGBj0zJ.html
05-12-2020||India||Serum Institute of India’s Adar Poonawalla among 6 named ‘Asians of the Year’ by Singapore daily||Adar Poonawalla, the chief executive of the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer Serum Institute of India, is among six people named “Asians of the Year” by Singapore’s leading daily, The Straits Times for their work in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) has collaborated with the University of Oxford and the British-Swedish pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca for making the Covid-19 vaccine, ‘‘Covidshield’‘, and is conducting trials in India. The other five named in the list are Chinese researcher Zhang Yongzhen, who led the team that mapped and published online the first complete genome of Sars-CoV-2, the virus that sparked the pandemic, China’s Major-General Chen Wei, Japan’s Dr Ryuichi Morishita and Singapore’s Professor Ooi Eng Eong, who are among those at the forefront of developing vaccines against the virus, and South Korean businessman Seo Jung-jin whose company will enable the making and dispensing of the vaccines and other Covid-19 treatments to the world. Collectively referred to as “the virus busters”, they are heroes of a kind, having devoted themselves to the pressing cause of resolving the coronavirus pandemic, each in their own capacity, the daily said. “Sars-CoV-2, the virus that has brought death and hardship to the world’s largest and most populous continent, is meeting its tamer in The Virus Busters,” the award citation said. “We salute your courage, care, commitment and creativity. In this peril-filled hour, you are a symbol of hope for Asia, indeed the world.” The Serum Institute was founded by Poonawalla’s father Cyrus Poonawalla in 1966. Poonawalla joined the Serum Institute of India in 2001 and became the CEO of Serum Institute with complete control of the day-to-day operations of the company in 2011. Poonawalla said that he has put USD 250 million of his family fortune into ramping up his institute’s manufacturing capacity. “I decided to go all out,” said Poonawalla, 39, who has pledged that his firm’s COVID-19 vaccines will help supply lower- and middle-income countries that face significant disadvantages in the quest to obtain them. Poonawalla said his institute is helping poorer countries level up in access to vaccines. In the big picture of ending the pandemic, commonality of purpose is key, said The Straits Times, Singapore’s mainstream daily. The Straits Times Asians of the Year have led the way, as have scores of other individuals in their own fields. When an end comes into sight, it will be due in no small part to these people who - undaunted by the tumult - have committed themselves to the sobering, much-needed work to put together an exit plan from the crisis, for humanity. “There has not been a day this year when the pandemic has not been in the news. Straits Times’ editors felt there could be no more deserving recipients this year than the people squaring up to Asia’s biggest-ever health challenge, engaged in pioneering and courageous efforts to prevent the highly contagious virus from wreaking more damage,” Bhagyashree Garekar, Straits Times’ foreign editor, said on Saturday. “In a year that is ending with a wish for great resets... Asia’s virus busters are the face of hope on the horizon,” said Garekar. Between them, the recipients of the 2020 award capture the entire trajectory of the response to the Covid-19 pandemic. In deciding to honour The Virus Busters, Straits Times editors had in mind those who have, in one way or another, enabled the complex, multi-stage process of preventing as many people around the world from getting the deadly disease in as little time as possible. “Each year, ST editors seek out a person, team or organisation that has not only made or shaped the news, but also helped contribute positively to Asia in the process,” said Warren Fernandez, editor-in-chief of Singapore Press Holdings’ English/Malay/Tamil Media Group and editor of Straits Times. “This year, we naturally looked to those involved in the fight against Covid-19, which has dominated the headlines. We debated long and hard, but finally agreed on a group of people who have done the most to help find an answer to the crisis brought on by the virus. “They are a disparate group whose collective efforts have pushed forward the search for vaccines, allowing these to be discovered and delivered with an urgency never attempted or seen before. Their commitment and actions have helped save lives and give hope to people all around Asia, and the world,” Fernandez said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-of-india-s-adar-poonawalla-among-6-named-asians-of-the-year-by-singapore-daily/story-tHZbnkbMG3mYG4IB9Xf63H.html
05-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9am: Delhi’s air ‘poor’ could turn ‘severe’, IMD warns and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi’s air very poor, may turn severe: IMDDelhi’s air quality plunged to the far end of the ‘very poor’ zone on Friday as the wind speed and pattern changed, resulting in the slow dispersion of pollutants. At least 17 of the 35 monitoring stations had turned deep red, reaching the ‘severe’ zone on Friday. Read moreProtesting farmers call for Bharat Bandh; key talks todayFarmers agitating against three farm laws on Friday announced a nationwide strike, or Bharat Bandh, on December 8 where they said they will block all toll plazas and roads leading to Delhi as they hardened their position ahead of the fifth round of talks with the central government scheduled for Saturday. Read moreWait, what? Milind Soman makes jaws drop as he nails a headstand in the backdrop of Mount EverestWhile we find it hard to leave our cosy blankets and work from home cuddled before our laptop and computer screens, Milind Soman is making jaws drop at his swoon-worthy workout in the backdrop of Mount Everest. Setting travel and fitness goals soaring higher this Friday, the supermodel gave fans and fitness enthusiasts a glimpse of his intense workout session in the backdrop of a caramel setting sun with mountains “Makalu, Lhotse and Everest on the horizon.” Read more‘We are masters at trying to find a loophole in rules’: Sanjay Manjrekar feels ICC will look into ‘concussion substitute’ rule after Chahal moveIndia’s decision to bring on leg-spinner as a ‘concussion substitute’ for Ravindra Jadeja has left the cricketing world divided. Jadeja was hit on the helmet by a Mitchell Starc delivery, and even though India captain Virat Kohli did mention that it was after the end of the innings that the batsman complained of dizziness, which forced India to go for a concussion substitute, many former cricketers have called it unfair since no physio came on to check on Jadeja the moment he copped a blow to the head. Read moreNetflix StreamFest kicks off in India, here’s how you can watch Netflix for freeYou can now watch Netflix for free in India. Netflix StreamFest kicked off earlier today, and it will continue till Sunday. This is the first time Netflix is offering its services for free, and for an entire weekend. The entire catalogue of Netflix including movies, TV shows and documentaries is free for users in India. You will also have access to Netflix features such as creating profiles, parental controls, creating lists, and also downloading movies and shows. Read moreSara Ali Khan defends ‘problematic’ plot of original Coolie No 1, says ‘It’s not about Govinda duping Karisma’Actor Sara Ali Khan has urged audiences to watch the upcoming Coolie No 1 with an open mind. The film, a remake of the 1995 comedy starring Govinda and Karisma Kapoor, will feature Varun Dhawan in the lead role. Sara was asked in an interview about the ‘problematic’ aspects of the original film, in which Govinda’s character cons Karisma’s character into falling for him. She said that if one views everything through a politically correct lens, ‘any scope of humour in our lives will be lost’. Read moreHarsh Goenka’s ‘2020 in a nutshell’ video may make you nod in agreement2020 wasn’t the year we expected. This year had several world-changing, paradigm-shifting incidents, the ongoing pandemic being the biggest one among them. As the year entered its last month, many are now looking back to recollect how the it panned out. And, quite expectedly, most of them are not reminiscing happily. Read moreGHMC polls: TRS wins 55 seats, BJP emerges 2nd largest party, secures 48 seatsGHMC poll result threw up a hung house after counting of votes on Friday. No political party reached absolute majority mark of 76 in 150-seat corporation. Telangana’s ruling party TRS emerged as single largest party winning 55 seats. TRS had previously won 99 seats in 2016 GHMC elections. BJP put up a tremendous show, emerged single largest party in GHMC. BJP won 48 seats this year as compared to 4 seats in 2016 GHMC. BJP president JP Nadda congratulated party workers and the people of Telangana. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9am-delhi-s-air-poor-could-turn-severe-imd-warns-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Z5nhmKAzBfTBFYpbMdKZzN.html
05-12-2020||India||SC rejects demand for govt nominees in trust formed for Ayodhya mosque||The Supreme Court on Friday rejected the demand to form a trust comprising government nominees to oversee construction work at the 5 acre land allotted to the Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board following the landmark decision of the top court in the Ramjanmbhoomi-Babri Masjid title suit in November last year.A bench of justices RF Nariman and KM Joseph refused to entertain a petition filed in this regard by two lawyers Shishir Chaturvedi and Karunesh Kumar Shukla.Appearing for the petitioners, advocate Hari Shankar Jain submitted that as per the November 9, 2019 decision of the Supreme Court, deciding the suit in favour of the Hindu parties, the Sunni Waqf Board was allotted 5 acres of land in village Dhannipur in Ayodhya district. On July 29, 2020, the Waqf Board created a trust called the Indo Islamic Cultural Foundation which had no nominees from either the Central or state government.Jain said, “There is no such provision in the trust to include government nominees. On the other hand, the Shri Ramjanmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra trust created by the Hindu side had government nominees.”The petitioners urged the court to direct the Centre to include within the Indo Islamic Cultural Foundation, nominees of the Central and State governments belonging to Sunni Muslim community for proper administration of the land and the construction to be raised over it.Also Read: Trust to raise over Rs700 crore from people for construction of Ayodhya’s Ram templeThe petition filed by advocate Divya Jyoti Singh said, “It is expected that the trust will get contributions from within India and also from foreign countries. It is in public interest that the central government and the state government may have all relevant information about the working of the trust to maintain public order and to ensure that no malpractices take place and the funds are not misappropriated by the trust.”The UP Sunni Waqf Board proposes to build a mosque, cultural and research centre and public utility facilities including a community kitchen, hospital and library within the 5 acre land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-rejects-demand-for-govt-nominees-in-trust-formed-for-ayodhya-mosque/story-XVw7i4D1a68Fin94jFcmmL.html
05-12-2020||India||Centre, farmers to meet for fifth round of talks today as stir over farm laws continues | 10 points||As thousands of farmers continue to agitate against the laws enacted by the government earlier this year, farm union leaders and government will meet for the fifth round of talks on Saturday to bring a solution to the deadlock over the new legislation. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, food minister Piyush Goyal and minister of state for commerce and industry Som Parkash, who will be present at the meeting, will deliberate on the points that farmer leaders had raised and offer possible solutions. Here’s the Centre-farmers deadlock explained in 10 points1. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have gathered in and around Delhi to protest against the three farm laws - the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020- enacted by the Centre during the monsoon session of Parliament earlier this year.2. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws are “anti-farmer”, and would pave the way for the dismantling of the MSP system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporations.Follow latest updates on farmers’ protest here 3. The government, however, maintains that new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.4. During the fourth round of discussions on Thursday, the government said that it talked about some amendments to the controversial farm laws. Union agriculture minister Tomar assured 40 farmer union leaders that the government has no ego and it was discussing the issues raised by farmers with an open mind. “The government will discuss points that emerged at the meeting on Friday and hopes that talks will move towards finality when the next round of discussions are held on Saturday,” he added.5. Tomar also told farmer union leaders that government is open to considering ways to strengthen APMC mandis, create a level-playing field with proposed private markets, and provide a provision for approaching higher courts for dispute resolution while asserting that procurement at minimum support price (MSP) will continue.6. The farmer leaders, however, continued to demand that the three “hastily-passed” farm laws be repealed. They said that the legislation with several loopholes and deficiencies cannot be amended. 7. As the farmers’ protest enters day 9, Delhi’s border points remain choked with thousands of farmers from Haryana, Punjab, and other states holding demonstrations.Also Read: Will stay put, join R-Day in tractors, say protesting farmers8. Meanwhile, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait has threatened that the farmers’ agitation would intensify if the government fails to meet the demands. “The government and the farmers did not reach any decision during the meeting held on Thursday. The government wants to make amendments to the three laws, but we want the laws to be completely repealed. If the government does not agree to our demands, we will continue to protest. We are looking to find out what happens in Saturday’s meeting,” Tikait said.9. The protesting farmers have called for a nationwide strike, or Bharat Bandh, on December 8 where they said they will block all toll plazas and roads leading to the national capital if their demands are not met10. All eyes are now on Saturday’s meeting which is likely to decide whether farmer leaders will accept solutions offered by the government and end the protest or go ahead with their Bharat Bandh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-farmers-to-meet-for-fifth-round-of-talks-today-as-stir-over-farm-laws-continues-10-points/story-vmeyrRl6nsiMbVgN9ZzziJ.html
05-12-2020||India||Farmers protest Live Updates: Doubts on MSP baseless, ready to resolve every suspicion, says Centre||The fifth round of talks between the protesting farm union leaders and government to bring a solution to the deadlock over the new farm laws is going on at Vigyan Bhawan.Union ministers Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah, Narendra Singh Tomar and Piyush Goyal met Prime Minister Narendra Modi at his residence in New Delhi hours ahead of the talks between the government and protesting farmers over the contentious farm laws.Four rounds of negotiations, conducted between three Union ministers and farmers’ representatives, have so far failed to break the deadlock between the two sides.The Centre has agreed to review the recently enacted legislation and bring amendments if required to address the farmers’ demands. The farmers, however, said that they did not want amendments to the new laws but want them rolled back entirely.Follow live updates here:Tomar requests farmers to stop protesting in cold weatherI want to request protesting farmers to give up their movement so that they don't face inconvenience in this cold weather & citizens of Delhi can also live a life of convenience: Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar after 5th round of talks at Vigyan Bhawan today https://t.co/nn1gRw7joB pic.twitter.com/sXBb1d83olUnion minister Tomar urges farmers’ union to have faith in Modi govt’s decisionUnion Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar after the fifth round of talks with the farmers’ union leaders asked them to have faith in the Modi govt. He thanked the farmers’ union for maintaining discipline and said whatever the govt will do, it will be in the interest of the farmers. Farmers’ leader hopeful govt will repeal lawsWe said at the beginning of meeting that our demand is withdrawal of laws, don't want amendment. We took a firm stand. Finally we were told that next meeting will be held on Dec 9. It seems govt will definitely roll back the laws: Hannan Mollah, General Secy,All India Kisan Sabha pic.twitter.com/vNCJCagTJjUnion minister Tomar urges farmers to leave agitation, join discussionI’d not like to comment on program of Unions. But I’d like to urge farmers & Unions to leave path of agitation and come to path of discussion. Government has had several rounds of talks with them and is ready for further discussion for a solution, said Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Bharat Bandh scheduled for Dec 8, reports ANI.Doubts on MSP baseless, ready to resolve every suspicion, says CentreWe have said that the MSP will continue, there is no threat to it. It is baseless to doubt this. Still, if someone is suspicious then the government is ready to resolve it, said Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, reports ANI. Bharat Bandh on Dec 8 to go on as announced, says farmers’ union leaderGovt will prepare a draft and give us. They said that they’ll consult the states too. Discussions were held on MSP too but we said that we should also take up laws & talk about their roll back. Bharat Bandh (on 8th Dec) will go on as announced, said Rakesh Tikait, Bharatiya Kisan Union, reports ANI.Farmers’ leaders say will hold internal discussion on govt proposal before Dec 9Central Government has said that they will send us a proposal on December 9th. We will discuss it amongst ourselves after which a meeting with them will be held that day: Farmer leaders say after the fifth round of meeting with Central Government concludes#FarmLaws2020 pic.twitter.com/GidiFmEDYXNext talk of rounds between centre, farmers’ leaders on Dec 9It was decided at the meeting that the next round of talks between farmer leaders and central government to be held on December 9th, on the request of all stakeholders reports ANI. We do not want corporate farming, law to benefit only govt: Farmers’ leadersFarmers’ leaders during the fifth round of talks said, “We do not want corporate farming. The government will benefit from this law, not the farmer.”  We do not want corporate farming. The government will benefit from this law, not the farmer: Farmers to the centre, at the fifth round of talks over farm laws https://t.co/P412cKXOXeUnion minister Tomar appeals farmers’ leaders to send children,senior citizens homeAgriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar requests the farmer leaders during the fifth round of talks to send senior citizens and children home. He said, “Iappeal to all of you to kindly ask senior citizens and children, at the protest site, to go home.”, reports ANI.Farmers from Bilaspur, Uttarakhand reach Delhi borders to join protestFarmers from Bilaspur, Uttarakhand reach Ghazipur border (UP-Delhi border) & join protesting farmers stationed at Delhi-Meerut Expressway, reports ANI.Farmers’ leaders threaten to walk out of meeting if Centre fails to decide on demands raised‘The government should make a decision on our demands, otherwise, we are walking out of the meeting’, say farmer leaders participating in the fifth round of talks with the Central Government, at Vigyan Bhavan in Delhi, reports ANI. Why can’t our parliament discuss issue if Canada’s parliament can: farmers’ representativeIf Canada’s parliament can discuss the issue, why can’t our parliament do it, asks Kulwant Singh Sandhu, General Secy, Jamhoori Kisan Sabha, Punjab on Canadian MPs raising the issue relating to the farmers protest in the Parliament post which the Canadian PM wrote a letter to the government of India. Farmers’ leaders have lunch carried by them to the fifth round of talks venue#WATCH Delhi: Farmer leaders, present at the fifth round of talks with Central Government, have food that they had carried to the venue. A Kar Sewa vehicle that carried food for them arrived here earlier today. They'd got their own food even during 4th round of talks on Dec 3. https://t.co/hDP8cwzSGJ pic.twitter.com/XSR6m2lljSGovt gives written reply of minutes of meeting to farmers’ leadersThe government has given written response of the minutes of the meeting to the farmers’ leaders. The fifth round of talks has been paused for a 15-minute break, reports ANI. Farmers’ leaders ask centre its decision over farmers’ demandsFarmers’ union leaders during the fifth round of talks with the centre at the Vigyan Bhawan said they don’t want further discussion and instead just need a solution or commitment. They want to know what the government has decided on the demands of the farmers.Union minister Tomar tells farmers’ unions Centre committed to talksUnion agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar tells farmers’ unions Centre committed to talks, welcomes feedback on farm bills, reports PTI.Farmers’ representatives bring their own food to fifth round of talks at Vigyan Bhawan Delhi: A Kar Sewa vehicle carrying food for Farmers' representatives arrives at Vigyan Bhawan during 5th round of talks between Farmers Unions & Centre.Farmers are carrying their own food at the venue today. They'd got their own food even during the 4th round of talks on Dec 3. https://t.co/EzZgHcoHTr pic.twitter.com/dKDreXetkyGovt agrees to give written reply of last talks on farm laws as per farmers’ leaders demand Farmers’ representatives during the fifth round of talks regarding the farm laws asked the centre to provide a pointwise comprehensive written reply of the last meeting, the government has agreed to do so. Fifth round of meeting at Vigyan Bhawan between farmers’ leaders, Centre begins New Delhi: Fifth round of meeting between farmers' representatives and the Central government begins at Vigyan Bhawan. pic.twitter.com/L4u2LaTi1rProtest to continue until laws rolled back, says farmers’ leaderWe want to complete rollback of the laws. If the government doesn’t accept our demand, we will continue our agitation, said Harjinder Singh Tanda, state chief of Azad Kisan Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, reports ANI. Narendra Singh Tomar reaches Vigyan Bhawan to hold talks with agitating farmersUnion Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar reaches Vigyan Bhawan to hold talks with agitating farmers.Farmers’ representatives reach Vigyan Bhawan to hold fifth round of talks Farmers’ representatives reach Vigyan Bhawan to hold fifth round of talks with the Central government on the farm laws.AAP workers in Mumbai protest against Centre’s farm billAam Aadmi Party (AAP) workers in Mumbai protest against Union government over farm bill and in solidarity with farmers protesting in Delhi.Rashtriya Janata Dal holds protest at Patna’s Gandhi Maidan against the Centre’s farm lawsRashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) holds protest at Patna’s Gandhi Maidan against the Centre’s farm laws.RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav says, “We demand that the Centre repeals the black laws.”Farmers’ leaders leave from Singhu border for Vigyan Bhawan to hold fifth round of talksFarmers’ leaders leave from Singhu border for Vigyan Bhawan to hold fifth round of talks with the Central government on the farm laws.Defence Minister Rajnath Singh leaves from the Prime Minister’s residenceDefence Minister Rajnath Singh leaves from the Prime Minister’s residence.Farmers’ doubts will be cleared in today’s meeting with Centre: Kailash ChoudharyFarmers’ doubts will be cleared in today’s meeting with Centre. In recent meetings, some issues were clarified. It’s Opposition’s politics, they’re instigating the protest. The meeting will be fruitful & we expect farmers will roll back protest: MoS Agriculture, Kailash ChoudharyWe are hoping today’s meeting with central leadership will be positive: Protestor Farmers protest at Burari’s Nirankari Samagam Ground against recent farm laws enters 10th day.“We’re hoping today’s meeting with central leadership will be positive. We won’t stop until govt agrees to our demands. We’ll make the movement bigger,” says a protestor.Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh and Narendra Singh Tomar reach PM Modi’s residence in New DelhiAhead of the fifth round of meeting with agitating farmers, Union ministers Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh and Narendra Singh Tomar reach PM Narendra Modi’s residence in New Delhi. Union Minister Piyush Goyal also reaches the Prime Minister’s residence.Government should announce to withdraw the three black laws: Kisan Mahapanchayat presidentThe government should announce to withdraw the three black laws and give in writing that MSP will continue. If any positive result doesn’t come out of today’s talks, farmers from Rajasthan will march along NH-8 towards Delhi and camp at Jantar Mantar: Rampal Jat, president, Kisan Mahapanchayat.Hopeful that farmers will think positively and end their agitation: Narendra Singh TomarA meeting is scheduled with farmers at 2 pm today. I am very hopeful that farmers will think positively and end their agitation: Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar.Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee prepares food for protesting farmersDelhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) prepares food for the farmers protesting at Singhu border (Delhi-Haryana). A volunteer says, “We are providing meals three times a day.”Delhi: Farmers continue to hold a sit-in protest at Chilla border Farmers continue to hold a sit-in protest at Chilla border (Delhi-Noida Link Road) against the Centre’s farm laws.A farmer says, “If anything concrete doesn’t happen in today’s meeting with the Central government then we will gherao the Parliament.”Gazipur border (UP-Delhi border) on NH-24 is closed for traffic Gazipur border (UP-Delhi border) on NH-24 is closed for traffic from Gaziabad to Delhi due to farmers protests: Delhi Traffic Police5th round of talks between farmers, Centre to be held todayThe fifth round of talks between the central government and farmers is scheduled to be held today.A large number of farmers have gathered in and around Delhi to protest against the three farm laws.Delegation of JJP leaders met Anil Vij and sought withdrawal of cases against farmers during protest A delegation of Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) leaders met Home Minister Anil Vij seeking withdrawal of cases against farmers during protest.Digvijay Chautala said, “Home Minister has assured us that he will look into the matter and discuss the issue with Chief Minister”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/live-update/farmers-protest-live-updates/story-ltkccHCImhMfOKRuFSt9BO.html
05-12-2020||India||7 die as heavy rain hits Tamil Nadu||Heavy rains continued to batter Tamil Nadu on Friday leading to death of seven people and waterlogging in many parts even as the deep depression over Gulf of Mannar near Ramanathapuram weakened into a depression, officials familiar with the matter said.The India Meteorological Department said the deep depression over the Gulf of Mannar close to Ramanathapuram district’s coast remained practically stationary for 18 hours and then weakened into a depression.“The depression is likely to remain practically stationary over the same (Ramanathapuram) region and weaken into a Well marked Low Pressure Area during the next 12 hours (by early Saturday),” the latest bulletin said.A total of 27,391 people including 4,873 children have been evacuated and moved to relief camps across the state. The high-water levels have caused severe damage to crops as more than 40 hectares of paddy were damaged, officials familiar with the matter said. According to the Indian Meteorological Department’s 1pm bulletin, the deep depression is likely to remain stationary over the same region and weaken into a depression during the next 12 hours and move southwestwards across Ramanathapuram district towards south Kerala and weaken into a well-marked low pressure area in subsequent 24 hours.Chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami had announced a public holiday on December 4 for Kanyakumari, Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Ramanathapuram, Virudhunagar and Thoothukudi and urged people to remain indoors. Chief minister of Puducherry V Narayanaswami inspected flooded-areas and civic workers and machines were pressed to drain water. The union territory had declared a holiday for schools in the union territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seven-die-as-heavy-rain-hits-tamil-nadu/story-tvpCemOGqdRxbzIB9pZTmN.html
05-12-2020||India||BJP wins three MLC seats in UP, loses Varanasi to SP candidate||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party won three of the six Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council seats for which results were announced on Friday.While the BJP managed to end the decades-long dominance of eight-time MLC Om Prakash Sharma in Meerut, it finished in the third place in Varanasi where Samajwadi Party’s Lal Bihari Yadav won.BJP’s Umesh Dwivedi won the Lucknow division teachers’ seat, Shrichand Sharma the Meerut seat and Hari Singh Dhillon the Bareilly-Moradabad seat, the results showed. Akash Agrawal and Dhruv Kumar Tripathi, both independent candidates, won the Agra and Gorakhpur teachers’ seats, respectively.This is first time that the BJP contested the Vidhan Parishad polls to the teachers’ constituencies.The biennial elections to all the 11 seats were held on December 1 after hectic campaigning by candidates and their parties. A total of 199 candidates were in the fray.The counting for the 11 seats started on Thursday and the results of the remaining are likely to be announced by Saturday, officials said.The BJP, SP, Congress and teachers’ associations contested the polls.Of the 11 seats, five are graduates’ constituencies and six teachers’ constituencies.The term of office of the MLCs from these constituencies expired on May 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-wins-three-mlc-seats-in-up-loses-varanasi-to-sp-candidate/story-noFluNFPfBnq86jR7dPokK.html
05-12-2020||India||Stan Swamy gets straw, sipper in jail, files fresh plea seeking his bag||The advocate of activist Stan Swamy, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, on Friday told a special court here that Swamy has been given a straw and sipper by the Taloja jail authorities.Swamy, 83, on Friday filed three fresh applications seeking a direction to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to return his bag, a copy of his hard disk and a direction to not transfer him from Taloja jail.Swamy said he apprehends that he would be transferred from the Taloja prison near here in Navi Mumbai.Swamy, who is suffering from various health ailments including Parkinson’s disease, was arrested on October 8 by NIA.Last month, he had filed an application seeking the NIA to return the straw and sipper allegedly seized from him at the time of his arrest.The NIA, however, told the court last month that it had not seized a straw and sipper from Swamy and hence there was no question of returning those items to him.Swamy then filed an application seeking a direction to the jail authorities to provide him a straw and sipper and winter clothes.On November 26, the special NIA Court had directed the jail superintendent to file his reply on the application.On Friday, Swami’s advocate Sharif Shaikh told special NIA Judge D E Kothalikar that Swamy has been provided with straw and sipper and winter clothes by the jail authorities.Swamy had also filed a bail plea on medical grounds.The court had sought a report from the Taloja prison on his health condition.On Friday, the jail authorities told the court that they need time to submit the report, following which court posted the matter for further hearing on December 10. The court said it would also hear the three new applications filed by Swamy on December 10. NIA’s lawyer Prakash Shetty told the court that the agency does not have any items belonging to Swamy.As per NIA, Swamy was involved in the activities of the banned CPI (Maoist).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stan-swamy-gets-straw-sipper-in-jail-files-fresh-plea-seeking-his-bag/story-tMyFoM1FeLgidqNlVtbTGO.html
05-12-2020||India||‘Will bring a no-trust motion against govt for failing farmers’, says Bhupinder Singh Hooda||Former Haryana chief minister and Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda spoke to Hindustan Times about the ongoing farm agitation and his demand of bringing a no-confidence motion against the state government in the assembly. Edited excerpts: Before this, there were just the Agricultural Produce Market Committe (APMC) markets. Now there are two -- APMC market committee yards, and open market. The government may insist it will continue to give minimum support prices (MSP), but outside APMC, there is no MSP. This is the main concern of farmers. In August 2007, my government made rules under the APMC Act that no one could purchase less than the MSP prices. For crops which are outside MSP, it could be at prevailing market rate. This is the main concern of farmers.The government should just agree. It is a genuine demand and apprehension that they (farmers) may be exploited by corporates. When the crops come, the rates will be cheap, as there may be hoarding. There is no limit for hoarding now, even for essential commodities. If they are free to hoard, prices will rise according to demand and supply. I think it needs a fourth law that anyone who purchases less than MSP should be punished by law. That is not true. Even in other states, farmers are protesting as they are worried about MSP. They are coming to protest from Rajasthan, from western UP, and no political parties are participating in it. Farmers are leading the protests, but we support their demand. That’s why the Congress is asking the Governor to call an urgent assembly session. We will be bringing in a no-confidence motion against this government as this government has totally failed to handle this situation. They are not even supporting people coming to Delhi. They have no right to stop them from coming to the Capital of the country. During this corona period, for them to use water cannons or tear gas on farmers, that isn’t correct. One of the Haryana ministers said the protests are foreign funded. This is an insult to farmers and the country. That’s why we are planning to bring no-confidence vote. We want to expose their double talk - on one hand supporting the government and on the other, they are issuing statements for farmers. The two independent MLAs have already withdrawn support from the government, so the government has lost the confidence of the assembly.No. There are other MLAs also feeling upset, and they talk, but no conversation with Mr Chautala. When this government was formed in Haryana, I said ‘vote kisi ko, support kisi ko (that means vote for someone, support to someone else)’. That has come true now.That was a type of referendum against the state government. That’s why I say that the government has lost credibility.I don’t discuss internal matters of the party in public or the press.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-bring-a-no-trust-motion-against-govt-for-failing-farmers-says-bhupinder-singh-hooda/story-jydgjjZedVuTSrdtUxxvAO.html
05-12-2020||India||Why a new decomposer may hold hope of dousing farm stubble fires||Desperate to control air pollution in the national capital, the Union government in October proposed heavy fines and even jail for polluters, including farmers who were burning paddy stubble, leading to the city’s deadly winter smog. Along with three new farm laws, thousands of farmers are also protesting these harsh measures, saying they cannot afford costly alternatives. But trials this harvest season indicate that crop-residue burning could be stopped, or at least effectively controlled, by a new technology that is showing encouraging results. A proprietary microbial solution developed by the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI) – usually referred to as the Pusa institute -- that turns biomass, such as rice stubble, into natural manure, has proved to be successful in Delhi, Punjab and Haryana, according to scientists behind the project. The Delhi government, which utilised the technology and is strongly promoting it, has also found the experiments to be a success.“ICAR’s invention, named Pusa, decomposes crop residue, including paddy straw, and turns it into manure in about 25 days, thus eliminating the need to burn paddy stubble,” YV Singh, principal scientist of microbiology at the institute, a top state-run facility, told HT. Singh said the technology showed an efficacy range of 70%-80% during in-house open trials. This paved the way for the Delhi government to adopt the technology, drenching over 800 hectares of non-basmati rice fields with the bio-decomposer in the Capital’s rural belts for free. The operation, undertaken between October 11 and November 20, cost approximately Rs 20 lakh. A Delhi government panel studied the outcomes of the trials, termed it a success, and recommended expanding its use nationally as its appraisal found that the decomposer turned “90%-95% crop residue into manure in 15-20 days”. “Delhi has found a solution to the problem of crop residue burning and now no state can now make any excuse,” Delhi’s chief minister Arvind Kejriwal told reporters on November 5 after touring rice farms under the project. Assuming farmers in Punjab burn paddy straw in at least two million hectares of rice, it will cost the state Rs 571 crore to fund the use of Pusa decomposer, HT’s calculation based on the Delhi government’s costs show. This could be effectively path-breaking because the cost is just a fraction of the Rs 6,000 crore the state spends annually on subsiding various farm inputs, from cheap fertilisers to power. Farmers across Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh typically harvest paddy in October and then set their fields on fire to clear rice stalks for the next crop. Since the straw from premium basmati rice, which is mostly exported, is soft enough to be used as fodder, it does not require burning, and has little role in air pollution. The share of basmati in overall paddy output is just 2.1%, official data shows. The residue of non-basmati rice varieties, which account for the largest paddy area, is too hard to be of any economic use, and farmers have long maintained that there is no viable or cost-effective alternative to burning the unwanted stalks.Though Punjab’s farmers have increasingly switched to modern machines to efficiently harvest rice, such machines also leave paddy stalks in their wake, leading to stubble-burning, said Manpreet Singh, a farm engineering specialist at Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana. Automated harvesters are designed to shave off the grainy part of paddy, leaving loose straw behind. Farmers find it cheaper to burn the remnants. Unlike the decreasing landholding size at an all-India level, the operational landholding size in Punjab has increased over the years, making use of larger machines viable, analysts say. Data from the national agricultural census 2011 show that average land-holding size in Punjab has gone up from 2.89 hectares (7.1 acres) in 1970-71 to 3.77 ha (9.3 acres) in 2010-11, much higher than the national average of 1.5 hectares (3.7 acres). As the westerly winds carry the smoke from the burning stubble towards the national capital, air pollution in Delhi spikes to alarming levels – the air quality index often breaches the “severe” level (400-plus) that is hazardous even for healthy individuals. Though local emissions and weather also lead to pollution spikes through the winter, the first wave exacerbated by stubble fires is the deadliest and most intense.Air pollution kills up to an estimated 30,000 people in Delhi annually, according to a 2015 report of New Delhi’s Centre for Science and Environment (CSE). Scientists at IARI started on a research project two years ago for a solution to burning of non-basmati straw, a programme involving some of its top scientists and droves of PhD scholars, Singh said. The Pusa decomposer comes in the form of capsules that contain an activated package of eight strains of fungi. “I can’t make the strains public because it is a proprietary formulation and we are in talks with private firms to market it in exchange of royalty,” the principal scientist added. To prepare a solution of 25 litres, enough to cover one hectare of paddy, farmers need to add five capsules of the propreitory decomposer, along with jaggery and checkpea flour, to water. Within a week, a good layer of fungi admixture is formed. According to A. Amarender Reddy, the principal scientist at the Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture (Crida), microbial agents in the solution act on the straw to make it soft, break down its components and release nutrients into the soil. Singh said scientists were gleaning lessons from actual trials in Delhi. “Field results are promising, but we are analysing the results to see if we can customise the product further to adapt to different soil environments,” Singh said. According to Reddy, the findings of trial results – like the one by the Delhi government panel -- are always represented in average terms. Any average doesn’t account for variations in individual farms, so it is possible that not every farm has uniform results, he added. The scientist said that use of the solution across Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh – two other states that add to the Capital’s pollution woes – could help control the problem, but added that the solution wasn’t a silver bullet. “It is not a magic solution which you spray and stubble vanishes. It works best as part of integrated stubble-management approach,” Singh said. For instance, scientists pointed out that farmers should carry out laid-down drills, leaven the stubble with additional equipment, and adhere to prescribed temperatures while storing and spraying. In Punjab, which reports far more fire incidents than Haryana (cumulatively between October 1 and November 3, Punjab saw 79093 fire incidents this year compared to 50738 in the corresponding period last year, according to Indian Agriculture Research Institute’s satellite surveillance), the government has authorised the use of eight farm equipment, including the so-called “happy seeder”. Individual farmers can avail 50% subsidy to buy these machines, while farmer groups are eligible for up to 80% subsidy. These machines cost between Rs1.40 lakh to ₹1.60 lakh. The tractor-mounted “happy seeder” can be used to sow wheat without the need to clear the straw. “But the problem is farmers still prefer burning because of lack of awareness and cost issues,” said HS Sidhu of the Borlaug Institute for South Asia, who was one of the developers of the “happy seeder”. Analysts say more studies of the Pusa decomposer should be conducted urgently across various farm zones. If the results are encouraging, the decomposer should be included among farm technologies that are eligible for subsidy, they add.“Any technology, to be successful, needs scalability. Therefore, the government should invest in any solution that is promising. Testing across agroclimatic zones should be the way forward. Look at Covid-19. Afterall, humankind was successful in developing a vaccine in such a short time,” said Rohini Mali, an independent consultant, who was formerly advisor of food systems, FAO in Rome||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-a-new-decomposer-may-hold-hope-of-dousing-farm-stubble-fires/story-3Y3ujv4gkmLuXl2GUS7CwI.html
05-12-2020||India||TRS largest in Hyderabad polls as BJP improves tally||The ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) emerged as the single largest party in the Hyderabad civic polls on Friday, but was jolted by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) that surged into second place, a significant achievement for a party that was a bit player in the state four years ago. The TRS won 55 of the 150 seats in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), a deficit of 44 seats from its 2016 showing of 99. The BJP won 48 seats on the back of a high-octane campaign, a huge improvement over its 2016 performance of four seats when it fought in alliance with the Telugu Desam Party.The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) largely held on to its home turf in the Muslim-majority old city of Hyderabad and won 44 seats, the same as its 2016 tally. It, however, had the best strike rate of all parties, having contested just 51 seats. The result of one seat was not declared owing to a legal battle over the ballot paper used.No single party reached the halfway mark of 76 but the TRS and the AIMIM – which fought the 2019 general elections in alliance and have friendly relations – are expected to join hands. The results pit the BJP as the primary challenger to the TRS -- which has ruled the state since it was founded in 2014 - in the next assembly elections in three years. The Congress won two seats, the same number it did in 2016. Taking moral responsibility for the poor show of the party, Telangana PCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy announced his resignation. The focus has now shifted to the mayor’s post, which was held by the TRS. In all, GHMC has 150 elected members and 52 other members, such as MPs, MLAs and MLCs of the area. Of the 52, the TRS has 38 members. This means that the mayor’s post is decided by an electoral college of 202 members, of which the TRS controls only 93 -- nine short of the halfway mark of 102. Senior TRS leader and state panchayat raj minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao said the people reposed their faith in the TRS despite “large-scale conspiracy” by the BJP that sought to exploit religious sentiments. “They have voted for the development and rejected divisive forces,” he said. The BJP hailed the results. “Gratitude to the people of Telangana for reposing faith in PM Narendra Modi led BJP’s politics of development,” said Union home minister Amit Shah.BJP chief JP Nadda called the results historic. “This result reflects people’s unequivocal support to Hon PM Shri @narendramodi ji’s development & governance model,” he tweeted. In the morning, some television channels had projected a two-thirds majority for the BJP but it later turned out that the leads were due to postal ballots only. AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi expressed confidence that the people of Telangana would not allow the BJP to expand its footprint. Experts credited the BJP’s performance to its spirited campaign that roped in top leaders, including Shah, Nadda, and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, polarising the Hindu vote bank in Hyderabad by promising to end “Nizam culture” and highlighting the failures of the TRS government in providing relief during heavy rainfall that lashed the city last month.Political analyst and Osmania University professor K Nageshwar said the main reason for the failure of the TRS in the GHMC was its open friendship with the AIMIM. “It has naturally given a weapon to the BJP and an opportunity to emerge as a champion of Hindus,” he said. He said that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao focussed on decimating the Congress but failed to assess the threat from the BJP. “The TRS supported the Narendra Modi government in Parliament on several issues. So, how could the people believe KCR?” he asked. Other BJP leaders said the results had given the party a toehold in the TRS bastion. “There was a vacuum in opposition space. The Congress had stopped functioning as an opposition. There is also widespread anger against the TRS government for its misrule and poor response to the challenges of unemployment, Covid and more recently floods,” said P Muralidhar Rao, a former national general secretary who now in charge of Madhya Pradesh. Party national general secretary Bhupender Yadav, who oversaw the campaign, said the results showed the support that the party has in the state. “People have faith in the BJP. The party has performed well despite the malpractices that the TRS government indulged in.” Yadav added that the vote was a mandate against the chief minister.In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the BJP won four seats and about 20% vote share. The recent win in the Dubbaka assembly bypoll -- which was earlier held by the TRS -- came as a shot in the arm for the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trs-largest-in-hyderabad-polls-as-bjp-improves-tally/story-dNWJX0y8tEHEVPN2HpluIM.html
05-12-2020||India||Covid vaccine will be in India within weeks: PM Modi||India is set to get a Covid-19 vaccine within weeks, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday while briefing political leaders on the preparations for “cheap and safe” Made in India vaccines, assuring them that immunisation would start as soon as scientists give a go-ahead. “There are 8 potential vaccines at different stages of trials and their production will be in India. Three indigenous vaccines are also at different levels of trials. Experts believe it will not be a long wait for a Covid vaccine. It is believed that in the next few weeks, a Covid vaccine will be ready. As soon as scientists give the green signal, immunisation will start in India,” the PM said, virtually addressing an all-party meeting. Modi’s remarks, two days after UK’s authorisation for Pfizer’s dose, was seen by some as an indication that emergency approval may be fast-tracked for the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, which is being produced by the Serum Institute of India. The other two local vaccines are unlikely to be ready in that time frame: Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin has started phase 3 trails but the results aren’t out yet; Zydus Cadila plans to start final trails in December.On Saturday (November 28), SII CEO Adar Poonawalla said that SII could apply for emergency approval of the vaccine within two weeks. Data from final trials in the UK and Brazil have shown the vaccine to be between 62% and 90% effective, depending on the dosage. The Prime Minister assured the political leaders that Indian vaccines will be cheap but safe. He insisted on dispelling rumours for they are “never in public interest or national interest” and, for the first time, announced the priority list of beneficiaries. “A few days ago, I had very successful talks with scientists involved in Made in India vaccines. Our scientists have high level of confidence and they are hopeful about success. We are hearing names of some foreign vaccines in the market. But world is looking for the cheap but safest vaccine. And that’s why it’s natural for the world to also look at India.”At the HT leadership summit Poonawala said the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine could become available for the general public by April-May next year and is likely to cost around Rs 500-600 for a dose for the general public. He added that the vaccine could cost less, at $3-4 (Rs 220-295), when sold to the government. Officials involved in the planning maintained that while indigenous vaccines are preferred candidates, procuring other vaccines can’t be ruled out as everything depends on the trial results. “But as of now, we are hopeful of immunising 290 million people or the first three priority groups with Made in India vaccines,” said a senior official familiar with the matter. Modi made it clear that India will utilise its existing universal immunisation network to administer the vaccines. “India has both vaccine distribution expertise and capacity; we are better than other countries in these areas. We have a vast and experienced vaccination network and we will exploit it to the hilt.” On Tuesday, HT reported that India will use the cold storage facilities and 1.5 lakh vaccinators from this network. The PM also announced that in the first leg (to be spread over first six months) priority in immunisation will be given to health care workers, frontline workers and senior citizens with co-morbidities as per the suggestions of the states. But he also added that current anti-Covid protocols, especially social distancing and masks, must be continued. All leaders who spoke at the meeting supported the government’s efforts in containing the pandemic and offered help to tackle any misinformation. They suggested strengthening of cold chains in remote areas and taking states on board. Modi assured the leaders that he has kept state chief ministers on board and added that the Centre and states are working together in the area of vaccine distribution. He said that efforts are on to augment cold chain infrastructure, and that some new schemes and programmes have been launched to this end -- a reference to amendments to the CSR rules allowing companies to spend their CSR funds for vaccine development and distribution. The Companies Act requires firms with a net worth of Rs 500 crore or more, or turnover of Rs 1,000 crore or more, or net profit of Rs 5 crore or more in the immediately preceding financial year, to mandatorily spend 2% of their average net profit of the preceding three years on CSR.The PM lauded the Indian way of tackling the pandemic and said on several parameters such number of daily tests or death rates, India has fared better than advanced nations. India’s current case fatality rate is 1.4%, compared to the world’s 2.3%. “India’s fight against Covid reflects the ardent willpower of each Indian. We have fought better than many developed countries with advanced medical infrastructure. Our self-discipline, courage and resources have been incredible during this entire war. We have not thought only about our own people, but also helped other countries,” Modi said. But he also said that even as we are at the doorstep of vaccines, “the same people’s participation, the same scientific approach and coordination is needed”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-vaccine-will-be-in-india-within-weeks-pm-modi/story-zEsTyHjlUgtgNPj0VWbpKP.html
05-12-2020||India||Economy bottoming out; rebound not broad-based||The Reserve Bank of India’s Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) has decided to keep policy rates unchanged while retaining an accommodative stance. It also believes that the economy is already out of contraction zone and will register positive growth in the quarters ending December (0.1%) and March (0.7%). This means that the Indian economy has bottomed out from its pandemic shock. The fact that MPC expects the annual GDP contraction in 2020-21 to be 7.5% and not 9.5%, a number it projected in its October meeting shows that the recovery has been faster than expected. However, evidence from the latest forward looking surveys of RBI also shows that the possibility of a deceleration in the ongoing recovery cannot be ruled out. MPC’s assessment also indicates that the nature of challenge facing the economy could actually be shifting in nature from the immediate task of ensuring an unlocking of the economy. Here are four things worth keeping in mind while looking at the economy going forward.1 Base effect will make growth rate numbers a bit misleading in the futureThe Indian economy was losing growth momentum even before the pandemic inflicted a huge disruption to economic activity. GDP growth was 8.2% in March 2018. It fell continuously in all quarters until June 2020, except in March 2019. GDP growth was 4.1% in the quarter ending December 2019 and just 3.1% in March 2020. The June and September quarters have seen an annual contraction in GDP. Going forward, this will have a favourable base effect on GDP growth rates.  This means that disproportionately higher growth rates need not mean that the economy is adding to its historical incomes at a very fast pace. For example, even with a 25% growth rate in the quarter ending June 2021, the absolute GDP level would still be lower than the June 2019 level.2 Consumer Confidence Surveys show an unequal recoveryWhile the overall economy is supposed to be out of the contraction zone, this has not translated into an increase in incomes for majority of the population. The latest Consumer Confidence Survey (CCS), which was conducted in the first half of November shows that more than half of the respondents continue to report a fall in income and employment.  While perceptions about general economic situation and employment seem to have bottomed out, incomes and non-essential spending have fallen compared to September levels. This suggests that the ongoing economic recovery is being driven by a small section of the economy. Experts have been talking about the current economic recovery being led by profits rather than wages, which could put a squeeze on mass demand going forward. To be sure, CCS is conducted in urban centres and does not capture the mood in rural areas -- and by all accounts agriculture is doing well.3 Inflation is moving beyond food itemsMPC has struck a note of caution on the inflation situation, which has begun to percolate outside food items. A good winter crop might not be enough to bring down food inflation which has entered double-digit growth since September.  “While cereal prices may continue to soften with the bumper kharif harvest arrivals and vegetable prices may ease with the winter crop, other food prices are likely to persist at elevated levels”, the MPC resolution noted. Higher food prices will continue to put pressure on household budgets and adversely affect non-food demand. Consumer Price Index (CPI) data shows that core inflation – the non-food non-fuel component of CPI basket – has been steadily rising in the past few months along with food inflation.With international crude oil prices firming up on expectations of a global revival in demand, the government might have to reconsider its high taxes on petroleum products as well. Brent crude prices ($48.7/barrel on December 3) have regained March levels .4 Will credit growth pick up?A lot of experts believe that the better-than-expected performance in the September quarter was a result of a favourable confluence of pent-up demand and festive demand. Speaking at the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that while these factors might have played a role in the economic recovery, businesses have started planning for fresh investment and the recovery will gain more strength.  A good way to check whether or not this is happening would be to track the demand for non-food credit in the economy. Latest data from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy shows that non-food credit growth seems to have bottomed out and has started recovering in November after having fallen for a long time. If this recovery sustains itself going forward, it could be an early indicator of revival in business sentiment and perhaps investment demand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/economy-bottoming-out-rebound-not-broad-based/story-9VC3oHOAngL24wvU7gckxK.html
05-12-2020||India||Rajinikanth’s aides urge him to project himself as CM candidate||Tamil superstar Rajinikanth is being persuaded to project himself as the chief ministerial candidate for 2021 assembly elections in Tamil Nadu, a close aide said Friday, a day after the actor announced his intention to launch a political party by January 2021 and contest the assembly election.“He (Rajinikanth) has taken a firm stand that he will not be chief minister,” said a person considered close to the actor. “He had taken this decision even before announcing his political entry in December 2017. We are trying to convince him to rethink.”In March, this year, Rajinikanth said that he had no desire to be the chief minister. “I will be the party chief,” said Rajinikanth. “We will make a youngster who is educated, farsighted, self-respecting and affectionate to sit (in the chief minister’s chair). That person will govern. The party will critique but not interfere with their work. But, it won’t be like parallel power centres. This is my plan,” the actor had said.Political analysts attribute Rajinikanth’s risk-averse personality for not wanting to be the chief minister candidate and that was the reason for him not to contest the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.“He will probably have a 5% vote share which can go up to a maximum of 8%, depending on his promises and if he projects himself as the chief minister candidate,” said political analyst Sriram Seshadri. “This number is a luxury for Rajinikanth. He’s realised that and done a fair assessment of himself and the ground reality. He would probably like to be in a kingmaker’s role so his stature remains.” On Thursday, Rajinikanth made two appointments for his yet to be launched party - his confidante Tamilaruvi Manian as supervisor while an former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member R Arjunamurthy as chief coordinator.“His aim is to change the system,” said Manian. “He wants to return people’s goodwill by putting up better candidates as legislators and a chief minister. He’s practicing a detached attachment approach.” Rajinikanth is keen to hit the ground for campaigning, say his associates despite his age and health condition amidst the Covid-19 pandemic which puts him under a high-risk category. Rajinikanth will make further announcements about the party on December 31. The topic of a chief ministerial candidate is dominant in the current scenario where the upcoming polls are the first in the absence of Dravidian stalwarts such as AIADMK’s J Jayalalithaa and DMK’s M Karunanidhi.In October, after days of negotiations and tussle within the AIADMK, deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam announced that chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami will continue to the leader for the top post when they pitch for a third consecutive term. In the opposition DMK, there is no difference of opinion within the camp or with its allies. The DMK lead alliance would fight under MK Stalin, who has been groomed by Karunanidhi for this job for several decades.Rajinikanth’s contemporary Kamal Haasan will contest as the chief ministerial face of his party Makkal Needhi Maiam which made its electoral debut in 2019 parliamentary polls with a 3.7% vote share.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajinikanth-s-aides-urge-him-to-project-himself-as-cm-candidate/story-XwtYBZeML03AgkAcr7sldM.html
05-12-2020||India||Protesting farmers call for Bharat Bandh; key talks today||Farmers agitating against three farm laws on Friday announced a nationwide strike, or Bharat Bandh, on December 8 where they said they will block all toll plazas and roads leading to Delhi as they hardened their position ahead of the fifth round of talks with the central government scheduled for Saturday.Four rounds of negotiations, conducted between three Union ministers and farmers’ representatives, have so far failed to break the deadlock between the two sides as thousands of cultivators continued their stir just outside Delhi’s borders for the eight straight day. On Thursday, the Centre had agreed to review the recently enacted legislation and “bring amendments” if required to address the farmers’ demands. The farmers, however, have stuck to their stand and said that they did not want amendments to the new laws but want them rolled back entirely.Farmer leader Gurnam Singh Chadoni said on Friday that if the Centre does not accept their demands during fifth meeting on Saturday, they will further intensify their agitation.“In our meeting today, we have decided to give a ‘Bharat Bandh’ call on December 8 during which we will also occupy all toll plazas,” said Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary of Bharatiya Kisan Union, one of the groups involved in the talks. “We have planned to block all roads leading to Delhi in the coming days if new farm laws are not scrapped,” he said, addressing a press conference at Singhu border that connects Delhi and Haryana.“Yesterday (Thursday), we told the government that the farm laws should be withdrawn,” he told reporters, adding that the farmers will burn effigies of the government and corporate houses on December 5, and that sportspersons will return their medals in solidarity with the farmers on December 7. However, he did not divulge the details of sportspersons who would be returning their medals. The call for the Bharat Bandh was supported by various other farmers’ organisations. Hannan Mollah, general secretary of All India Kisan Sabha, said, “We need to take this protest forward.”The government, meanwhile, insisted that it was approaching the issue with an “open mind”. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar had said after the talks that the government has no ego and it was discussing the issues raised by farmers with an open mind. “The government will discuss points that emerged at the meeting on Friday and hopes that talks will move towards finality when the next round of discussions is held on Saturday,” Tomar had said.Thursday’s talks were led by Tomar, railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal and minister of state for commerce Som Prakash, a lawmaker from Punjab, while representatives of some of the biggest farmers unions in the country, mainly from Punjab, spoke for the farmers.Tens of thousands of farmers were out on the streets around Delhi again on Friday, forcing police to shut a majority of roads connecting the Capital from neighbouring satellite towns such as Gurugram and Noida.While the farmers want the three farm laws approved by Parliament in September to be revoked, the government has leaned on its new reform agenda to raise farm incomes and spur investments in the sector. The recent laws allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside the so-called government-controlled mandi system, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming.Farmers fear the reforms could pave the way for the government to stop buying staples at federally fixed minimum support prices (MSPs), erode their bargaining power and leave them at the mercy of private buyers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protesting-farmers-call-for-bharat-bandh-key-talks-today/story-dz93LBwHY3yeskYiZnSgJO.html
05-12-2020||India||Serial killer targeted strangers for fun. His family called him ‘Psycho Razi’: Cops||His family back in Bihar, by his own admission, called him “Psycho Razi”, 22-year-old Mohammad Razi told the Gurugram police after his arrest, but it was the desire to make something of himself, to show the world that he could achieve something, he added, that made him start killing people.The Gurugram police said that Razi may have been involved in at least 10 murders in Gurugram, Delhi, and Bihar. He was arrested on Thursday from Gurugram’s Iffco Chowk, a week after he allegedly killed three men on three consecutive days in Sector 29 and Sector 47, police said. Investigation is ongoing, and the alleged killings outside the state are yet to be authenticated.CCTV footage from eight cameras of all three spots had one common factor -- Razi. So the police launched a manhunt and on Thursday, they got their man. A resident of Khalilabad village in Bihar’s Araria district, Razi worked as a labourer at different construction sites in Gurugram. Before he moved to Gurugram in September, he worked at a roadside eatery and a guest house near Jama Masjid. Until July, when he moved to Delhi, he worked in Nepal, according to Gurugram’s police commissioner KK Rao.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said Razi’s modus operandi was the same: he would drink along with his victims, stab them, and, in some cases, dismember the bodies. “He had no motive but revealed that he enjoyed killing people and believed it was an easy way to become famous. He is a drug addict and used to spend money, which he stole from his victims to buy alcohol,” he said. During questioning, he shared chilling details of his criminal past and said he started killing people in Gurugram and nearby areas in October for “fun” after drinking. It was only later that he started robbing them as well. His targets were people in parks and other uncrowded areas. Most of them were strangers to him.“He boasts that he has killed many strangers in Delhi’s parks and in Bihar due to which he had to run away from those locations before police could identify him. He has named a few parks in Delhi and areas in Bihar, but we are yet to identify the murder cases,” a police officer said on condition of anonymity. Sangwan said Razi would be assessed clinically and psychologically.“He has no regrets. He said his family never supported him and always blamed him for bringing misfortune to them,” the officer added. Razi told the police that on November 23, he went to Leisure Valley Park and interacted with a few people but didn’t find any potential victims. He later met a man in his late 20s who worked at a construction site and offered him a drink from the bottle he was carrying. “Both of them finished a bottle of whisky and Razi then started pretending that he was under the influence of alcohol and stabbed the man in the neck, chest and stomach. He left him bleeding and walked out of the park,” said Sangwan adding that the body is yet to be identified. Razi also carried a water bottle with him everywhere -- to wash his hands after killing people. He would invariably revisit the scene of the crime, police added. On November 24, Razi met a security guard in Sector 40, befriended him, and offered him a drink. After several drinks, Razi stabbed the guard in the chest and stomach. He took out the guard’s wallet, mobile phone and shoes, and fled. The killing was in a park in a green belt, police said. The deceased was identified as Akhilesh Kumar, a security guard of a private company who was deployed in Sector 40. On November 25, Razi went to Sector 47 searching for his next victim; he found one sleeping in an open ground used to store pipes. Police said the area is right in front of the state vigilance office in Sector 47. “He smoked a joint and had some drinks with the man,” said Sangwan. Then, he stabbed the man five times,separated the head from the body and walked with the severed head to Kanhai village.He apparently told the police that he wanted to frame a friend of his for the murder. “So I threw the head near his room and returned to Sector 29 and slept that night,” Razi allegedly said to the police. The police control room received a call about a headless body, later identified as that of Rakesh Kumar of Aligarh in Uttar Pradesh. The victim’s Aadhaar card was found lying near the body. A special team was formed to arrest the criminal. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that there have been at least 20 murder cases registered in the past three months, with some not being solved yet. “He has been involved in a few cases in Delhi but we are yet to recover any details. We are coordinating with the Delhi police and a team will be sent to find out more about his past and murder cases reported from the close vicinity of where he worked.” Razi was produced before a court on Friday, which sent him to police remand for three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gurugram-serial-killer-targeted-strangers-for-fun-his-family-called-him-psycho-razi-cops/story-nML5nPT6tkCwjCyBW1nBvK.html
05-12-2020||India||AAP Goa unit’s ex convener, general secretary quit, allege party now compromised||Former Aam Aadmi Party State convener Elvis Gomes and former general secretary Pradeep Padgaonkar along with a bunch of volunteers resigned from the primary membership of the party alleging that it was being remotely controlled from Delhi bypassing the local leadership and had long abandoned its core principles. Gomes, who was the AAP’s convener appointed ahead of the 2017 legislative assembly elections and helmed the party in the state for nearly five years before tendering his resignation from the post in mid-September saying he was only quitting the post and not the party, now decided to sever all links with AAP along with many members of his leadership team. “We who had joined the party had done so with the hope, looking at the constitution, at the promise of alternative politics and the promise of the party’s avowed commitment to the three C’s -- there will be no communalism, corruption and criminalization. But as time passed we began to wonder whether the party was still committed to its core values and after much thought we decided that we would have to leave the party,” Gomes who had quit the civil service to join the party back in 2016, had said. “After the Delhi elections this year, a team from Delhi has been camping in Goa like it is their permanent destination. That was the first attack on the Goa unit, yet we took it in our stride. We began to wonder about our role and our autonomy in the party. We had heard of the high commands of other parties in which people from Delhi come down meet people and head back. Here they came and were running a parallel unit of the Goa AAP,” he alleged.Gomes had helmed the AAP team in its elections back in 2017, but fared poorly with the party’s candidates losing their deposits in all but one of the 39 constituencies that they contested in. Gomes who was projected as the CM face of the party also lost his deposit. Former AAP general secretary Pradeep Padgaonkar alleged that the party was now open to admitting those with criminal antecedents and willing to compromise on the issues of corruption and communalism which made continuing in the party untenable. “Communalism has crept in the party. They now don’t want a Catholic person to lead the party. And because they don’t want a Catholic they are searching for a Hindu, but cannot yet find one. A person with a criminal background was admitted into the party and when local leaders questioned the party leadership, they were ignored,” Padgaonkar said. The AAP countered the allegations saying that they were baseless and intended to mislead the party. “They have made allegations in a bid to mislead people. It doesn’t hold any water. We felt that our party was falling behind so we were strengthening the party. When we declared the CM’s face last time it was also a decision from Delhi. There is no high command culture in this party. It is the people who take decisions. Whatever decisions are taken after consulting the people,” State convener Rahul Prabhu Mhambrey said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-goa-unit-s-ex-convener-general-secretary-quit-allege-party-now-compromised/story-fyQCVXpuQwmsN82QpQ0SLO.html
05-12-2020||India||RJD to stage dharna to support agitating farmers, urges Bihar cultivators to join in||The opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) on Friday announced its support to the farmers agitating in and around Delhi seeking the repeal of three recent farm laws and decided to stage a dharna in the state capital on Saturday.RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who will lead the dharna near Mahatma Gandhi statue at Gandhi Maidan, also urged the farmers of the state to join in the protest, claiming that the new farms laws were brought in without consulting the stakeholders and would badly hit them in the long run.Criticising the BJP government for not honouring its promises, Tejashwi said that the Centre was out to discontinue the system of minimum support price (MSP) for the agricultural produce and allow the corporates to take over farming. “What did the BJP do with its promise to fix MSP by an additional 50% of the total cost of production? Once the corporates take over, farmers would not be able to get the MSP,” claimed the RJD leader.He also said the new laws will enable big players to stock as much quantity of grains and other farm products as possible, since the stock limit has been done away with. “Once the grains, pulses, potatoes, onions, etc. are exhausted from the farmers’ possession, corporates would scale up the market price of the commodities exorbitantly,” he claimed.Tejashwi also took a serious view of excluding the RJD from the all-party meeting called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss the strategy to fight Covid and said it was unfortunate that the PM sought to ignore the party that emerged as the largest one in the just concluded state polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rjd-to-stage-dharna-to-support-agitating-farmers-urges-bihar-cultivators-to-join-in/story-5Pk0BaMVk26yRUHDTlfyII.html
05-12-2020||India||FTA talks with EU stuck due to bloc’s reluctance: Jaishankar||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Friday said negotiations for a free trade agreement between India and the European Union were stuck for the last six years due to reluctance of the grouping. The talks for the FTA have been stalled since May 2013 when both sides failed to bridge substantial gaps on crucial issues, including on data security status for the IT sector. Asked during an online interactive session whether the talks were stalled due to India’s reservations against FTAs, Jaishankar vehemently dispelled it and said: “It is not a question of principle. India has nothing in principle against free trade agreements or preferential trade agreements.”   Launched in June 2007, negotiations for the proposed agreement have witnessed many hurdles as both sides have major differences on crucial issues.Giving a run down of the developments relating to the proposed FTA, Jaishankar said at the 6th Edition of MED dialogue that India was negotiating on it with the European Union till 2013 but the deal could not be closed.   “There was a change of government in 2014. The government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi offered to the EU that they would like to reopen and continue those negotiations. In fact, it was the EU which took the stance from 2014 that look, right now we have other priorities, we do not know whether we are ready.” “So for the last six years, and I say this as someone who sat in the room, heard my own leaders say this, heard the responses from the EU leadership. The reluctance to engage from 2014, this I can testify personally, is not from the Indian side. It is from the EU side, even today,” he added. The external affairs minister said he had visited Brussels twice in the last one year and brought up the issue with the concerned commissioner.“In the last one year, I have been to Brussels twice, and brought up the subject with the commissioner mandated to deal with us. And that was pretty much the answer I got which was that we need to think this through, we are not sure we want to do this at this time,” he added.Asked about India pulling out of the  Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) last year, he said it had to take the decision as its concerns were not addressed.“The idea that there would have been great benefits waiting for us at the end of the rainbow, sorry I do not buy that,” said Jaishankar about observations that India would lose out for pulling out of the RCEP.The RCEP deal sealed last month comprised 10 member countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) and five of the bloc’s dialogue partners - China, Japan, South Korea, Australia and New Zealand.Asked about India’s relations with the US, Jaishankar said it is on an upswing because there is a structural convergence between the two countries. “I am very confident that India-US relations will continue to do well,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fta-talks-with-eu-stuck-due-to-bloc-s-reluctance-jaishankar/story-pY7YxqSo38VuttH0Og9kdN.html
05-12-2020||India||SIT recommends annual firing practice, handbook and job chart for UP cops||The special investigation team (SIT), which investigated the Kanpur ambush case, has recommended annual firing practice for up to inspector rank policemen, handbook for police station management and functioning and job chart to fix accountability of constables to additional director general (ADG) rank officers, said senior police officials’ privy to the SIT report. They said SIT has made these recommendations to the state government after finding major faults in police training, cops’ lack of knowledge about basic duties, delay in action and absence of clarity on fixing accountability, while investigating the Kanpur ambush case. One SIT member said faulty police working allowed slain gangster Vikas Dubey to expand his empire gradually in nearly three decades that finally emboldened him and his aides to attack the police team that raided his house in Bikru village of Kanpur on the intervening night of July 2 and 3. He said the police team had high fire power as compared to Dubey’s gang, but still they could not retaliate when they were attacked as they lacked practice of using weapons like semi-automatic pistols, Insas and AK-47 rifles. He said the first suggestion is about mandatory annual training and practice of using firearms for lower rung police personnel from constable to inspector rank. “The SIT has suggested setting up firing ranges at every divisional headquarters and that inspector general (IGs) or deputy inspector general (DIG) of ranges should be responsible to carry out annual training,” he said added, “At present there are nine firing ranges, mostly at police training centres in the state.”The SIT member said most of the police personnel, who survived the ambush, had stated during enquiry that their weapon got stuck or they failed to load the firearm when they tried to retaliate. He said another suggestion was to prepare a handbook for police station management that should contain entire legal provisions, work flow, standard operating procedures for handling each case and situation, maintaining case diary and important circulars issued from time to time. He said this will make the lower rung cops understand their duties and remain aware about measures to be taken while investigating or pursuing any case till the end, including the judicial proceedings. He said it has been seen in the Bikru case that negligence and lacklustre approach as well as unawareness about their duties helped Dubey carry out his nefarious activities despite being convicted in a murder case and having multiple case registered against him. He said the suggestion to the state government was to ask the rules and manuals wing of the state police to prepare a handbook about police functioning. The official said the handbook should also be included in the recruitment training process as well. The SIT member said another suggestion was to prepare a job chart for constable to ADG rank officials to fix accountability in case of any incident. He said SIT found in the enquiry that every officer tried to pass the buck on to the other in taking action against Dubey and his gang. He said the job chart should have detailed work profile of everybody from top to bottom in the police department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sit-recommends-annual-firing-practice-handbook-and-job-chart-for-up-cops/story-hhjQpt8ArEY0VYqh7lcLBI.html
05-12-2020||India||‘Can’t even build their roads’: Rajnath Singh’s stinging jibe at Pakistan||In a veiled swipe at Pakistan, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday said countries which are unable to protect their sovereignty and cannot even build roads or do trade on their own become like India’s ‘neighbours’.Singh’s comments are seen as an indirect reference to Pakistan where China has been rapidly enhancing its influence in an increasing number of areas including trade and infrastructure development.In an address at an online event, Singh also highlighted the effective response by India’s armed forces in dealing with various security threats including the challenge to the country’s territorial integrity or confronting cross-border terrorism.  “Countries which are not able to protect their sovereignty become like our neighbours. Those who can neither make their own ‘road’, nor walk on it, nor do trade themselves, nor stop anyone else from doing trade,” he said.China is implementing a $50 billion China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) besides developing the Gwadar port on the Arabian Sea. Several major Chinese companies have been playing a major role in Pakistani economy in the last few years.In his remarks, the defence minister also said that India’s “brave soldiers” were fearlessly engaged in protecting the country’s borders when people were largely confined to their homes in view of the rising cases of coronavirus.Indian and Chinese troops are locked in a tense border standoff in eastern Ladakh for the last seven months. Indian troops had strongly responded to multiple attempts by the Chinese military to intimidate them. Multiple rounds of talks between the two sides have not yielded any concrete outcome to resolve the border standoff.“When Covid-19 cases were on the rise, we sat in our homes helplessly, but our brave soldiers were fearless and bravely engaged in protecting the borders. They not only protected the border with promptness, but also made supreme sacrifice when needed,” he said.Singh further said: “Whether it is to win in multidimensional wars to protect India’s integrity, and sovereignty, or to counter terrorist activities from across the border, our armed forces have responded to challenges with great vigour.” The event was organised by the Kendriya Sainik Board (KSB) on the eve of the Armed Forces Flag Day. The KSB is the apex body of the government that formulates policies for rehabilitation and welfare of ex-servicemen and their dependants.India has been observing December 7 as the Armed Forces Flag Day since 1949 to honour those soldiers who valiantly fought on the borders to safeguard the country’s honour.The defence minister also appealed to people to make contributions towards the Armed Forces Flag Day Fund, and even referred to donations made by the citizens during the 1962 war with China.“In the war of 1962, the people of this country had happily donated ‘hot wool to warm blood’ at the call of the nation. There was no count of money or jewellery. This is our feeling towards the nation,” he said.He also mentioned how people of Bardhana Khurd village in Rajasthan had decided that one son from each family will be sent to the border knowing very well what could have been the result of going to the frontier.The government had constituted the Armed Forces Flag Day Fund (AFFDF) for the welfare and rehabilitation of the ex-servicemen (ESM) community.There are more than 32 lakh exservicemen and around 60,000 are added each year due to superannuation. “We must come forward with a ‘big’ and ‘open’ mind in fulfilling responsibility towards the security of our nation,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-t-even-build-their-roads-rajnath-singh-s-stinging-jibe-at-pakistan/story-ntMDNy7AtjtpZvnvdHxLIM.html
