07-12-2020||News||How the pandemic has helped start-ups come of age faster||In July this year, the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) said that nearly 12% of start-ups had shut down and over a third were struggling to raise their next round of money. By November, this situation had improved considerably . Early-stage funding, in particular, moved back to normal (up from $175 million in Q2 to $320 million in Q3). Yet, through this, investors and founders of start-ups look at a very different landscape from what they saw last year and are responding with their usual agility. Given that start-ups infuse greater competition and create jobs, it is imperative to understand these changes.Critically, the uncertainty about the shape of the recovery (V, L, K-shaped) has forced investors to place a greater premium on experience and stability in these young companies. They have demonstrated an understandable reduction in risk appetite and a desire to fund strong teams which have some critical mass of business. Organisations which had raised more money in the past have found it easier to be funded. All this means that we may see the emergence of a few players of scale across sectors. Given that larger companies have a material impact on job creation, one cannot overstate the importance of a climate that facilitates such scale. The Covid-19 pandemic also raised the level of management muscle across the start-up ecosystem. Faced with revenue shortfalls during the lockdown, most new companies have been forced to push through operating efficiencies that are usually seen in companies which face the scrutiny of public markets. These included the unfortunate reality of layoffs, although some of the jobs are now back. A few chose to scale down office space. Many dramatically reduced the spends on acquiring customers, always a major cost item for such companies, and found ways to make money from existing customers. Over six months, hundreds of these relatively young companies achieved improvements in cash flows which might earlier have taken several years. Going forward, the bar for performance expectations from managements is now set higher. The pandemic has brought to the surface real needs which customers will pay for, as distinct from anticipated needs, which need market creation through some form of discounting. Venture investors are now more choosy about the sectors and business models they will finance. In this, they are helped by customers who are articulating more clearly about the products they care about. They want health care services cheap and fast. They need someone to deliver goods from point to point efficiently; so surface transport company Rivigo received $11 million in October. Small businesses need smoother finance to stay afloat when consumption is lower than normal. Therefore, invoice discounter Credable and supply chain fintech Livfin are among the notables who have received funding recently. Everyone needs entertainment and education. The case of learning company Byjus which raised $200 million recently is well known. Interestingly, the existential challenges posed by this crisis have manifested in an interest in sustainable businesses. Writing in the Harvard Business Review in 1994, Peter Drucker exhorted companies to change the “theory of their business” when the facts of the world around them change. Venture investors are smartly using this opportunity to bring in the behaviours which will result in value accretion. They have enabled individuals to decide whether they want to be employees of large organisations or pursue the entrepreneurship route. It has forced customers to decide between flaky services and those that they really care about. Investors now have a better sense of the efficiencies possible when managements are pushed to the wall. Critically, the year has created a cadre of managers who weathered their first real business downturn and came up trumps. As the country moves to become a $5 trillion economy, all of this can only be to the good.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-the-pandemic-has-helped-start-ups-come-of-age-faster/story-DkCMO2r1cHw0NjWOGuJKCN.html
07-12-2020||Noida||Noida: Two more arrested in connection with competitive exam racket||Noida: Police on Monday arrested two more suspects in connection with a racket involving impersonators of candidates for various government recruitment exams. The suspects were identified as Wazir Sangwan, 35, a resident of Dadri and his accomplice Pawan Yadav, 40, a resident of Rewari in Haryana. Sangwan ran a coaching centre in Dadri and lured candidates to get jobs through fraudulent means, the police said. Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Zone 1, said that on November 28, Sector 58 police had arrested nine suspects, including two constables of Delhi Police, for their involvement in the racket. He said that there was an examination for recruitment of Delhi police constables at a centre in Noida Sector 62. “The exam coordinator informed police that they have found some suspects impersonating in the examination,” he said. A police team immediately rushed to the spot and arrested three suspects – Arpit, Dinesh Chaudhury and Aman from the exam centre. During interrogation, they revealed that they were members of a gang impersonating in exam for money. “Based on their interrogation details, the police arrested six others – Dinesh Joshi, constable Ravindra Kumar, constable Manjeet Singh, Shiv Kumar , Mukesh and Sonu from outside the exam centre,” Rajesh said. The DCP said that during interrogation, the suspects had revealed that Dinesh Joshi used to run the gang with the help of other suspects. One accomplice Ravi is said to be an income tax officer in Delhi while another Arvind Jogi is an assistant section officer and awaiting his joining, the police said. Rajnish Verma, assistant commissioner of police, Noida zone 2, said that so far the gang claimed to have placed over 100 candidates in government jobs. “We have traced 15 candidates who have got jobs through fraudulent means. We will write to the concerned department to take action against them,” he said. The gang members used to charge Rs 10-20 lakh from each student for their recruitment. Verma said that the gang members used a mobile app to doctor the applicant’s photo and produce new photo which matches with the impersonator. “The suspects used the doctored photo for application and then used a forged ID to appear in the exams as impersonators,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-two-more-arrested-in-connection-with-competitive-exam-racket/story-9snf1iErFVJe7UNiK5F3rN.html
07-12-2020||Mumbai||Money laundering case: Shiv Sena MLA’s close aide sent to ED custody till December 9||A special court set up to try cases under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) on Monday remanded Amit Chandole, a close aide of Shiv Sena member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) Pratap Sarnaik, to the custody of Enforcement Directorate (ED) till December 9, for further interrogation in a money laundering case.ED was given Chandole’s custody after a single bench of the Bombay high court (HC) set aside the order of a holiday court which had earlier rejected ED’s plea to extend his custody and had instead remanded him to judicial custody. ED had later approached the HC to set aside the holiday court’s order. Justice Prithviraj K Chavan observed, “Having taken into consideration the totality of the facts and circumstances, I am of the considered view that the learned Additional Sessions Judge holding charge of the holiday court has not exercised his jurisdiction with due application of mind and approached to the matter in a very casual manner. I am mindful of the fact that the liberty of an individual is of paramount importance. However, at the same time, a balance needs to be struck between an individual’s right as well as there should be no prejudice to the free, fair and full investigation. Material placed on record, prima facie indicates complicity and nexus of respondent No.2 (Chandole) in the alleged crime.” The court then directed the sessions court to rehear the matter at 3pm. ED through additional solicitor-general Anil Singh had submitted that the three-day remand granted by the sessions court on November 26 was insufficient as both Saturday and Sunday were non-working days, and the investigating agency could not go through the vast amount of records which included computer data, bank accounts and various other transactions and communications by Chandole with regards to the amount which his account was credited with from the Topsgrup Security firm. In October, a former employee of the security agency had lodged a complaint alleging that Chandole was the recipient of a large chunk of payments made by the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) to the security agency for providing security personnel. Chandole’s counsel advocate Rizwan Merchant had, however, opposed the revision application of the ED before the HC and argued that there was no perversity in the sessions courts order and it was a well-reasoned order. Merchant had argued that because the ED had failed to provide any incriminating evidence against Chandole’s complicity in the transactions the revision application was not maintainable under section 19 (1) of the PML Act which was invoked to book Chandole. The case against Chandole was registered based on an October 15 complaint by Ramesh Iyer a former employee of Tops Security Group. Iyer has alleged that Chandole was the beneficiary of a 2014 contract between the Tops group and MMRDA. The contract was for the supply of security guards and some part of the amount paid by MMRDA went to private accounts of Chandole. ED has claimed that from the investigation conducted so far it appears that Topsgrup obtained the contract from MMRDA in collusion with Pratap Sarnaik through illegal means by a well thought out strategy. These illegal manoeuvres aimed to get additional inadmissible benefit by inflating the bills at the cost of MMRDA and illegal cash gratification to Sarnaik for facilitating this scam. Against this active role and criminal conspiracy, Sarnaik used to get 50% profit earned out of the said contract through Chandole. Corroborating this sequence of events, Chandole accepted receipt of cash from Topsgrup. The billing was done by Tops Group by inflating the number of contracted security guards deployed. Therefore, part of the amount received by Topsgrup from MMRDA appears to be proceeds of crime. The 50% profit of the said contract was being shared by Topsgrup with Sarnaik through Chandole and sometimes, through bank transfer to the account of a third person. In such a way, Chandole appears to be the recipient of proceeds of crime fraudulently obtained by Topsgrup from MMRDA, ED alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/money-laundering-case-shiv-sena-mla-s-close-aide-sent-to-ed-custody-till-december-9/story-JI42N306PXKvsXaSOtor6N.html
07-12-2020||City||Fire at Ulhasnagar hospital, 16 patients shifted at night||A fire was reported at the Maxilife Hospital at Shantinagar in Ulhasnagar on Sunday night, forcing 16 patients to be shifted to neighbouring hospitals. According to fire brigade officers of the Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC), the blaze broke out in the intensive care unit (ICU) on the first floor of the two-storey building, around 9.30pm.Ten Covid-19 patients and six non-Covid patients were shifted to other hospitals after the fire broke out due to a short circuit that led to a minor explosion in the air conditioner (AC) in the ICU.Three fire tenders were sent to the hospital. “No one was injured in the incident. The fire had, however, affected the machines and other properties inside the hospital,” said a fire officer of UMC. “The blaze was controlled with the help of the fire system inside the hospital. However, there were a lot of fumes, and the patients had to be shifted. Primarily, it is suspected that the circuit in the AC caused the blaze,” said Dr Jafar Ahmad Ansari, chief executive director of Maxilife Hospital.An 80-year-old Covid-19 patient who was shifted from Maxilife Hospital to Optilife Hospital in Dombivli had to be placed on a ventilator. His son claimed that the patient was not provided with oxygen while being shifted. “My father was admitted at the Maxilife Hospital a week ago after he tested positive for Covid-19. He was on oxygen support. He was shifted to another hospital in Dombivli on Sunday night due to the fire incident. We didn’t know where he was shifted and searched for him at five different hospitals. When we reached the Dombivli hospital, they asked us to pay ₹1 lakh,” said Dinesh Pulwani, son of the patient. However, after taking up the issue with the authorities, the hospital waves the ventilator charges. UMC commissioner Raja Dayanidhi said, “We had informed the war room to ensure the patients get admission in hospitals. One patient had complained about the Dombivli hospital, for which we contacted the person and also made alternative arrangements at a government hospital in Bhiwandi. The matter was resolved, and only pharmacy bills will be incurred by them for now.” Dr Sudarshan Patil from Optilife Hospital said that the whole issue was a misunderstanding. “We have provided admission to the patient on Sunday night. There was a misunderstanding regarding the patient, which was cleared and admission was given on time,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fire-at-ulhasnagar-hospital-16-patients-shifted-at-night/story-xhnUVvELLJIyV5nSeiI89H.html
07-12-2020||Gurugram||Air very poor, fog to persist||Air quality in the city remained “very poor” on Monday, recording 357 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily air quality index (AQI) bulletin, in the same range recorded a day prior, when an AQI of 325 was recorded on Sunday. Dense fog was also observed in the morning hours, but visibility information was not available for Gurugram on Monday.Despite the slight deterioration in air quality, Gurugram remained the least polluted city in the National Capital Region on Monday, followed by Faridabad, which recorded an AQI of 388. Delhi, Noida, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida, meanwhile, all recorded “severe” air, with AQI of 400 or more. As per official forecasts, air quality over the region is expected to improve over the next five days, with northwesterly winds between eight to ten kilometres per hour expected to prevail. Monday’s early air quality warning bulletin for Delhi-NCR stated, “Air quality is likely to improve but remain in very poor category 08.12.2020 and 09.12.2020.” As per the central control room for air quality management in Delhi, Gurugram’s predicted AQI for December 8 is 296, which would be in the “poor” level.“As we have been seeing throughout the past few weeks, Gurugram is benefitting from the direction of the wind, which originates in the west and transports pollutants eastward. If you look at Manesar, which lies even further west of Delhi than Gurugram, the air quality there is slightly better. Whereas Ghaziabad and Noida, which lie to the east, are seeing worse air quality,” said Sachin Panwar, a city-based air quality scientist. While Manesar recorded an AQI of 318 on Monday, Ghaziabad and Noida recorded AQIs of 438 and 422, respectively. Gurugram’s minimum temperature settled at 13.7 degrees Celsius on Monday, according to the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Palam observatory, which, according to the MeT department officials, gives a fairly accurate reading of the city’s weather. The city recorded a maximum temperature of 24 degrees Celsius, four degrees below the normal. The IMD’s automatic weather station (AWS) did not record the city’s minimum temperature on Tuesday. As per the weekly IMD forecast, dense fog is expected to prevail on Tuesday while the temperature will hover in a similar range.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/air-very-poor-fog-to-persist/story-lIpe92Z6hqL7k0ip13hEwI.html
07-12-2020||Gurugram||Four men arrested after encounter at Rajasthan border: Gurugram Police||The police on Monday arrested four men wanted for several heinous crimes in Haryana and neighbouring states following an alleged encounter in Budhi Bawal village, 54 km from Gurugram. Their arrest solved more than two dozen cases in the district, said police.Police said three suspects had suffered gunshot wounds in the incident and that two of them were critical and admitted to PGIMS Rohtak. The suspects were identified as Govind alias Bhambal (19), Mamman (18), Mohit (18) and Rohit alias Dadu (20) of Alwar in Rajasthan. They were wanted in cases of robbery, extortion, attempt to murder, murder, carjacking and snatching, said police.Gurugram police commissioner KK Rao said they had received information that the gang was in Rewari allegedly to rob a businessman. “Acting on this information, a team of eight personnel was formed from Sector 31 CIA and were sent to Rewari. When the teams were raiding the area, they found a car that was reported stolen from Sector 86 last month. Upon discovering the police team on their tail, the car drove away,” he said, adding that the team gave chase. Rao said when police team signalled the driver to stop, the occupants started firing at the them. “They used narrow lanes to flee towards Alwar border but the teams chased them,” he said. When cornered, the suspects allegedly tried to make a run for it on foot while shooting at the police but were apprehended. Three suspects suffered bullet injuries, one in head, another in chest and third one in his leg. Police said they called for ambulances that rushed the injured to the hospital with the assistance of local police. Police said the suspect fired 30 rounds, while they police fired eight in retaliation. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said two country made pistols with six live cartridges were recovered from them and so was the stolen car. Police said same gang was involved in the recent six car robberies reported from Gurugram’s Iffco Chowk, Manesar, Hero Hinda Chowk and Shankar chowk. “This gang used to come from Alwar and target victims on the expressway. They have robbed more than 50 cars at gunpoint and have looted more than ₹20 lakh,” said Rao. In the last two months, this is the third such alleged encounter that ended with the arrests of the suspects. On November 3, six people, including four policemen, were severely injured in retaliatory firing by a group of suspected criminals in Nuh’s Punhana during a raid to arrest a 30-year-old man who was an accused in several cases of ATM theft, robbery, cattle smuggling and carjacking. On October 10, police had arrested two alleged criminal in Manesar after an exchange of fire out of which one died undergoing treatment. Two country-made pistols, 20 live cartridges, a backpack and a Swift car were allegedly recovered from the possession of the criminals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/four-men-arrested-after-encounter-at-rajasthan-border-gurugram-police/story-Fclh4k3Y1I46039KqK2ngK.html
07-12-2020||Gurugram||Govt says it followed rules in seeking Aadhaar details from parents||As the Haryana government continued to face flak from citizens over making Aadhaar details mandatory for the Family ID scheme, a Delhi-based organisation on data privacy wrote to the government stating that the move was against the Supreme Court (SC) judgment on privacy and the Aadhar Act. The Haryana government defended itself by saying that it had followed all rules while requesting the data. The Family ID scheme or Parivar Pehchan Patra (PPP) scheme, first introduced last year, is a massive data collection exercise for efficient delivery of various services, such as title deeds and driving licences, and devising public policy based on the demography and other data points. At the time, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had said Aadhaar details would only be voluntary. It was made mandatory in April this year.Last week, HT had reported that the state government had issued circulars to parents requesting the data. The scheme will include services like title deeds, driving license among others under one umbrella. However, the parents said they were apprehensive of sharing such personal information. “The step by the Haryana government to make Aadhaar mandatory for PPP registration is not valid. It violates the apex court judgement (Puttaswamy case of 2017). Instead, they should accept other government verification documents,” said Prasanth Sugathan, legal director, Software Freedom Law Centre, who wrote to the state government on December 3 opposing the move. In the Puttuswamy case, the Supreme Court held that privacy was a fundamental right and in the Aadhar case, it allowed the unique ID to be made mandatory only for filing income tax returns and government subsidies. Sugathan said the move comes at a time when there is no law for data protection yet. “The PPP violates the SC judgement that clearly stated there must be a law to justify encroachment on privacy. In case of PPP, there is no legislation governing data collection and processing. Linking every scheme and service to the scheme will lead to de-facto imposition of the scheme and collection of Aadhaar details ,” said Sugathan.The PPP scheme is expected to cover almost 6 million people.Currently, three schemes – disability pension, old age allowance and widow pension – are already linked with the scheme. Sofia Dahiya, secretary of the Citizen Resources Information Department (CRID) and also the finance secretary, the state was not violating any Supreme Court ruling. “Under section 7 of the Aadhaar Act, the state can ask for Aadhaar as a proof of authentication so long as the state issues a notification, which we have done,” said Dahiya. In the last nine months, the state government issued two notifications linking government schemes with PPP, as well as industries and its labour under it. “Within six months to one year, Family ID will be linked with every government service and scheme. It has been made mandatory for marriage registration recently,” said Dahiya.She said that information is collected only after people’s consent. “Many a times, people submit wrong details, therefore the data is being electronically verified to be sure whether the data is correct or not. Once all the collected data is verified, it will freeze,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/govt-says-it-followed-rules-in-seeking-aadhaar-details-from-parents/story-7vxtCCH5OFYlgZlDn0to6O.html
07-12-2020||Noida||28 injured in vehicle pile-ups due to fog on two expressways in Greater Noida||Greater Noida: More than two dozen people were injured on Monday in separate vehicle pile-ups due to dense fog on two expressways -- Yamuna Expressway and Eastern Peripheral Expressway -- near Dankaur in Greater Noida. In a separate accident, a 32-year-old auto driver died when a school bus hit his vehicle at Salarpur underpass in Dankaur. All the three incidents took place between 2am and 7am, the police said.In the first accident that took place around 2am on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway, around 20 vehicles piled up in the crash, injuring about 20 people, the police said.Ashish Tyagi, senior sub-inspector, Dankaur police station, said that a truck loaded with jaggery was going from Dadri to Palwal and it suddenly overturned on EPE. “There was dense fog. About 20 vehicles coming on the same direction piled up in the accident. Fortunately, the pile-up was not severe and about 20 commuters escaped with minor injuries,” he said. Tyagi said that the injured commuters did not visit hospital. In the second accident that took place around 6am on the Yamuna Expressway, eight persons were injured as four vehicles piled up, the police said.Anil Kumar Pandey, SHO, Dankaur police station, said that a truck was moving slow on Agra to Noida side on Yamuna Expressway. “A speeding Swift Dzire car could not spot the truck and hit it. A WagonR car coming in the same direction hit the Dzire and the occupants were injured,” he said. Pandey said that at the same time a Ford Freestyle car bearing Haryana registration number reached the spot and hit the WagonR. A total of eight persons were injured in the four vehicles’ pile-up at the Yamuna Expressway. The victims were admitted to Kailash Hospital where they are out of danger, the police said. Bhawani Singh, in-charge of emergency department at Kailash Hospital Greater Noida, said that the eight patients from Yamuna Expressway accident were admitted to the hospital at 7am. “Seven patients had minor injuries and bruises on face and body. They were treated in OPD and then discharged. A 60-year-old Sukhpal is admitted in the hospital for treatment of his injuries in brain and shoulder,” he said.In the third accident, a 32-year-old auto driver died after a private school bus running on wrong side hit his auto at Salarpur underpass in Dankaur, the police said. The victim, identified as Kunwarpal, was a resident of Acheja village. He was ferrying three passengers to Rabupura when the accident took place. Senior sub-inspector Tyagi said that the three passengers were injured in the accident and admitted to a hospital. “We have registered a case under Section 304-A (causing death by negligence) and Section 279 (rash driving) against the school bus driver. We have seized the bus, while the driver is absconding. No complaint was received in the two other accidents,” Tyagi said. The police have urged commuters to drive slow due to fog and inclement weather conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/28-injured-in-vehicle-pile-ups-due-to-fog-on-two-expressways-in-greater-noida/story-712uWu6dO4SW05JNg7BefN.html
07-12-2020||Gurugram||Civil societies, state roadways pledge support to farmers||Many civil society groups announced that they would be taking out a march in support of the farmers’ agitation on Tuesday, the day of the Bharath Bandh called by farmers’ organisations and other supporting groups against the Centre’s newly enacted farm laws. The march is slated to take place from Jharsa Chowk around 11am. The destination will be decided at the time of the march, said RS Rathee, president of the Gurugram Citizen Council and ward number 34 municipal councillor.“Farmers of the country have been protesting on the roads for their rights but the central government is not ready to accept their demands. The three laws are not in the interest of farmers, but the government has responded only with giving false assurances,” he said.Haryana Roadways Workers Union also came out in support of the farmers and will demonstrate their solidarity with a protest at their district headquarters. Sandeep Dalal, president of Gurgaon Roadways union who is also associated with the Congress party’s trade wing Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), said that demonstrations will not affect services. “Due to the agitation, very few buses are plying already. However, the trade union has no plans of stopping or suspending bus services. All our members stand with the farmers and will protest at our district office,” said Dalal. In Nuh too, farmer groups and social organisations have extended support to the Bharat Bandh. Salamudeen Meo, Mewat Vikas Sabha president, said that the farmers from the region will observe the bandh in solidarity with other farmers. “We have been supporting the farmers’ agitation from the beginning and will continue doing so. Farmers from here couldn’t march till Delhi earlier but we will extend all our support to the agitating farmers by supporting the strike,” said Meo. BOX What remains open: -Mandis, restaurants, grocery stores in residential areas-Liquor shops-Courts-Government colleges -Transport: Buses and auto-rickshaw will be plying as usual. Haryana roadways union has extended support to farmers and will be holding demonstrations but bus services will not be affected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/civil-societies-state-roadways-pledge-support-to-farmers/story-FEJnNfzrUJ5248P6NxPYUJ.html
07-12-2020||Gurugram||Business as usual on Tuesday despite Bharat Bandh, say Gurugram officials||Supply of essential services and basic amenities such as water and electricity will not be disrupted in the city during the Bharat Bandh on Tuesday, which has been called by agitating farmers, according to a statement issued by the district administration. Shops, market complexes, mandis, restaurants, local courts and offices will continue to remain open, while regular vehicular movement will continue to be allowed on major arterial roads, said officials. Thousands of farmers have gathered at Delhi’s borders to protest against the three farm laws enacted in September and have given a call for a nationwide bandh on Tuesday. “We have deployed teams in all sensitive areas and markets and have instructed the forces to take action against any group forcing any trader, shopkeeper or vegetable vendor to shut their shops. Anyone found taking law in their hand will be booked on the spot,” said Astha Modi, deputy commissioner of police (headquarters), adding that 2,500 police personnel will be deployed across the city to keep a check on any disruption, and maintain law and order in the districtThe wholesale vegetable and food grain mandi at Khandsa will see the major deployment of police as the department has received information that a group of protesters have been threatening shopkeepers to shut their shops. “Every individual has the right to take the decision. For those who want to operate, we are there to ensure their safety and security,” said Modi. “All petrol pumps, shops and markets will be open,” said Modi. She said that the police control room will also be on alert, so as to pass on information to the nearest police station and patrol van in case of any violence.According to the district administration, senior officials have been assigned with the task to ensure the supply of essential services to the city is not affected. Likewise, a strict vigil will be maintained on national highways (Delhi- Jaipur and Gurugram – Alwar) and Delhi-Rewari- Ahmedabad railway line passing through Gurugram, officials said. A spokesperson for the administration said that vehicular movement on major arterial roads won’t be stopped but citizens should avoid any unnecessary movement. “Ahead of Bharat Bandh, police have intensified checking across the city and keeping a close watch to prevent any law and order situation on Tuesday,” the spokesperson said. The district and sessions courts will also remain functional and all proceedings will take place as per schedule, said Kulbhushan Bhardwaj, former president of Bar association, Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/business-as-usual-on-tuesday-despite-bharat-bandh-say-gurugram-officials/story-xIdCiRvqbBrDX9oRdpUGmL.html
07-12-2020||Noida||Dense fog likely to engulf open areas, expressways||Noida: Dense to moderate fog engulfed open areas in Noida and its neighbouring areas, including expressways, during the morning hours on Monday.According to experts, due to the three major favourable conditions responsible for this phenomenon – low wind, high humidity and low temperatures – foggy conditions will continue for the next three days and subdue by around December 15. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), visibility at several parts across the National Capital Region came down to less than 10 metres – a condition seen under very dense fog, and will continue for the next two days. “Humidity in the morning hours is quite high, and on Monday it touched 100%, leading to dense fog in the morning, especially between 5am to 8am. The dense fog condition will continue for another two days which will sharply reduce visibility,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. On Monday morning, one person died while 30 others were injured in three separate road accidents at Yamuna Expressway, Eastern Peripheral Expressway and Salarpur underpass, all within Dankaur in Greater Noida, due to dense fog. All the three incidents took place between 2am and 7am. According to weather analysts, while dense city areas will not see much fog, open areas especially roads near a water body or open fields, highways and expressways will see heavy fog. “Currently the city is seeing variable winds, which are sometimes easterly and sometimes north-westerly. The humidity is high, the temperatures are low, around 10 degrees, and the wind speed at the morning and night hours is almost nil. This makes for a perfect recipe for fog,” said Mahesh Palawat, director, private weather forecasting centre Skymet. He added that the conditions for very-dense fog will continue till December 8 or 9. On December 10, he said fog could be moderate, but another western disturbance will lead to light rains on December 11, which will further increase humidity and lead to very dense fog on December 12 and 13. On Monday, the minimum temperature for Noida city was recorded at 14.2 degrees Celsius, against 15 degrees a day earlier. The humidity for the city areas – Sector 62 where the automatic weather station is located – was found oscillating between 97 and 68%, while in most parts of NCR, the humidity oscillated between 100 and 79%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/dense-fog-likely-to-engulf-open-areas-expressways/story-ZSufP7mczW25MalF39GExI.html
07-12-2020||Noida||Noida, Ghaziabad most polluted cities in country, remain ‘severe’ for fourth day||Noida: The air quality of Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad worsened on Monday due to high humidity that trapped pollutants. While Ghaziabad remained the most polluted city in the country, Noida and Greater Noida tied for the second position. Noida and Ghaziabad’s air remained ‘severe’ for the fourth day, while Greater Noida that showed some improvement on Sunday and slipped into ‘very poor’ category entered the ‘severe’ zone again on Monday. The pollution monitoring agencies stated that though intrusion of smoke from stubble burning in neighbouring Punjab and Haryana is negligible, the humidity levels soared to 100% making air heavier and trapping the pollutants. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data, on Monday, out of 108 cities across the nation, only five cities – Ghaziabad, Noida, Greater Noida, Bulandshahr and Kanpur – were under ‘severe’ category. The air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Monday was 422 against 402 a day earlier, both ‘severe’, as per the CPCB data. Similarly, Ghaziabad continued being top most polluted city of country for the fourth day in row with an AQI of 438 against 428 a day earlier. Greater Noida’s air quality worsened from ‘very poor’ to ‘severe’ again with Monday seeing an AQI of 422 against 396 a day earlier. AQI between 101 to 200 is considered ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 ‘very-poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the wind speed increased on Monday and will continue to increase slightly on Tuesday as well. However, the directions are variable and humidity will be high as well, IMD said. “The wind speed on Monday was 10kmph, against 8kmph a day earlier. The direction was north-westerly but it will variable and keep changing for next two days. The humidity will also remain high due to which ventilation may remain low,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. The fine particles or PM2.5 levels also remained five to six times the safe standards, the CPCB data showed. PM2.5 for past 24 hours in Noida was recorded at 293.76 microgrammes per cubic metres (µg/m³) against 259.43 µg/m³ a day earlier. The PM2.5 for Greater Noida was 298.70 µg/m³ against 255.12 a day earlier, while for Ghaziabad it was 289.68 µg/m³ against 309.43 a day earlier. The safe limit for PM2.5 is 60 µg/m³. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), AQI is likely to recover slightly on Tuesday. “Surface winds are forecasted to increase and air quality is likely to improve during the day but within the very poor category. Due to marginally better ventilation conditions, AQI is likely to further improve tomorrow. AQI is likely to stay in the middle-end of the very poor category on 9th and 10th December,” said the SAFAR statement on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-ghaziabad-most-polluted-cities-in-country-remain-severe-for-fourth-day/story-P1iNAuIY77h8UMRGE1EKyL.html
07-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Gangster Kumar Pillai, other accused acquitted in 2013 extortion case||The special court under the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) on Monday acquitted Kumar Pillai and other accused in connection with an extortion case registered in 2013 by a former member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) from Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) in Vikhroli. Pillai’s lawyer Mahesh Mule said that Pillai was acquitted for want of evidence. In all, the prosecution had examined 32 witnesses, but the court held that the prosecution failed to prove the case beyond reasonable doubts. As per the prosecution case, Pillai, while he was abroad, had called the complainant, a builder from Vikroli and brother of a former MNS MLA on July 11, 2013. The prosecution alleged that Pillai had demanded a total of ₹75 lakhs extortion to continue the redevelopment project in Vikroli.A month later on August 18, 2013, the prosecution claimed that Pillai’s man, Kiran Dhanawade, approached the builder at his residence. Dhanawade, who was later arrested, threatened the builder to kill him if he failed to pay the ransom within 48 hours. The builder, however, approached Vikroli police. Pillai fled from the country in 1990 after jumping the bail granted to him. He was extradited from Singapore to India in June 2016. This is the first case where a trial against the gangster has concluded. The trial in the other two cases is still pending before the sessions court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-gangster-kumar-pillai-other-accused-acquitted-in-2013-extortion-case/story-VoVWVL5ByO1teVPHWBApFO.html
07-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai coastal road construction will be completed by July 2023 as project delayed due court case, Covid-19||The coastal road project will be completed by July 2023 instead of October 2022, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The delay is due to a court-ordered stay in 2019 and the lockdown this year. Vijay Nighot, chief engineer of the coastal road project, said, “We lost eight months due to the court case that had stayed construction of the project in 2019, and we lost out on an additional six months due to the lockdown. However, during the lockdown, we did not completely stop construction work. So instead of October 2022, the work will be completed by July 2023.”The 10.58km coastal road will connect Nariman Point to Bandra Worli Sea Link. Twin tunnels of 2.07km will connect Girgaum chowpatty and Malabar Hill. Each underground tunnel will have three lanes at a depth of 70 metres. The cost of the project is ₹8,429 crore, of which ₹1,300 crore have been spent till date.At present, BMC has completed 20% of the construction, instead of the expected 30%. By December 2021, 55% of the work should be complete; and by December 2022, 85% of the work should be complete.BMC is presently assembling the tunnel boring machine (TBM) at Priyadarshini Park in Malabar Hill. Imported from China in May 2020 and assembled here, it is the country’s largest TBM, with a diameter of 12.9 metres. The cutter head (which digs through the ground) will be assembled in the coming week and boring work will start by the end of December.A senior civic official said associated with the project said the first 600 metres of the tunnel on the Malabar Hill side requires digging through basalt rock that is five to six times the density of rocks generally used in construction projects. “Then [after 600m] the rock gets weaker. So the TBM will be able to do six to eight metres of excavation per day,” said the officer. The tunnelling work will take approximately 18 months to complete. Once the coastal road is completed, Mumbai will have an addition of 7.7km of a seafront pedestrian promenade, between Priyadarshini Park and Haji Ali, and Haji Ali and Worli, which will be 20 metres wide and accessible by 14 pedestrian underpasses. Nighot said, “Pedestrians will have to walk a maximum of 40 to 45 metres to access this seafront promenade.” BMC will reclaim a total of 111 hectares (ha) for the project, of which 65ha have been reclaimed so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-coastal-road-construction-will-be-completed-by-july-2023-as-project-delayed-due-court-case-covid-19/story-7WbK3ko3RtxJpekW4cZWwI.html
07-12-2020||Mumbai||Railways mulls setting up flap gates at Mumbai’s Andheri, Churchgate, LTT stations||After the introduction of Metro-style flap gates at the outstation terminus of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT), the railways are now contemplating introducing similar set-ups at local suburban railway stations for crowd management. A study regarding passenger traffic and movement on railway platforms and entry and exit gates was conducted by the Western Railway (WR) in October. The railway is now awaiting a final nod from its headquarters to install flap gates at Churchgate railway station as a pilot project. “It is in the initial phase of discussions. We are also planning to introduce the gates at Andheri railway station. Detailed study and inspection of passenger movement, along with an evaluation of passengers heading towards Metro stations will also be looked into,” said a senior WR official.Central Railway (CR) is planning to introduce the flap gates at Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT).In order to streamline passenger traffic and avoid overcrowding outside railway stations and on platforms, the railways are looking into introducing a limited number of gates initially.Passenger associations believe that the concept of flap gates at suburban railway stations is likely to fail due to the number of commuters who travel daily, especially during the morning and evening peak hours. “The gates will be of no use at local train stations because 80 lakh passengers travel daily on the CR and WR lines. It will be impossible to inspect, open and close the flap gates as it can lead to overcrowding outside the railway stations. The only way to control crowd movement is to implement changes in office timings of private and government offices,” said Subhash Gupta, president, Rail Yatri Parishad.Presently, the flap gates with quick-response (QR) codes have been set up at CSMT at the outstation entrance of the railway terminus. However, passengers can also enter through the P D’Mello entrance that does not have flap gates installed. Passengers have to display the QR code generated on their e-tickets at the entry points of the station for the validation of their tickets. The tickets will be generated through the Indian Rail Catering Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) website. Those purchasing tickets from the booking windows will receive QR codes on their mobile phones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/railways-mulls-setting-up-flap-gates-at-mumbai-s-andheri-churchgate-ltt-stations/story-xDiJZ5ETpM2eFhH6MguRKI.html
07-12-2020||Chandigarh||Bharat Bandh: PSEB-affiliated schools in Ludhiana to remain closed||Around 520 schools in the district affiliated to the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) will remain closed on Tuesday to support the farmers’ ‘Bharat Bandh’ call. At least 10 members of the joint action front, associated schools, Punjab, will also be joining the protesting farmers at the Delhi border. Apart from that 350 PSEB-affiliated private schools have also decided to not take any classes as a precautionary measure. Rajinder Sharma, president of PSEB affiliated schools, Punjab, said, “Some students of Classes 9 to 12 were attending classes physically. But due to the Bharat Bandh, we have decided to keep schools closed.” Principal of AVM Senior Secondary School, Anand Singh, said, “We took this decision to support farmers as a mark of gratitude. The safety of students and faculty members is also a priority.”Govt schools put off December examsThe December examination of Class 9 and 11 in government schools scheduled to be held on December 8 have also been postponed. SCERT director Jagtar Kulria issued a letter late in evening, informing of the change. The NTSE scholastic aptitude test schedule to be held on Tuesday will be now conducted on December 9 at the same time. PTU postpones intermediate semester exam In view of Bandh, the intermediate semester examination at IK Gujral Punjab Technical University, scheduled for December 8 has been postponed. The new date of examination will be informed soon. CA Foundation exam now on December 13 The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India have rescheduled of the Chartered Accountants’ foundation exam- Paper 1 from December 8 to December 13. The paper will be conducted at the same venue and same time, on the new date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bharat-bandh-pseb-affiliated-schools-in-ludhiana-to-remain-closed-today/story-RylpiSHioa3qINvBX7wMxH.html
07-12-2020||Chandigarh||Business First portal: Ludhiana admn issues NOC to entrepreneur in 12 days||The district administration on Monday issued its first no-objection certificate (NOC) under the Punjab Right to Business Act, 2020.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma issued the in-principal approval to entrepreneur Inderjit Singh Sohal for setting up a new unit for manufacturing for plywood and laminate products.Highlighting the features of the Act, Sharma said, “Under this Act, all the NOCs related to setting up of new enterprises will be completed within three days in case of the proposed units being located in focal point/ industrial area/ industrial park and within 15 days for those outside the approved area after submitting an application on the Business First portal. All formalities and NOCs related to the new business/ startups will be awarded through this single-window in a stipulated time.”The deputy commissioner added that the department of industries and commerce had taken the new initiative to promote setting up of new units in the state besides providing ease of doing business with the required approvals.He said the first in-principle approval under the Right to Business Act had been given to the entrepreneur within 12 days from the date of application through a single-window business first portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/business-first-portal-ludhiana-admn-issues-noc-to-entrepreneur-in-12-days/story-TT3WQae8BXgNDfYGnxfcpO.html
07-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to get 2 more police subdivisions||Two more subdivisions are to be set up for better policing, and a proposal to this effect by Chandigarh police is being forwarded to the administration for approvals. The department currently has three subdivisions in central, east and south units, of which the east and south units have six police stations each while central has four. According to the proposal, three police stations each will be added to the east and south units. The new units have been set up “to ensure better policing.” This would mean more deputy superintendents of police (DSPs) in the field and those from the UT cadre getting better representation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-get-2-more-police-subdivisions/story-56eDSSlNyxCHxSqHR8JxqO.html
07-12-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Exams for Class-12 students kicks off at govt schools||The examinations for Class-12 students of government schools started on Monday. Around 10% to 20% students appeared physically for the 100-mark English exam. Students were allotted three hours to attempt the paper. Amid the pandemic, the school authorities were instructed to ensure social distancing norms are followed while accommodating students in classrooms, and a gap of two metres is maintained.However, norms were flouted at two out of three classrooms in Government Senior Secondary School, Jawahar Nagar (boys). A visit to the school revealed that in 20 students were accommodated in each room without following Covid safety protocols. Out of 279 Class-12 students, 100 appeared physically, while the others took the exam online.At Government Senior Secondary School, Bharat Nagar (girls), only 30 students appeared physically. School authorities said that the question paper was sent to the other students via WhatsApp. At 12.30pm, many students went to the school to submit the answer sheets. However, they gathered inside the premises, and started discussing the exam. Teachers instructed them to go back home.School principal Kamaljit Kaur, said, “I have deputed teachers in classrooms to collect answer sheets as majority of the students prefer to appear for the exam at home. We have directed students to go home immediately after submitting the paper.”At Government Senior Secondary School, Multipurpose, which has a strength of 1,200 students in Class 12, only online exams were conducted. School authorities said that due to shortage of infrastructure and teachers, they preferred that students take the exams from home .At Government Senior Secondary School, Jawahar Nagar (girls), 60 students appeared physically. Only 10% out of 910 students turned up at Government Senior Secondary Smart School, Punjab Agricultural University. Teachers sent the question paper on WhatsApp for the other students. School principal Sanjeev Thapar, said, “As only 91 students turned up, I directed the teachers to ask students to attempt paper from home in three hours, and submit the PDF of the answer sheet online.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-exams-for-class-12-students-kicks-off-at-govt-schools/story-LhK1xMKBny29oy6HWSZN8O.html
07-12-2020||Chandigarh||Cong finalises Mohali MC poll list, Balbir Sidhu’s brother in fray||The Congress has finalised its list of 50 candidates for the Mohali municipal corporation (MC) elections with Punjab cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu’s brother, Amarjeet Singh Sidhu, also in the fray, it has been learnt. The party has yet to officially announce the names.Amarjeet, who was recently appointed director of the SAS Nagar Central Cooperative Bank Limited, will be contesting from ward number 10 in the elections scheduled for February next year.Of the 50 candidates, the Congress has retained 14 of its 15 sitting councillors, with 35 new faces. A four-cornered battle will now be fought between the Aam Aadmi Party, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The three other parties have yet to begin the process to finalise the candidates. According to Parvinder Singh Sohana, president, Youth Akali Dal, Mohali, some names had been finalised and the list will be confirmed in the next two weeks. “We will be contesting elections under our leader, former mayor Kulwant Singh,” he said.Sohana said he was hopeful of a win as “people of Mohali had seen what the Congress had done for the city. “Even in the nationwide Swachh Survekshan ranking, Mohali slipped to 157 rank out of 382 cities. The city even slipped to seventh position in the state from fifth position last year,” he saidSenior Congress leader and former councillor Kuljeet Singh Bedi confirmed the finalisation of the list and the ward Sidhu will be contesting from. “The campaigning will begin soon,” he said.Claiming that the Congress was ready for the elections, Balbir Singh Sidhu, who is also the local MLA, said Mohali residents had seen development in the past few years and they were hopeful of winning the elections with a clear majority.The last five-year term of the civic body ended in April 26 this year. In the 2015 elections, 27 councillors, including 10 from the Azad group, 15 from Congress and two independent councillors elected Kulwant Singh, then an independent, as the mayor. The remaining 23 councillors belonged to the SAD-BJP alliance. Singh later joined the SAD in August 2017. There are 43 general category seats, of which 23 are reserved for women and 20 for men. Five seats have been reserved for scheduled caste candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cong-finalises-mohali-mc-poll-list-balbir-sidhu-s-brother-in-fray/story-7RpnKfB5Zj9iVgtekhQ0fM.html
07-12-2020||Chandigarh||₹6.42 lakh withdrawn from account of Ludhiana man||Ten people including two women were booked on Monday for fraudulently withdrawing Rs 6.42 lakh from the bank account of a resident of Kakowal Road. Police said they are members of an organised gang and a manhunt has been launched for their arrest.The accused have been identified as Krishna Chander Swan and Najban Nesa Bibi of Orissa, Rahul of Delhi, Sai Prabha Neelawari Gauda of Maharashtra, Bishwajit Sarkar, Nitin Sarkar and Manchapi Kazi of West Bengal, Gandhi Petro of Jharkhand, Suman Sarkar of Chhattisgarh and Mohit Sharma of Noida.The victim, Manjit Singh, stated in his complaint that he received a call from an unknown number from someone who introduced himself as an Airtel employee.The accused told him that they are upgrading his SIM card and require some personnel information. Then, he was asked to send copies of his documents on an e-mail address, and dial some specific numbers.Following this, his mobile service was stopped for 24 hours. Meanwhile, the accused hacked his mobile phone, and got access to his netbanking service. They changed the password and transferred Rs 6.42 lakh from his account.Rupinder Kaur Bhatti, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, investigation) said that an FIR under Sections 420 and 120-B of Indian Penal Code and Sections 66-C and 66-D of Information and Technology Act has been lodged against the accused at Basti Jodhewal police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/6-42-lakh-withdrawn-from-account-of-ludhiana-man/story-7vhJ0WzqUU0jJSLMasiisI.html
07-12-2020||Chandigarh||Cyber Enforcement Month: Ludhiana police launch drive to solve cyber crimes||Police have initiated a special drive to solve pending cyber crime cases and apprehend the accused. Cyber Enforcement Month is being observed from December 5 to January 5, 2021, and Ludhiana police have decided to speed up investigation to put the accused behind the bars.  At least 2,500 complaints pertaining to online frauds, online bullying and harassment are pending with the cyber cell currently. Rupinder Kaur Bhatti, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, Investigation), said most complaints are of frauds. During the drive, police will aim to make people aware of online frauds, so that residents do not fall prey to such crimes. Police have already lodged three FIRs in the last three days against fraudsters.Fraudsters have come up with many tricks to lure people into sharing their personal details with them. They tempt people with online lotteries, more interest on their deposits and upgrading services of their internet and mobile connections.In online harassment cases, many women complain that a fake account has been created in their name on social networking sites, morphed pictures have been posted and their phone numbers have been shared.“In some cases, involvement of minors has also been found. The police are not only lodging FIRs, but also making people aware of cyber crimes,” the ADCP said.“The victims of cyber crimes can file their complaint on cp.ldh.police@punjab.gov.in,” she added.As per the latest report of the National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB), the city witnessed a 54% increase in cyber crimes in 2019, compared to 2018.  Fraud was the leading crime, constituting 57% (21) of the total 37 FIRs, which is 13 more than the 24 cases registered in 2018. In 2017, the city had recorded 33 such cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cyber-enforcement-month-ludhiana-police-launch-drive-to-solve-cyber-crimes/story-TNSZKu2oIn0ZLIwlCGcmrN.html
07-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh mayor constitutes two committees||For examining the issues of water connections outside the lal dora and regularisation of building violations in rehabilitation colonies, mayor Raj Bala Malik has constituted two separate committees.The move comes in the wake of a resolution passed in the MC General House meeting held on November 27 where Malik had authorities forming of the committee to examine the issues and make recommendations.The House had debated whether or not to allow regularisation of large-scale building violations in the rehabilitation colonies in Sector 52 and Mauli Jagran, which are under its jurisdiction.The MC councillors had also debated over the agenda of allowing water connections to 2,128 people living outside the lal dora of villages. The five-member committee recommendations will be tabled in the house meeting for the approval. The MC expects to earn ₹6.87 crore by legalising these water connections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mayor-constitutes-two-committees/story-DR12Cx4WwNldm6ETkkrfoM.html
07-12-2020||Chandigarh||Parents’ body writes to Chandigarh admn to stop 8% fee hike for 2021-2022 session||The Chandigarh Parents’ Association (CPA) has written to the UT administration, asking that the fee hike of 8% for the academic year 2021-2022 be stopped, similar to the 2020-2021 session owing to the impact of the pandemic and the lockdown.This comes after the Independent Schools’ Association had held a meeting with the UT education secretary and the UT director, school admission, last week regarding this issue. Official confirmation hasn’t been received from the administration, but members who attended the meeting said that the department had told the schools that as per the Fee Regulatory Act, they could hike the fee up to 8%.President of CPA Nitin Goyal said, “The matter is already pending in court after the ISA had challenged the administration’s order to stop the fee hike for the previous session. It should be resolved before any final decision is taken.”Goyal added that private schools had been asked to upload their balance sheets online, which they hadn’t done. He added that many parents had also filed complaints with the Fee Regulatory Authority of the education department, but no action had been taken.Director school education Rubinderjit Singh Brar said that they had apprised the senior officers about this. “No official or written confirmation has been given to schools saying that it is okay for them to hike their fees this year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/parents-body-writes-to-chandigarh-admn-to-stop-8-fee-hike-for-2021-2022-session/story-zj07gthi1NncaUKvM6CQBI.html
07-12-2020||Chandigarh||For unstoppable Karandeep Kochhar, the next stop is Olympics||As professional golf in India resumed in the first week of November after seven-and-a-half months following the Covid-19 lockdown, there was no stopping Chandigarh’s Karandeep Kochhar. He started the season with a second place finish and then won back-to-back, triumphing again on Monday at the Rs 1.5 crore Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational 2020 at Chandigarh Golf Club.The win at the tournament presented by TAKE Sports made him richer by Rs 24.24 lakhs and placed him at the number one position in the PGTI (Professional Golf Tour of India) order of merit. His world ranking too improved from 442 to 355. The way Kochhar played proved his class, pointing to sterling performances ahead. On the way to the title he got the better of seasoned golfer and former Asian number one Anirban Lahiri in a playoff that stretched to the next day, a first in PGTI history. “There were lots of ups and downs during the tournament, especially the one stroke penalty that was imposed on me yesterday. But eventually, everything ended well and I am very happy that I won the tournament,” Kochhar said after the win.‘Upset because of penalty issue’“Yesterday, because of the penalty issue, I was really upset. I couldn’t sleep properly and even woke up early. It did affect me a lot and even now after I have won the tournament, it’s going through my mind. It got ugly and I didn’t want it to happen. But at the end of the day, it shows my mental strength. I am ready to face any adversities and give my best even in tough conditions,” he added.Kochhar began the tournament on a disappointing note with four-over-76 and was tied 76th after round one. But then he made a grand comeback with his next three rounds of 66, 67 and 68 to end up in a playoff with pre-tournament favourite Lahiri after both totalled 11-under-277 for the week.Both Kochhar (76-66-67-68) and Lahiri (70-68-70-69) were in a deadlock after being tied at the end of the first two playoff holes on Sunday. The match was then extended to Monday as light faded and Kochhar made a birdie on four-par hole to win the tournament.‘Jeev sir asked me to believe in myself’“Yesterday evening after the penalty issue I had a word with Jeev (Chiranjeev Milkha Singh) sir and he told me to believe in myself no matter what the situation. It means a great deal to me having made such a good comeback after starting with a 76. It adds to my confidence. Winning two events in a row is special and I feel I can continue this winning spree further at the next event at Jamshedpur as I’m playing the best golf of my life right now,” Kochhar added. “Now as per the latest world rankings, two Indians are ahead of me. I will try to improve my ranking in the next couple of months and making it to the Olympics is my next target. Hopefully, the way things are moving, I might be able to play at the world’s highest sporting arena.”Grandfather’s dreamKochhar took up golf early in life to quickly become the top ranked player in the age group categories in the amateur circuit. He also won the 116th All-India Amateur Championship in December 2016, before turning professional.His elated grandfather, Dr GS Kochhar, who was present at the golf course, said, “I got a US kid golf set from Australia for Karandeep when he was three and told him to hit the balls in our backyard. Since then he is into the sport. In the age group tournaments he did really well and was among the top ranked in the country. But when at the age of 17 years and four months he became the first amateur and the youngest Indian to win the PGTI title, we decided to choose golf over academies for him.” “Karandeep’s life revolves around golf and I want to see him playing and winning the world’s top professional tournaments,” beamed Dr Kochhar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/for-unstoppable-karandeep-kochhar-the-next-stop-is-olympics/story-d8ouJ5ihKSibdwFf7JxBQI.html
07-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s PGIMER activates 21 phone lines for strengthening referral system among city hospitals||To streamline the referral system among the city hospitals, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has activated department-wise phone lines, which will function directly under the department heads of the institute.The UT health authorities and PGIMER officials had earlier decided to develop a protocol for the referral system, with the focus to optimally utilise the resources and mutually consult and unanimously take a call whether a patient needs to be treated and managed in the healthcare facility of the respective hospital or any immediate intervention is required at PGIMER.“Department-wise, 21 numbers have been activated for the better management of patient referrals among UT hospitals which include PGIMER, Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, and Government Multi-Speciality Hospital, Sector 16. The given numbers are being shared with the officials concerned of these hospitals,” Dr AK Gupta, medical superintendent of the PGIMER, said.In a fresh order, the department heads of the internal medicine, pulmonary medicine, neurology, nephrology departments, among 21 others, have been asked to ensure the availability of the on-call consultants for that purpose. The doctors from PGIMER will talk to the nodal officers/doctors of the respective hospitals and in case it is felt that the patient can be treated or managed in the respective healthcare facility and doesn’t require any advanced immediate intervention.The UT administrator had also ordered that a protocol should be finalised for admission of patients after the director of the institute had raised an issue stating that majority of the patients could be catered in other hospitals as well, which in the present manner, were crowding the institute’s infrastructure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-pgimer-activates-21-phone-lines-for-strengthening-referral-system-among-city-hospitals/story-dgE7p5LgcvARD61RT3rIxH.html
07-12-2020||City||MC elections: Former Panchkula mayor claims clean sweep by Congress||Former Panchkula mayor Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia claims the Congress party will have a clean sweep in the MC elections.Ahluwalia said that under the leadership of state president Kumari Selja, the party will win all 20 seats of councillors as well as that of the mayor, that too by a great margin.She said that the Congress party supported the farmers’ call of a Bharat Bandh on December 8. The Congress selection committee had given three days’ time till December 7, asking for applications from those interested to fight elections. A meeting will take place on Wednesday to take the final call.Voting on December 27 from 8 am to 5pmFor the management of the upcoming MC elections, a meeting was held by the Panchkula deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, along with returning officer Mohamad Imraz Razza, additional returning officer and other administrative officers. Ahuja said that elections must take place peacefully and there should be transparency. On December 27, voting will take place from 8am till 5pm and on December 30, counting will be done from 8am onwards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mc-elections-former-panchkula-mayor-claims-clean-sweep-by-congress/story-7bClqaTjIrXxUJY1kkIT8H.html
07-12-2020||City||Mayoral candidate will be from BJP and not JJP, says Panchkula MLA||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday officially announced that the party will contest the municipal corporation (MC) elections with Jannayak Janta Party (JJP). While the seat sharing is yet to be decided, the party announced that the mayoral candidate in Panchkula will be from the BJP and not JJP.Gian Chand Gupta, Panchkula MLA and Haryana Vidhan Sabha speaker, said: “To date, we have received 16 applications for mayor and 144 for councillors. On December 12, the final list will be shortlisted by the State Election Commission.”“The mayor will be from the BJP and not JJP. The decision was taken at the meeting which took place in Gurugram on Sunday and was chaired by the Haryana CM,” he said.At the forefront for the mayor’s post is Kulbhushan Goyal, a former Indian National Lok Dal leader, who had joined the BJP in 2018. Others include Deepak Sharma, ex-district president of Panchkula, Umesh Sood, ex-chairman, jila parishad, Vishal Seth, ex-district president, and Aarti Malhotra, president of senior citizens’ council.The BJP’s local unit has constituted eight committees to handle the MC elections, looking after the campaigning, coordination with election office, social-media and office management.Gupta said that in all 20 wards, one round of meetings at booth level and mandal level had already taken place and on December 7, 8 and 9, detailed meetings to “boost the morale of BJP supporters and workers” will take place.Meanwhile, former councillor Kanta Devi and her husband Prem Malik joined the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mayoral-candidate-will-be-from-bjp-and-not-jjp-says-panchkula-mla/story-X7zxeUFmyp6G5lFnfhTzkN.html
07-12-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus infections continue to decline in Haryana for second week||The coronavirus infections in Haryana continued its downward trend for the second consecutive week with the state reporting 3,848 less cases last week (November 29 to December 6) as compared to the week before. The decline in number of cases had started two weeks ago after a big surge during festival season, which saw weekly numbers getting pushed to over 17,000 in mid-November.The decline in number of new infections gains significance as the health department has ramped up sampling substantially in the past two weeks, testing over 5.60 lakh people. As per the health department data, the state reported 11,374 fresh infections last week (November 29 to December 6) as compared to 15,222 the week before (November 23 to 29) and 17,426 between November 16 and 22. Officials, however, warned that the decline in cases should not be a cause for complacency.Ramped up RT-PCR samplingAfter testing over 2.81 lakh people between November 23 to 29, health authorities tested about 2.79 lakh persons last week. “More than 90% samples tested last week were reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests considered the gold standard test for Covid-19,” officials said. The positivity rate has come down from 6.7% to 6.54 % last week, they added. While eight of the 22 districts still have critical positivity rate of more than 6%, data showed a decrease in the positivity rate last week.Faridabad’s positivity rate came down from 12.4% to 12.1% while Gurugram’s dropped from 9.9% to 9.6%. Rewari, which recorded positivity rate of 8.37% last week, was down from 8.6% registered the week before. Similarly, Hisar’s positivity rate dropped from 8.2% to 7.6 %, Panchkula 7.9% to 7.7%, Panipat 7.8% to 7.5%, Ambala 7.4 % to 7.1% and Karnal 6.3% to 6.1%.Twelve districts—Mahendergarh, Sonepat, Rohtak, Kurukshetra, Fatehabad, Sirsa, Bhiwani, Yamunanagar, Palwal, Jind, Kaithal and Jhajjar—have positivity rate of less than 6% but higher than the desirable positivity rate of less than 2%. Only Charkhi Dadri (1.6%) and Nuh (1.2%) have desirable positivity rate of less than 2%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-infections-continue-to-decline-in-haryana-for-second-week/story-dEg22Sjrh20q2uqWlbdghL.html
07-12-2020||Pune||Appointment of SPP likely; police to go after distributors, buyers of MD racket||The Pimpri-Chinchwad police are likely to get the backing of a special public prosecutor (SPP) in the drug bust of Mephedrone (MD) in Chakan which has led to the arrest of 20 people and recovery of cash worth over Rs 85,00,000. “The police have to send an application for the appointment of an SPP. That application was reviewed and I was approached and I have given my consent. However, I have not received an official order. Paperwork is awaited,” said advocate Shishir Hiray.With a belief that major players have been arrested; the police are now planning to go after the distributors of the massive quantity of drugs that have been sold. Of the 132kg drugs produced at Ranjangoan MIDC, and at least 15kg drugs produced at Karjat and Raigad, only 20kg was recovered by the police. The remaining is believed to have been sold throughout the lockdown months, according to commissioner Krishna Prakash of Pimpri Chinchwad police.“The burettes, pipettes, chemical flasks that have been seized from these factories have been sent for chemical analysis at the Forensic Science Laboratory. A forensic audit will be conducted in order to track the financial dealings of the drugs’ sale while cyber experts have also been roped in by the police for technical analysis in the case, according to commissioner Prakash.The police have also found that the men involved had found places in Gujarat to expand their operation. The sale of the produced drugs is believed to have reached into multiple states of the country.“After the initial bust, the arrests and recovery were done and dusted. Everything that followed was technical analysis of the case. The Nigerian man who, along with Afzal, was one of the top distributors, did not co-operate. Plus, much time had already passed so the people involved were aware and on the run. Our teams were working day and night. In Vadodara, where Arvind was arrested, our officials were dressed in a burqa to avoid detection,” said Sudhir Hiremath, deputy commissioner of police, crime, Pimpri-Chinchwad police. As the six men arrested last have been remanded to police custody until December 18, the police are expecting more updates from other districts in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/appointment-of-spp-likely-police-to-go-after-distributors-buyers-of-md-racket/story-Z80Dy3IFUzk4UpMJeBX9CM.html
07-12-2020||Chandigarh||Bharat Bandh: Petrol pumps, hotels, restaurants in Punjab to remain shut on Tuesday||Petrol pumps, hotels, restaurants, bars and resorts all across Punjab will remain shut on December 8 in view of the Bharat Bandh called by farmers’ organisations to protest against the Centre’s farm laws.The Petrol Pump Dealers Association of Punjab has extended its support to the nationwide strike and its president, Paramjit Singh Doaba, said that pumps would only open in case of an emergency.Meanwhile, the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Punjab released a statement on Monday which said, “Barring pre-existing marriage and banquet bookings already confirmed, all hotels, restaurants, resorts and bars will remain closed to show support to Bharat Bandh on December 8.”Scores of farmers have been out on the roads leading up to the national capital for days in protest against the central government’s farm laws, demanding their withdrawals. Kisan unions have called for a nationwide strike on December 8 after talks with the Centre failed to materialise into anything conclusive.The protesting farmers have threatened more intense agitation if their demand of complete rollback of the laws are not met.They have garnered the support of millions across the country and outside, including political parties like Congress, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Samajwadi Party (SP), DMK, INLD, Bahujan Samaj Party and CPI(M).The farmers’ organisations have called for people to join their cause in large numbers but are against any form of violence or coercion to observe the strike.In the national capital, the Delhi Police have ramped up security along the borders of neighbouring Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. These border areas are the epicentre of protests which have been going on for 11 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bharat-bandh-petrol-pumps-hotels-restaurants-in-punjab-to-remain-shut-on-tuesday/story-RTcyNqIYYTejdlfzIr2uKJ.html
07-12-2020||City||Dutch national arrested in vehicle theft case crashed stolen jeep in Karad||PUNE: A Dutch national was arrested by the Satara police and sent to Satara jail in judicial custody for crashing a stolen jeep in Karad city on Sunday. A complaint of theft of the jeep was lodged by Dnyandeo Krushnath Nalawade (42) a resident of Navadi village in Patan, Satara.“He had gone to a shop and left his car outside when this woman fled with it. We asked her how she ended up here from Uttarakhand and who her friends/family are but she is not co-operating,” said PSI Machale.The woman, identified as Pauline Schuring (24), is a resident of the Netherlands and was registered at the foreign registration office (FRO) in Haridwar, Uttarakhand. The accident took place on the Karad-Patan road on Sunday afternoon. No casualty was reported. “She was bailed out in the accident case on Monday, but arrested in a fresh vehicle theft case at Patan police station,” said senior police inspector BR Patil of Karad city police station. The woman was granted a tourist visa in Uttarakhand on November 20. Her visa is valid until December 26, according to police. “She had stolen a jeep from Patan and we had already received a complaint. Today (Monday) she was bailed in that case and then brought here with the vehicle,” said police sub-inspector (PSI) Samadhan Machale, who has charge of the Patan police station in absence of an inpector-level officer. She is booked under Section 379 (punishment of theft) of Indian Penal Code registered at Patan police station. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dutch-national-arrested-in-vehicle-theft-case-crashed-stolen-jeep-in-karad/story-vgzep4fYpX01BGT8cnl93L.html
07-12-2020||Kolkata||BJP worker dies as Bengal police goes tough to stop Siliguri rally; party calls bandh||A Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker died and several others, including some policemen, were injured in pitched battles at Siliguri in north Bengal on Monday afternoon when senior national and state leaders of the party were leading a rally. The police lobbed tear gas shells and used water cannons to stop BJP workers and leaders from moving towards Uttar Kanya, the state secretariat in north Bengal, violating prohibitory orders under Section 144 Code of Criminal Procedure. The police also used a pink dye in the water to mark the agitators. The government accused them of resorting to violence and arson. The rally was part of the BJP’s ongoing agitation programmes against the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government in the run-up to the assembly polls due early next year. BJP’s national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, national secretary Arvind Menon, state president Dilip Ghosh and several Lok Sabha members took part in the rally. Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) national president and Bangalore South Lok Sabha member Tejasvi Surya and state BJYM president Saumitra Khan fell ill after inhaling tear gas. The party said 40 workers, including six women, were injured.To mark its protest, the BJP will observe a 12-hour bandh on Tuesday in the north Bengal districts where it won seven of the region’s eight Lok Sabha seats in 2019. Also read: Bharat Bandh - All you need to know about services that may be affectedBJP workers held agitations in Nadia, East Burdwan, Howrah, Kolkata and several other districts on Monday evening. Senior party leaders also met governor Jagdeep Dhankhar in Kolkata and demanded a judicial probe into the death of Ulen Rai, 50, a BJP worker from Gajoldoba in Jalpaiguri district. He died at a private hospital shortly after sustaining an injury in the chest. There was confusion over the cause of his death. While some BJP leaders claimed that he was hit by police batons, others said he was shot with a pellet gun. “Today in Siliguri, serious acts of violence were committed by the supporters of a political party during their protest program. They resorted to arson, brick-batting, firing and vandalism of govt property. Police showed restraint and didn’t do lathicharge or used firearms. Only water cannons and tear gas were used to disperse the violent crowd. However, death of a person has been reported. Body is being sent for PM (post mortem examination). The actual cause of death will be known only after the PM,” the West Bengal Police tweeted in the evening. Governor Dhankhar reacted sharply to the tweet of the state police.“Am stunned and shocked at this judgmental stance @WBPolice. With such a finding recorded and disseminated in public domain there can be no semblance of fair investigation @MamataOfficial ! Alarming scenario: Political neutrality being thrown to winds for political hatchet work,” the governor tweeted around 9 pm.Earlier in the evening, he tweeted, “Political violence @MamataOfficial is a cause of alarming concern as it poses threat to democracy. Administration and police @WBPolice must desist from partisan stance and act in political neutral manner. Level playing field to opposition can’t be left to mercy of police.”Also read: India speeding up review of Pfizer, Astra Covid-19 vaccines BJP and BYJM workers, who were leading two processions from opposite directions, were spotted pelting stones at the police when they were stopped from moving towards Uttar Kanya.The clashes took place in at least four places, including Tinbatti More and Phoolbari Bazar. Several women in the processions fell ill after inhaling the tear gas. “In no state will you see the government crushing a peaceful democratic movement in this manner. Constitutional experts need to take a note of this,” Surya said after the violence. “Most of our leaders and party workers were stopped by the police at different locations so that we could not join the processions. Barricades were set up at 52 locations,” said state BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu who accompanied Dilip Ghosh. “The incident was a public display of the violence the BJP believes in. Its workers provoked the police to open fire. I thank the police for handling the situation. The BJP will fail to create disturbance in the state,” said Saugata Roy, TMC Lok Sabha member and party spokesperson.The BJYM workers vandalized two steel and bamboo barricades and a police outpost. They also set two bamboo barricades on fire. Journalists covering the rally were caught in the middle when BJYM workers showered stones at the Rapid Action Force of the district police. “Every party has the right to carry out agitations. However, I cannot say what prompted the police to fire tear gas shells,” said state Congress president Adhir Chowdhury. Tuesday’s violence was similar to the one witnessed in and around Kolkata on October 8 when as many as 24 BJP leaders, including Vijayvargiya and Menon, were booked by the Kolkata Police for violating Central guidelines on gatherings and political rallies during the Covid-19 pandemic and marching towards Nabanna, the secretariat in the adjoining Howrah district.The BJYM organised the ‘Nabanna Chalo’ (march to Nabanna) programme to raise voice on issues ranging from alleged lack of employment opportunities in Bengal to law and order problems. BJP and BJYM leaders claimed that around 1,500 workers were injured during the baton charge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bjp-worker-dies-as-bengal-police-goes-tough-to-stop-siliguri-rally-party-calls-bandh/story-h6KiC1CaxwiUIcSTCascKN.html
07-12-2020||Chandigarh||All party MLAs stand in solidarity with farmers: JJP||With pressure mounting on the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) to quit the Haryana government and a section of its legislators openly backing the agitating farmers, the party on Monday said the entire rank and file of the party, including all the 10 JJP MLAs, “stand in solidarity with the peasants.” Speaking to reporters here, JJP leader Digvijay Chautala expressed optimism over the December 9 talk to be held between the Union government and the farmers that might break the logjam. As the opposition parties and farmer unions have been asking the JJP to withdraw support to the BJP government, Chautala said there was no need to quit and that all the MLAs are supporting the farmers. “The resignation is not a solution to the issues raised by the farmers and such a step will only invite fresh elections, resulting in wastage of public money,” he said.Stating that the farmers and khaps are most important for the JJP, Chautala said not only the 90 Haryana MLAs and the Union government but also the khaps, 36 biradari (communities) and all sarv samaj in Haryana stand with the farmers and are praying for speedy solution of all issues. “We respect khap’s decision and accept it,” he said, pointing out that senior party leaders along with deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala have been consistently in touch with the Union ministers and advocating the case of farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/all-party-mlas-stand-in-solidarity-with-farmers-jjp/story-njjBGmGgHdcrLHpV2qzM1N.html
07-12-2020||City||Farmers’ protest: Hooda writes to Haryana governor, demands special assembly session||Former Haryana chief minister and leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Monday said he has written a letter to Haryana governor Satyadeo Narain Arya demanding a special assembly session amid the farmers’ protest.While addressing a press conference at Jind, Hooda said the Congress had sought convening of a special session of the assembly to bring a no-confidence motion against the BJP-led state government, claiming that the Manohar Lal Khattar government has lost the confidence of both the people and the House.“There is an atmosphere of political instability,” he added. “This no-confidence motion will expose legislators who are playing a double-role. The JJP and independent MLAs will have to choose between the farmers and the BJP government. In these exceptional circumstances, the governor should call a special session while discharging his constitutional responsibilities,” Hooda said.“ The demands of farmers are completely valid and the government should accept them without any delay. It is the responsibility of every government to ensure that the farmers get MSP for their crops,” he added.Hooda also extended his support to the ‘Bharat Bandh’ called by protesting farmers, appealing to the people to hold peaceful agitations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-protest-hooda-writes-to-haryana-governor-demands-special-assembly-session/story-rDWXaTc1UIwzofhj73vRLM.html
07-12-2020||City||Two nabbed with countrymade pistols, live cartridges in Mohali||The crime investigating agency (CIA) of Mohali police arrested two men with countrymade pistols, live cartridges and a bullet proof jacket in separate cases on MondayThe accused have been identified as Aiman, 33, of Libaspur, near Delhi, and Khush Kumar, alias Bholu, 20, of Amritsar. While Aiman was arrested from Phase 6, Khush was nabbed in Kharar.A countrymade pistol and five live cartridges were recovered from Aiman, while Khush was also carrying a countrymade pistol and two live cartridges, besides a bullet proof jacket.Separate cases under the Arms Act were registered at the Phase 1 and Kharar police stations, respectively.The accused were produced in court and sent to police remand till December 8 and 9, respectively. According to police, both men were facing various cases of extortion, attempt to murder, NDPS Act and Arms Act.Six cases under the Arms Act are registered against Aiman at Shalimar Bagh, Mukherjee Nagar, Adarsh Nagar and Hazrat Nizamuddin in Delhi, and two cases against Khush at Keema Wala Gate and Sultanwind in Amritsar under the NDPS Act, Arms Act and Section 379-B (snatching) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-nabbed-with-countrymade-pistols-live-cartridges-in-mohali/story-psE9UHVxJSmf3LHgwhGIDM.html
07-12-2020||Pune||Pune reports 458 fresh Covid-19 cases, 3 deaths in 24 hours||The state health department reported 458 fresh Covid-19 positive cases on Monday and three deaths in 24 hours in Pune district. The district has reported 3.58 lakh Covid-19 cases till now, of which 3.35 lakh have recovered, 7,609 have been reported dead and 15,370 are active cases undergoing treatment at hospitals or are in home isolation. Pune city reported 186 new Covid-19 cases taking the total count of positive cases to 1,82,722 and one death took the death toll to 4,324. The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 127 fresh positive cases taking the final count to 90,022 and one death took the death toll to 1,265. Pune rural reported 145 new cases taking the final count to 85,625 and one death took the death toll to 1,985, according to the state health department. The state health department reported that 7,345 patients were discharged on Monday taking the final count of such patients to 17.30 lakh. The recovery rate in the state currently stands at 93.28%. Also, 3,075 new cases in the state were reported on Monday taking the total positive case count to 18.55 lakh. In addition, 40 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state on Monday taking the death toll to 48,859. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.57%. Of 1,13,18,721 laboratory samples, 18,55,341 have tested positive (16.39%) for Covid-19 till Monday. Currently 5,55,180 people are in home quarantine and 5,565 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-reports-458-fresh-covid-19-cases-3-deaths-in-24-hours/story-N0hcDpn2brqJKjIZhN9SbO.html
07-12-2020||Chandigarh||Seven more lose battle to Covid in Chandigarh tricity area, 303 test positive||Covid-19 claimed the lives of three people in Mohali, while Chandigarh and Panchkula reported two fatalities each on Monday.The tricity also saw 303 people testing positive, with Mohali reporting the most cases at 148, followed by Chandigarh with 86 and Panchkula with 69.With the deaths of a 72-year-old woman and a 57-year-old man, residents of Sector 47 and Sector 41, respectively, Chandigarh’s Covid toll reached 293.Of the total 18,113 cases in the city now, 921 remain active, while 16,899 patients have recovered. Among them, 85 patients were discharged on Monday.In Mohali, the death toll stands at 294 and case tally at 16,473.Among Monday’s 148 cases, 87 cases were from Mohali city, 20 from Dhakoli, 13 from Gharuan, nine from Kharar, seven each from Dera Bassi and Boothgarh, and five from Kurali. As many as 147 patients were discharged, bringing down the number of active patients to 2,277. Till now, 13,902 patients have recovered from the virus in the district. Those who died in Panchkula were a 78-year old woman from Sector 25 and a 73-year-old man from Sector 21. They were both suffering from hypertension and diabetes, while the male patient also had chronic kidney disease. With this, the district’s total fatalities rose to 135.Of the 69 new cases, 47 people tested positive in Panchkula city, and the remaining in Pinjore, Kalka, Industrial Area, Haripur, Bunga, Bhainsa Tibba and Behlon.The district has so far recorded 9,180 cases, of which 549 patients are still infected and 8,496 have been cured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/seven-more-lose-battle-to-covid-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-303-test-positive/story-xEsYkMvJ3N2Oxn28nTJOsL.html
07-12-2020||City||Mixed response to Tuesday’s “Bharat Bandh” in Pune||PUNE Various services and markets in Pune are likely to be affected today, December 8, due to a nationwide “Bharat Bandh” called by farmers agitating against the central government’s new agriculture laws. Right from the transportation, to vegetable and milk supply, banking and food grains at Market Yard are likely to be affected. The Federation of Traders Association of Pune (FTAP) has decided to support the strike but will keep the shops open. “For various demands of farmers several farmer organisations and political parties have called for a nationwide strike on Tuesday and we fully support it. At the same time, traders and shop owners have suffered financially during the lockdown period and so a majority of them don’t want to close the shops. All our traders and shop owners will support the strike tomorrow but keep shops open,” said Fatechand Ranka president of the association. Baba Shinde, president, goods and passenger transport association, said, “Our organisation is supporting the strike and so all the goods transport vehicles will be off the road. No transport will be done in the state by our trucks and trolleys and it will be a complete shut down.” On other hand, there is a mixed response to the strike from the Market Yard area - there are three different markets here – food grains market, fruits and flower market and vegetables. Of these, the food grain market will be completely shut to support the strike. While other two markets, fruits, and flowers, and vegetables, will remain open depending upon supply. Popatlal Oswal, president, Poona Merchants Chamber said, “We are going to participate in the nationwide strike on Tuesday and all the traders at the food- grain market will be closed for the day.” Public transportation will operate in the city as autorickshaw unions, private and app-based taxis, PMPML bus services and MSRTC buses will run as per their daily schedules. A protest march will be taken out by all the supporting political parties and organisations tomorrow from Alka Talkies chowk at 10.30 am. “We will be running our daily bus operations as per routine. If there is any untoward incident, then only on that particular route the bus service will be stopped, depending on the situation,” said Ramakant Gaikwad, MSRTC Pune divisional controller.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mixed-response-to-tuesday-s-bharat-bandh-in-pune/story-PkFEWCNUNDcdUnwulLbsaO.html
07-12-2020||City||44-yr-old 2-wheeler rider slips and falls to death in Yerawada||puneletters@htlive.comPUNE: A 44-year-old biker slipped and fell to his death on Sunday morning. The accident took place near a garbage centre in Yerawada at 8:15am.The deceased man has been identified as Vijay Kerba Kavthekar (44), a resident of Police Vasahat in Vishrantwadi.“His wife is in the police force and lives in Vishrantwadi police lines. There was nobody else on the road. He slipped, fell and hit his head,” said police sub-inspector Suraj Anecha of Vishrantwadi police station, who is investigating the case.The deceased worked in the private sector. He was not wearing a helmet when the incident happened, according to police.“The family left for their native place in Nanded immediately. His brother had come but even he was not in any condition to speak. We are waiting for the family to return,” said PSI Anecha.A case under Sections 279 (rash riding, driving in public pace) and 304(a) (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with Section 184, 119/177 of Motor Vehicle Act has been registered at Vishrantwadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/44-yr-old-2-wheeler-rider-slips-and-falls-to-death-in-yerawada/story-hlLJwptmyCulzboWAYoF3I.html
07-12-2020||Jaipur||Wife taunts husband for joblessness, man stabs her to death||A 35-year-old unemployed man allegedly killed his wife by slitting her throat in Jodhpur city on Sunday night.After the crime, he called the police control room and surrendered, the police said. “Around 1 am (on Monday), the accused, identified as Vikram Singh, who lives in BJS Colony, informed the police control room that he has killed his wife over some dispute. As soon as we came to know about the incident, we reached the spot and found a woman’s body with slit throat lying on the floor,” said Kailash Dan, station house officer (SHO), Mahamandir police station.Later, the police called the forensic science laboratory and informed parents of the victim about the incident. The body was kept in a mortuary, the police said.Also read: Bharat Bandh- All you need to knowThe man was arrested on the charge of murder. “The accused confessed that he was not working for the last few months and was dependent on the money he received from his rented house to meet the family expenses. The couple had tensed ties for some time due to the man’s joblessness. On the intervening night of Sunday and Monday, when the couple was going to sleep, the man’s wife taunted him about his joblessness after which a verbal spat broke out between them. Further, the accused lost his cool and stabbed her with scissors on the neck and other parts of the body,” Dan said.The police said the couple has two children, an eight-year-old daughter and a five-year-old son. They are currently with their grandparents in Jodhpur.“We are investigating the claims made by the accused and collecting evidence,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/wife-taunts-husband-for-joblessness-man-stabs-her-to-death/story-d0c4EN7rOjwh7t7O7K1rKM.html
07-12-2020||Chandigarh||INLD extends support to farmers’ organisations for ‘Bharat Bandh’||The Indian National Lok Dal on Monday extended its support to the ‘Bharat Bandh’ on December 8 called by farmer unions which have been protesting at the Delhi borders against the new central agri-marketing laws.Abhay Singh Chautala said his party had announced its support to the protesting farmers the day the agitation started, adding that “each and every worker of the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) will fight this battle shoulder-to-shoulder to strengthen this movement so that the Centre is forced to abolish the three black laws imposed on the peasants”.“Our party has decided to extend full support to the Bharat Bandh,” he said.Chautala, younger son of INLD president and former chief minister OP Chautala, said he will visit the Tikri border on December 9 and meet the farmers and leaders leading the stir.In a statement here, the INLD leader said no farmer organisation of the country had demanded the new agricultural laws, but the central government enacted the “black farm legislations to benefit the corporates”.He reiterated his demand that the Centre withdraw these laws and guarantee minimum support price (MSP) of crops to farmers, and also make provisions of punishment for whoever buys the crop below the MSP.Chautala also appealed to all political parties that they should rise above party politics and stand with farmers to lend strength to the agitation.At a press conference here last week, Chautala had asked the Centre to immediately accept farmers demand to repeal the three farm laws, and asserted that the party was “solidly behind the farmers fighting against the three laws”.Claiming that their agitation has spread across the nation, farmer leaders, who have maintained that their protest is apolitical, have welcomed the support and urged all to come forward to make Bharat Bandh a success.After five rounds of talks between the Centre and the farmer unions failed to end the impasse, the two sides are again set to meet on December 9, a day after the countrywide strike.The three farm laws enacted in September have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP and do away with mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.The Centre, however, has repeatedly asserted that these mechanisms will remain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/inld-extends-support-to-farmers-organisations-for-bharat-bandh/story-pwyxnzMUdShfGWjiZIgdcM.html
07-12-2020||Kolkata||Bengal will never bow its head before murderers of Mahatma: Mamata Banerjee||Accusing the BJP of practising “divisive politics for its personal gains”, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said the state, where all communities have long lived in harmony, would “never bow its head before the murderers of Mahatma Gandhi”.Banerjee, while addressing a rally in West Midnapore, slammed the BJP government at the Centre for its “arrogance and indifference” towards the plight of farmers, who had been protesting against the newly enacted agriculture laws.She contended that the central government should immediately withdraw the “anti-people” farm laws or step down.The feisty TMC boss claimed that she would rather stay in jail than “remain silent or put up with BJP’s misrule”.“We don’t believe in Bengali-non-Bengali politics.Both are our brothers and sisters. We also don’t believe in Hindu-Muslim politics, like the BJP.“The state has a long history of all communities living in harmony. The people of the state would never bow their heads before those who murdered Mahatma Gandhi,” she said, without taking any name.Iterating that the BJP was a party of “outsiders”, Banerjee said she would never allow the saffron camp to take control of Bengal, and urged the people of the state to resist any such attempt.“If goons from outside come to our state and terrorise you, all of you should put up a united fight against them. We believe in peace. We won’t allow them to have a free run here. We will never allow outsiders to take control of the state,” the chief minister maintained.Pledging her government’s support to the farmers’ agitation over the new agriculture laws, she said the BJP-led government at the Centre “should no longer continue to remain in power after sacrificing the rights of the farmers”.She claimed that the saffron party was trying to malign her government and its welfare programmes.“No matter what developmental work we do, they (BJP) will always try to malign us. But what about the Rafale scam? What about the PM CARES fund? The Centre should publish a white paper on the amount of money the PM CARES Fund has received so far,” she said.Alleging that the saffron party “threatens its opposition leaders and sends them to prison”, Banerjee said, “I am not afraid of going to jail. I would prefer going to prison to compromising with the misrule of the BJP”.Taking potshots at the CPI(M), Banerjee said, “Earlier, the CPI(M)had unleashed a reign of terror in West Midnapore. Several people were killed and were rendered homeless by CPI(M) goons. People didn’t dare to come out of their homes then.” “Junglemahal is at peace now. The guns of Maoists have fallen silent. CPI(M) goons have switched over to the BJP.Only the colour has changed,” she said.Exuding confidence of returning to power for the third consecutive time with a bigger mandate, Banerjee said the saffron camp and the CPI(M) will suffer a severe drubbing in the next assembly polls.The CM announced that her government would continue to dole out free ration beyond June next year after her party returns to power for the third consecutive time.The BJP has made deep inroads into Junglemahal -- comprising parts of West Midnapore, Jhargram, Bankura and Purulia -- during the last Lok Sabha polls, bagging five of the six parliamentary seats in the area.Elections to the 294-member West Bengal Assembly are likely to be held in April-May next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-will-never-bow-its-head-before-murderers-of-mahatma-mamata-banerjee/story-vRk7Au2BEyLFYMlwYin3WO.html
07-12-2020||City||Cold front, shortage of stocks pushes seafood prices up by 20% in Pune||PUNE Seafood prices in the city have risen by atleast 20 per cent over the last few days, with wholesale stockists and vendors attributing the increase to the onslaught of cold weather and a shortage of arrival of fresh seafood stocks.Promfret (large) is currently selling at Rs 1,400 per kg in Pune, while it was Rs 1,200 per kg last week.A smaller-sized promfret is selling at Rs900, while it was priced at Rs700 per kg last week. Also, the small-sized promfret is selling at Rs750 while it price was Rs 500 last week.“Small -sized promfrets are quite popular with middle-class families. We are managing to keep prices as low as possible so that we don’t lose out on business. Also, there has been shortage of fresh stocks which has led to escalation of prices. Besides, the demand for seafood goes up in winter,” said Suraj Pardeshi, a fish merchant at the Chhatrapati Shivaji fish market in Camp.Similarly, the popular eel, is currently priced at Rs 800 per kg, when it was selling at between Rs 500-600 per kg last week. Also, another local favourite, the wet Bombay duck is selling at Rs 400 per kg, when it is usually sold at Rs 100 throughout the year, and at Rs 200 per kg during winter. Jumbo prawns are currently priced at Rs 1,400 per kg, as compared to Rs 1,200 last week; lobsters are selling at Rs 1,300 per kg, when they were priced at Rs 1,000 per kg last week.Shamim Shaikh, who works as school teacher in Wanowrie, said, “Fish prices have gone up and there is no authority to keep prices in check. Seafood is currently going beyond the reach of the common man.” Pratik Bhoyar, a member of the Fish Wholesale Association, said, “Seafood is in demand due to winter, Covid-19 and also shortage of stocks. However, we feel that after December prices will come down to normal and buyers will not have any reason to complain.”District collector Rajesh Deshmukh said that he would look into the issue and find if any action needs to be initiated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cold-front-shortage-of-stocks-pushes-seafood-prices-up-by-20-in-pune/story-ZrQnl0Bl903Oh31BSABZEL.html
07-12-2020||Mumbai||Bharat Bandh: BEST buses, cabs, autos to ply as usual on Mumbai roads||Mumbai’s Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) buses will operate as usual on Tuesday and will not take part in the ‘Bharat Bandh’ call given by the farmers protesting near Delhi against the three farm laws introduced by the Centre in September.“BEST buses will be operational tomorrow and will not be part of ‘Bharat Bandh’. Protective iron grills and other protective gears will be used while plying the buses tomorrow,” BEST public relations officer told news agency ANI.Taxi and autos will also not take part in the countrywide strike that is being supported by the Left parties, Trinamool Congress (TMC), Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) along with a joint platform of 10 central trade unions.Farmers have been protesting against the three laws - the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 - since November 26 and demanding that they be repealed.“We don’t want to cause problems for the common man. Therefore, we will begin at 11 am, so that they could leave for their offices on time. Work hours in offices will end by 3 pm,” ANI quoted BKU’s Rakesh Tikait. “People can show their card and leave,” Tikait said. “It is a symbolic protest to register our opposition. It is to show that we don’t support some of the policies of the Govt of India,” Tikait added.Meanwhile, the Centre on Monday issued advisory for the strike and asked all states and Union Territories to tighten security. The Union Home Ministry also said the state governments and UT administrations must ensure that the Covid-19 guidelines issued with regard to health and social distancing are strictly followed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bharat-bandh-best-buses-cabs-autos-to-ply-as-usual-on-mumbai-roads/story-d6tzidslTUdY2cpYcHTm6M.html
07-12-2020||Pune||SPPU to introduce two subjects on “Constitution of India” from next academic year||PUNE The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) will be introducing two subjects on the “Constitution of India,” as a credit course in the second year for all undergraduate students of Arts, Science and Commerce streams. From the next academic year of 2021-22, these two subjects will be added to the syllabus, said the administration.The subjects will be compulsory for all the students at SPPU and affiliated colleges.The decision was taken on the occasion of the death anniversary of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar (on December 6). The SPPU’s department of anthropology has taken a lead in this project to design the syllabus of this credit course. It will be a two-credit course which will be taught in the second year of bachelor of Commerce, Arts and Science courses. In these subjects around 30 hours lectures will be conducted for students, which will include assignments, practical, projects and others. The responsibility of how to teach the subjects, what method to use, syllabus and instructions given to colleges will be taken care of by the law department of SPPU. “It is noticed that students don’t even know basic things about the Constitution of India, so we have decided to introduce these subjects. These include the Constitution of India and democratic election and governance. It will be compulsory for all the students of the second year from the academic year 2021-22,” said Anjali Kurne, dean, humanities at SPPU. Subhash Ware, a scholar, said, “It is an important decision taken by SPPU to introduce these new subjects in its syllabus. It will create awareness about the subject among the students about the principles by which a country is governed. I hope that students too take the subject seriously.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sppu-to-introduce-two-subjects-on-constitution-of-india-from-next-academic-year/story-Tc2eazxbCeZWpxOjFi77pN.html
07-12-2020||Patna||Sushil Kumar Modi elected unopposed to Rajya Sabha from Bihar||Senior Bihar BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi was on Monday declared elected unopposed to the Rajya Sabha in a by-poll that was necessitated by the death of Union minister and Lok Janshakti Party founder Ram Vilas Paswan.Sushil Modi was declared elected unopposed on the last date for withdrawal of nomination papers.In addition to the former deputy chief minister a lone Independent candidate, Shyam Nandan Prasad had filed his nomination papers which were rejected during scrutiny.Prasad’s papers were not supported by at least 10 members of the 243-strong assembly as proposers, which is mandatory, poll officials said.Sushil Modi was handed over his certificate in the presence of a host of dignitaries, including Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, with whom he is known to enjoy an excellent rapport, his successors as deputy chief minister Tar Kishore Prasad and Renu Devi and state BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/sushil-kumar-modi-elected-unopposed-to-rajya-sabha-from-bihar/story-zRRgRPkdlL3LwwPBJ51ziI.html
07-12-2020||Pune||Vendor’s 2-wheeler with Rs7 lakh in cash in dicky stolen from Paud road in Pune||puneletters@htlive.com PUNE: A 44-year-old meat seller’s two-wheeler was stolen after he had kept Rs 7 lakh cash in the storage unit of the vehicle and parked it on Paud road on Saturday morning. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Amol Pardeshi (44) a resident of Nana peth who owns a fish shop on Paud road. Pardeshi had withdrawn the money to pay someone, according to police. He kept the cash in the storage of the two-wheeler and went inside his shop around 11:15am on Saturday. However, when he returned, the vehicle was missing, according to police. A case under Section 379 of Indian Penal Code is registered at Kothrud police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/vendor-s-2-wheeler-with-rs7-lakh-in-cash-in-dicky-stolen-from-paud-road-in-pune/story-TBBMc2aKl8kUypm2AIprWM.html
07-12-2020||Pune||Maharashtra Medical Council suspends licence of MD doctor from Pune||The Maharashtra Medical Council (MMC) has suspended the licence of Dr Sireesha Mohan, MD, from Pune for allegedly letting various pathology labs in Pune district use her electronic signature without she personally seeing the reports, which according to the Council is unethical.The order issued by the MMC on December 2, says these labs are at different locations and no doctor can visit all these locations in one day. The labs are located at Lohegaon, Chakan, Dighi, Alandi, Kalewadi, Khed, Rajgurnagar and other areas in Pune district.Moreover, the MMC has found that the scanned signature of the doctor was used for routine as well as insurance claims. HT has seen the copy of the order.The order issued by the MMC also states that the enquiry in this matter started from April 30, 2019. The online hearing of the matter held on October 23, 2020, in which she was not present. As per the order, she has not responded to the allegations during the proceedings over the last year.Dr Shivkumar Utture, president, MMC, said that despite many notifications, she did not show up for the proceedings and so we had to take action against the doctor.“We have time and again taken action against pathologists who are not physically present for signing the reports. As per the Medical Council of India’s (MCI) code of ethics, pathologists cannot sign a report given by a technician. The pathologists’ has to be present to ensure that the reports are correct,” said Utture.He further added that in such cases, patients can get a false report. “Any qualified doctor views the report first and then decides the treatment modality. If the report is written by a technician and is incorrect then the patient may be given a different treatment which can prove to be harmful. Hence awareness about reports supervised and signed by pathologists is important,” he said.Dr Prasad Kulkarni of Maharashtra Association of Practicing Pathologists and Microbiologists (MAPPM) said that the local health department should verify credentials of local pathology labs and assure legal practices. Maharashtra Association of Practising Pathologists and Microbiologists has filed the complaint against Dr Mohan with the MMC.“Some other doctors are doing similar malpractice so people must confirm the availability of pathologists and then submit the sample for tests. Awareness among patients is also important to check illegal practices,” said Dr Kulkarni.Dr Mohan has refuted all the allegations and said, “I am practising since 1990. This is propaganda against me. The allegations are not true.”She said that her licence is permanent. “There is no notice updated on the MMC website regarding the case. And my name is still on the MMC website,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/maharashtra-medical-council-suspends-licence-of-md-doctor-from-pune/story-NlOhftxiUB8rUobIBuh3AO.html
07-12-2020||Pune||Pune musician’s house burgled of cash, jewellery||PUNE: A 71-year-old musician who temporarily moved to Mumbai to live with her retired doctor husband during lockdown, came home three months later to find jewellery and cash stolen from her house in Sadashiv peth on Saturday.Identified as Alaknanda Wadekar (71), the complainant arrived in Pune with her husband, daughter, and son-in-law on Saturday afternoon.The woman lost cash worth Rs 1,41,000 and some gold jewellery collectively worth Rs 2,11,000, according to police.“When the lockdown was announced, she was stuck here and her husband was in Mumbai. In September, when the lockdown rules were relaxed, she left for Mumbai to be with her husband. Their jewellery and money was in this house which is on the first floor,” said assistant police inspector Chandrakant Vabale of Vishrambaug police station, who is investigating the case.The house was closed from September 9 until Saturday. The theft is suspected to have been committed a long time ago as there a barely any signs of fresh entry in the house.“The ground floor structure has been donated to Deccan Education Society, but is lying unused. There is a toilet-bathroom there and the window faces outside. They entered through the window and gained access to the building. The grill on the main door of the house is also bent, broken,” said API Vabale.A case under Sections 454 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking), 457 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night), and 380 (theft in dwelling house, etc) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Vishrambaug police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-musician-s-house-burgled-of-cash-jewellery/story-lSTjQI9L90TqmC5JiSnMWL.html
07-12-2020||Mumbai||Personal finance: Don’t slip on your credit score||One of the overlooked personal finance consequences of the coronavirus pandemic that has caused an immense disruption in the economy and left many out jobs is the effect it will have on the credit score of those struggling to pay off their liabilities — loans, bills, medical expenses. However, this doesn’t have to be a long-lasting worry. With a few smart financial decisions, it is possible to rebuild a good credit profile even during a pandemic. Credit scores between 580 and 669 are deemed fair. A poor credit score can lead to credit card rejection, loan availability at high interest rates, increased premiums on insurance policies, etc. It’s a question of pivoting your financial outlook, especially during times of distress, where we may be tempted to make different choices. Prioritise debt repaymentNon-payment or late repayment can have a damaging effect on your credit score. Naveen Kukreja, Chief Executive Officer and Co-founder of Paisabazaar.com, an online comparison portal for personal finance products said, “Non-payment of EMIs would not just impact one’s credit score, but also hurt his/her ability to borrow in the near to medium term.” What this means is that even after income levels are restored consumers may not be able to fulfill important life goals simply because they are ineligible to avail of a loan.Get rid of credit card debtUsing credit cards to shop or to get cash can trap you in a debt-like situation. What’s more, interest rates on credit cards are high — ranging from 2.5 per cent to 3.5 per cent every month on average — which could add to the burden of debt. To maintain a high credit score rating, always pay off your credit card debt in full. Rohit Garg, co-founder and CEO SmartCoin, an online personal loan application site said, “With current uncertain times, you never know when you might require cash urgently. High balances and/or late payments on credit card accounts can hurt your credit rating and you might face difficulties when you need to apply for a loan.” Using the credit card for cash involves withdrawing your money from the ATM using your credit card. However, you can withdraw cash up to your card’s credit limit. However, the interest charges are much higher than on a loan that begets interest charges not more than 10 per cent every year.Maintain a balance between secured and unsecured loansMany of us opt for personal loans and loans against credit card limits, which are unsecured loans. By contrast, secured loans include loans against property, car loans, etc. Secured loans are those that are backed by a collateral. You must ensure a balanced credit mix of secured and unsecured loans to maintain a healthy credit score. According to Vineet Patawari, CEO and Co-founder, StockEdge & Elearnmarkets, an online institution for stock training, unsecured loans must be repaid with urgency. “Unsecured loans like personal loans, credit card dues, etc. come with a higher interest rate and should be paid off as soon as possible. The government has announced EMI moratorium during the COVID period, but in a normal situation the schedule of secured loans like home loan and car loan should not be disturbed as it carries the risk of the backed asset being seized by the lender.”Avoid multiple loan inquiries during this periodThe urgent need for money prompts many people to inquire about loans and credit cards. While these may help secure the money, it is advisable to apply for a loan or credit card only when in utmost need. Raj Khosla, founder and managing director, MyMoneyMantra, an online comparison portal for loans and credit cards, says, “Multiple loans and credit card inquiries can hurt credit score. Thus, you should never initiate multiple simultaneous credit queries. For a good CIBIL score, always ensure optimal credit utilization, a right credit mix of secured and unsecured loans and repayment regularities.”Consolidation of debt helpsThe RBI on October 27, 2020 instructed all lending institutions to waive off interest on loans up to Rs. 2 crores for the six months’ moratorium period from March 01, 2020. Thus, there would be no effect on credit score if you are unable to repay the loan now and opt for the loan moratorium. While it is understood that you might miss out on a couple of repayments in the coming few months, it is the best time to consider consolidating your debt to avoid future delays. Consolidation of debt entails taking out a new loan to repay other debt and liabilities. Personal Finance is a weekly feature that aims to provide our readers pertinent and helpful financial information||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/personal-finance-don-t-slip-on-your-credit-score/story-bWHHLCyHaQDZf9ccoRq54O.html
07-12-2020||Pune||A guide to explore the rich and rare flora of Vetal tekdi in Pune||A field guide, ‘Flora of Vetal Tekdi ’, depicting the rich flora of the hill through picturesque photographs and informative detail, penned by anaesthesiologist Dr Satish Phadke, was launched in Pune on Sunday. The book, which depicts a collection of the rare flower species growing on the hill, comes at a time when the Vetal tekdi is in the news after a stop-work notice was issued by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to the Maharashtra Institute of Technology (MIT), citing unauthorised work on the hill slope at survey number 123 in Kothrud. “I have been strolling on Vetal tekdi and its sister tekdis to see and observe the rare flora and document them. The stimulus was mainly after I did my field botany course in 2005,” said Dr Phadke. Dr Phadke addresses Vetal tekdi as a mini-Sahyadri, citing it is a representative of numerous plants observed on the Sahyadri range, though still lacking many due to human, cattle and industrial activities, to some extent. When quizzed over his penchant for the minutest detail while capturing the flowers on camera and documenting them in the book, he said, “People see but don’t observe. This book contains details of rare species of flowering plants which have not been recorded earlier.” The book states that there are many trees which are not natural, but have been planted since the British era, like the Dalbergia melanoxylon, Caesalpinia coriaria and the Tecoma and Cassia Surattensis. He also pointed out that some plants are uniquely endemic like Jatropha nana and chlorophytum bharuchae. “I was fortunate to discover some rare species around here which were probably not recorded earlier, like Garuga pinnata and Alangium salviifolium,” he said. “While contributing to websites like “Flowers of India” and “eflorafindia”, I found it necessary to develop an area-specific field guide,” he said. He has included most of the names of the trees in the Marathi language also. “The book is a labour of 15 years where I have photographed 240 species of flowering plants,” he said. “The efforts and passion displayed by Dr Phadke is commendable,” said Jayashree Shidore who compered the book launch. Dr Mandar N Datar of the Agharkar Research Institute, said, “Dr Phadke began to cultivate his love for plants at Vetal tekdi, which is often referred to as the lungs of Pune city. The book contains photographs and information on species found here which will extensively help in identification and confirmation. The book is a mix of art and science.” Pradnya Shidore, Green Earth Policy Consulting Public Policy Researcher, said, “The book is a product of passion and research and an important step towards protecting biodiversity. Studies like these contribute immensely in preserving local knowledge,” she said. Born in Pune, Dr Phadke did a course in ornithology and field botany which gave him a firm grounding. He is an anaesthesiologist by profession and has been practising in Pune since 1986.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/a-guide-to-explore-the-rich-and-rare-flora-of-vetal-tekdi-in-pune/story-Fh4KNxMlxaiG5ZZ7Kxtn8O.html
07-12-2020||Pune||Towing charges hiked by 10 per cent in Pune city||The city police have hiked towing charges by ten per cent for two and four-wheelers parked in no-parking zones. The towing charges for two-wheeler will now be Rs 460 and for four-wheeler Rs 720 respectively.The charges have been increased as per the contractual agreement between the government and the towing contractor which stipulates a ten per cent increase annually. The additional hike on the existing towing fees is Rs 20 for two-wheelers and Rs 40 for four-wheelers.Rahul Srirame, DCP traffic, said, “The hike has been initiated as per the agreement signed between the government and the private contractor. The contract stipulates an annual increase in the fine collection by 10 per cent as towing charges for two and four-wheelers.”According to the traffic branch, the break-up for the towing charges of two-wheelers comprises of Rs 220 for towing charges, Rs 200 as fine and Rs 40 as Goods and Services Tax (GST) fees which together translated to Rs 460. Similarly, for four-wheelers the violators will have to pay Rs 440 as towing charges, Rs 200 as fine and 80 as GST charges totalling Rs 720.The city traffic police are finding it challenging to deal with issues like parking beyond specified parking signage on both the sides of the public roads and also a violation of odd-even parking norms. Earlier the traffic police-hired tempos used to tow away the wrongly parked vehicle but the method had come in for sharp criticism after which the traffic branch initiated change and brought hydraulic based towing vans into action to prevent damage to the towed vehicles.The traffic department has replaced the old towing trucks with 25 hydraulic towing vans (for two-wheelers) and ten hydraulic towing vans (for four-wheelers) last year. Every hydraulic towing van is fitted with a camera, global positioning system (GPS), public announcement system, searchlight and a POS terminal. The camera clicks the exact location from where the vehicle was towed and the information is subsequently be uploaded to a central server.Currently, Vidharbha Infotech Company is engaged in towing away the vehicles parked in the no-parking zones in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/towing-charges-hiked-by-10-per-cent-in-pune-city/story-dZq8Ba4ycf5l8jHPOe3cGL.html
07-12-2020||Kolkata||Bengal police use tear gas, water cannon to stop BJP rally in Siliguri; chaos prevails||Pitched battles marked the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) rally at Siliguri in north Bengal on Monday afternoon when police lobbed tear gas shells and used water cannons to stop the party workers and leaders from approaching towards Uttar Kanya, the state secretariat in north Bengal, violating prohibitory orders under Section 144 Code of Criminal Procedure.The rally was part of the BJP’s ongoing agitation programmes against the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government.BJP and Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BYJM) workers, who were leading two processions from opposite directions, pelted stones at the police indiscriminately.The clashes took place in at least four places including Tinbatti More and Phoolbari Bazar. Several women in the processions fell ill after inhaling the tear gas. BJYM national president and Bangalore South Lok Sabha member Tejasvi Surya and state BJYM president Saumitra Khan also fell ill.“The violence was a public display of the violence the BJP believes in. Its workers provoked the police to open fire. I thank the police for handling the situation. The BJP will fail to create disturbance in the state,” said Saugata Roy, TMC Lok Sabha member and party spokesperson.Also read: Suvendu Adhikari, family skip Mamata Banerjee’s mega rally, she accuses BJP of trying to break TMCBJP state president Dilip Ghosh alleged that a party worker died.“One of our workers, who was injured in the baton charge, died in hospital,” said Ghosh.Neither the police nor local TMC leaders confirmed this till 3.15pm.Prominent leaders such as BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, national secretary Arvind Menon, and several Lok Sabha members of the party were in the long procession that was moving towards the secretariat.The BJYM workers demolished two steel and bamboo barricades that were put up by the police to stop the procession. The angry BJYM workers set several bamboo barricades on fire. Journalists covering the rally were caught in the middle when BJYM workers showered stones at the Rapid Action Force of the district police. The police resorted to baton charge around 2.30pm.The violence was similar to the one witnessed in and around Kolkata on October 8 when as many as 24 BJP leaders, including Vijayvargiya and Menon, were booked by the Kolkata Police for violating Central guidelines on gatherings and political rallies during the pandemic and marching towards Nabanna, the secretariat in adjoining Howrah district.The BJYM organised the ‘Nabanna Chalo’ (march to Nabanna) programme to raise voice on issues ranging from alleged lack of employment opportunities in Bengal to law and order problems. BJP and BJYM leaders claimed that around 1,500 workers were injured during the baton charge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-police-use-tear-gas-water-cannon-to-stop-bjp-rally-in-siliguri-chaos-prevails/story-JIzkuAz22DBSS6TZIzvW8O.html
07-12-2020||Kolkata||‘BJP govt should withdraw farm laws or quit’: Mamata Banerjee at West Midnapore rally||Sharpening her attack on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the contentious farm laws passed in Parliament in September, West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee said the party should either immediately withdraw the “anti-people” laws or quit.Speaking at a rally in West Midnapore, the TMC chief asserted that she would rather stay in jail than “remain silent or put up with BJP’s misrule”, according to news agency PTI.“The BJP government (at the Centre) should immediately withdraw the farm laws or step down (quit). It should not continue to remain in power after sacrificing the rights of the farmers,” she said.The West Bengal CM further called the BJP a party of “outsiders” and said that people of the state would not allow them to take control. “Will never allow outsiders to take control of Bengal, people will resist such attempts,” she said.The rally was Banerjee’s first in the district after party heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari resigned from the Cabinet in November-end. Though TMC leaders have said that the Adhikari issue is a closed chapter, the politician is still seen taking potshots at the leadership. Earlier, Banerjee had directed district and block level leaders from the adjacent district of East Midnapore, Adhikari’s hometown, to remain present in her West Midnapore rally. According to the people familiar with the developments, the CM had held meeting with some of the leaders in both the districts before addressing the rally.“Banerjee sent out a strong signal to party rebels last week in a virtual organisational meeting with party leaders. We are all looking forward to Monday’s rally and what she has to say,” said a senior party leader on Sunday.Adhikari was credited for the gains TMC made in the assembly constituencies of Kaliaganj in Uttar Dinajpur and Kharagpur in West Midnapore in the 2019 bypolls. Elections to the 294-member West Bengal Assembly are likely to be held in April-May next year and Banerjee is planning to hold rallies with booth level leaders and workers of North Bengal next week.(with PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bjp-govt-should-withdraw-farm-laws-or-quit-mamata-banerjee-at-west-midnapore-rally/story-b72bwHjoPuh6wkfJr2etHO.html
07-12-2020||Delhi||Wanna usher in Christmas cheer with poinsettia? High demand and price might change your plans||Poinsettia is the highlight of winter! The lovely red leaves bring cheer on faces as Xmas celebrations kick in. And this year, the demand of these plants has seen an unusual rise amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “December has just begun and the sale for poinsettias have picked up like anything,” says Dinesh from Monika Nursery, MG Road. And Vasim Khan, from Gurugram-based Bhawna Nursery adds, “The sale of poinsettias has been good at 100 pieces per day. Air-purifying plants ki itni nahin hai sale abhi jitni iski hai. Last year I would have sold about 70 of them per day. Par is baar Diwali ke kuch din baad sale ekdum badi, jaise abhi hi Christmas aa gaya ho... Is plant ko phool ki zaroorat nahi. Iska patta hi phool jaisa hai.”Since the demand is high, price is on the higher side, too. So be prepared to shell out more, if you are heading out to buy one for yourself. Aalam, from Gurugram’s New Friends Nursery, says, “Logon ka interest zyada rehta hai isme. So we have put on offer a two plant set priced at ₹900, with a planter,” he says. And denizens say that this is quite high! Shravani Chaudhary, an IT professional, says, “Poinsettias bring so much cheer. I just love them! Last year I bought 12 of them for ₹250 each, but this year since they are so expensive, I’ve bought only five of them this time.”Sunita Malhotra, a homemaker, who buys poinsettias every year in winter, says, “Every year I buy this plant in October and it lasts till May. Normally the nurseries would start selling them at ₹300, but soon come down to ₹250. But it’s certainly more expensive this time. The sellers are saying that the procurement price is higher because of pandemic, and hence the price rise. And almost everyone is adamant at nothing less than ₹300.”Unhappy with the increased price, Preeti Thakur, a Delhi-based flight cabin crew member and plant lover, says, “We didn’t buy plants throughout lockdown. So now when we went out to buy things to decorate our house, we picked up poinsettias like usual and then the sellers said nothing less than ₹300 per plant, and I left them right there. It’s too much a price. I would have bought had he negotiated the price.”“Iss saal peeche se hi paudha mehenga aa rah hai. Pune se aata hai yeh. Wahan bhi nahin hai maal. I bought around 50 plants thinking pata nahin mehenga hai itna to log ab khareedenge ya bhi nahi. Rate hai fixed hai,” says Israr, from Gurugram’s Evergreen Nursery, and Sohan Lal from Kusum Nursery in Delhi’s Vasant Kunj says, “Sale achchi hai is saal. Stock khatam ho raha hain, aur mangwana hai. This year it’s priced somewhere at ₹300-350 whereas last year it was ₹250 or even lesser owing to the bargaining skills. Iss saal Pune mein baarish bhi to hui hai. Paudhe kharab hue the isliye bhi rate bada hai.”  Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/wanna-usher-in-christmas-cheer-with-poinsettia-high-demand-and-price-might-change-your-plans/story-XvxV0ZJdnukr5ivjM2BGTM.html
07-12-2020||City||Number of active Covid-19 cases dipped in past week in Maharashtra||Maharashtra, which is anticipating a surge in Covid-19 cases, saw 28,370 cases in the past week and reported 583 fatalities. The daily average cases reported in the week between of November 30-December 6 was 4,052 and daily average fatalities was 83.Health department authorities had anticipated a surge in cases a fortnight after Diwali (November 15) but the infection rate has not gone up yet. The November 30-December 6 week had a positivity rate of 6.79%.The number of active cases in the state has seen a dip in the past week, from 90,557 on November 30 to 80,079 on December 6.The state has reported less than 4,000 cases for the past two days. On Sunday, it recorded 4,757 new cases to take the tally to 1,852,226. It also reported 40 deaths, pushing the number of fatalities to 47,734. Meanwhile, Mumbai saw 786 fresh cases and 13 deaths.An upward swing in the cases in the state was anticipated by December-end or in January 2021. “The fortnight after Diwali was crucial as it would have given a sign of the possible surge, but so far we have not seen any significant change in the key parameters. However, the district and civic administrations are on guard. Testing and tracing has been ramped up in a targeted manner,” said an official requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/number-of-active-covid-19-cases-dipped-in-past-week-in-maharashtra/story-5yDH1HSEZFT73fKsTkoG4K.html
07-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: ‘Came here as sevadar,’ says CM Kejriwal as he visits Singhu border||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal visited Singhu border on Monday where he briefly interacted with some of the protesting farmers and also inspected the arrangements made by the city administration for them.Even as Kejriwal did not visit the main protest site, he was surrounded by scores of agitating farmers as he reached Guru Teg Bahadur Memorial near Singhu border (Delhi-Haryana border).“I have not come here as a chief minister. I have come here as a sevadar (one who does service). We support all demands of the farmers. Their issue and demands are valid. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and I have stood in support of the farmers right from the start,” Kejriwal told reporters during his visit.Also read | 7 borders connecting Delhi with UP, Haryana remain completely closedThe chief minister repeated that the Central government was “very upset” with him for not allowing the Delhi Police to convert nine stadiums in the city into jails to detain the protesting farmers. He reiterated that he was pressured into giving the approval, but he still did not.“Our party, MLAs and leaders have been serving farmers as sevadars ever since. Farmers are in trouble today, we should stand with them. AAP supports December 8 Bharat Bandh. Our party workers will participate in it across the nation,” he said. Talking about the arrangements made by the Delhi government, Kejriwal, who is the national convener of AAP, said that at least 300 mobile toilets and 350 water tankers have been deployed at Singhu border. “I surveyed the arrangements here. The toilets are clean. But, water is not reaching all points so a motor and a pipeline will be placed soon. During my interaction with the farmers, they said they are satisfied with the arrangements. We will be in touch with them,” the chief minister said before leaving.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-came-here-as-sevadar-says-cm-kejriwal-as-he-visits-singhu-border/story-zhgJxZ97VSeOlP4fiCRY8K.html
07-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ demands valid, will back Bharat Bandh: Kejriwal at Delhi’s Singhu border||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday his Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has always stood by farmers as he reiterated the support to their call for the Bharat Bandh or nationwide strike on Tuesday. Kejriwal made the comments at the Capital’s Singhu border, where he has gone to extend support and check arrangements for farmers who have been protesting for the past 12 days against three farm laws enacted by the central government in September.“We support all the demands of farmers. Their issues and demands are valid. My party and I have stood with them from the very beginning. At the beginning of their protests, Delhi Police had sought permission to convert nine stadiums into jails. I was pressurised but didn’t permit,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Follow latest updates on farmers protest hereHe was referring to the Delhi government denying police permission to convert nine stadiums in the city into temporary detention centres in light of the farmers’ agitation on November 27, a day after the ‘Dilli Chalo’ march began. “The farmers’ demands are valid. The central government should agree to their demands immediately. Detaining farmers is not the solution. Peaceful protest is the constitutional right of every Indian. They cannot be jailed for that. That’s why Delhi government is rejecting the permission sought by Delhi Police to convert stadiums into jails,” Delhi’s home minister Satyendar Jain had then said then in a letter to the Delhi Police.At the protest venue, Kejriwal said members of the AAP have been serving the farmers as ‘sevadars’ since the protests began. “I haven’t come here as a CM but as a ‘sevadar’. Farmers are in trouble today and we should stand with them. The AAP supports Dec 8 Bharat Bandh and party workers will participate in it across the nation,” he said.Several other political parties, including the Congress party, Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), Left parties, Trinamool Congress (TMC), and Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), have also decided to stand in solidarity with the protesting farmers by supporting the general strike on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-demands-valid-will-back-bharat-bandh-kejriwal-at-delhi-singhu-border/story-xWaz5N8a8Ud5iovNVXeg9N.html
07-12-2020||City||All eyes on TMC chief Mamata Banerjee’s rally in West Midnapore today||All eyes would be on rally of Trinamool Congress supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s rally in West Midnapore district on Monday, it being her first in the district after party heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari resigned from the Cabinet. Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) would be organising a protest march to the branch secretariat in north Bengal. Senior TMC leaders said the rally would help the party leadership test the waters in the district where Adhikari has a support base. In 2019 bypolls, the ruling TMC made impressive gains in the assembly constituencies of Kaliaganj in Uttar Dinajpur and Kharagpur in West Midnapore. Adhikari, who was the party’s in-charge of five of the state’s 23 districts, was credited for the success. Also read | ‘Sycophants are given importance’: Another TMC minister shows signs of disgruntlementInterestingly, Banerjee has directed district and block level leaders from the adjacent district of East Midnapore, Adhikari’s hometown, to remain present in the rally. The TMC chief reached the district on Sunday and insiders said she has already held meeting with some of the leaders in both the districts. “Banerjee sent out a strong signal to party rebels last week in a virtual organisational meeting with party leaders. We are all looking forward to Monday’s rally and what she has to say,” said a senior party leader. Soon after Adhikari started distancing himself from the ruling party, the BJP have been flexing its muscles in East Midnapore district. On Saturday, Dilip Ghosh held a rally there. Next week, Banerjee is scheduled to visit north Bengal, where BJP had made inroads in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. She would be holding rallies with booth level leaders and workers. The party would be holding a protest march to Uttar Kanya, the branch state secretariat at Siliguri in north Bengal, on Monday, along the lines of its protest rally to the state secretariat in October. Some of the top leaders of the BJP, including state president Dilip Ghosh, national youth wing president Tejasvi Surya and national vice president Mukul Roy, would be leading the rally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/all-eyes-on-tmc-chief-mamata-banerjee-s-rally-in-west-midnapore-today/story-bjhyts92ihpKuscmGrA8NN.html
07-12-2020||Delhi||Dense fog engulfs Delhi-NCR, visibility reduced to zero at Palam weather station||The national Capital was engulfed by very dense fog on Monday morning, with the visibility reducing to zero at the Palam weather station. This was the first episode of heavy fog this season, said officials at the India Meteorological Department (IMD). “For around four hours -- between 4.30am and 8.30am -- the visibility was zero at Palam. It was only around 9am that it improved to 50 metres here. When visibility is zero, flight operations have to be suspended,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre. At Safdarjung Observatory --- representative of Delhi’s weather, moderate fog was observed with the visibility reduced to 300 metres at 8.30am. Also read | Moderate snowfall likely today in J&K, Himachal Pradesh“The season of fog has started. Easterly winds that were blowing over Delhi till Sunday noon brought moisture. High moisture content combined with low wind speed resulted in heavy fog. We are expecting moderate fog at Safdarjung over the coming week,” said Srivastava. He added that the visibility may improve slightly over the next few days because of high wind speed, however, shallow to moderate fog is here to stay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dense-fog-engulfs-delhi-ncr-visibility-reduced-to-zero-at-palam-weather-station/story-lCkz8A3C3ZKJ9EsXxNvqZM.html
07-12-2020||Delhi||5 associated with terror outfits held after shootout in east Delhi, say police||Five men belonging to different terrorist organisations have been apprehended after a shootout in east Delhi on Monday, the Delhi Police’s special cell said. The exchange of fire took place in the national capital’s Shakarpur area around 7am.Two of those held are from Punjab while three are from Kashmir, deputy commissioner of police of the special cell Pramod Kushwaha said. “The operation happened around 7am in the Shakarpur area. The five were caught after an exchange of bullets with our special cell officials. We have recovered weapons and other incriminating materials from them,” he added.ALSO WATCH | Five with terror group links arrested after shootout in east Delhi, say police On being asked about the identities of the apprehended persons and the terror groups they are associated with, the Kushwaha said that the investigation is at an early stage and all information related to the suspects is being verified.The group was backed by Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence for narcoterrorism, Kushwaha told ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/5-associated-with-terror-outfits-held-after-a-shootout-in-east-delhi-say-police/story-VfrzbeoZjn5XywUWwZ6lFO.html
07-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: 7 borders connecting Delhi with Haryana, UP remain closed||As many as seven borders connecting Delhi with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh remained completely closed on Monday due to the ongoing farmers’ protest, causing traffic snarls and inconvenience to motorists in many parts of the city. The borders that are completely shut are Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piao Maniyari, Mangesh, Jharoda and Chilla. While the first six borders connect Delhi with Haryana, the Chilla border is used by people travelling between Delhi and Uttar Pradesh’s Noida, Greater Noida, Jewar, Mathura, Agra and Lucknow. No new border was blocked by the protesting farmers who have been camping at the Haryana-Delhi and Uttar Pradesh-Delhi borders for the past 11 days.On Monday, the Delhi Traffic Police also issued alerts and advisories on social media, informing commuters about the closure of the borders and the alternate routes they should be taking to avoid traffic jams. Also read | Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal likely to visit Singhu border to inspect arrangements for protesting farmers“Singhu, Auchandi, Piao Maniyari, Mangesh borders are closed. NH 44 is closed on both sides. Take alternate routes via Lampur,Safiabad,Saboli borders. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road. Avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK road, NH44,” the traffic police tweeted.The traffic police also updated that Tikri, Jharoda borders are closed for any traffic movement. It said that Badusarai border is open only for cars and two wheelers while Jhatikara border is open only for two wheeler traffic.“Available open borders to Haryana are Dhansa, Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders,” the traffic police tweeted. About the two borders in east Delhi, the traffic police said that the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border on Delhi-Meerut expressway is closed for traffic coming to Delhi from Ghaziabad. The service road of NH-24 connecting Delhi from Ghaziabad has also been closed since the protest started. Those coming to Delhi from Ghaziabad side have been advised to avoid the expressway and NH-24 service lane. The traffic police have asked them to take Anand Vihar, Apsara, Bhopra borders for entering Delhi. As far as the Chilla border on Delhi-Noida link road is concerned, the traffic police alert on Twitter seemed confusing. While the vehicular movement on both the carriageways (between Delhi and Noida) is shut due the farmers’ protest, the traffic police is only updating about the carriageway connecting Delhi from Noida. “The Chilla border on Noida link road is closed for traffic from Noida to Delhi due to farmers protests near Gautam Budh Dwar. People are advised to avoid Noida link road for coming to Delhi and use DND,” the traffic police tweeted.Since the Chilla border is completely blocked, the motorists are taking alternate borders such as Kalindi Kunj, DND, New Ashok Nagar, Kondli and Dallupura to travel between Delhi and Noida. Since these borders are narrow, bottlenecks have been reported with many office-goers stuck in the jams for several minutes. A senior Delhi Traffic Police officer said, “We have increased the presence of traffic personnel at the congestion points, mostly on the borders to regulate the traffic movement manually.” The officer said that the traffic chaos would get over by noon but it is expected to worsen during the evening peak hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-7-borders-connecting-delhi-with-up-haryana-completely-closed/story-DhM3qc6QH5YoPTc6Gt6PVO.html
07-12-2020||Education||Amid fear of closure, private schools in Patna gear up for admissions||Despite several schools dealing with the fear of closure since March in view of Covid-19 pandemic, city private schools have started strengthening their online admission process which will prevent long queues in front of school premises to implement social distancing. Delhi Public School has already commenced online admission process for the academic session 2021-22.“Online registrations for admission to various classes closed today. An introductory session will be held on December 15 inviting both parents and candidates for online interview. After this round, admission results will be sent to selected candidates via the registered mobile number. We are accepting payment of admission fee only through online gateways. We will complete the admission process on December 29,” said an official on Sunday.Similarly, Bishop Scott Group of Schools has also commenced the online admission process for the next session.“We have uploaded seat vacancy on our school’s website. We have provision for both online and offline mode of application, registration and payment,” said a school official. Litera Valley School is set to commence its admission process from Monday, read the school website.Meanwhile, several missionary schools, including Loyola Montessori School and St Dominic Savio’s High School will start admission process from mid-December or January.Parents mull to shift wards to budget schoolsOn the contrary of securing a seat for their children in prominent schools, several parents are mulling to shift their wards in budget schools owing to pressure of schools for paying high school fees amid their slashed income.Brajesh Gupta, a businessman who resides near Anisabad, said, “My daughter studies in Class 8 in a Jaganpura-based private school. I am compelled to pay high school fee, including ₹2,700 transportation fee without availing the facility. I am no longer in a position to bear the expense as the business is lean amid Covid-19. I am looking to shift her in a less expensive school.” Another parent and a private employee Ragini Sharma, said, “My two children study in a Khagual-based private school. I am thinking to shift my both children to a budget school. The school have been asking for full fees or face dismissal. Twice they have barred entry of my wards in online classes and exams over non-payment of fees.”“Defying government’s order, the school has not reduced fees. We are paying transportation, development, laboratory and library fee along with tuition fee. My income has reduced to 50% since April and there is no hope of salary restoration in sooner time.” she rued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/amid-fear-of-closure-private-schools-in-patna-gear-up-for-admissions/story-zHW5oyfi4KEeYRx2zu2EGJ.html
07-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to visit Singhu border to inspect arrangements for protesting farmers||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is on his way to visit the national capital’s Singhu border on Monday to inspect arrangements made by the Union Territory government for farmers at the spot protesting against the three central laws enacted by the Centre earlier this year, according to news agency ANI. The visit by the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP’s) national convenor to the Singhu border comes a day after he extended support to the agitating farmers’ call for Bharat Bandh or nationwide strike on Tuesday. “The AAP would support the Bharat Bandh called by farmer groups on December 8. AAP volunteers too would join hands with farmers in peaceful protests across the country on that day. It’s an appeal to citizens of India to support the farmers,” Kejriwal wrote on Twitter.Follow latest updates on farmers’ protest hereThousands of farmers, mainly from the northern states of Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting at Delhi borders for the 12th day now against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, enacted by Parliament in September. The AAP had voted against the three laws in both Houses of Parliament.AAP leader and Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Sunday said all party volunteers and workers will participate in the strike to support the farmers. “This is not just the farmers’ fight but the fight for all countrymen. India is an agricultural country and if farmers are unhappy then the country is affected. I appeal to all to join the protest,” said Rai.Also Read: Farmers across nation break language barriers, join protestAAP Lok Sabha MP from Punjab, Bhagwant Mann said, “We will do our best to support farmers in the nationwide strike on December 8. This strike is not political. It is about farmers, their land, and their livelihood. It concerns the entire nation. I urge everyone to support farmers. The central government has been doing one meeting after another for the past several days with top ministers but they have not been able to resolve the issue. Resolving the issue needs political will and good intent.”Farmers, who are demanding that three farm laws be withdrawn, have said that they would occupy toll plazas on December 8, the day of Bharat Bandh, if their demands are not met. They want a special session of Parliament to be called to repeal the laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-to-visit-singhu-border-to-inspect-arrangements-for-protesting-farmers/story-bAI6V9CjE03KFAw6b82FgO.html
07-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Delhi traffic police ask commuters to take alternate routes to enter city||Delhi Traffic Police on Monday issued traffic alerts and advised people to take alternative routes for entering the national capital as the ongoing farmers’ protest at Burari, Singhu and Tikri borders against the new central farm laws entered the twelfth day. The traffic police took to Twitter to inform commuters about the roads that are closed and borders to Haryana that are open.At the Chilla border on Noida link road and Ghazipur border on National Highway 24 has been closed for traffic due to farmers protests. Delhi Traffic Police has advised people to avoid Noida link road and NH 24 for coming to Delhi and use Apsara/ Bhopra/DND.Dhansa, Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders are open while Singhu, Auchandi, Piao Maniyari, Mangesh borders are closed. NH 44 has been closed on both sides and the police have advised people to take alternate routes via Lampur, Safiabad and Saboli borders. Traffic has also been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road and people have been advised to avoid Outer Ring road and GTK road.Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and other parts of the country have been camping at Delhi’s borders for the past 12 days to demand a repeal of the agriculture reform laws. They continued their sit-in demonstrations on Monday against the three farm laws enacted by the government after the fifth round of talks between their leaders and Union ministers failed to break the impasse.Farmers worry these laws will eliminate the safety net of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and do away with mandis that ensure earning. But the government says the MSP system will continue and the new laws will give farmers more options to sell their crop. The government is holding talks with farmers, who have called for a Bharat Bandh on December 8 and threatened to occupy toll plazas. The sixth round of talks will take place on December 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-delhi-traffic-police-ask-commuters-to-take-alternate-routes-to-enter-city/story-zFoKeWpIHh6LAf7Xo0WbYO.html
07-12-2020||City||Ram Mandir construction panel chief Nripendra Misra in Ayodhya on two-day visit||Ram Mandir construction committee chairman Nripendra Misra reached Ayodhya on a two-day visit on Sunday night to finalise details related to the ongoing foundation work of the temple.During his visit, Misra will preside over meetings with members of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust, engineers of Larsen and Toubro and Tata Consulting Engineers Limited to discuss details of the ongoing testing work of foundation pillars of the temple. On September 11 this year, the Trust began piling work for testing the foundation pillars. Piling is when pillars are laid below the surface, 1,200 of them in this case, to prepare the foundation of a building. During the testing work, 12 foundation pillars have been subjected to heavy testing to check their strength and durability and their results are being analysed by experts of IIT Madras, L&T and Tata Consulting Engineers Limited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ram-mandir-construction-panel-chief-nripendra-misra-in-ayodhya-on-two-day-visit/story-16WabbwWzL3djiNgrvScPK.html
07-12-2020||Environment||1,014 participate in 2nd edition of The Salim Ali Nature Quiz||Nature enthusiasts from India and abroad participated in The Salim Ali Nature Quiz, the second edition of the digital contest organised by the Delhi Bird Foundation, on Sunday.A total of 1,014 people took part in the quiz between 5pm and 7pm, via Zoom and Facebook.“It was one of the biggest nature quizzes held in the country. Over 1,000 people participated in the quiz while around 10,000 watched the quiz live,” said Nikhil Devasar, founder, Delhi Bird, one of the oldest birding clubs in the city.People from across the world, including an entire university team from the United Kingdom, and individuals from the United States, Denmark, Indonesia, Malaysia and those from various parts of the country including Ladakh, Nainital, Himachal Pradesh, Pune, Bangalore, West Bengal, Odisha and Kerala, among others, joined in the quiz, he said.Those who answered the questions faster won more points. A spotting scope, the grand prize, was won by Sweedle Cerejo from Maharashtra. The second prize, a holiday at a luxury resort in Dehradun, was won by Adesh Shivkar, also from Maharashtra. Besides, prizes such as coffee table nature books, harness, mugs, flasks, pens, pocket guides and subscriptions from Sanctuary Asia, among others, were given to the first 50 winners.It was a family quiz in which members including children and even the elderly participated. There were eight rounds and 55 multiple-choice questions on flora and fauna as well as nature conservation.The last round of the quiz had questions based on Salim Ali, renowned ornithologist, also known as the Birdman of India, after whom the event is named. For instance, one of the questions was: The subspecies of which Indian bird is named after Dr Salim Ali’s wife Tehmina? The answer was Black-rumped Flameback.For every question, participants had 20 seconds to guess the right answer.Bikram Grewal, Delhi-based author and ornithologist, who was the quiz master, said, “We were running to the full capacity of 1,000 participants before the quiz even started. We plan to come up with another edition in February 2021.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/environment/1-014-participate-in-2nd-edition-of-the-salim-ali-nature-quiz/story-NzhkRkDOXyYDnBm9XAS8KK.html
07-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi AQI remains in very poor zone; may improve from today||Delhi’s air quality remained in the upper end of the very poor zone on Monday. The air quality index (AQI) at 7 am was 394. The average AQI on Sunday was 389. Very dense fog was reported at Palam with zero visibility and moderate fog at Safdarjung at 300 metres at 8.30am on Monday.The air quality is likely to improve December 7 onwards, government agencies have forecast. On a scale of 0-500, an AQI value between 301-400 is considered very poor while 401-500 is severe.According to scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD), from December 7, air quality may improve significantly when strong north-westerly winds will blow over Delhi. “The wind speed returned to north-westerly on Sunday afternoon and helped in slight dispersion. However, it is to pick up December 7-10 and air quality may improve considerably. It is likely to remain around 12-15 kmph at that time,” said a senior IMD scientist. Also read | Winter’s here, but Mumbai records highest December day temperature in 4 yearsOn Monday, the minimum temperature was12 degrees C, 3 degrees above the normal. A day ago, it was 11.4 degrees C, two notches above normal. The maximum settled at 28.2 degrees C, four notches above normal. The System for Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the Union ministry’s air quality forecasting wing, said the share of stubble burning to the city’s PM 2.5 levels was negligible. “The air quality is likely to improve December 7 onwards,” the SAFAR bulletin stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-aqi-remains-in-very-poor-zone-may-improve-from-today/story-ZunGv6NN11gEvq1gs3TpCP.html
07-12-2020||Lucknow||Girl alleges gang rape in moving car, 3 held||Three men have been arrested for the alleged gang rape of a 17-year-old girl in Chattari town of Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr, the police said on Sunday.According to a first information report registered on Sunday, the girl has alleged that the three men accosted her when she was out for some work and dragged her into a moving car on December 3. She alleged that the men raped her and also made a video of the act to threaten her against telling anyone about it.In her complaint, the girl also alleged that the main accused visited her house on Saturday and threatened to kill her family members if she reported the incident to the police. A case under sections 376 and 354 of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act has been registered against the men, senior superintendent of police Santosh Kumar Singh said. “We are probing the charges levelled by the girl against four accused,” the SSP said, adding that the four men have accused the girl’s family of implicating them in a false case over a monetary dispute.The girl’s mother is a local moneylender, the SSP said. She had provided a loan of Rs 30,000 to the father of the main accused and was demanding a commission of Rs 2,000, Singh said. The father of the main accused did not agree to pay the commission, which led to an altercation, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/girl-alleges-gang-rape-in-moving-car-3-held/story-dnx2YfQ3xtWmdCdz7L8bjL.html
07-12-2020||Bhopal||1 killed, 10 injured in clash over water in Bundelkhand||A man was killed and 10 others were injured in a clash over distribution over water in Bundelkhand region, police officials said on Sunday. The deceased was identified as Khilaan Yadav, 50, a resident of Dhand village of Sagar district. “There was a tension between residents of Dhand and Bajreda villages over the distribution of water of Sagari dam constructed on a local lake in Sagar district. On Sunday afternoon, the villagers of Dhand village, which is in downstream of the lake, tried to open the gates of the dam for irrigation purpose but residents of Bajreda village reached there to stop them from opening the gate. They attacked each other with stones, cane and wooden sticks,” Sagar superintendent of police Atul Singh said. A case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against nine people, Singh said. One of the injured victims, Raj Yadav, 28, said, “We need water for irrigation of at least 100 acres agricultural land but residents of Bajreda village don’t allow us to take water from the dam.”Resident of Bajreda village however denied ever stopping the residents of Dhand village from drawing water.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/1-killed-10-injured-in-clash-over-water-in-bundelkhand/story-Z9LEl5UoYUykBF3xWPoR4H.html
07-12-2020||City||BSF jawan, wife, daughter killed in Kaithal accident||A Border Security Force (BSF) jawan, his wife and five-year-old daughter were killed in a road accident near Rajaund town of Kaithal district on Sunday.The deceased have been identified as Ashish Kumar, 32, his wife Sonia,28, and daughter Anshika, all residents of Madhepura district of Bihar.The police said that the accident took place on Sunday evening when the car they were travelling in hit a truck coming from opposite direction. Ashish died on the spot while his wife and daughter were declared brought dead by doctors at civil hospital in Kaithal. The driver of car, Uttam Narag, has been referred to PGIMER in Chandigarh. They were going to Ferozepur from Delhi.Investigating officer Krishan Kumar said that bodies have been sent for postmortem examination at the Kaithal civil hospital and efforts were being made to contact their family members. He said that an FIR has been registered under Section 304 A of the IPC against the unidentified truck driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bsf-jawan-wife-daughter-killed-in-kaithal-accident/story-rGzVcARWWQjeICDacldT8L.html
07-12-2020||City||Kaithal man gets 13 years in jail for raping minor stepdaughter||A 60-year-old man has been sentenced to 13 years in jail for raping his minor daughter by a special court in Kaithal which noted that he violated all limits of humanity.“In view of the peculiar facts of the case, age of the victim, gravity of the offence, physical harm as well as mental trauma suffered by the child and the rehabilitation of the child are as important as punishing the accused,” read the court order.The court convicted him under sections 376 (2) and 506 of the IPC and Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. As per the court orders, the convict was awarded 13-year sentence under Section 376 (2) of the IPC and three years’ sentence under Section 506 of the IPC. The court also imposed a fine of ₹13,000 on the convict.Pronouncing the judgment, the court of additional sessions judge Poonam Suneja directed that the girl be paid a compensation of ₹4.5 lakh from the victims’ compensation fund. As per the police complaint filed by the mother of the victim at the women police station in Kaithal, the accused had raped her daughter on January 1, 2019, and she disclosed the incident to her after 10 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kaithal-man-gets-13-years-in-jail-for-raping-minor-stepdaughter/story-hfI8uqjnCorkYw1rcYKykJ.html
07-12-2020||City||Was told that antibodies will develop after 42 days of vaccination: Vij||Haryana health minister Anil Vij, who is in isolation after testing positive for Covid, issued a statement on Sunday to clear the confusion over the vaccine he was administered nearly two weeks ago. Taking to Twitter, Vij said, “Before giving me Covaxin, the doctors had told me that antibodies will develop only after 14 days of the second dose that will be given after 28 days of the first dose. Despite taking every precaution, I got infected. I’m being treated at the civil hospital and I’m feeling better... It’s been only 14 days that I was given the vaccine.”Vij also condemned the news published in a Hindi daily that he didn’t follow safety protocols. “...this is wrong. I was admitted to the civil hospital nearly 30 minutes after I tested positive,” he wrote on Twitter. In another tweet, he said he got himself tested in Chandigarh, report of which came out negative, two days after he had met Panipat (City) MLA Pramod Vij, who was found infected after their meeting. Ambala civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh on Sunday said that Vij is stable and there are no symptoms now. On being asked about the second dose of vaccine, he said, “Doctors from PGIMS, Rohtak, had visited the minister Saturday night. He will not get the second dose of the vaccine as it is not administered after a patient tests positive. He is feeling better than yesterday and doesn’t have fever now.”With questions being raised on the efficacy of Covaxin, an indigenous vaccine for coronavirus developed by Bharat Biotech, the manufacturer had issued a statement on Saturday stating that “the third phase trial is a double-blind study where the volunteers have a 50% chance of receiving either a vaccine or placebo”.Medical camps at Haryana borders for farmersVij on Sunday said the health department will set up health camps at the farmers’ protesting sites. “The Haryana health department will set up medical camps everywhere in Haryana where the farmers are agitating. Doctors, ambulances and medicines will be available at the camps,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/was-told-that-antibodies-will-develop-after-42-days-of-vaccination-vij/story-tJmwFwsmDZfdQj4gVqSgTP.html
07-12-2020||Chandigarh||Manesar land scam: CBI court opens window for arraigning more persons as accused||CBI special judge Jagdeep Singh, who had last week held that a prima facie case for framing charges is made out against former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and 32 other accused chargesheeted by the probing agency in the Manesar land scam, also opened a window for arraigning more persons in the case.In his December 1 order, the special judge said that the complainant or the accused may move such application as permissible under the law during the course of trial if evidence suggested involvement of persons or officials in the hierarchy to make out commission of offences on their part as well. Accordingly trial court may take decision as per the law, the court said. Hooda and others have been accused of deliberately allowing land acquisition proceedings to lapse by not ensuring passing of award within statutorily prescribed period, forcing land owners to sell their holdings in panic on the threat of acquisition and issuance of various licences after abandonment of the acquisition proceedings. This, as per the CBI, caused huge loss to the state exchequer and land owners and wrongful gain to private builders, entities and accused.The judge had on December 1 also summoned five additional accused who served in HSIIDC, industries and TCP departments. Hooda had said the framing of charges was a part of the process. “I have got full faith in judiciary. As far as this case is concerned, it is politically motivated,” Hooda had said. Referring to the state government’s decision of January 29, 2010 to close the acquisition proceedings in view of the recommendations of an interdepartmental committee of March 26, 2008, the special judge said so far as the argument on behalf of accused that passing of impugned orders, especially January 29, 2010 order, were collective decisions but various persons/public servants, including the then industries minister in the hierarchy, have not been arraigned as accused by the CBI, is concerned.“The entitled party to move appropriate application that is complainant, accused may move such application as permissible under the law during the course of trial if evidence suggested involvement of such persons/officials in the hierarchy, so as to make out commission of offence(s) on their part as well and accordingly trial court may take decision as per law.”‘Anti-graft law provisions applicable to the accused’Dismissing the plea of the accused that no case for framing of any charge under section 13(1) (d) of the Act is made out in light of a 2018 amendment pertaining to section 13 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, the CBI judge quoted a Supreme Court order. “Whether any offence has been committed or not has to be examined in the light of the provisions of the statute as it existed prior to the amendment made effective with effect from July 26, 2018. In the instant case, it is a matter of record that challan had already been filed by the investigating agency prior to coming into effect the amended provisions of the PC Act, and the allegations pertained to the period prior to the amendment of the Act. Therefore, at this stage, it cannot be conclusively held that no case for framing of charge under section 13 (1)(d) is made out,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/manesar-land-scam-cbi-court-opens-window-for-arraigning-more-persons-as-accused/story-PSyCSSF9Ii35Nhpd2GzrQN.html
07-12-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: The most extraordinary bag||Shoulder bags come with zips. But his has dozens of safety pins, for both the compartments.“This has my sone ka saamaan (sleeping stuff),” says Maan Singh, walking down a central Delhi road, idly. “I have no job.” In his 40s, he was a dish washer in wedding banquets “but I haven’t been getting any work for months.” He sleeps in a raen basera, the night shelter for the homeless.Mr Singh picked up the bag recently from a roadside. Since its zips were missing (or broken, he doesn’t clearly remember), he got those substituted by the many safety pins he was lucky to get for free from a bazaar tailor. “This way, nobody can steal my belongings.” Belongings comprise of a bed sheet and two sets of pants and shirts. There’s also a mask in the water bottle pocket.The bag shows some stains of yellow curry. “They were already there when I found it. I’ve cleaned the bag many times since then.”Every evening in the homeless shelter, Mr Singh unhooks the pins on his bag to take out the bed sheet after which he painstakingly hooks them back—takes about half an hour to finish the task one way. Only then he sleeps. “You cannot always trust the people sleeping in the shelter... some of them try to steal things.” If his bag was served by a zip, stealing stuff from it would be far easier, he notes. “A thief cannot have so much time to deal with so many pins without getting noticed.”Scared to lose his bag, Mr Singh keeps it under his head as pillow at night. He admits that sometimes he pricks his fingers while trying to work his way through these pins.Though without a home in Delhi, Mr Singh has one in Bundi, Rajasthan, which he left more than a decade ago. “I have my parents, my brothers...” but he doesn’t wish to talk of them. He now walks away, as the only backpacker — and a unique one at that — in this street, at this moment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-most-extraordinary-bag/story-LUY35ssjYE0gWbSkrwieYJ.html
07-12-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 in Delhi: Positivity rate 3.68%, lowest since April||Delhi managed to continue maintaining a positivity rate – proportion of samples that return positive among total samples tested – of less than 5% for the fourth straight day on Sunday, despite more than 70,000 samples being tested.The city on Sunday conducted 73, 536 tests, recording 2, 706 new cases of the virus — logging a positivity rate of 3.68%. The number of RT-PCR tests, considered by experts to be the gold standard of Covid-19 testing, however, continued dropping from 35,352 on Saturday to 32,023 on Sunday – a reduction of 9.41%. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, or RT-PCR, tests are significantly better than rapid antigen tests at detecting positive cases – the latter has a higher tendency to give false negative. As a result, the higher the share of RT-PCR tests in overall testing, the more accurate the positivity rate is.On Sunday, 69 new deaths were recorded, with which the toll touched 9,643.Commenting on the trend, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted: “I am glad that the third wave of Covid-19 also seems to be getting weak. Delhi fought a very difficult war against Covid-19.”Also Read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayFor a working day, 2,706 cases in 24 hours is the lowest since September 2.. And, the positivity rate of 3.68% is the lowest since April 30.So far, Delhi has recorded a total of 592,250 cases of Covid-19, of which 557,914 individuals have recovered, government data said.Sharing details of Sunday’s health bulletin on social media, Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain said: “Delhi is emerging victorious in this war against the virus. I would request all to continue following the three commandments – mask, social distancing and sanitation. Be safe, Delhi.”Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“The numbers are encouraging, especially the low positivity rate. The government should keep up with its currently applicable strategies on testing, tracing and isolation,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the epidemiology and communicable diseases department in the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-in-delhi-positivity-rate-3-68-lowest-since-april/story-xUNLJombSbAyf50wOO1WhP.html
07-12-2020||Mumbai||Terminating contracts of counsellors to bus providers, Mumbai schools start cutting cost||Days after Maharashtra went under a lockdown in March, 35-year-old Farhan Ahmed (name changed on request), a music instructor at a Mumbai school, was made to go on leave without pay. Citing delay in fee payments from parents, the school had said it could not pay nearly 150 teachers and instructors associated with it for the next few months. While the school gradually got those teaching key subjects on board in the coming months, Ahmed is yet to hear from the authorities. With schools continuing to teach online owing to Covid-19 pandemic, several professionals like Ahmed, whose jobs are quite different to teach in the online mode, are staring at an uncertain future. “Over the past several months, schools, citing poor financial condition, have sacked several staff members and terminated the services of all those whose jobs are seen as ‘redundant’ in the online mode. Even as parents have started paying fees after the delay in the initial few months, schools are using the pandemic as an excuse to maximise profits and cut costs,” said Ahmed, who now relies on his private classes to make ends meet. The others who have been affected by such decision of the schools are instructors for extracurricular activities like sports, school bus operators, counsellors, the administrative staff etc. Raheen Jummani, a psychologist who has been working with a Mumbai school as a counsellor and supports the mental health-related initiatives of many others, said several institutes have terminated the contracts of counsellors altogether. “A private school that I was working for terminated my contract and did not offer any explanation. Many other counsellors had similar experiences,” said Jumani. She said the larger concern was that schools were willing to do away with something as important as the mental health of students. “They are doing this during a pandemic, when students are already stressed and anxious with all that is happening around them and need emotional support. Schools are willing to compromise on such a crucial part of the children’s wellbeing altogether,” she added. Anil Garg, president of the School Bus Owners’ Association (SBOA), said that while school buses continue to remain off the roads as physical schools are closed, private schools have gone a step ahead and terminated their contracts with bus owners. “Schools have just ended the contracts and have even gone to the extent of saying that they would change the contractor if need be in future. While the support staff which worked on buses like bus drivers, cleaners and female attendants are out of work for all this while, schools have not even shown the dignity to pay them some allowance to meet their basic needs. The worst hit by this move are the female attendants, many of whom run their homes on the salaries they get from their work. With no job, they are struggling to make ends meet,” said Garg. There are nearly 50,000 school buses and around 1.5 lakh bus staffers in Mumbai. Several schools in the city also terminated the contracts of sports instructors and physical education teachers. Sunny Singh, who works as a sports coach for a city-based international school said the school terminated his contract in the month of May and gave him no reason. “Some officials said that parents were not willing to pay the added cost for sports considering schools were shut. But I was coaching students over online platforms and it was working well. Schools need to realise that children also need to stay fit and active even if it means some basic activity in their homes and neighbourhood,” said Singh. The principal of a leading school in the suburbs said that schools are finding it difficult to retain the services of professionals whose roles are not clearly defined in the online mode due to fund crunch. “In the initial few months after the lockdown, schools had to struggle to get even tuition fees from parents as many cited financial constraints. While the situation has improved over the last few months, parents are still not willing to pay fees for extracurricular activities. Buses are not plying so they are not paying transport fees. Hence, we are not able to retain the services of these people anymore,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/terminating-contracts-of-counsellors-to-bus-providers-mumbai-schools-start-cutting-cost/story-7FtYHNTHAWigftD0eegIMO.html
07-12-2020||City||Low turnout at Mumbai’s Dadar as most watch tribute ceremony to Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar live on social media||Amid fears of the spread of coronavirus, Chaityabhoomi in Dadar, the cremation site of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar, witnessed a low turnout of his followers on his death anniversary on Sunday. However, many key political leaders, including Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, his deputy Ajit Pawar, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar and some state ministers, visited Chaityabhoomi on Sunday to pay their tribute.Each year, more than 10 lakh followers of the architect of Indian Constitution throng Chaityabhoomi on December 6 to pay their respects, at the site which many consider holy. However, this year, the state government and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) appealed to citizens to avoid visiting the site owing to the pandemic.“The roads around Shivaji Park and Chaityabhoomi were literally empty. The last time we saw a low turnout on this date was in 2008, owing to the 26/11 terror attacks. Even then, there were around five lakh citizens who had arrived at the holy site. This year, however, not even 10% of that crowd was witnessed. This means citizens cooperated with authorities and did not go to the holy site,” a BMC official said.No arrangements, such as temporary sheds, drinking water facility, mobile toilets, for visitors were made this year. The BMC had also prohibited around 500 stalls that are set up each year at the site to sell books, lamps, calendars, decorations, posters, T-shirts, watches and many other such items that bear an image of Dr Ambedkar. BMC had facilitated a live broadcast of the tribute ceremony on Facebook, Twitter and YouTube. According to the civic body, more than 7 lakh citizens from across the country watched the ceremony live on Facebook alone on Sunday morning. The civic body had also directed the closure of the Global Vipassana Pagoda at Gorai between December 5 and 7 owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. The pagoda is a meditation centre and also has a monument built as a tribute to Lord Gautama Buddha. Hundreds of followers of Dr Ambedkar, who visit Chaityabhoomi on his death anniversary, also visit the pagoda.Meanwhile, Koshyari, who had visited the site said that while many countries of the world had high fatality rate owing to the pandemic, India managed to keep the maintain a low death count because of the spirit of compassion (karuna) shown by the people. “Compassion to fellow beings was preached by Bhagwan (Lord) Buddha and the same was propagated by Dr Ambedkar,” the Governor said.CM Thackeray said Dr Ambedkar gave the nation the Constitution of India and brought about a social revolution in the country and gave a framework of discipline to his followers. “I would like to thank the people for observing discipline and not crowding at the Chaityabhoomi amid the Covid-19 pandemic,” he added.His deputy Ajit Pawar said that the state government is committed to complete the construction of the grand memorial of Dr Ambedkar at Indu Mills within the stipulated time. Later, Thackeray also inaugurated the Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Research Centre for Social Justice at Mumbai University.“We should not forget the contribution of Dr Ambedkar. To pay homage to his greatness, we are raising the height of his statue at Indu Mill. However, we cannot reach the height of his personality,” the CM said after the inauguration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/low-turnout-at-mumbai-s-dadar-as-most-watch-tribute-ceremony-to-dr-babasaheb-ambedkar-live-on-social-media/story-bZVTvxvsgMfHunrm4vJLsN.html
07-12-2020||Chandigarh||324 new cases surface in Chandigarh tricity area, five dead||As many as 324 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the tricity on Sunday, even as five patients also succumbed to the virus.Chandigarh and Panchkula reported two deaths each, while Mohali confirmed one fatality.With the death of a 65-year-old woman from Sector 49 and a 39-year old man from Sector 52, Chandigarh’s death toll reached 291. While the woman also had diabetes and hypertension, the male patient was suffering from pneumonia.The city’s case tally also rose to 18,027 with 101 fresh cases. Among these, 922 patients are still infected. A total of 60 patients were discharged on Sunday. In Mohali, besides one death, 157 new cases surfaced, taking the total to 16,325. Out of the 157 cases, 120 were from Mohali city, eight from Kharar, seven from Gharuan, six each from Kurali, Dera Bassi and Dhakoli, three from Banur and one from Lalru.Also on Sunday, 133 patients recovered from the disease, bringing down the number of active patients to 2,279. Till now, 13,755 patients have been cured, while 291 have died.The latest fatalities in Panchkula were a 79-year-old man from Sector 25, and an 83-year-old woman from Sector 17. They were both suffering from hypertension, while the former also had diabetes. With this, the death toll reached 133. The district also reported 66 new infections. Of the total 9,111 cases in Panchkula so far, 536 are active and 8,442 patients have recovered.While 52 cases were from Panchkula city, remaining were reported from Haripur, Kalka, Kharag Mangoli, Mansa Devi Complex, Mouli, Pinjore and Rampur Jangi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/324-new-cases-surface-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-five-dead/story-ZPC0mwbxEaT93cfkWCDuRO.html
07-12-2020||Education||NEET-UG: 5 medical colleges to allot seats to kin of deceased Covid warriors||Five medical colleges across India have been identified to allot one seat each this year, for children of Covid-19 warriors who died in the line of work. In November, Union minister for health and family welfare Dr Harsh Vardhan announced the Centre’s decision to reserve five medical seats under the ‘Children of Covid Warriors (deceased)’ category. In a December-5 notification by the Directorate General of Health Sciences (DGHS), the five institutes include MGIMS Wardha in Maharashtra, Lady Hardinge Medical College in New Delhi, NSCB Medical College, Jabalpur, in Madhya Pradesh, JLN Medical College, Ajmer, in Rajasthan and Government Medical College, Haldwani, in Uttarakhand. The five seats will be available to candidates who cleared the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET-UG) exam held in September. Students can apply for these seats through the respective Directorate of Medical Education (DME) or Directorate of Health Services (DHS) of their domicile states. The ministry of health and family welfare defines Covid warriors as “public healthcare providers including community health workers, who may be in direct contact and care of Covid-19 patients and who may be at risk of being impacted by the same”. This special quota has been created for children of Covid warriors who lost their lives from the coronavirus or died while on Covid-related duty. “Nominations/applications have to be routed through the DME or DHS of the concerned state after scrutiny about their eligibility. The authorities will then forward such applications to Medical Council Committee (MCC) for allotment as per the NEET merit,” states the notification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/neet-ug-5-medical-colleges-to-allot-seats-to-kin-of-deceased-covid-warriors/story-LM4EVwXUsuF4Q42xnsPjnI.html
07-12-2020||Chandigarh||MC names Congress, socio-religious bodies in latest list of property tax defaulters||Socio-religious, central government offices and political organisations, including the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC), owe the municipal corporation more than Rs 1.81 crore as property tax dues. Issuing notices for tax not paid for 2019-2020, the civic body has directed Mother Teresa Home in Sector 23, which is the top defaulter, to clear dues of Rs 69 lakh and PPCC to pay around Rs 10 lakh. The latest list of organisations with property tax dues also includes the ministry of corporate affairs’ Corporate Bhawan in Sector 27 with arrears amounting to around Rs 29 lakh. The other socio-religious organisations on the list include the Jai Jai Charitable Trust, Sector 44-C (Rs 30 lakh), Kalgi Dhar Niwas, Sector 27-B (Rs 23 lakh), Munni Ji Sabha, Sector 24 (Rs 66,000), Sanatan Dharam Mandir, Sector 28-B (Rs 51,000) and Sivanda Ashram, Sector 29 ( Rs 43,000). When contacted, an official of the Mother Teresa Home refused to comment on the issue. An official of the Kalgi Dhar Niwas, who didn’t want to be named, said, “We have received the notice and raised objections with the MC commissioner. We have requested for exemption, as we are a non-profit organisation. A case on similar lines is also pending before the Punjab and Haryana high court.” Commenting on the non-payment of property tax by several socio-religious organisations, an MC official said, “Most of these bodies have submitted the plea that they are non-profit religious organisations and should be exempted from paying property tax. While some have approached the high court, others have submitted objections to the MC commissioner. Meanwhile, the unpaid tax for successive years keeps on accumulating with penalties.” MC commissioner rejects Congress plea Rejecting the plea of Congress, MC commissioner KK Yadav has directed it to pay the outstanding dues of around Rs 10 lakh. PPCC, which has an office in Sector 15, had approached the high court against the penalty imposed for non-payment of property tax. HC had set aside the notice and directed MC to pass an appropriately reasoned order as per law. The commissioner, in compliance of the court order, examined PPCC’s representation wherein it contended that the penalty imposed on it was not tenable under the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation Bylaws. Despite repeated calls, PPCC president Sunil Jakhar couldn’t be contacted.Besides the defaulters on the latest list, the Chandigarh administration also owes the civic body around Rs 54 crore, for which notices were served in the recent past. Recently, the administration had shared payment receipts of Rs 2.4 crore with MC. The cash-strapped MC has so far recovered Rs 49 crore against a revised target of Rs 51 crore for the financial year 2020-2021. There are 1.4 lakh properties under the jurisdiction of the corporation, of which 95,000 are liable to pay tax. Properties with no tax pending are automatically issued no-dues certificates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mc-names-congress-socio-religious-bodies-in-latest-list-of-property-tax-defaulters/story-z4GvQx4vuMp7RNAXNnK1wM.html
07-12-2020||Mumbai||Active Covid-19 cases in Mumbai’s western suburbs remain high||Although the positivity rate for Covid-19 cases in the city has witnessed a dip and number of cases is stagnant despite a projected rise in after Diwali, the western suburbs continue to record a high number of active cases. According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) data, 48% of Mumbai’s active cases are from the western suburbs, with the highest count in Borivli, followed by Andheri, Kandivli, Malad, Goregaon, Dahisar and Bandra.On Sunday, the city reported 786 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 286,053. There were 13 deaths reported, taking the toll to 10,896. Further, 260,285 patients have been discharged post Covid-19 treatment in Mumbai and the city’s discharge rate stands at 90.99%. There are 14,051 active cases in Mumbai and the fatality rate is 3.80%.For the last seven months, the western suburbs contributed a significant number of the city’s active cases. The BMC attributes this to unlocking and increased testing in the westerns suburbs.According to the civic body, the city’s daily positivity rate has gone down to around 5%, with increased testing post-Diwali.According to the BMC data, R-Central ward, that covers Borivli, has the highest case count and number of active cases in any ward. R-Central registered 18,087 cases as of December 4, of which 1,176 are active.Further, the top contributors to active cases remain other areas in the western suburbs, including K-West ward (Jogeshwari West, Oshiwara and Andheri West) with 1,088 active cases; R-South ward covering Kandivli, with 1,000 active cases; K-East ward (Jogeshwari East, Andheri East and Vile Parle East) having 963 active cases.Further, other wards in the western suburbs, including P-North, which covers Malad, has 918 active cases and P-South (Goregaon) has 777 active cases. R-North, covering Dahisar, recorded 525 active cases; H-West (Dahisar, Bandra West, Santacruz West and Khar West) recorded 627 cases and H-East, covering areas like Bandra (East), Bandra Kurla Complex and Santacruz (East), has 472 active cases.“Majority of the floating population in the city is from the western suburbs, and due to the unlocking by the government, movement of this population has increased. Due to this, the spread has remained constantly high in pockets of western suburbs,” said a ward officer.Vishwas Shankarwar, deputy civic commissioner, said, “In the western suburbs, testing and medical facilities are in abundance, and we also have many citizens getting tested voluntarily. It is due to more testing in the western suburbs, as compared to other areas in the city that we are seeing more cases here.”Wards covering areas like Charni Road, Marine Lines, Kalbadevi, Colaba and Churchgate have the lowest number of active cases.One hot spot that has shown signs of drastic improvement – Dharavi – recorded only nine new Covid-19 cases on Monday. Dharavi’s tally is 3,692 cases, of which 3,361 have been discharged. “The spread of infection may be greater in the western suburbs as large trading communities reside there, with many locals travelling daily since the unlocking,” said city-based Dr Siddarth Paliwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/active-covid-19-cases-in-mumbai-s-western-suburbs-remain-high/story-DevoaNk2jlcM1QrwdEUqHP.html
07-12-2020||Mumbai||71% active Covid cases in Mumbai asymptomatic||Of the 12,926 active Covid-19 patients in Mumbai, 9,155 (71%) are asymptomatic, displaying no symptoms before undergoing tests for the presence of Sars-CoV-2, the pathogen that causes the disease, data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) shows. A total of 835 patients are in critical condition. While doctors call it a good sign, as chances of transmission and spread of infection from asymptomatic patients are lower, they stress the need to conduct more reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests – considered the gold standard in detection of the novel coronavirus – and warn against overdependence on the quick-result rapid antigen tests (RAT). Every day, the civic body conducts around 15,000 Covid-19 tests, of which a majority – almost 50-55% – are antigen tests. Similar to RT-PCR, rapid antigen kits detect the presence of molecular pathogens of the novel coronavirus. But RT-PCR test results takes almost eight hours as compared to within 30 minutes via RAT. Asymptomatic transmission refers to transmission of the virus from a person who does not develop Covid-19 symptoms. As per the World Health Organization (WHO), there are few reports of laboratory-confirmed cases, who are truly asymptomatic, and there is no documented asymptomatic transmission till date. “The infectious period of the virus that causes Covid-19 in symptomatic individuals may begin within two days. It persists for more than 10 days after symptoms show,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer. “In asymptomatic patients, however, the chances of transmitting the virus are lower, as these individuals don’t sneeze or cough. Hence, having more asymptomatic patients helps break the chain of infection.” Most asymptomatic patients are identified through contact-tracing. In Mumbai, more than 40 lakh close contacts of infected patients have been traced by the civic body since the outbreak of the virus in March. “Asymptomatic patients don’t know they are infected because they do not have symptoms. Contact-tracing becomes important to identify this set,” said Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer, BMC. “Many asymptomatic patients get detected when they are admitted to hospitals for other ailments.” However, a section of medical experts call asymptomatic patients “silent spreaders”, suggesting that more Covid-19 tests via RT-PCR be undertaken across the city that will help in early diagnosis. Since the outbreak of the infection in March till December 5, the civic body has conducted 19,71,736 Covid-19 tests, of which 5,25,143 tests were done through rapid antigen kits. “We get less than 2% false positive reports using rapid antigen tests. Also, people get results within 30 minutes, which helps reduce the burden on labs,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. However, doctors have highlighted a loophole in the system. As per rules of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), every positive report through RAT is treated as true positive, while those with negative report have to be mandatorily re-tested through RT-PCR only if they display symptoms. “Asymptomatic patients don’t show symptoms and as per ICMR, the sensitivity of rapid antigen kits is only 50%. So, thousands of asymptomatic patients are slipping through the loophole in diagnosis, as the civic body is relying more on rapid antigen tests,” said a senior epidemiologist. “While there is no scientific evidence that asymptomatic patients can’t infect others and the spread of infection rate may be less, they could still transmit,” added the doctor. “Post Diwali, many migrants who had gone back to their hometowns are returning to the city, and many will be asymptomatic. So, it is essential to run tests to find silent carriers. Considering they live in densely populated slums, they can contribute further to the spread of the virus,” said Dr Om Srivastava, epidemiologist and member of the state’s Covid-19 taskforce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/71-active-covid-cases-in-mumbai-asymptomatic/story-r5x39rSpDHRBpYjazpUnDK.html
07-12-2020||Chandigarh||Godowns full to the brims, Punjab to build 11 lakh tonne covered plinth storage as stop-gap measure||In the wake of piling up of foodgrains in warehouses, the Punjab government will build covered area plinth storage of 11 lakh tonne capacity. This will be a stop-gap arrangement till covered godowns and silos in the pipeline are built, it is learnt. Pungrain will float tenders for the covered area plinth storage after getting a green signal from the Food Corporation of India (FCI) on whose behalf the state procurement agencies procure paddy and wheat. “The tenders will be floated this month, or it will be too late as the wheat crop would start arriving in the market in April. We need at least two months for construction,” said a senior officer of the state food and civil supplies department. These plinths will come up in 15 of Punjab districts, with more than half of the total capacity to be in Moga (1.75 lakh tonne), Sangrur (1.55 lakh tonne) Jalandhar (1.35 lakh tonne) and Patiala (1.15 lakh tonne). Admitting that it’s a crisis-like situation in the state as far as grain storage is concerned, the food and civil supplies department last year asked the Centre to allow a storage of 35 lakh tonne by way of covered area plinths (CAP).The department will rent open spaces on which wheat will be stored on raised platforms covered with tarpaulin. Amritsar, Ferozepur, Tarn Taran, Muktsar, Gurdaspur, SBS Nagar, Hoshiarpur, Rupnagar, Mohali and Patiala districts need more storage space whereas it is near negligible in Faridkot, Mansa, and Bathinda, it was found. The storage space for 7.69 lakh tonne was built last year. Godowns full Currently, there is 155 lakh tonne storage capacity in covered godowns in which the state agencies store more 10% more than the capacity. The covered area plinth storage capacity is 100 lakh tonne while that of silos it is 5.75 lakh tonnes. Of the total 260 lakh tonne available storage, 195 lakh tonne is already occupied while 135 lakh tonne more wheat is expected in four to five months. At least 140 lakh tonne wheat of the previous two seasons is stored in the state’s godowns, most of which is stored in covered area plinths, exposed to the vagaries of weather. Nearly 55 lakh tonne rice of the two seasons is also stored in the godowns. Renting a storage space of 11 lakh tonne for three years will cost Rs 200 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/godowns-stocked-to-the-brims-punjab-to-build-11-lakh-tonne-covered-plinth-storage-as-stop-gap-measure/story-HFYLrkY8ihz4rKEmqmWuyL.html
07-12-2020||City||Ludhiana toddler’s kidnapping: Woman among two more accused held in Moga||Two more people, including a woman, who had been involved in the abduction of the two-year old son of a prominent Ludhiana hotelier were arrested on Sunday.Those arrested are Lal Singh of Kot Isse Khan of Moga and his wife Mandeep Kaur. While Lal was one of the five main executors of the crime, his wife Mandeep, had helped hide the child in her house for four hours, police said. A namesake, Lal Singh, the sarpanch of village Maluwal of Moga, has also been booked for helping the accused.The police have already arrested former Sarpanch Rachpal Singh of Zira, the main accused Harjinderpal Kumar of Ludhiana who was the victim’s driver and Sukhdev Singh Sukha of Kheowali of Fazilka. Sukhdev Singh of Arniwal, Fazilka, is still absconding.The accused admitted that they had planned to invest the ₹4 crore ransom money in the drug trade.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP city 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said Lal had made the ransom call to the victim’s mother demanding ₹4 crore for the release of the boy and the driver. Rachapal and sarpanch Lal Singh had exchanged cars with Harjinderpal, Sukhdev Singh Sukha and Lal to throw off the police from their trail in Moga. Lal had handed over the child to Rachapal Singh. Sarpanch Lal Singh and Rachpal had handed the toddler over to Mandeep, who was aware that the boy had been abducted.“At midnight on December 1, the accused had taken the boy to Lal’s cousin Manjit Kaur’s house for a while. It is not certain whether Manjit knew the child had been kidnapped. After the accused realised that they could not hide any longer as the police were carrying out an intensive search, they abandoned the child near Dugru railway crossing in Moga in a Volkswagen Polo car and escaped to Ferozepur on December 3,”said the ADCP.Drugs seized from main accused’s houseThe police recovered 290g of narcotics from Harjinderpal’s house on Sunday. The accused admitted that he and Harjinderpal had been smuggling drugs for a long time. A case under sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act has been lodged against the accused in Dugri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-toddler-s-kidnapping-woman-among-two-more-accused-held-in-moga/story-5Qt7yTnacqVNq9TBfnSqnI.html
07-12-2020||Mumbai||A first in India: Gram sabha at Palghar passes resolution to declare heritage lake a wetland; Maharashtra govt to consider demand||The gram sabha of the Jamsar hamlet in Palghar’s Jawhar taluka, located around 134km from Mumbai, had recently passed a unanimous resolution to declare a 6.16-hectare (ha) heritage lake as a wetland. Archaeological surveys of the lake have showed the presence of an ancient temple and artefacts dating back to the early medieval period (6th century AD). This is the first in India where a governing body of a village has expressed its interest to declare a natural site a wetland, a member of the Centre’s National Wetland Committee (NWC) said. “Along with flora-fauna, cultural and historical factors also play a major role in declaring a site a wetland. This has been highlighted by a village themselves, a first for India. The gram panchayat’s resolution should be studied, followed by on-field assessment by state authorities to declare Jamsar a wetland as a top priority. This approach should be adopted by more village bodies to protect natural areas,” said Afroz Ahmad, member, NWC. While Jamsar has a population of around 1,300 people, the closest town Jawhar (around 8km away) has more than 1.7 lakh citizens. To achieve the wetland status, the village panchayat kept several meetings over the past one year and appointed a committee of experts to help them draft the resolution. “Jamsar is included in the National Wetland Inventory Atlas (NWIA), Maharashtra, prepared by the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO). We have also highlighted Article 51A of the constitution, which has stated that it is a fundamental duty to protect the environment. Accordingly, we have requested the district collector to take an appropriate action in accordance with the resolution passed,” said Vitthal Thetale, sarpanch (village head), Jamsar. Jawahar resident Rajesh Tendulkar, who helped put together the resolution, said, “This lake is at least 600-700 years old, and there is a need to create a conservation model for the artefacts and lake-wetland ecology.” When HT shared the details with the Maharashtra government, officials said they would consider declaring it a wetland. “The state is focused towards protecting all natural areas that contribute to ecological benefits to achieve our intention of Majhi Vasundhara (climate change mitigation and adaptation). We will initiate the necessary proceedings to ensure the site is declared a wetland if the area has all the ecological characteristics of being a wetland, and also has cultural and heritage value,” said Manisha Mhaiskar, principal secretary, state environment department. “We hope more such gram sabhas and villages having these natural areas come forward with similar representations for protection,” she added. According to the survey of wetlands (brief documentation) by Palghar district last year, Jamsar was identified among 86 potential wetlands. The document was submitted before the Bombay high court (HC) last year. However, only six sites were proposed by the district before the state environment department for final notification. “We have asked the Palghar collector to re-verify all wetland sites in the district, and include areas with slightest wetland features or those included in the NWIA,” said Annasaheb Misal, Konkan commissioner. Palghar collector Manik Gursal said, “We are already assessing features of potential wetlands. We will look into Jamsar, study the resolution, and do the needful.” During the wetland survey at Palghar last year, the district had appointed Sindhudurg-based Syamantak organisation following which a team of experts (Saba Purkar and Samarth Parab) conducted an anthropological exploration of the lake, locally called Pazar Talao, where they found a temple dedicated to Lord Shiva and several carved stones. The study has also revealed that the area had artefacts dating from 6th century AD to 13th century AD, with several artefacts being comparatively recent – from 17th, 18th and 19th centuries. In all, 114 artefacts were found across two clusters including stones and fragments. “A small hamlet in Palghar has set an example that sustainable and environment-friendly development is needed for an hour,” said Sachin Desai from Syamantak, adding that Jamsar should be proposed as a Ramsar site (wetland of international importance). “The Ramsar Convention has been addressing the issue of the cultural aspects of wetlands for over 10 years. Jamsar is a perfect example.” Syamantak has called for the development of a village herbarium, a Museumotel (a village museum-cum-home stay), guide programme for village youth and documentaries of the site to promote tourism and protection of the wetland in its brief documentation. Jamsar: A hidden archaeological, wetland treasure The 6.16 ha Jamsar lake has a shallow water body with marsh plants such as typha reeds and aquatic grass making it an ideal habitat for aquatic migratory birds during winter, amphibians, and odonates. According to the wetland brief documentation, there are 59 species of flora at Jamsar, of which 10 are rare species, two are endangered ones, while one is a vulnerable species. Traditional fishing with catch, including fish of the carp family – rohu, catla, mrigal, maral and prawns – is carried out. Stone idols found in wetlands indicate distinct anthropological imprints. Such remains are said to be dating back to the early medieval period. Among the threats, the spread of invasive species such as water hyacinths (Eichhornia crassipes), present in large amounts in the water body, affects the water flow and blocks sunlight from reaching native aquatic plants. It decreases concentration of dissolved oxygen in water, which often causes death of species. (Source: Wetland Brief Documentation of Jamsar Lake Wetland)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/a-first-in-india-gram-sabha-at-palghar-passes-resolution-to-declare-heritage-lake-a-wetland-maharashtra-govt-to-consider-demand/story-pO0vPxJTf5byHk4jV8hiTM.html
07-12-2020||City||In Punjab, women take charge of their farms as menfolk take part in protests at Delhi border||Malkeet Kaur (62) of Deon village in Bathinda district has taken charge of her family’s 10-acre farmland after her husband and three sons are taking part in the ongoing farmers’ protest in Delhi. On Sunday afternoon, she was being assisted by her daughter-in-law Charanjit Kaur (38) in putting fertilisers on the recently sown wheat crop. “Earlier our task was mainly to chop fodder and milk three cattle heads. As the adult male members of the family are attending the agitation, we have now taken responsibility of the farms as well,” said Malkeet. Charanjit said last week she irrigated the wheat fields. “We have a few farm labourers whose work I am supervising in the fields. Wheat was sown about three weeks ago and the only work is now to irrigate the farms with a tubewell after regular intervals. I will be taking care of the fields till harvesting as our family members are fighting a collective battle against the contentious farm laws,” said a resolute Charanjit. Located near the Bathinda-Jalalabad highway, Deon village, which has an estimated population of 5,500, has a support base of the Sidhupur and Ugrahan factions of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU).The farmer union leaders said the activists are volunteering to help the families with their daily chores.“The villagers are taking turns to visit the agitation sites at Tikri and Singhu borders. As a jatha of about 25 volunteers will leave Deon for Delhi on Monday, a group of protesters will come back to the village and then another batch will proceed to attend the agitation,” said Ram Singh, who has been coordinating the participation of farmers at the protest sites.For 65-year-old Amarjit Kaur of Namol village in Sangrur district, taking control of her cattle and wheat crop is now her prime duty. Her husband Ram Singh has been camping at Tikri border for the past 11 days to oppose the agriculture laws. Kaur along with her daughter-in-law and a 10-year-old grandson visits the fields to collect fodder on a bullock cart.However, she is now worried about the irrigation of the wheat crop. “My activist husband is at the Delhi border and my son is recovering from an arm fracture. My daughter-in-law is assisting me in taking care of our four-acre land besides other domestic responsibilities. I want my husband to contribute to the farmers’ fight against the draconian laws while the womenfolk will take care of cultivation,” she said.But for Jaswinder Kaur (65) residing alone at home at Bathinda’s Gill Patti village is an emotional challenge. Nonetheless, the elderly Kaur wants her husband Bhola Singh to come back with pride after laws are repealed.“I feel lonely as our four daughters are now married and my husband left for Delhi on November 24 with fellow villagers. Sometimes I do feel upset about staying alone but I decided to overcome it. I will go with my younger brother-in-law on Monday to irrigate the wheat fields for the first time this season,” she said.Octogenarian Dalip Kaur of the same village asked her family members and other neighbours to arrange for consumables for the farmers in Delhi.“Today there was an announcement from the local gurdwara that farmers need various things. Hundreds of villagers are braving chilling weather for a social cause and assisting their families in every possible way is our social obligation,” she added.Baldev Kaur, an activist from Barnala’s Harigarh village, and the fellow villagers have extended all support for farm works. “It is the need of the hour that at least one person of a family joins the protest in Delhi. Women are managing domestic chores as well as protests at the Badbar toll plaza here,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-punjab-women-take-charge-of-farms-as-menfolk-take-part-in-protests-at-delhi-border/story-nPFLTQPiBNpEYgeNQFNiPJ.html
07-12-2020||Mumbai||Actor Ravi Patwardhan dies of heart attack||Veteran Marathi actor Ravi Patwardhan, 84, died on Sunday after suffering a heart attack. As he felt uneasy at his home in Panchpakhadi late on Saturday night, his family members took him to a hospital where he died. Patwardhan, who was recently acting in a Marathi serial, had taken a break from work in the pandemic and due to his health. His close friends claim that he was willing to start working again. Patwardhan is survived by wife, two sons and a daughter.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray paid tribute to him in his tweet saying, “We have lost an actor who made every character memorable with his ‘towering’ personality. He set an example before the others by working actively in the field of cinema and television even at this age. He gave us some of the memorable roles. His death is a great loss for the theatre and film industry.” Known for his roles as public prosecutor, judge or village patil in 80s and 90s movies such as Tezaab, Pratighat and Ankush among others, Patwardhan became a household name in Maharashtra for his role of village patil in Amchi Mati Amchi Manasa, a series on farmers in the state, aired on Doordarshan in the 90s.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/actor-ravi-patwardhan-dies-of-heart-attack/story-b6TEZbr7A6EZjK4KOGGtYO.html
07-12-2020||Chandigarh||Bharat Bandh on Dec 8: Punjab, Haryana lawyers to stay off work in farmers’ support||The Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana has extended support to the Bharat Bandh call on December 8 given by farmers protesting the new agricultural laws.In a press statement issued here, the council stated, “The Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana supports the call of Bharat Bandh given by the farmers for December 8 and requests the advocates of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, including Punjab and Haryana high court to abstain from work on December 8.”It has also been writing to the heads of Bar Council of India and state bar councils to support the farmers’ bandh call by abstaining from work on the day.“The council opposes the Agriculture Acts passed by the central government and that these new enactments are not only detrimental to the interests of farmers but also lawyers,” the press statement added.The disputes arising out of new enactments will involve commercial matters, contract act agreement and partnership matters which is under the preview of civil courts. “Therefore, baring the civil court jurisdiction is detrimental to the interest of lawyers and is an effort to undermine the judiciary. Therefore, the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana has requested the Union government to immediately withdraw these laws,” council chairman Karanjit Singh said.Moreover, the Bar Council has decided to send 1,000 blankets and dry ration to the agitating farmers at Sindhu border.Punjab RERA bar body voices solidarityThe advocates associated with Punjab RERA Bar Association will also abstain from work on December 8 in support of the agitating farmers. “It has been resolved unanimously that in view of the call by the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana, the advocates of this association will abstain from appearing before RERA and REAT on December 8 in solidarity with the ongoing agitation of farmers,” stated the press release issued by the association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bharat-bandh-on-dec-8-punjab-haryana-lawyers-to-stay-off-work-in-farmers-support/story-pBXCXDqVM70QiQpzcPYYvM.html
07-12-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana govt initiates payment to CHB for construction of IT Park flats||The Haryana government has informed the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) that it has started the process of partial payment for the construction of high-end flats for its officials and MLAs.CHB will be constructing these luxury flats for the officials and MLAs of Punjab and Haryana at the Rajiv Gandhi Chandigarh Technology Park.For starting the construction of the flats, CHB had recently written to both Punjab and Haryana governments for releasing their share of 25% payment.While Punjab, so far, has not responded to the CHB letter, Haryana has stated that it has initiated the process and the department concerned is working on releasing the funds.In September last year, CHB had sought opinion from both the governments for buying these flats for their officials in the IT Park. In addition to Punjab and Haryana governments, PGIMER had also expressed willingness to buy flats in the project.The housing board is expected to construct 10 towers with 28 flats each having a base price of Rs 2 crore for each flat. All the three agencies are expected to pay Rs 66 crore each for their share of the flats. The project is to come up on 6.73 acres of land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-govt-initiates-payment-to-chb-for-construction-of-it-park-flats/story-Xa2j2ek6yoxBlV0prtkZfL.html
07-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Police Reforms Commission meets FOSWAC over neighbourhood safety||For better coordination between the police and public, the Police Reforms Commission held a meeting with more than 50 members of Federation of Sector Welfare Associations Chandigarh (FOSWAC) here on Sunday.The meeting was presided by former inspector general of police and single member of the reforms panel KB Singh at a park in Sector 21-C.FOSWAC chairman Baljinder Singh Bittu said, “The police need to hold regular DSP and SHO-level meetings with the RWAs of the area so that the residents can be their eyes and ears. The police also need to check the drug menace in the area.”Chief patron of FOSWAC, RC Nayyar added that coordination between the police forces needs to be strengthened to flush out criminals from the tricity.Seeking proper revival of the beat system, FOSWAC executive member Pardeep Chopra said the police need to ensure that cops check on the senior citizens living in their area. FOSWAC secretary Ranvinder Singh Gill suggested that a block watch be established with the cooperation between members of the RWAs and police to keep a check on neighborhoods. FOSWAC advisor Kamaljit Singh Panchhi added that RWA members can be given limited powers of issuing challans to offenders.KB Singh said that the focus of the police will be to ensure a cordial and cooperative environment in its day-to-day functioning. “The mechanism to deal with public grievances with respect to the police department will also be streamlined. Keeping pace with the latest technological advancements, the police telecommunication network will be upgraded,” he added.The meeting was also attended by deputy superintendent of police Ram Gopal and the local station house officer and beat staff of the Sector 19 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/police-reforms-commission-meets-foswac-over-neighbourhood-safety/story-feAedY4V6N4w7SMm8b7E8N.html
07-12-2020||City||Ambala MC polls: BJP-JJP yet to finalise seat-sharing arrangement||Just five days to go before the nomination filing process for the Ambala municipal corporation (MC) elections begins, but the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) is yet to announce its seat-sharing agreement with its ally in the state — Jananayak Janata Party (JJP).The filing of nomination papers will be held from December 11 to 16, except Sunday, and the scrutiny of papers will take place on Thursday along with withdrawals the next day.The saffron party has till Sunday received nearly 90 applications for wards, district president Rajesh Batoura said.“We have got nearly 90 names for 20 wards and 11 for the mayor seat. All the names are being processed and formal announcements will be made soon. As of now, we are preparing for the inauguration for our district party office in the city this week,” he said.On being asked about the alliance, he said, “The high-command will take a call on this and we shall follow the same.”A party insider on Saturday had said that the declaration of candidate names could begin on December 9 and continue till the first date of filing of nominations i.e. December 11.“We are expecting that the candidates will be declared in three slots beginning Wednesday, till Friday. Currently, the party is busy verifying the backgrounds and scrutinising the received nominations. Party in-charge Barala has sent around four to five choices for the mayor post to the parliamentary board which will take the final call,” the leader, who didn’t wish to be named, revealed.The party has been banking on the developmental projects undertaken by its sitting MLA Aseem Goel, but the political instability due to the farmers’ protest has not left Ambala untouched. The JJP is said to be bargaining hard in the elections and Digvijay Chautala, JJP leader and brother of deputy CM Dushyant Chautala, has already said that the party will field its candidate for the mayor’s post in at least one MC. Ambala MC will go to polls on December 27 along with Panchkula and Sonepat MCs.In its first meeting for the elections chaired by the JJP in-charge and the state chief of the SC cell Ashok Sherwal on Saturday, the party invited applications for wards and mayoral post. Sherwal had told the reporters that the party stands by the farmers, but the alliance will stay put.“We are a party of farmers and Dushyant ji has already declared that he’ll resign from the government if there is any problem with the MSP. In Ambala, we are analysing our strongholds and will discuss seat-sharing prospects with the BJP,” he said.The party has received nearly 50 names for wards and three for the mayor seat, JJP district chief Harpal Singh Kamboj said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ambala-mc-polls-bjp-jjp-yet-to-finalise-seat-sharing-arrangement/story-ZppdoAADycKMU2jN7mQRhJ.html
07-12-2020||Mumbai||LPG cylinder blast in Mumbai’s Lalbag: 62-year-old dead, 9 critical||A 62-year-old woman died, while 15 others were injured on Sunday after an LPG cylinder exploded on the second floor of Sarabhai building, a ground-plus-four-storey structure, in Lalbag at 7.23am. Eleven injured are undergoing treatment at King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital of whom five are in critical condition, while the condition of six others is stable. Four others who are injured are admitted to Masina Hospital and they are all in a critical state, the civic body’s disaster control room said. All the four critical patients at Masina Hospital sustained 70% to 95% burns. The 62-year-old victim, Sushila Bangre, was declared dead by KEM Hospital around 7.45pm, said the control room. According to Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB), four houses were impacted due to the blast and electrical wiring and installations, clothes and other household items caught fire. The impact of the blast was so strong that a wall between the two houses also collapsed, said MFB officials. The fire due to the blast was extinguished by 7.50am.Kailash Hiwrale, chief fire officer of MFB, said, “We are currently investigating all aspects from the fire safety point of view for the building. It is said that there was a wedding in one of the houses where the cylinder blast took place, but we are yet to take statements of the victims. Currently, they are admitted in the hospital, and we will take their statements after the family is in the correct frame of mind to give it.”Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar visited the site of the accident and directed the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada) to undertake repair works for all the houses. Till the repair works are done, people from nearby houses will stay at a nearby hotel. MFB officials said they have informed officials concerned to ensure that the structural stability audit of the building is done to ascertain whether the building is habitable or not.“Ten patients had sustained 50-80% burns, of whom one died. Two have got minor burns. All might have inhaled smoke during the fire. The patients are being attended by a group of doctors including general and plastic surgeons including orthopaedics, chest specialists, ophthalmologists among others. All emergency preparations have been taken,” said Dr Hemant Deshmukh, dean of the hospital.Four patients, who belong to the same family, have been taken to Masina Hospital and have been admitted to the hospital’s specialised burns unit.The burns are 94.5% burns for the father, 92% for the son and 60% for the mother and daughter. All four are critical, but at present haemodynamically-stable as per the hospital.“The patients are under the care of our burn specialist doctors and the best of treatment is being offered to them. The hospital has ensured that all safety protocols relating to Covid-19 and burns are being followed strictly and effectively,” as per a spokesperson from the hospital.This was the second such incident in the past two weeks. Earlier, on November 24, two people died and three injured after a fire broke out due to cylinder blast at a chawl in Sakinaka.Pednekar had, at that time, told HT, “Frequent cylinder blasts and citizens losing lives due to it is one of the main reasons why we should aim at having piped gas for all households. I know it is a process and will not happen overnight, but piped gas is much safer than cylinder gas supply. We can start by making it compulsory in new constructions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lpg-cylinder-blast-in-mumbai-s-lalbag-62-year-old-dead-9-critical/story-biBpjcYwfXRW8kZp1BGenK.html
07-12-2020||City||MC polls: Panchkula citizens’ body panel to invite names, nominate candidates||The Citizens’ Welfare Association (CWA), the apex body of all residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) in Panchkula, has constituted a five-member action committee to invite the names of residents interested in contesting the municipal corporation (MC) elections.“CWA is not supporting or affiliated with any of the political parties and is working independently for the welfare of the citizens of Panchkula in all respects,” said association president SK Nayar.He said that the members have taken the unanimous decision to participate in the MC elections.“The residents from various sectors and RWA members are participating for the posts of councillors and mayor in the ongoing civic body elections,” he said.Those interested in contesting the polls can send their applications/ requests to the committee members which include MR Syal of Sector 18, SK Nayar of Sector 15, Sunil Jain of Sector 11, Ramesh Sondhi of Sector 21 and Bhagwan Das of Sector 25.Nayar said the joint action committee would jointly declare the candidate and the latter would be duly supported by the residents’ associations of their respective wards.“We have decided to fight the elections only because we have seen only political gimmicks in the past seven years and no development,” said Nayar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mc-polls-panchkula-citizens-body-panel-to-invite-names-nominate-candidates/story-vU9RHVIBIU3H7Op5aDyh0L.html
07-12-2020||City||Year on, Zirakpur municipal council fails to float tenders for advertisements||Even after a gap of one year, the municipal council of Zirakpur has failed to float a cluster tender for display of advertisements on unipoles and other outdoor advertisement media. Moreover, no effective drive has been conducted to remove the illegal hoardings erected along the highway in the past two years.Though the civic council’s executive officer, Sandeep Tiwari, had assured in September this year that the tenders would be floated by October 29, nothing has been done yet.The contract of the Chandigarh-based agency was allotted the tender in 2016 for a period of three years at a cost of ₹2.06 crore, which expired in September 2019. The council had, however, extended it till June 30, 2020, and again by four weeks.Punjab local bodies director Puneet Goyal said he would look into the matter on Monday.However, executive officer Tiwari did not respond despite repeated attempts.As per the new Punjab Outdoor Policy, 2018, every corporation and council has been directed to publish new tenders to generate revenue from advertisements. There are several illegal hoardings erected on the highway, but no effective drive has been conducted for the last two years. In 1995, the Punjab and Haryana high court had issued directions to all deputy commissioners to have illegal hoardings on national as well as state highways removed, saying that not only were they eyesores, they also diverted the attention of motorists leading to fatal accidents. Since then, the court has issued several reminders in this regard, but no action has been taken by the authorities concerned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/year-on-zirakpur-municipal-council-fails-to-float-tenders-for-advertisements/story-zinZWH4ccTtv1p68j48VwI.html
07-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Congress’s ward-level leaders asked to record their choice of city unit chief||In an unprecedented method adopted to pick city unit chief of the party, Congress’s central leadership asked its 227 district presidents to record their choice for the Mumbai president’s post over a recorded call. The central leadership has announced that it will select the president of its Mumbai city by December-end. Mumbai Congress has 227 block presidents representing the municipal wards in the city. The block presidents received a message from HK Patil, Maharashtra in-charge for the party, in the afternoon instructing them to receive subsequent calls and follow the instructions. During the recorded calls, they were asked to record their choice for the post. Patil has already held rounds of meetings with key leaders from the city over past two months as part of the process of appointment of the new city chief and to understand the problems the unit facing. “This is happening for the first time that the workers in the last layer of leadership chain were asked for their opinion. Though the selection would not be fully dependent on the exercise, it will certainly be given a weightage besides the opinion given by other rank of leadership during earlier meetings,” said a senior leader from Mumbai Congress. The exercise, however, led to unexpected goof ups as some of the calls went to former block presidents who have already quit the party. “The block presidents were appointed five years ago. Some of them have died while some defected to other parties and a few shifted to other cities/districts. Some of the district presidents did not even know how to deal with an online poll and missed the opportunity to record the name of their choice. Some of them have also given names that are not even in the zone of consideration for the post,” said another senior leader. Patil on Thursday said that the new Mumbai president will be elected by month-end and the city unit will be in election mode by January. With the elections to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, one of the richest civic bodies in the country, just 13 months away, the Mumbai Congress does not have a full-time president for more than a year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-congress-s-ward-level-leaders-asked-to-record-their-choice-of-city-unit-chief/story-TeNNMbNaS6X8NN88StZpgJ.html
07-12-2020||Mumbai||Farm bill protests: NCP chief Sharad Pawar to meet President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday||As the Centre continues to engage in talks with agitating farmers, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar is scheduled to meet President Ram Nath Kovind on December 9 over the ongoing protests against the three agrarian laws.Pawar on Sunday opined that the Centre should take serious cognisance of the ongoing farmers’ protest which could otherwise spread across the country. Pawar, who is also former Union agriculture minister, said, “When the farmers are protesting on streets, it should be taken seriously. But, unfortunately, that is not happening.”He added, “I hope wisdom dawns on the government and it takes cognisance to resolve the issue. If this stalemate continues, the protest will not be limited to Delhi, but people from nooks and corners of the country will stand by the protesting farmers.”Pawar is expected to request the president to intervene in the ongoing protest by the farmers. He said that farmers from these states not only fill the stomachs of the citizens but are major contributors to India’s supply of food grains, especially rice and wheat, to more than a dozen countries. The NCP had staged a walk-out in the Rajya Sabha when the three farm bills were introduced in September during the parliament’s monsoon session.The situation on ground remains that thousands of farmers are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over a week against the new farm laws. They have also called a Bharat bandh on December 8.Meanwhile, talks between the government and protesting farmers remained inconclusive on Saturday even as union leaders stuck to their demand for repealing the new farm laws. Another round of talks is expected on Wednesday (December 9).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/farm-bill-protests-ncp-chief-sharad-pawar-to-meet-president-ram-nath-kovind-on-wednesday/story-3QjIOQeKmPmAADZVDdJO6M.html
07-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi reports 2,706 new Covid-19 cases, 69 deaths||As many as 2,706 new positive cases of Covid-19 were reported in the national capital, taking the tally of total cases to 592,250, as per the health department on Sunday.According to the health bulletin, 4,622 people recovered today and the total number of recoveries now stands at 557,914.With 69 new fatalities related to Covid-19, the death toll surged to 9,643.The active cases stand at 24,693, while the case fatality rate is at 2.03 per cent.The city conducted 73,536 tests today, taking the total number of tests to 6,740,712. As India recorded 36,011 new Covid-19 infections in the last 24 hours, the active coronavirus cases in the country have reached 403,248, said the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-reports-2-706-new-covid-19-cases-69-deaths/story-VPRGxsL6qz5xtjPjHt6SiM.html
07-12-2020||City||Ludhiana elevated road project: 8-hr power cuts for 3 days for shifting of power lines||A major inconvenience is in store over the next two days as power will be snapped for over eight hours in several areas of the city due to the shifting of 66 KV lines for the elevated road project of the National Highway Authority of India. The power lines, which currently run overhead the Ferozpur Road, opposite Verka Milk plant, will be laid underground to pave way for the elevated road. Traffic on the road near Verka Milk Plant will also be affected as vehicular movement will be stopped for at least two to three hours at different times of the day during the shifting of power lines. Traffic Police has appealed to the public to take a detour and avoid this stretch of the road to avoid congestion. “Residents are advised to avoid taking the route in front of Verka Milk Plant on December 7, 8, 9, 10, 12 and 13,” said a traffic police official. Officials of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) stated that supply of all 11 KV feeders emanating from 66 KV Kitchlu Nagar Grid will be snapped from 9 am to 5 pm on December 7 and 8. Power will also remain disconnected on December 13 for any pending work regarding the shifting of lines. The affected areas include Rishi Nagar (all blocks), Shere Punjab Colony, Punj Peer Road, Joshi Nagar, New Tagore Nagar, Durga Puri, 22 Futta road, Naseeb Enclave, Pavittar Nagar as well as areas adjoining dairy complex and others (see box). PSPCL deputy chief engineer (West) Sanjeev Prabhakar said they are in liaison with various other departments such as the traffic police and the NHAI, and will ensure that power is restored before it gets dark. “We appeal to the public to not panic. This work is extremely crucial for the NHAI project to move ahead. We will try best to restore the power supply at the earliest in the evenings on these days,” said Prabhakar. Areas affected Phase 6, Phase 7, Phase 8 Nichi Mangli, Chandigarh road Mundian Khurd, Mundian khurd village and colonies, Chandigarh road Bholapur, Bholapur village, Sahibana village, Sherpur market area, Deep Nagar, Fauji colony, Friends colony, rear side Aarti steel, New Town colony, Rajiv Gandhi colony, Tagore Nagar, Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar, New DMC, Upkar Nagar, Prem Nagar, Rajpura Road, Kitchlu Nagar, KVM School, BVM School, Kundanpuri, Guru Nanak Pura, Chhawni Mohalla, Salem Tabri, Dana Mandi, Sabzi Mandi, Nanak Nagar, Chandni Chowk, Bhora village, Silver Kunj, Janakpuri, Ashok Nagar, Jalandhar Bypass, Peeru Banda, Aman Nagar, Manna Singh Nagar, Pink Vihar, Saroop Nagar, Ashok Nagar, New Aman Nagar, Royal City and Maskeen Nagar, Rishi Nagar All Blocks, Shere Punjab Colony, Punj Peer Road, Joshi Nagar, New Tagore Nagar, Durgapuri, 22 Futta Road, Naseeb Enclave, Pavittar Nagar, Dairy complex adjoining areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-elevated-road-project-8-hr-power-cuts-for-3-days-for-shifting-of-power-lines/story-nvBFjTheoPnfewtkSBWdbI.html
07-12-2020||Delhi||Free Wi-Fi for farmers at Singhu Border, they don’t know who to thank||On Saturday, farmers protesting at the Singhu intersection on the Delhi side of the police barricades had a pleasant surprise. Someone had set up a free Wi-Fi hot spot and written the login ID and password on several cardboard pieces, hung from strings.Farmers HT spoke to appeared unaware of the identity of the Good Samaritan. “We call the service of such Good Samaritans as ‘gupt sewa’ (anonymous service). There are people who do good, but don’t want to be identified,” said Sukwinder Singh, a resident of Sabhra village in Tarn Taran and joint secretary of Kisan Mazdoor Sangathan Committee (Punjab).The cardboard pieces announcing the free Wi-Fi wasn’t exactly without a name. While some carried the login ID and password, all mentioned the donor as “Aapka Abhishek” (your Abhishek). But they didn’t carry a full name, name of any organisation or a contact number.Also Read: At Singhu border, 2,000 personnel maintaining peace at farmers’ protestFarmers said the free Wi-Fi service appeared at a time when they had been struggling due to poor internet connectivity for days. “Due to a large gathering here, the phone network has been a problem. We were facing call drops and were hardly able to use the internet,” said Ramandeep Singh, a farmer from Rampura in Bhatinda.Jasveer Singh Piddi, vice president of Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee (Punjab), said the Wi-Fi has allowed farmers here to make video calls to their families back home. “The internet now is much better than before. Farmers are using this internet to even make voice calls. It has also helped the younger men to share content on social media,” said Piddi. There were also a couple of individuals, who are mainly into broadcasting the protests, who got Wi-Fi installed by paying an exorbitant price. Also Read: Weekend traffic calm, but brace for snarls today, say traffic police“Network has been a problem here and I wasn’t able to broadcast from here. So, someone offered to install Wi-Fi for a single user and charged me R25,000 for installation and a month’s usage. Since the protests are likely to continue for long, I decided to pay,” said Jitender Singh, a resident of Amritsar who runs a religious TV channel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/free-wi-fi-for-farmers-at-singhu-border-they-don-t-know-who-to-thank/story-NB8iHaDCvR3Qbx4YHdQ4eI.html
07-12-2020||Delhi||Prosecution for mask violations dropped by 62% after increase in fine: Data||Prosecutions for not wearing face masks in public or workplaces in the national Capital have decreased by 62% ever since the Delhi disaster management authority (DDMA) increased its fine from Rs 500 to Rs 2,000 on November 19, an analysis of data provided by the city administration showed.The district-wise data also revealed that prosecutions for violating social-distancing norms in Delhi also came down by almost 54% between November 19 and November 30 — compared to the period from November 1 to November 18. But, the number of police cases or FIRs registered for not wearing masks and not maintaining social distance increased from 64 to 146 during the same period. Other than these two offences aimed at preventing the spread of Covid-19, challans are also imposed for spitting in public places, consumption of liquor, pan or tobacco in public places and organising large public gatherings or congregations. It is to be noted that figures in this story is based on the actions taken by the district administrations of the Delhi government and is separate from the data which is maintained by the Delhi Police. In Delhi, not wearing masks attracts the highest fine and also constitutes the biggest share of revenue collection across all five categories.While between November 1-18, as many as 70,955 people were fined for not wearing masks, the same decreased to 26,845 in the latter half of the month after the penalty amount was increased by four times. Despite the penalty being increased from Rs 500 to Rs 2,000, the total revenue collection between November 19-30 was Rs 287,74,500, which is lower than Rs 359,29,800 — the amount collected between November 1 and November 18.“The expected collection from the violation of not wearing mask alone should be around Rs 5.36 crore post the increase in fine. But the city administration is yet to receive most of the money. This is because we prosecute people but let them pay the fine later by visiting the SDM office or the district courts. This provision was introduced last month when the penalty was hiked because it was found that most people do not carry that much cash on them,” said a senior officer in the chief minister’s office..A senior official of the north district administration, which fined the maximum number of people (12,782) last month for not wearing masks, said there are two reasons for the decline in the challans issued after an increase in penalty amount. “People just refuse to pay. They will fight tooth and nail, and argue for as long as two hours but not pay. Secondly, we have observed that the general level of people abiding by Covid-19 appropriate behaviour has improved quite a lot,” said the official, on condition of anonymity. An SDM of New Delhi district, which prosecuted the highest number of people across all categories in November, said the refusal of people wanting to pay the challan has increased because of which the number of FIRs registered in their district has also spiked. “The New Delhi district issued 15,235 challans in November for not following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. Besides, our district has also registered the maximum number of FIRs (202) for the same as violators refused to pay the penalty,” said the SDM, who did not wish to be named. An enforcement inspector from the west district said the most common excuses include “selfie ke liye utara tha” (removed the mask to click a selfie), “ab saans bhi na le kya” (now can we not even take a breath?) and “bas do minute ke liye utara tha” (removed it just for two hours). Also Read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayBS Vohra, president of East Delhi RWAs joint front said the government should also think of non-monetary penalties “to straighten people” who can afford to pay fines.“Most of the people in Delhi can pay the fine and get away. There should be an out of the box campaign to make a violator feel guilty, like in other states. Also, more personnel should be deployed to ensure social distancing because the rule is not being followed in the market and other crowded places,” he said.Lalit Kant, a scientist and former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said apart from merely levying a penalty, the administration should also train their enforcement teams including the police on the correct way of wearing a mask. “Even those who have their masks in their chins or keep it hanging from one ear should be prosecuted. In addition to prosecution, each violator should also be taught by the enforcement officer the proper way of wearing the mask. Also, it should be known that a face mask scores over a face shield, which many people now wear as if it’s a fashion. Wearing a mask is much better because it prevents droplets from going out to infect others. So, ultimately preventing the spread of the virus comes down to only wearing masks and wearing it right,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/prosecution-for-mask-violations-dropped-by-62-after-increase-in-fine-shows-data/story-fuOjoZouJ54HXbOEWVsKyL.html
07-12-2020||Delhi||At Singhu border, 2,000 personnel maintaining peace at farmers’ protest||Led by 10 deputy commissioners of police (DCsP), 20 assistant commissioners (ACsP) and 30 inspectors, 2,000 Delhi Police personnel have been working 12-hour shifts everyday for the last 10 days at the Singhu Border -- the protest side with the biggest gathering of farmers.They are supplemented by about 600 personnel of the paramilitary forces such as the Rapid Action Force, the Central Reserve Police Force and the Central Industrial Security Force. Every day, 20 buses have been making four to-and-fro rounds to pick and drop these police personnel between a common gathering point and the Singhu Border for 8am to 8pm and then 8pm to 8am shifts, said a senior police officer about how the police have been managing it’s staff as protesters continue to camp at this border point.These police personnel include about 25% women and they are from the local north-west district as well as adjoining districts. “There are also teams from special cell, crime branch, battalions and the traffic unit,” said the officer, requesting anonymity since he was not authorised to speak to the media. Also Read: Free Wi-Fi for farmers at Singhu Border, they don’t know who to thank“Each and every one of these personnel has been equipped with body protection gear, helmets and canes. If someone arrives without his or her gears, we have set up a temporary store room here to equip them on arrival,” the officer said, adding that about 2,000 tear gas shells stored there to deal with any eventuality. BASIC, BUT TIMELY MEALSWhile a few police personnel bring their own food, most rely on meals prepared at the protest site. “We have hired local chefs to cook lunch, dinner and tea every day. They have been cooking lunch for 1,200 police personnel, dinner for 600 personnel and about 4,000 cups of tea every day. Apart from the police, even some paramilitary personnel have these meals,” said Gaurav Sharma, DCP (outer-north), under whose jurisdiction the border area comes. The other police officer said the meals may be very basic, but they are cooked fresh and packed meals are a complete no-no for the police. The meals usually consists of rice-rajma, rice-chhole or poori-curry. On Sunday, kadhi-rice was on offer for lunch as about eight men and women went about cooking in an empty plot of land, about 50 metres from the barricades.DROP IN HOSTILITIES Initially, after a violent clash between farmers and police at Singhu Border, there was much hostility between the two sides. “Policemen would come with complaints that they were being taunted at the barricades. We would urge them not to respond,” said the first officer. The situation is quite different now.“The farmers often have been visiting us to offer their food. Some of us politely refuse, but I accept it as the farmers are our own people,” said a constable who belongs to a Haryana. A head constable, who too isn’t authorised to speak to the media, said farmers on the other side of the barricades include people from his village in Haryana. “My family is also into farming, but I have asked them to keep away because I know how quickly the situation can escalate,” the head constable said.MAKESHIFT ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICEDCP Sharma said the police have now even begun to provide medical aid, ambulances and other help to the farmers. “The farmers who are on the Delhi side of the border sometimes come to us for help. Humanity matters more than anything else and we have set up a help desk where even farmers are welcome,” said the DCP. The help desk is operational from a neat, 10×25 feet metallic cabin. This is the police’s administrative room for the time being since November 29.Half-a-dozen policemen, led by an ACP, work on four computers in this cabin that is also equipped with two small and a large printer. “Every issue related to the police deployment, ranging from making rosters to holding meetings are done here,” said the DCP.Also Read| AAP to support Bharat Bandh called by farmers: Delhi CM KejriwalThis hurriedly set up cabin turned out to be an “opportunity in a crisis”. “The police booth at the border is set to be dismantled when a flyover scheduled to be constructed at this border point begins. This cabin will be turned into a police booth once the protests wind up,” said the first officer. For basic facilities like toilets and water, the police had sought help from civic agencies. “The Delhi Jal Board provides us with water tankers. We have 25 portable toilets deployed here. Two ambulances are on standby at any time and sanitation workers arrive every morning to clean the area,” said the officer.For the cold nights, the police have arranged 12 braziers (angeethis) for the personnel. “So far, about seven-eight police personnel have fallen sick at the border duty. They have been replaced,” said the officer. While camping at the borders for a prolonged period has been tough, the police had something to cheer on Saturday. “Since the protests have continued for longer than the police had anticipated, from Saturday we have decided to give a day off to every personnel by turn,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/at-singhu-border-2-000-personnel-maintaining-peace-at-farmers-protest/story-FzPkugbaRbnftwHWQYXN3N.html
07-12-2020||Delhi||Weekend traffic calm, but brace for snarls today, say traffic police||With the farmer protests intensifying at the border points of the national capital, the Delhi traffic police on Sunday advised commuters moving in and out of the city to use alternative routes to avoid snarls. While the traffic situation was under control over the weekend, the traffic police as warned that on Monday, motorists are likely to get caught in long snarls. “Those commuting to Delhi could take the Delhi-Noida-Direct Flyway instead of the Delhi-Noida Link road. Chilla border on the Delhi-Noida Link Road is closed to traffic (Noida to Delhi side) due to the farmers’ protest near the Gautam Budh Dwar,” the traffic police said. It added, “The Ghazipur border on NH-24 is also closed to traffic from Ghaziabad to Delhi due to farmers’ protests. People are advised to avoid NH-24 for coming to Delhi.They may instead use Apsara, Bhopra and DND Flyway to reach Delhi.” The border points that are completely shut are Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Jharoda, Piao Maniyari, and Mangesh in outer and south-western parts of the city and Chilla border, connecting Delhi and Noida, in east Delhi. Also Read: As border agitations continue, vegetables and fruits may become costlierApart from the seven, the Delhi-Meerut Expressway at the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border is also closed to vehicles coming to Delhi from Ghaziabad, while the opposite carriageway is open. The service road of NH-24 at the UP Gate is also closed as protesting farmers have occupied it for the past 11 days. The Chilla border remained closed on Sunday as well. Many motorists going to Noida were confused as the carriageway was closed with barricades at the start of the flyover near Mayur Vihar Phase-1 extension. “I had travelled to Noida via this road on Friday and then the road was open. Today (Sunday), the road is closed and I am stuck here near the border. No policeman was present at the flyover, from where the road was closed, to guide motorists on the alternative routes. I had to ask other commuters for options to reach Noida,” said Akash Kumar, a commuter. Deputy commissioner of police (traffic, east) G Ram Gopal Naik said the traffic police has been issuing alerts and advisories on social media regarding the closure of borders and the alternative routes to travel between Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. “Since the Delhi-Meerut Expressway carriageway from Ghaziabad to Delhi is also blocked, the vehicles are entering the national capital through Bhopra, Apsara and Anand Vihar border points,” he said. About the possibility of a traffic chaos on Monday, DCP Naik said the presence of traffic personnel would be increased during the morning and evening hours on routes that have a high volume of traffic. Also Read: At Ghazipur border, farmers read up on Gandhi, Bhagat Singh and Che Guevara“We will deploy 12-15 traffic personnel at the main congestion points at the borders. The first three-four traffic signals from the congestion points are important and we will increase our presence to regulate the traffic manually. Regular updates are posted on social media and we use the platform to communicate with people. The traffic helpline is also functional 24x7,” Naik said. To make matters worse, a repair work near NH-24 by the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) may also lead to further jams on the stretch. The DJB said a pipeline, which was around 25 feet below the highway, had burst and the work might go on for a few days. “Our team is in place and is tracking the point of leakage,” a DJB spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/weekend-traffic-calm-but-brace-for-snarls-today-says-traffic-police/story-pVdLkwUfvFsYPLI2ZQckAL.html
07-12-2020||Delhi||As border agitations continue, vegetables and fruits may become costlier||With agitating farmers continuing to block most border points in Delhi, traders and agriculture produce market committees on Sunday said prices of fruits and vegetables are likely to shoot up in the capital city this week, unless the central government succeeds in resolving the standoff with farmers who are protesting against three contentious laws passed by Parliament around three months ago.In Delhi’s Azadpur agriculture market – which accounts for more than 80% of fruits and vegetables supplied across Delhi-NCR – average arrivals have dropped to about 5,500 metric tonnes a day, against the supply of around 11,500 metric tonnes daily during the same time last year, said Adil Khan, chairperson of Azadpur agriculture produce market committee (APMC).Also Read: At Ghazipur border, farmers read up on Gandhi, Bhagat Singh and Che GuevaraKhan said, “The central government should listen to the demands of farmers and resolve the issue at the earliest. So far, price of fruits and vegetables have not shot up significantly as traders are catering to local supply only for the past one week and not dispatching produce out of state. But now, they are almost out of stock -- the drop in supply is too steep.”Haji Yamin, a trader based in the Okhla agriculture produce market, said, “Even kitchen staples such as onions, which can be stored for some time, will be out of stock in another two or three days. Supply has been badly hit and soon we will not be able to cater to the local demand either. The government must resolve issues with farmers at the earliest.”Nandgopal Ravi, a trader based in Ghazipur agriculture produce market, said some produce such as green peas and certain varieties of oranges have already started witnessing an increase in wholesale rates. “In no time, people will see prices going up in their neighbourhood shops and local retail markets.”Also Read| AAP to support Bharat Bandh called by farmers: Delhi CM KejriwalCurrently, farmer groups camping at around seven different border points in Delhi. While two of them, Singhu and Tikri -- the major points that connect Delhi with states further north such as Haryana, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir -- are completely blocked, smaller goods vehicles are managing to ferry fruits and vegetables into Delhi though other narrower roads, thereby keeping the minimum supply chain alive, said traders.The farmer groups and transporters have called for an all-India strike on Tuesday, even as negotiations between leaders of several protesting groups and the representatives of the central government continued on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/as-border-agitations-continue-vegetables-and-fruits-may-become-costlier-in-delhi/story-POQn0b1dWCnOkEi6zTF5nI.html
07-12-2020||Delhi||At Ghazipur border, farmers read up on Gandhi, Bhagat Singh and Che Guevara||The space beneath the Ghazipur flyover on Sunday got a makeshift library and reading area, complete with a wide array of books and chairs for perusers to sit and read at their comfort, while alongside the hundreds of farmers continued with their blockade of the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh (UP) border in protest against the new farm laws passed by Parliament. The library was set up by a group of youngsters, mostly children of farmers, and books on social issues and freedom fighters such as Mahatma Gandhi, Bhagat Singh and Kartar Singh Sarabha occupy the pride of place. Also on display are the Hindi translation of writings by Argentine Marxist revolutionary Che Guevara and Russian author Maxim Gorky. Shalu Panwar, 22, a daughter of a farmer from Shamli district in Uttar Pradesh, said she and her friends and members of a youth group ‘Vikalp Manch’ together set up the library. “We wanted to create a space to engage protesting farmers into something productive. Under the banner of the Vikalp Manch, we also publish some literature on farmers and social issues. So, we thought we should come here and set up a library for our farmer brethren. We have also got a detailed booklet published on these three new black laws in order to make farmers aware about them thoroughly,” she said. Also Read: AAP to support Bharat Bandh called by farmers: Delhi CM KejriwalRunny Tomar, a postgraduate student of gender studies at Jamia Millia Islamia and the son of a farmer from Baghpat, said, “We believe in the philosophy of ‘ladai-padhai ek sath (struggle and studies go hand in hand)’. None can fight a war without having a proper knowledge about the cause. Our farmers should also know about social revolutions that took place in countries such as Russia and Cuba.”Many farmers were seen visiting the library throughout the day on Sunday. Some of them also purchased the books which are being offered at minimal prices -- between ₹5 and ₹50. Gurvinder Singh, 54, a farmer from a village in Amroha district bought a booklet titled “Anti-people, anti-farmers, three new farm laws”. “Although I know about the three new laws, I want to read this book cover to cover so that no politician can mislead me and other like me by making false claims about the laws.” Inderpal, 38, a farmer from Hapur, picked up a book on “farming and capitalism”. “I want to read more on the historical evidence of how big companies took advantage of poor farmers like us.The three new farm laws will provide more opportunity to them to do so.”The youth group has decided to put up the library every day from morning to evening till the protest continues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/at-ghazipur-border-farmers-read-up-on-gandhi-bhagat-singh-and-che-guevara/story-v2MHIPjTMiYbhm2rZ9Z3oK.html
07-12-2020||Delhi||AAP to support Bharat Bandh called by farmers: Delhi CM Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday said that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) would support the Bharat Bandh announced by the farmer groups on Tuesday to protest against the three contentious farm laws.“The AAP would support the Bharat Bandh called by farmer groups on December 8. AAP volunteers too would join hands with farmers in peaceful protests across the country on that day. It’s an appeal to citizens of India to support the farmers,” said Kejriwal, who is also the national convener of the AAP, in a tweet.Kejriwal’s declaration of support to the agitation comes on a day when Union minister of state for agriculture Kailash Choudhary reiterated that the three laws were in favour of the farmers and were unlikely to be repealed as has been the demand by the farmers. He added that if necessary, the government will make some amendments to the laws to take into account the wishes of the agitating farmers.Farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, enacted by the Parliament in September. The three laws seek to open up farm trade.Also Read: Deol hopeful that discussions between Centre, farmers will be fruitfulThe AAP had voted against the three laws in both Houses of the Parliament.Later in the day, several AAP leaders weighed in.AAP leader and Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai said all party volunteers and workers will participate in the strike to support the farmers.“This is not just the farmers’ fight but the fight for all countrymen. India is an agricultural country and if farmers are unhappy then the country is affected. I appeal to all to join the protest,” said Rai.AAP Lok Sabha MP from Punjab, Bhagwant Mann said, “We will do our best to support farmers in the nationwide strike on December 8. This strike is not political. It is about farmers, their land, and their livelihood. It concerns the entire nation. I urge everyone to support farmers. The central government has been doing one meeting after another for the past several days with top ministers but they have not been able to resolve the issue. Resolving the issue needs political will and good intent.Also Read: India questions Scotland Yard security after protest over farmers’ issueFarmers have said that they would occupy toll plazas on December 8, the day of Bharat Bandh, if their demands for repealing the farm laws are not met. They are demanding that a special session of Parliament is called to repeal the laws. Thousands of farmers have gathered on Delhi’s borders with Haryana and UP to protest against the laws and their representatives have held several rounds of talks with the Central government. The next talks are scheduled to be held on December 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-to-support-bharat-bandh-called-by-farmers-kejriwal/story-HYtoF0wYQXDuChd7OI74QN.html
07-12-2020||Delhi||Police claim to arrest founding member of SIMI from Delhi||The Delhi Police’s special cell on Sunday said they had arrested one of the founding members of the banned Students’ Islamic Movement of India (SIMI), who had been evading his arrest for 19 years in a sedition and unlawful activity case registered in Delhi in 2001.Abdullah Danish, the 58-year-old suspected member of the banned organisation, was declared a proclaimed offender by a Delhi court in the case in 2002. He was caught from Delhi’s Zakir Nagar on Saturday, said deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Pramod Singh Kushwah. Special cell officials said that Danish had allegedly indoctrinated many Muslim men, including the former chiefs of SIMI, Safdar Hussain Nagori and Abdul Subhan Qureshi alias Taukeer. Qureshi, who had earned the nickname of “India’s Osama bin Laden”, was involved in the 2008 Gujarat serial blasts. He was also the co-founder of terrorist organisation, Indian Muhajideen (IM), which carried out a series of blasts in Jaipur, Ahmedabad and Delhi between May and September 2008, they said.DCP Kushwah said that for the past one year, the special cell sleuths were receiving inputs regarding Danish’s movements in various cities of Uttar Pradesh and in Delhi-NCR.“As per information, Danish was indulging in radicalising Muslim youths to mobilise against Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) and National Register of Citizens (NRC) and propagating hardcore radical ideology to create disharmony among religious groups. By using fake videos, he was falsely propagating atrocities being committed upon Muslims by the government of India,” the DCP said.The special cell team collected requisite intelligence about Danish and mounted surveillance on him and other former SIMI members. The team learnt that Danish would be coming to Delhi’s Zakir Nagar to meet some of the members. Accordingly, a trap was laid and he was caught on Saturday.About the sedition and unlawful activity case in which Danish was wanted, DCP Kushwah said that after the government banned SIMI in September 2001, its office bearers were addressing a press conference near their headquarters in Jamia Nagar, Delhi, when the police conducted a raid and arrested many SIMI activists. Danish and a few others managed to escape from there.After the escape, Danish went to Aligarh and thereafter to Azamgarh. He kept on changing his locations to evade arrest in the case.Danish completed his Masters in Arabic from Aligarh Muslim University in 1985 and joined SIMI. For the next four years, he edited the Hindi edition of the magazine published by SIMI, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-claim-to-arrest-founding-member-of-simi-from-delhi/story-7KxCIAvlqumpuCQ5gFuKVJ.html
07-12-2020||Pune||Pune shivers at 10.4 degrees Celsius, lowest temperature in state on Sunday||The city reported the lowest minimum temperature in the state at 10.4 degrees Celsius at Shivajinagar on Sunday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Mahabaleshwar was warmer than Pune at 13.9 degrees Celsius. Nashik also reported 10.6 degrees Celsius as the minimum temperature whereas Parbhani in Marathwada reported 10.8 degrees Celsius. Pashan reported slighting higher temperature than Shivajinagar at 10.7 degrees Celsius and Lohegaon reported 13.7 degrees Celsius on Sunday night. The maximum temperature in the city was 29.7 degrees Celsius on Sunday which was 0.4 degrees less than the normal.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast a gradual increase in night temperature during this week with mainly clear sky.“As per the model forecast, a slight increase in night temperature is expected in this week making the nights a little less cooler,” said an IMD official.The weather department had earlier stated that due to the cold northern easterly winds there has been a drop in night temperatures in the city. The cold winds travel to the southern peninsula which causes a drop in the mercury levels, said the weather department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-shivers-at-10-4-degrees-celsius-lowest-temp-in-state-on-sunday/story-FDji6cfSkNfBSKDZ88VltJ.html
07-12-2020||Bhopal||99-year-old woman tortured by sons, files petition under Domestic Violence Act||A 99- year-old woman filed a petition in the Bhopal district court against her four sons under the Protection of Woman from Domestic violence Act, said an advocate.“This might be the first case of domestic violence filed by a 99-year-old lady. A resident of Ashok Nagar city, the woman accused her four sons of harassment and torture. She demanded maintenance allowance of Rs 10,000 per month with a right to live a respectful life till death,” said Mahendra Verma, advocate of the woman.The woman filed the petition last week after she was ousted from her house in Ashok Nagar and was compelled to spend two days on the road, said the advocate.The woman said, “I am a mother of six sons. My eldest son died while the youngest son is physically challenged. I had been living with my four sons - two are government employees and two are farmers - since 2001. After the death of my husband in 2001, my four sons encroached upon the whole property, including an 8-acre agricultural land and a house in Ashok Nagar. They cursed and harassed me. They starved me. I have been tortured physically and mentally for the past few years.”Also read: ‘Will Centre entirely fund vaccines?’ Amarinder Singh writes to PM“Two months ago, my sons threw me out of the house in Ashok Nagar and forced me to spend two days and a night on the road. Later, my physically challenged son brought me to Bhopal. Now, I mustered the courage and decided to teach a lesson to my sons,” said the woman.However, one of the sons of the woman, who is a government employee, said, “My mother is not mentally stable. She decided to move to Bhopal. We don’t have any problem with her”.The case is pending before the bench of judge Ashish Parsai in Bhopal district court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/99-year-old-woman-files-petition-against-sons-under-domestic-violence-act/story-vyU7gm5JAI5Ohu38DEtbiO.html
07-12-2020||Pune||PMC begins cold storage hunt to ensure vaccine distribution||Since the announcement made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, that a Covid-19 vaccine would be made available in the coming weeks, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has now expedited the process to identify cold storage facilities for the vaccine to be stored. The corporation is also exploring the possibilities of the Serum Institute’s vaccine being approved with the civic body only managing the supply chain. The PMC is now planning to identify cold storage units for the Covid-19 vaccine. Additional commissioner Rubal Agarwal said, “This is at a very preliminary stage as the vaccine is not yet finalised. However, we have started talking to agencies who existing storage facilities, as building a new one will be too expensive. We have also spoken to consultants who have informed us that the maintenance cost of such cold storage facilities is also high. We have spoken to three such agencies which have cold storage facilities. Renting the space would be an easier option for us. The rentals are based on per square foot and so the number of doses and the packaging size would also be a factor in deciding the cost.”Further Agarwal said, “It also depends on which vaccine is being approved. If the vaccine comes from Pune then we might not even need a storage facility we will just have to manage the cold chain supply. If it is a UK or the Hyderabad vaccine then we will have to find a cold storage facility. However, these are very preliminary discussions and we are yet to make any decision.” Pune will also be the central point for Pune division which includes the districts of Solapur, Satara, Kolhapur and also Ahmednagar. Divisional Commissioner Saurabh Rao said, “We will have about 34 storage facilities, the only for the city will be managed by PMC while for the rest of the district and also for the division storage units would be at Pune.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-begins-cold-storage-hunt-to-ensure-vaccine-distribution/story-FWfary0ElmyHuXlI8ScC7J.html
07-12-2020||Pune||No-vehicle Sunday gives Bavdhan residents a fresh breath of life||PUNE Hundreds of orange vests flying in a slightly chilly breeze greeted morning traffic on the sloping lanes of Bavdhan in Pune. These eager bicyclists had chosen to leave their motorised vehicles at home and chose instead to spend the Sunday riding their cycles instead.It is all part of a pledge initiated by the Bavdhan Citizens’ Forum, a group of residents, who started the novel idea “No Vehicle Sunday”, on the first Sunday of every month.At least 180 residents from Bavdhan and the adjoining areas joined in to pledge to keep their roads free of motorised vehicles on this Sunday.The group had organized their first “no-vehicle Sunday” on November 1 with 30 residents, but by their second drive, held on December 6, saw 180 people including, the four corporators, show up to support this initiative.“The idea is to give people a chance to live life breathing fresh air instead of the daily pollution caused by heavy traffic on this road, which is a crucial road connecting Kothrud and Pashan,” said Dushyant Bhatia, resident and member of the Bavdhan Citizens’ Forum.“We appeal to people to avoid the use of vehicles using social media,” he added.Rudra Khandelwal is an eager bicyclist living in Kothrud. He brought his friends along with their bicycles to join this initiative. “I got to know from my friends in Bavdhan about this idea and thought this could be a great way to remain fit and also bring friends together,” said Khandelwal.Jyoti Loharkar and her little daughter Smruti, residents of Bavdhan, walked 2.6km while the cyclists cycled for 5km through the lanes of Bavdhan.“I like walking and so does my daughter but I am afraid of the traffic on the roads, but this idea is very good. When we stop using our vehicles, we are helping keep space for pedestrians and also enjoying fresh air,” said Loharkar.Corporators Dilip Vedepatil, Kiran Dagade Patil, Alpana Varpe and Shradha Prabhune too joined in walk and showed their support for the residents’ initiative.Vedepatil said, “This is a good initiative and will help reduce pollution caused by large number of vehicles on this road, especially on Sunday, when families drive to the shops for groceries.”“The aim is to make Bavdhan clean and one of best suburbs in the city, that is our motto and we will keep going on until we convince people to leave their vehicles at home on Sunday,” said C S Krishnan, resident of Bavdhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-vehicle-sunday-gives-bavdhan-residents-a-fresh-breath-of-life/story-VVCXs1O4d60pEs9OQAkUzO.html
07-12-2020||Pune||Six members of Kanjarbhat panchayat arrested for extortion of family||PUNE Six members of a jaat panchayat of the Kanjarbhat community have been arrested for extortion and social boycott of a family in Saswad, after the family, allegedly, refused to let the jaat (caste) panchayat interfere in a land dispute, officials said on Sunday. The six men have been identified as Suresh Ratan Binawat (65), Sampat Pannalal Binawat (56), Anand Ramchandra Binawat (50) all residents of Satavnagar in Mohammadwadi, Hadapsar; Nandu Antram Rajput (55) and Munna Ramesh Kachrawat (57), both residents of Warje; and Devanand Raju Kumbhar (51), a resident of Dhankawadi. One person of the total of seven booked in the case is yet to be arrested. “We have invoked the section for extortion too. They will be produced in court and we will try to get custody as we plan to analyse their voice and video samples with the ones that are in circulation and have been provided by the complainant too,” said Abhinav Deshmukh, superintendent of Pune rural police. A case was registered after a complaint filed by Rita Kumbhar (32) a resident of Dhankawadi, Pune. The jaat panchayat tried to get themselves involved in an issue related to the property that belonged to Kumbhar’s late father who died of Covid-19. However, as the family resisted their involvement, the jaat panchayat members alleged abused the complainant’s mother. Eventually, the family members were boycotted and a demand was made for Rs 1 lakh, alcohol and meat for the panchayat, according to the police complaint. A case under Section 384 (extortion) of Indian Penal Code and Sections of the Prohibition of People from Social Boycott (Prevention, Prohibition, and Redressal) Act, 2017 has been registered. Earlier, leader of the opposition in the state legislative council Pravin Darekar, and deputy speaker Neelam Gorhe, had raised the case demanding stringent action against the caste panchayat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/6-members-of-kanjarbhat-panchayat-arrested-for-extortion-of-family/story-p1vO79v8SataORm8eRFs2J.html
07-12-2020||Chandigarh||Two JJP MLAs come out in support of agitating farmers||Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) MLAs Ram Kumar Gautam from Narnaund and Amarjeet Singh from Julana, on Sunday, extended support to the farmers’ agitation across the country and urged the Union government to withdraw the three controversial farm laws .Talking to HT over the phone, Gautam said he understood the farmers’ pain and added that Haryana governor Satyadeo Narain Arya should call an assembly session to discuss the farmers’ issues.“ All the MLAs should pass a resolution unanimously to reject these three laws. If the government considers that these laws are good, it should bring in new legislation in a few months after consultations with farmers. In the present situation, however, the government should repeal these laws,” he added.Slamming politicians for saying that the farmers were “Khalistanis backed with support of China and Pakistan” he said they (farmers) were being “insulted by a few people linking the agitation with other issues. The protesters are farmers who belong to all sections of the society. It is very painful that those who provide us food are out on the roads giving voice to their legitimate demands. The government’s image will take a hit if it delays taking a decision,” he added.When asked if he would resign as MLA if the government did not repeal the laws, Gautam said he would take a call on the matters after assessing the situation.Calling himself “a farmer first and then an MLA,” Amarjeet Singh said, “The elderly farmers are sitting out in the cold for their demands. These farmers are producing food for us and they are protesting for valid reasons.”With this, four out of 10 JJP MLAs, including Jogi Ram Sihag from Barwala, Ram Karan from Shahbad and Ram Gautam are supporting the farmers’ agitation.Earlier, Dadri MLA Sombir Sangwan withdrew his support from the government led by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and JJP.The BJP-JJP coalition government (40 BJP MLAs, 10 JJP MLAs) has the support of a few independent MLAs, including independent MLA Ranjit Singh (Rania segment) who is a Cabinet rank minister in the government. Meanwhile, three zila parishad members from Jind, Hisar and Bhiwani also resigned from their posts in support to the farmers.Narendra Raj Gagarwas from ward 27 in Bhiwani, Amit Nidani from Jind’s zone 16 and Jassi Petwad from Hisar quit nearly two months before the end of their tenure.Narendra said he had decided to resign from his post to express his solidarity with farmers. “I urge others to join the list by resigning from various political posts to support farmers. The government should repeal these laws,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/call-assembly-session-to-discuss-farmers-crisis-says-jjp-rebel-mla-ram-kumar-gautam/story-V1OrlMIrKJdSIhLom1kI1L.html
07-12-2020||Delhi||Farmer langars treat the poor, homeless on Delhi border points to a full plate||Ten-year-old Rubiyal and his sister Masuma, 8, have not gone to make-shift school since Wednesday. They live with their parents, both of them scrap collectors, in a shanty close to Singhu border (Delhi-Haryana border), where hundreds of farmers have been camping since the past 10 days to protest against the Centre’s farm laws. The children say if they go to school, they’ll miss out on the food from the farmers’ langar ( community kitchen).The langars are not just feeding the farmers camped at the border-- they have also come as a boon to several underprivileged people in the vicinity of the blockade as well as countless homeless people who otherwise would have struggled for even one square meal a day. The langars now treat them to three square meals daily and tea -- served three times a day -- fruits, kheer and sweet rice as prasad (offering) and snacks. Most of the beneficiaries of the farmers’ goodwill are scrap collectors and the used paper plates and plastic items from the langars also ensure them their daily livelihood, without them having to go scouting for discarded items. “We come here around 9am. Today, there was tea, mattri (snack), biscuits and oranges for breakfast, followed by a sumptuous lunch of chapattis and vegetable rice. In the evening, they gave us sugarcane and bananas,” said Rubiyal, who attended the langar with Masuma and their toddler brother.He studies in class three informal school set-up by activists and NGOs but has been skipping classes since Wednesday to enjoy the meals. “Mostly, we have dinner at home, cooked by my mother, as my parents do not allow us to venture out after dark,” he said. Both his parents are scrap collectors and Rubiyal helps them when he is not at school.Sheikh Rahim, 14, who is also a regular at the langars, said he daily carries away sacks full of used paper plates, thermocol tumblers and plastic spoons to further sell them as scrap and earn a living. His father died a few years ago and he lives with his mother in a shanty nearby.“I do not go to school. I work with my mother. For the past one week, we have collected enough waste from the protest site and the famers take care of our daily meals,” the teenager said.With the protest against the Centre’s farm laws entering its 10th day at the SInghu border and other border points, several langars are being organised throughout the day by farmers camped at these places. The farmers have come prepared for a long standoff -- they have with them kilos of vegetables, rations, spices and other items; enough to last them for at least four to five months. Lakho, 13, who works at a small roadside shop run by her family, was among those who received fruits, food packets, and a cup of tea on Saturday at the Ghazipur border. “The food is tastier than what we regularly eat. During the Covid-19 lockdown, we did not have enough food for our family. The farmers are giving us a one-time meal which is quite helpful,” she said.Jasveer Singh, senior pradhan, Bhartiya Kaisan Ekta, who has come from Sidhupur, Punjab, said many people apart from farmers eat at their langars and some even take food home. “All are welcome and we are here to do sewa (social service). We have trolleys full of rations and vegetables to survive for at least six months. We hold langars several times a day to ensure that no one is left without food,” said Singh, who is camping at Singhu border.He added that on Saturday he and the other farmer leaders have advised their langar in-charges to go to other borders areas where farmers from Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand are camped and to offer them food as a token of their solidarity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmer-langars-treat-the-poor-homeless-in-border-points-to-a-full-plate/story-3ucDRAcskAhC4fryOOGmXN.html
07-12-2020||City||After 16-year delay, Markfed to construct 52 flats in Mohali’s Sector 79 in January||Over 16 years after it launched a housing scheme, Markfed will begin construction of 52 flats under its Category-3 at Sector 79 in January next year. In 2004, Housefed had floated the scheme for construction of 632 flats in five categories at Sector 79.The allottees were promised possession in 2006 and payment for 140 flats in Category 3 was collected from them. But, the draw of only 88 flats was conducted in 2014. The remaining 52 allottees were informed that they will be provided flats at a later stage, as Punjab Housefed did not have enough land to build them. Ravinder Dogra, one of the allottees, said, despite several assurances, construction was never started in the past 16 years, forcing us to live in rented accommodations. Another allottee, wishing not to be named, said a consent letter was sent to the 52 allottees that either they can avail of refund, along with 10% interest, or they will have to bear the price increase in future. “All allottees agreed to bear the price hike, if any. In 2004 when the scheme was launched, the Category-3 flats were priced at Rs 9 lakh. In 2014, when the draw was conducted for 88 flats, the rate was fixed between Rs 19 lakh and Rs 21.25 lakh,” he said, adding that till date neither the possession of the remaining 52 flats had been handed over nor had any interest been given to the allottees. “The agreement to build the flats has already been signed with Markfed and they are completing formalities to begin construction within a month,” said Amarjit Singh, managing director, Housefed.The Punjab State Federation of Cooperative House Building Societies Ltd, commonly known as Housefed, was set up on November 17, 1970, to tackle housing problems in the state, by providing financial assistance to individuals for construction of houses in rural and urban areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-16-year-delay-markfed-to-construct-52-flats-in-mohali-s-sector-79-in-january/story-lReEoupjseyvGzahtlXVZJ.html
07-12-2020||World||’The people have spoken’: Judges reject two more US election challenges||US judges on Monday rejected bids led by an ally of President Donald Trump to decertify President-elect Joe Biden’s victories in Michigan and Georgia because of unsubstantiated election irregularities and to have Trump declared the winner in both states, the latest failed efforts to upend the election results.Both lawsuits were filed on Nov. 25 by Sidney Powell, a former lawyer for the Trump campaign, on behalf of groups of Republican voters. Trump and his allies have lost numerous cases aimed at overturning election results in states Trump lost in the Nov. 3 election after winning them in 2016, making unfounded claims of fraud.US District Judge Linda Parker in Detroit and US District Judge Timothy Batten in Atlanta ruled that the plaintiffs lacked the legal standing to bring the lawsuits and that the cases were filed too late.“The people have spoken,” Parker wrote, referring to the election results.Batten said a hearing on Monday that the plaintiffs were seeking “perhaps the most extraordinary relief ever sought” in connection with an election.“They want this court to substitute its judgment for that of two-and-a-half million Georgia voters who voted for Joe Biden, and this I am unwilling to do,” Batten said.Powell did not immediately respond to a request for comment.Biden won Michigan by about 154,000 votes and Georgia by about 12,000 votes, giving him 16 electoral votes from each state. Biden amassed 306 electoral votes to Trump’s 232 in the state-by-state Electoral College that determines the winner of a presidential election. The Electoral College meets on Dec. 14 to formally cast the votes.Trump, who has falsely claimed that he won the election, and his allies have waged an unsuccessful legal battle to try to undo the election results. Judges have also rejected cases in Arizona, Pennsylvania, Nevada and Wisconsin.“This lawsuit seems to be less about achieving the relief plaintiffs seek - as much of that relief is beyond the power of this court - and more about the impact of their allegations on people’s faith in the democratic process and their trust in our government,” Parker added.Democrats and others have accused Trump of trying to harm public confidence in the integrity of US elections and undermine American democracy. A majority of Republicans in recent opinion polls have said they believe Trump won the election and that it was stolen through voter fraud. State election officials have said there is no evidence of such fraud.Tuesday is the so-called safe harbor deadline for states to resolve disputes arising from the election. Under US law, Congress will consider a state’s election result to be “conclusive” if it is finalized by the safe harbor date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/the-people-have-spoken-judges-reject-two-more-us-election-challenges/story-VSlGhnHbeFG2z7SA8WKj5J.html
07-12-2020||World||US Vice President-elect Kamala Harris remembers mother Shyamala Gopalan Harris on her birthday||Kamala Harris, the current vice president-elect of the United States, on Monday shared a picture remembering her mother Shyamala Gopalan Harris on her birthday.“Thinking of my beloved mother today on her birthday,” she tweeted with a black and white picture of a young Shyamala Harris. Thinking of my beloved mother today on her birthday.Here’s my mother, Uncle Balu, and my Chinni Chitti at the Montreal airport for the 76 Olympics. pic.twitter.com/Qi4XtVxnqgKamala Harris created history as the first Black woman elected as vice president of the United States. In her victory speech after the elections, the 56-year-old had remembered her mother, calling her the “woman most responsible for my presence here today.”In the same address, she had also mentioned, “When she came here from India at the age of 19, maybe she didn’t quite imagine this moment, but she believed so deeply in an America where a moment like this is possible.” “I’m thinking about her and about the generations of women... who have paved the way for this moment tonight,” Harris said, referring to her mother, who has found a reference often in her speeches. Born in Chennai, Shyamala Gopalan Harris arrived in the United States in 1959, when she was 19 years old, after completing her graduation from Lady Irwin’s college in Delhi. She pursued her further studies at University of California, Berkeley, and was a participant in the US Civil Rights movements.In her nomination acceptance speech in August 2020, Kamala Harris had invoked several civil rights and political leaders like Mary Church Terrell, Mary McCleod Bethune, Fannie Lou Hamer, Diane Nash, Constance Baker Motley and Shirley Chisholm. “We’re not often taught their stories. But as Americans, we all stand on their shoulders. There’s another woman, whose name isn’t known, whose story isn’t shared. Another woman whose shoulders I stand on. And that’s my mother – Shyamala Gopalan Harris,” she had said,“My mother instilled in my sister, Maya, and me the values that would chart the course of our lives. She raised us to be proud, strong Black women. And she raised us to know and be proud of our Indian heritage.” she said, during the same speech.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-vice-president-elect-kamala-harris-remembers-mother-shyamala-gopalan-harris-on-her-birthday/story-znjfiYJx6i0pyNgVUcswLP.html
07-12-2020||World||‘Grateful for opportunity’: Indian-American Dr Vivek Murthy after being named US surgeon general amid Covid-19||Indian-American Doctor Vivek Murthy was named as Joe Biden’s Surgeon General on Monday as the president-elect of the United States unveiled his health team on Monday. He had held the same post during the tenure of former US president Barack Obama. However, this time, his role will be expanded to manage the US government response to the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Murthy has been privately advising Biden on the pandemic for months.After Biden made the announcement, Murthy took to Twitter to express the gratitude and wrote, “I never dreamed I’d have the honor to once again serve as Surgeon General. In this moment of crisis, I’m grateful for the opportunity to help end this pandemic, be a voice for science, and support our nation on its path to rebuilding and healing.”The 43-year-old originally hails from a village in Karnataka’s Mandya district. He was the US Surgeon General from December 2014 to April 2017 and at 37 was the youngest one to hold the office. He was asked to step down by the Trump administration later.The health team also includes Dr Anthony Fauci as Chief Medical Adviser to the President on Covid-19, Xavier Becerra as Secretary of Health and Human Services. Dr Rochelle Walensky was named as Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and Dr Marcella Nunez-Smith as Covid-19 Equity Task Force Chair.The United States is among the worst-affected countries due to the Covid-19. As per Reuters’ report, more than 282,000 Americans have died due to the viral disease, forcing state governments to impose strict lockdown.Earlier in the day, authorities in California, the most populous state in the country with about 40 million residents, compelled much of the state to close shop and stay at home the day after it reported a record 30,000-plus new cases.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/grateful-for-opportunity-indian-american-dr-vivek-murthy-after-being-named-us-surgeon-general-amid-covid-19/story-BCshmKubNK7g27vpeToacM.html
07-12-2020||World||Biden names Fauci, Murthy to top positions in his health team||US President-elect Joe Biden on Monday announced Indian American Vivek Murthy, top infectious disease expert Anthony Fauci and California attorney general Xavier Becerra as top members of his health team to lead his administration’s response to the Covid-19 pandemic.Murthy returns as Surgeon General, his old job in the Obama administration, and Fauci will serve as Biden’s chief medical advisor on Covid-19 and will continue to lead the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. Becerra will become the first Latino to lead the Department of Health and Human Services. Rochelle Walensky, an expert on virus testing, prevention, and treatment, will serve as director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; Marcella Nunez-Smith, a member of Biden’s Covid-19 advisory board, will serve as the Covid-19 Equity Task Force chair; and Jeff Zients, an alumnus of the Obama White House, will be coordinator of the Biden administration’s Covid-19 response.Becerra, Murthy and Walensky will have to be confirmed by US Senate. If approved, Murthy will be the third Indian-descent member in Biden’s team, joining Vice-President-elect Kamala Harris and Neera Tanden, nominee to head the Office of Management and Budget. “This team of world-class medical experts and public servants will be ready on day one to mobilise every resource of the federal government to expand testing and masking, oversee the safe, equitable, and free distribution of treatments and vaccines, re-open schools and businesses safely, lower prescription drug and other health costs and expand affordable health care to all Americans,” Biden said in a statement announcing the team.The Democrat ran for the White House on the promise of tackling the Covid1-19 epidemic, which has killed more than 280,000 people in the US and infected close to 15 million, as his top priority. The country is witnessing a new surge in cases and is bracing for the prospects of a grim winter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-names-fauci-murthy-to-top-positions-in-his-health-team/story-lOIUrLr0pGuRULLAFwRE9L.html
07-12-2020||World||UK to Brexit-proof Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine supplies from Belgium||Britain said on Monday that plans are being put in place to ensure the transportation of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine against Covid-19 is not affected in the event of no agreement being clinched with the European Union by the end of the Brexit transition period on December 31.The first vaccine doses have been arriving from Pfizer’s manufacturing site in Belgium after the UK’s independent regulator gave the official go-ahead for its rollout from this week. However, the bulk of the supply is expected in the New Year and the UK’s Road Haulage Association has warned that a failure to agree an EU-UK post-Brexit trade deal by the end of this month could see “significant disruption” to the flow of goods for many months.“We have looked at use of non-commercial flights, we’ve got border arrangements in place,” Foreign Office minister James Cleverly told UK media outlets in reference to Brexit-proofing vaccine supplies.This could “potentially” involve the armed forces being deployed if required, as the minister added: “This is such an important product, it’s probably perhaps the most important product, so we will look to ensure that those supplies are available in the UK in whatever circumstance.” The UK and EU are locked in last-ditch efforts to try and thrash out an agreement that can be ratified by all 27 EU members before the December-end deadline. Significant differences over fishing rights and business competition rules remain the main stumbling blocks but both sides have said there is still time to agree a pact, with Prime Minister Boris Johnson and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen set for crunch talks again this week.If both sides fail to reach an agreement, it would mean import duties and delays on the border for most goods.“Everyone understands the significance of vaccines,” said Cleverly, in reference to concerns over the crucial shipment from across the border.The vaccine is typically delivered by a simple injection in the shoulder but there is a complex and difficult logistical challenge to deliver from the manufacturers Pfizer to patients. It needs to be stored at -70C before being thawed out and can only be moved four times within that cold chain before being used. Defrosting the vaccine takes a few hours and then additional time is required to prepare the vaccine for administering.The Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) said that National Health Service (NHS) staff have been working round the clock to prepare secure sites and accept deliveries. Each box needs to be opened and unpacked manually, and temperature data has to be downloaded from each box. Tracking data covering every box’s journey from Belgium is also being downloaded to check that the vials have been kept well below freezing.There are five packs of 975 doses per box and only sites with the necessary Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) licence can split the vaccine packs. Once all checks are complete, the vaccine will be made available to order by authorised sites in the state-funded NHS.The distribution of the vaccine across the UK is being undertaken by Public Health England and the NHS in England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland through systems specially adapted from those used successfully for the national immunisation programmes, the government said.Around 800,000 doses of the vaccine are expected to be available in the UK from this week. In all, the government has ordered a total of 40 million doses – enough to vaccinate 20 million people, with two shots each, 21 days apart.Patients aged 80 and above who are already attending hospital as an outpatient, and those who are being discharged home after a hospital stay, will be among the first to receive the “life-saving jab”. Hospitals will also begin inviting over 80s in for a jab and work with care home providers to book their staff in to vaccination clinics. Any appointments not used for these groups will be used for healthcare workers based on the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation’s (JCVI) phased list of recipients based on the risk of death from the deadly virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-to-brexit-proof-pfizer-s-covid-19-vaccine-supplies-from-belgium/story-T1oG8iL3UeXOKASenpEkeL.html
07-12-2020||World||China dispatches warplanes, troops for Pak drill at base close to India border||China has dispatched fighter aircraft and troops to a Pakistani air base close to the Gujarat border to take part in the latest edition of a bilateral military exercise, Chinese military announced on Monday, saying the air force drill was aimed at improving “actual combat training” of the two forces.“The Chinese air force’s troops set off on December 7 for the Pakistani Air Force’s air base in Bholari at Thatta District in Sindh, northeast of Pakistan’s Karachi to participate in the China-Pakistan Joint Air Force Exercise Shaheen (Eagle) – IX’”, a statement from the People’s Liberation Army said.The latest edition of the drill will take place in the backdrop of the ongoing India-China border friction along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh.The brief Chinese statement on Shaheen-IX did not give details of the deployment of PLA Air Force (PLAAF) for the exercise with Pakistan but said it will conclude late December.“The joint air force exercise, which will conclude in late December, is a project within the 2020 cooperation plan of the two militaries,” it said.“It will promote the development of China-Pakistan mil-to-mil [military to military] relationships, deepen practical cooperation between the two air forces and improve the actual-combat training level of the two sides,” the statement added.The last edition of the Shaheen drill, which was held in China’s Xinjiang in September 2019, was the largest with nearly 50 warplanes from the two countries taking part in it.The Twitter handle @detresfa, satellite imagery expert, tweeted on Monday evening that …a “#China AirForce (PLAAF) Y20 Heavy lift plane was spotted descending into #Pakistan near Bholari Airbase, along with it was spotted another unknown aircraft (suspected PLAAF) following the same route Aircraft are suspected to be in support of a joint exercise”.The PLAAF is said to have deployed fighter jets close to the LAC with India.A state media report last week said a large number of Chinese fighter aircraft recently conducted a series of intensive exercises around a Western Theatre Command – which oversees China’s disputed border with India -- Air Force base, which is located at an important strategic point in Northwest China.“The drills honed and demonstrated the Chinese military’s capability to safeguard the country’s western air defence border,” the state media report added.Pakistan air force’s Bholari airbase was inaugurated in December 2017.Calling the Bholari project of “strategic significance,” then Pakistan air force chief, Sohail Aman had said: “Indeed, PAF Base Bholari is a project of strategic significance for capacity enhancement of Pakistan Air Force in operational domain both overland as well as at sea”.Aman was quoted by Pakistani media as saying at the inauguration that the Bholari base would also augment and supplement the very important maritime operations carried out by Pak Navy besides playing a “key role in safeguarding the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) project.”In the last edition of the Shaheen exercise held in Xinjiang close to the LAC, dozens of fighter aircraft from the two countries had taken part in mock battles, the PLA Air Force statement had then said.The state media had called the 2019 Shaheen edition as “unprecedented”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-dispatches-warplanes-troops-for-pak-drill-at-base-close-to-india-border/story-nbAVLNOZJ9J6z7GskADliP.html
07-12-2020||World||UK set to begin ‘marathon’ Covid-19 vaccination drive||Batches of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine arrived in 50 hospitals across the United Kingdom for the start of a mass vaccination programme from Tuesday, with those over 80 years prioritised to receive the first of their two-dose course.Health secretary Matt Hancock called it a “historic moment”, while Stephen Powis, England’s medical director, noted logistical challenges involved and cautioned that Tuesday would mark the beginning of a long haul, calling the vaccination programme “a marathon, not a sprint”.The vaccine needs to be delivered in two does, 21 days apart. Queen Elizabeth, 94, and Prince Philip, 99, are expected to be among the first group to be vaccinated. The UK has ordered 40 million doses of the vaccine; so far 800,000 doses have arrived and 4 mn more are expected by the end of the month from Belgium.The UK regulator, Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA), defended its expeditious approval of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine last week. It faced some international criticism and uneasiness over the timeline.June Raine, MHRA chief executive, said: “I would really like to emphasise that the highest standards of scrutiny, of safety and of effectiveness and quality have been met, international standards. And so there should be real confidence in the rigour of our approval”.“More than that, our Commission on Human Medicines has scrutinised every piece of data too, so there should be no doubt whatever that this is a very safe and highly effective vaccine. It will help us turn the corner”, she added.Leading individuals in various sections of society are being enlisted to help overcome anxieties and anti-vaccine content on social media. Members of the royal family receiving the vaccine is also likely to be widely publicised.Hancock said over the weekend: “This coming week will be a historic moment as we begin vaccination against Covid-19. We are prioritising the most vulnerable first and over-80s, care home staff and NHS colleagues will all be among the first to receive the vaccines”.“We are doing everything we can to make sure we can overcome significant challenges to vaccinate care home residents as soon as possible too. I urge everybody to play their part to suppress this virus and follow the local restrictions to protect the NHS while they carry out this crucial work.”New cases and deaths have registered a minor drop in recent weeks, particularly since the month-long lockdown in England. As of Sunday evening, there were 17,272 new cases and 231 deaths across the UK. As many as 1,061 people categorised as ‘Indian’ in official records have so far died in England.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-set-to-begin-marathon-covid-19-vaccination-drive/story-h2LfNpKFiXqX47wFoHMpMP.html
07-12-2020||World||Emmanuel Macron says France will sell arms to Egypt irrespective of human rights||President Emmanuel Macron said on Monday he would not condition the future sale of French arms to Egypt on human rights because he did not want to weaken Cairo’s ability to counter terrorism in the region.“I will not condition matters of defence and economic cooperation on these disagreements (over human rights),” Macron said during a joint press conference with President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi after the two leaders held talks in the Elysee Palace. “It is more effective to have a policy of demanding dialogue than a boycott which would only reduce the effectiveness of one our partners in the fight against terrorism,” he added.Earlier in the morning, France had welcomed Sisi with a Cavalry parade through Paris.France views Egypt and its leader as a bulwark against Islamist militants in the Sinai peninsular and Libya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/emmanuel-macron-says-france-will-sell-arms-to-egypt-irrespective-of-human-rights/story-Px99IPOqcefi9Rv0bXKpfO.html
07-12-2020||World||UK rules out any more Brexit talks next year: Downing Street||Britain rejects any extension of a Brexit transition period or further talks past this year, Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s spokesman said Monday as negotiations in Brussels went down to the wire.“Time is obviously now in very short supply. We are in the final stages. We are prepared to negotiate for as long as we have time available, if we think an agreement is still possible,” the spokesman told reporters. But he stressed: “We’ve been clear on multiple occasions that we won’t be extending the transition period. That remains the case.” Asked whether talks might continue next year, on the basis of a provisional deal to avoid a cliff-edge divorce on December 31, the spokesman added: “I can rule that out.” Unless the EU gives ground on the main outstanding issues, Johnson believes “it won’t be possible to reach an agreement” and Britain will “prosper” on stripped-down trading terms, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-rules-out-holding-more-brexit-talks-next-year-reports-afp-quoting-downing-street/story-pYf8f01mkEKxEywooMVNcJ.html
07-12-2020||World||Japan govt’s new economic stimulus likely to amount 73 trillion yen||The Japanese government is likely to decide on new economic measures totalling roughly 73 trillion yen ($700 billion) on Tuesday, NHK public television reported on Monday.The economic measures will include steps aimed at preventing the spread of the novel coronavirus and others focused on shifting towards building a post-pandemic economy, NHK added.Later, NHK said that the general account of a third supplementary budget for the fiscal year ending on March 31 was likely to be 19 trillion yen.Also Read |  Asian shares at all-time highs on US stimulus, vaccine hopesPrime Minister Yoshihide Suga said at a news conference on Friday that the size of a new stimulus package to restore the economy, maintain employment and sustain business activity would be finalised this week.He said it would include an “unprecedented” $19 billion fund to promote carbon neutrality by 2050.The world’s third-largest economy rebounded in the third quarter from a pandemic-induced slump, thanks to surging consumption and exports, but some analysts worry about slowing growth ahead because of a recent resurgence in coronavirus infections.Despite some signs of improvement in recent months, analysts expect Japan’s economy to shrink 5.6% in the current fiscal year ending in March 2021 and say it could take years to return to pre-coronavirus levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-govt-s-new-economic-stimulus-likely-to-amount-73-trillion-yen/story-TI8t7VU1FgOKj99aOPpajI.html
07-12-2020||World||WHO Foundation appoints Anil Soni as CEO||The WHO Foundation has appointed Anil Soni as its inaugural Chief Executive Officer (CEO) from January 1, 2021, and announced the launch of its global fund-raising campaign that targets $1 billion in donations for global health by 2023.The WHO Foundation is an independent grant-making foundation based in Geneva that was launched in May 2020 as a separate legal entity to strengthen WHO’s efforts to address pressing global health issues. While protecting the WHO’s neutrality and independence as a global health agency, the foundation can become a platform for new types of public-private engagement, including investing in innovative and research-based initiatives to advance WHO’s mission and help deliver on its ambitions in an increasingly uncertain economic climate. Soni joins the Foundation from Viatris, a global healthcare company, where he has served as Head of Global Infectious Diseases. “We are at a critical juncture for global public health. After months of combatting the Covid-19 pandemic, there is hope for several successful vaccine candidates. Beyond this crucial step, the path to recovery necessitates expanded investment in the many health priorities that have been compromised in recent months -- from drops in vaccine coverage and HIV treatment to delays in cancer treatment,” said Soni. Soni brings two decades of experience working across public, private, and nonprofit sectors to expand healthcare access in low and middle-income countries. While at Viatris, he has been instrumental in shortening the amount of time needed to make low-cost medicines available in high-burden settings. This was most recently reflected by the approval of an HIV medicine recommended by the WHO for infants born with HIV, at a 75% reduction in cost to the current treatment.As WHO Foundation CEO, he will accelerate the Foundation’s work to invest in innovative, evidence-based initiatives that support WHO in delivering on its mission to ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all. “From his work at Viatris where he has led the development and introduction of medicines to treat HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis, to his leadership of the Clinton Health Access Initiative, and his time at the Global Fund, he has demonstrated his ability to work across public, private, and non-profit sectors and build successful new organisations from the ground up. On behalf of the Board, we are delighted to have Anil lead the Foundation at this critical moment for the future of global health,” said Professor Thomas Zeltner, Founder and Chairman of the Board of the WHO Foundation. Such success reflects Soni’s experience building some of the most innovative and impactful organisations in global health over the last decade, notably the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria and the Clinton Health Access Initiative. In addition to advisory roles with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and the MDG Health Alliance, Soni joins the WHO Foundation with a strong track record of mobilising resources and advocating for global health priorities, as demonstrated through his leadership of the Friends of the Global Fight in the United States. “Anil is a proven innovator in global health who has spent two decades in service of communities affected by HIV/AIDS and other infectious diseases. He earned my trust when he and his team at the Clinton Health Access Initiative worked side by side with the ministry of health in Ethiopia to expand access to treatment and strengthen the management of our health centres,” Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, WHO director-general, said, in a statement. A defining aspect of the Foundation is its ability to create new opportunities for major donors, corporate partners and members of the general public to engage with WHO. The Covid-19 Solidarity Response Fund for WHO, which WHO and the UN Foundation launched earlier in 2020, together with the Swiss Philanthropy Foundation, helped test the potential for broader support to WHO by raising $238 million in corporate and individual pledges for its and partners’ Covid-19 response efforts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/anil-soni-made-ceo-of-who-foundation-targets-raising-1-billion-for-global-health-by-2023/story-NAlnNHJJpIsO9cbETmf9uK.html
07-12-2020||World||France finds bird flu case on duck farm, tests ongoing||A case of bird flu has been found on a duck farm in southwestern France but it is still unclear whether it is the highly contagious form of the virus, the body representing the foie gras and fattened poultry industry CIFOG said on Monday.If confirmed this would be the first outbreak of the so-called highly pathogenic avian influenza on a farm this year.The disease has been spreading rapidly in Europe, putting the poultry industry on alert after previous outbreaks led to the culling of tens of millions of birds.CIFOG director Marie-Pierre Pe said the latest case was discovered on Friday at a farm of about 6,000 ducks due to be force-fed - a technique used to make foie gras - in the town of Benesse-Maremne, near the city of Biarritz and the Spanish border.“Initial tests have shown that it is an outbreak of H5 avian influenza but it remains to be seen whether it highly or low pathogenic and whether it is the H5N8 strain or another one,” Pe told Reuters.A security zone was set up around the farm even before the confirmation, something that was not done in 2016/2017 when a wave of bird flu led to the death and culling of millions of poultry, she said.France has already detected the H5N8 virus on birds sold in three pet stores. Investigations found that the wild birds had been sold by the same person in northern France, the agriculture ministry said last week.The spread of the virus in Europe prompted France to raise its bird flu security alert to “high” in early November, which requires keeping birds indoors or installing protective netting to prevent contact with wild birds that spread the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/france-finds-bird-flu-case-on-duck-farm-tests-ongoing/story-9CyJwZcgLDIS2M7BC2zvnN.html
07-12-2020||World||Britain to send largest warship, carrier strike group to Indian Ocean next year||The UK is sending its largest warship, aircraft carrier HMS Queen Elizabeth, and its strike task group to the Indian Ocean early next year for its maiden voyage, with London describing the move as the country’s “most ambitious deployment for two decades”. The deployment comes against the backdrop of growing interest in the Indo-Pacific in Europe amid concerns over China’s increased assertiveness, and the UK’s own concerns over Chinese actions in its former colony of Hong Kong, which London says have undermined the agreement on leaving the region unchanged until 2047. Also read | Britain gets ready for roll-out of Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine this week“Next year, HMS Queen Elizabeth will lead a British and allied task group on the UK’s most ambitious deployment for two decades, its route will encompass the Mediterranean, the Indian Ocean and East Asia,” a British high commission spokesperson said. “It is a natural choice for the inaugural deployment of the carrier strike task group to include a visit to the Indian Ocean and East Asia. The deployment is a sign of the UK’s commitment to regional security,” the spokesperson added. France, Germany and the Netherlands have unveiled their strategies for the Indo-Pacific, which dovetail with India’s commitment to freedom of navigation and a rules-based order, and some experts see the deployment of Britain’s carrier task group as an effort to reinforce its relevance amid Brexit. The British mission’s spokesperson described the Indo-Pacific as “increasingly important for the UK, as it is at the centre of global economic growth and a region of increasing geostrategic importance”. The UK has a “range of enduring security interests in the region”, the spokesperson said. The spokesperson also described the UK and India as “natural partners in defence” that “already have high levels of interoperability”, as is evident from bi-annual exercises involving all three services and their joint work on the UN peacekeeping mission in South Sudan. The 65,000-tonne HMS Queen Elizabeth, which can carry up to 40 aircraft, was commissioned in late 2017 but next year’s deployment will mark its maiden voyage in international waters. The carrier task group is expected to conduct joint exercises with the US Navy and Japan’s Self-Defense Forces, though it couldn’t immediately be confirmed if there are plans for similar drills with the Indian Navy. The British mission’s spokesperson said the Royal Navy and the Indian Navy have “strong bilateral ties” and training together under the Konkan Exercise, a bilateral drill held biennially. “The strong maritime relationship with India and other regional partners, regular deployments and a permanent naval presence provides the ability for the UK government to react quickly to a variety of emerging security and humanitarian situations with partners, as well as upholding international maritime law in support of the rules-based international system,” the spokesperson said. The UK has a long-standing presence in the Gulf and Indian Ocean through Operation Kipion, which now involves the permanent presence of seven warships at any time, typically one frigate or destroyer supported by a tanker and a four-strong squadron of mine-hunters with a support ship. The British side also pointed to the Royal Navy’s increasing presence in the Indian Ocean, where HMS Dragon warship seized drugs with a street value of more than £200 million during operations last year. These operations are backed by maritime information exchanges such as a white shipping agreement with India covering the whole Indian Ocean. Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said the British naval deployment should be seen in light of two factors – the UK’s efforts to remain relevant amid its exit from the European Union, and Britain’s concerns over China’s crackdown on Hong Kong. “The UK has a key presence in the Indian Ocean through the Diego Garcia base that is leased to the US. The British naval deployment shows the importance of the region, especially when other European countries are taking the lead in this area,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/britain-to-send-largest-warship-carrier-strike-group-to-indian-ocean-next-year/story-l6IfMKhGDGBgbG7U0EM3mL.html
07-12-2020||World||China suggests dialogue with US as Joe Biden likely to take tough stance against Beijing||As US President-elect Joe Biden is likely to take a tough stance against China, Foreign Minister Wang Yi on Monday said that Beijing and the US “should initiate dialogue at all levels”. Sputnik quoted Wang as saying at the meeting with the US-China Business Council’s Board of Directors, “China and the US should initiate dialogue at all levels, any issue can be discussed at the negotiating table. Thus, it is possible to keep in touch on strategic and long-term issues.”“The Chinese side is always ready to negotiate, the sides can draft a list [of topics] to promote dialogue, cooperation and to settle differences,” he added.This comes amid reports that Biden is expected to come through with his pledge to mobilise America’s allies in a long-overdue determination to stand up to China, forcefully, multilaterally, and effectively.In February, Biden had described Chinese President Xi Jinping as a ‘thug’, while US President Donald Trump had called Xi a ‘great leader’, and has also admitted backing away from holding Beijing accountable for the Chinese president’s rampages in Hong Kong and Xinjiang in order to gain advantages at the trade-talks table, writes Terry Glavin for the Canadian journal Ottawa Citizen.Also Read |  US set to sanction more China officials over Hong KongGlavin writes that Biden has gone out of his way to declare Beijing’s mass imprisonment of the Uyghurs and the obliteration of Uyghur culture a genocide.Meanwhile, two years ago, Trump had said: “President Xi and I will always be friends....He’s for China, I’m for the US, but other than that, we love each other.” He had also gone out of his way to cut Xi slack on Xinjiang.Until now, the United States and the world’s liberal democracies have been all over the map in coming to terms with the belligerence and barbarism of Xi Jinping.The issues have been about Hong Kong and Xinjiang, where Beijing has been carrying out a reign of terror aimed at enslaving and liquidating the Turkic Muslim Uyghur minority, China’s takeover of key UN agencies, its abusive manipulations of the World Trade Organisation (WTO), and its ‘hostage diplomacy’ in one country after another.China’s mass theft of intellectual property throughout the G20 economies, the annexation of the South China Sea, and the vast and largely unchallenged subversion and influence operations Beijing’s United Front Work Department is carrying out throughout the world’s advanced economies, including Canada, are also the issues concerning the world’s liberal democracies.Over 300 separate bills targeting China have been drawn up by both Democrats and Republicans in Congress, and the important bills addressing the catastrophes in Hong Kong and Xinjiang enjoyed full bipartisan support.On December 6, amid concerns over the Chinese Communist Party’s threat to American national security, the US States Department listed over 80 Chinese companies mentioned in the US stock exchange in which US retail investors have been investing unknowingly in Chinese companies involved in both civilian and military production.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-suggests-dialogue-with-us-as-joe-biden-likely-to-take-tough-stance-against-beijing/story-tjvb9ANtUrIYttEHuDwC9N.html
07-12-2020||World||France unlikely to achieve daily 5,000 Covid-19 cases per day goal, says top expert||The number of new COVID-19 infections per day in France is unlikely to fall to a 5,000 target by Dec. 15 as the population is not sufficiently respecting social distancing measures, one of France’s top coronavirus experts said on Monday.Eric Caumes, head of infectious diseases at Paris hospital La Pitié-Salpêtrière, told LCI television that if the French are not cautious enough over Christmas and year-end holidays, it will lead to a third wave of the virus in mid-January.President Emmanuel Macron has said the French lockdown that started on Oct. 30 could be lifted on Dec. 15, if by then the number of new infections per day has fallen to 5,000.“No, I do not think this target can be reached as the trend downward stopped, it is stabilising. So it will be difficult to reach that target,” Caumes said.French health authorities reported 11,022 new confirmed COVID-19 cases on Sunday, down from the 12,923 new infections detected the previous day.(Reporting by Dominique Vidalon, editing by Ed Osmond)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/france-unlikely-to-achieve-daily-5-000-covid-19-cases-per-day-goal-says-top-expert/story-z1s0GPawBARAcqxNcnGGNJ.html
07-12-2020||World||Germany eyes tighter curbs as ‘soft’ shutdown fails to slow spread||Germany is looking to impose tougher restrictions on movement after a nationwide partial shutdown failed to bring contagion rates down to manageable levels.Chancellor Angela Merkel’s chief of staff called for a meeting between the federal government and heads of the country’s 16 states, which could be convened before Christmas, to decide on a plan.“Because a lockdown of this kind doesn’t work in the long run, we have to really tighten things up again, at least in the hot spots,” Helge Braun, said in an online interview with Bild newspaper.Germany shut restaurants, gyms and cinemas, but allowed schools and most of the economy to keep running as it tried a softer approach than other European countries. The measures -- in place since the beginning of November -- have made little impact on the spread of the disease, even as the government spends more than 15 billion euros ($18 billion) a month to compensate affected businesses.Braun favors a return to distance learning for older school children in areas with contagion rates of more than 200 cases per 100,000 people over seven days. With contact restrictions similar to France and Belgium, Germany could lower the spread to levels that don’t threaten to overwhelm the health-care system “within three weeks,” he said.The nationwide seven-day incidence rate currently stands at 146.2, compared with 120.1 at the start of the restrictions on Nov. 2, according to the Robert Koch Institute. The government’s goal is to lower the level to less than 50. Schleswig-Holstein in the north and Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania in the east are the only German states under that level.“Corona isn’t letting go and therefore we need to react,” Markus Soeder, Bavaria’s premier, said on ARD television on Monday. “I’m sure we’ll meet again before Christmas. The current system isn’t enough.”The home state of Siemens AG, BMW AG and Adidas AG will implement a state of emergency on Wednesday, restricting most people to their homes unless they have a valid reason. In communities with a seven-day incidence of more than 200, there will be a curfew from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m. with even fewer exceptions.Germany’s new coronavirus cases rose by 10,910 in the 24 hours to Monday morning, taking the total to 1.19 million, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. There were 150 new fatalities on Monday, lifting the overall number of deaths to 18,989.The so-called reproduction factor, an indicator of how fast the virus is spreading, rose to 1.21 on Sunday, compared to 1.13 the day before. This means that 100 people with the virus will likely infect 121 others. The government has said a level below one is needed to prevent the illness from overwhelming hospitals. The number of Covid-19 patients in intensive care has been at record levels for weeks.“One can and must say that the measures we’ve taken so far haven’t been sufficient to really break the second wave of infections,” Economy Minister Peter Altmaier said Monday in Berlin. Because of the rising incidence rates and the R-factor, “I am convinced that we will have to conduct very, very intensive counseling in the next few days and weeks.”For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2020 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-eyes-tighter-curbs-as-soft-shutdown-fails-to-slow-spread/story-J6nTI4wpdKE40Mp0zy7zyN.html
07-12-2020||World||No clarity on when Indians working, studying in China can return||Indian and Chinese officials are in communication on the issue of allowing Indians to return to China, the Chinese foreign ministry has said without elaborating on when special flights between the two countries are likely to resume.The Vande Bharat Mission (VBM) flights operating between India and China were abruptly suspended in the first week of November after 23 Covid-19 positive cases including 19 asymptomatic ones were detected on a flight from New Delhi to the city of Wuhan in central China.China’s civil aviation ministry soon after suspended four more VBM flights that were scheduled to land in different Chinese cities in the following weeks; more than 1,500 Indians had registered for the scheduled VBM flights.The Hindustan Times had reached out to the Chinese foreign ministry to ask whether VBM flights will be allowed to land in China anytime soon.In a brief emailed statement in Mandarin, the ministry said China had to take necessary anti-epidemic measures after the second wave of the Covid-19 outbreak hit countries across the world.“China and India are maintaining effective communication on personnel exchanges under the premise of strict epidemic prevention and control,” the foreign ministry statement to HT said.It follows a statement issued by the Indian embassy in Beijing on December 3 that resumption of special flights depends on China. “The movement of persons in India desiring to return to work abroad, including to China, has been similarly facilitated in recent months,” the embassy said.“However, as a result of the restrictions imposed by the Chinese government on November 05, 2020 (“Notice on Temporary Suspension of Certain Valid Chinese Visas”), the operation of VBM flights to and from China has been affected,” it added.The Indian embassy statement added that while it has received numerous requests from Indians wishing to return to China, “…this is a matter that is subject to a decision by the Chinese authorities”.“For its part, the embassy is in constant touch with the Chinese side to work out a mutually acceptable mechanism that might lead to a resumption of VBM flights to China and will release information on the matter as soon as it is available,” the statement added.The last VBM flight to China on October 30 brought in 277 Indians from Delhi and evacuated 157 on its return.The future of thousands of Indian students – majority of the 23,000 who study in China – continue to be uncertain as well because Beijing is not allowing foreign students to return.In a note to the Indian embassy earlier this year, China’s ministry of education (MoE) had said that “…Indian students should maintain close contact with relevant Chinese colleges and universities and arrange to study in China in strict accordance with the suggestions and guidance of the colleges/universities.”While China has effectively contained the spread of Covid-19 within the country – except sporadic small-scale clusters – it reports a handful of “imported” cases daily.China’s national health commission said on Saturday that it received reports of 17 newly confirmed Covid-19 cases on the Chinese mainland on Friday, two of which were domestically transmitted in Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region.“Fifteen cases were imported from outside the mainland and reported in Shanghai, Henan, Guangdong, Sichuan, Beijing, Shanxi, and Fujian,” the commission said in its daily report.By the end of Friday, a total of 3,919 imported cases had been reported on the mainland.The total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases on the mainland reached 86,601 by Friday and 4,634 deaths have been caused by the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-clarity-on-when-indians-working-studying-in-china-can-return/story-B8Pu1VtUD5tpEOXbFxwHpJ.html
07-12-2020||World||India’s imports from China dropped 13%, exports went up by 16% in 2020: State media||India’s exports to China increased by 16% in the first 11 months of the year despite the ongoing border military friction and the economic impact of the coronavirus pandemic, latest Chinese customs data showed on Monday.Conversely, India imported less from China during the same period, showing a 13% drop, the data quoted by state media showed.Chinese state media was quick to point out that Indian exports to China continued to rise because Beijing hasn’t politicised the border friction along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh --- ongoing since May -- while New Delhi has put curbs on Chinese exports.The fall in Chinese exports to India was also a result of falling internal demand in India because of the pandemic, the tabloid Global Times said in a report on the latest bilateral trade figures on Monday.“According to customs data released on Monday, China exported about $59 billion worth of products to India from January to November in US dollar terms, down 13%. The decline has slightly narrowed compared with a 16.2% drop in the first 10 months this year,” the article added.“However, China’s imports from India surged by 16% during this period, showing that China has refrained from politicising economic interactions with the neighbouring country,” the article said, quoting experts.It is also due to the rising “prejudicial attitude” from the Indian government toward China, as it mounts crackdown-like measures, including increasing tariff barriers, to restrict the inflow of made-in-China products into India, it added. “In comparison, China continues to import more from India despite political frictions,” it said, adding: “China’s imports from India amounted to about $19 billion in value in the first 11 months, up 16%.”According to data compiled by the Indian embassy in Beijing India was the largest export destination for Chinese organic chemicals, fertilizers, antibiotics and aluminium foil in 2019.“India’s top exports to China included organic chemicals, iron ores, unfinished diamonds, fish and crustaceans, cotton, granite stone etc,” Indian embassy data showed. It was in 2019 that India’s trade deficit with China reduced for the first time in over a decade.“In 2019, India’s trade deficit with China reduced slightly by 2%, the first such decrease in deficit since 2005 and stood at $56.95 billion.”India-China bilateral trade in the year 2019 reached US$ 92.89 billion.In 2019, India was the 12th largest trade partner of China, following the US, Japan, Hong Kong, South Korea, Taiwan, Germany, Australia, Vietnam, Malaysia, Brazil and Russia.Meanwhile, Chinese state media has cautiously welcomed the purchase of Indian rice by China, saying it was because of the cost advantage the deal offered.Last week, China for the first time in decades started importing Indian rice largely because of an offer at discounted prices.Indian traders contracted to export 100,000 tonnes of broken rice for December-February shipments at about $300 per tonne on a free-on-board basis, according to a Reuters report from New Delhi.“The purchase was a purely commercial move, as the price of the Indian rice - $300 per tonne - is far cheaper than that of its domestic counterparts, and the rice will mainly serve as animal feed rather than for humans,” Jiao Shanwei, editor-in-chief of cngrain.com, a website specialising in grain news, told state media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-exported-more-imported-less-from-china-in-2020-amid-border-friction/story-lKPtwv7EwopITdbUZzLyFP.html
07-12-2020||World||Iran says nuclear scientist was killed using satellite-controlled gun||A satellite-controlled machine gun was used in last week’s assassination of a top Iranian nuclear scientist, the semi-official Mehr news agency reported.Mohsen Fakhrizadeh, who was killed in a gun and car bomb attack on the outskirts of Tehran on Nov 27, was driving on a highway east of the capital when the weapon “zoomed in” on him “using artificial intelligence,” Mehr said on Sunday, quoting Commodore Ali Fadavi, deputy commander of Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps.Various accounts of his death have emerged since the incident. While early news reports said he was caught in a gunfight between his bodyguards, others said that he was fired at by a remote-controlled machine gun mounted on a pick-up truck operated by someone who later fled the country.Also Read |  Saudi prince strongly criticises Israel at Bahrain summitFadavi said on Sunday that the gun fired a total of 13 shots at Fakhrizadeh and managed to target him with such accuracy that his wife, sitting just inches away from him in the same vehicle, escaped injury. He added that 11 bodyguards in separate cars were also accompanying the couple at the time.The incident is the second targeted killing of a high-ranking Iranian official since January, when outgoing US President Donald Trump ordered a drone strike on General Qassem Soleimani.Tehran has blamed Israel for Fakhrizadeh’s killing, the fifth assassination of a nuclear scientist on Iranian soil since 2010. Israel hasn’t commented on the allegations, however Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu had singled out the scientist in a power-point presentation on Iran’s nuclear program in April 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-says-nuclear-scientist-was-killed-using-satellite-controlled-gun/story-Hqe49HFAO8659NX8EXa2dI.html
07-12-2020||World||Germany says Covid-19 vaccinations to start by early Jan||Chancellor Angela Merkel’s chief of staff says he expects coronavirus vaccinations to start in Germany “in the very first days” of the new year. The trained doctor says he’s prepared to help vaccinate people himself.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19European Union authorities are expected to make a decision by Dec 29 on approving the first vaccine for use. Germany is getting special vaccination centers ready.Merkel’s chief of staff, Helge Braun, told the Bild newspaper late Sunday that he will tell medical authorities he’s prepared to help. He said “that won’t work at every hour of the day or night as chief of staff, but at the weekend I’m prepared to join in.” He said that he and Merkel will get vaccinated “when it’s our turn.”Infection figures in Germany have more or less stabilized at a high level since a partial shutdown started on Nov 2 but haven’t decreased. On Monday, the national disease control center reported 12,332 new cases over the past 24 hours, compared with 11,168 a week ago, and 147 new deaths.Restrictions such as the closure of restaurants, bars, sports and leisure facilities are due to last until at least Jan 10 and some regions are taking or contemplating tougher measures. Braun said tighter restrictions are needed “at least in the hot spots.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-says-vaccinations-to-start-by-early-jan/story-lV2v8WMZsZXwuYvgbYU4nO.html
07-12-2020||World||South Korean health minister warns of ‘Covid-19 war zone’ as cases surge||South Korea’s health minister said Monday that the Seoul metropolitan area is now a “Covid-19 war zone,” as the country reported another 615 new infections and the virus appeared to be spreading faster.The president, meanwhile, issued a call to expand testing and contact tracing. The country has recorded more than 5,300 new infections in the past 10 days and Monday was the 30th day in a row of triple-digit daily jumps.Most cases have come from the densely populated Seoul metropolitan area, where half of South Korea’s 51 million people live. With people increasingly venturing out in public and spending longer hours indoors amid cold temperatures, health workers have struggled to stem transmissions tied to restaurants, saunas, schools, hospitals and long-term care facilities.“The capital area is now a Covid-19 war zone,” Health Minister Park Neung-hoo said in a virus meeting, asking for citizen vigilance.He said the country may have to increase social distancing to prevent the resurgence in the capital area from “exploding into a major outbreak nationwide and collapsing the health-care system.”Na Seong-woong, a senior official from the Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency, told reporters the country could be reporting around 900 new infections a day next week if it fails to slow the virus quickly.While South Korea managed to contain a major outbreak in its southeastern region in spring by channeling nationwide health resources and personnel, it’s less clear where the reinforcements will come if the virus wreaks havoc in the Seoul area.While President Moon Jae-in’s government had been eager to tout the country’s previous gains against the virus, there’s criticism that it gambled on its own success by moving quickly to ease social distancing restrictions to the lowest level in October even as the virus was still spreading.Officials have moved to restore some distancing restrictions in the Seoul area in recent weeks, shutting down nightclubs, karaoke rooms and gyms, reducing in-person school classes and allowing restaurants to provide only delivery and take-out after 9 pmCity officials in Seoul have also reduced public transportation after 9 pm to discourage unnecessary gatherings, although some say the move might backfire by making buses and subways more packed.Some health experts have endorsed stronger restrictions, such as banning all gatherings of more than 10 people, shutting down schools and churches and requiring companies to have more employees work from home.Moon expressed concern Monday that health workers are increasingly struggling to track transmission routes amid the rising infections and urged officials to deploy the “maximum available manpower” of civil servants, police and military personnel to assist with contact tracing efforts in the capital area, his spokesman Chung Man-ho said.Chung said Moon also instructed officials to keep more testing stations open during night hours or holidays and install more “drive-through” setups that allow workers to collect samples from drivers through car windows.He also asked “any citizen who has the slightest suspicion of being infected to visit a screening center to get tested,” Chung said.During a separate briefing, Na said health officials are planning to adopt new testing techniques, including rapid antigen tests and salvia-based tests, so that they could screen potential virus carriers more quickly.The country mainly relies on a diagnostic testing method called PCR, which is more accurate but also more complicated.The country’s has reported 38,161 infections since the pandemic began and 549 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-korean-health-minister-warns-of-covid-19-war-zone-as-cases-surge/story-BYioQo6x3nRYyzfGOq0lHL.html
07-12-2020||World||Last month the hottest November on record: EU||Last month was the hottest November on record as Europe basked in its highest Autumn temperatures in history, the European Union’s satellite monitoring service said Monday. The Copernicus Climate Change Service (C3S) analysis of surface and air temperatures found that November 2020 was 0.8C warmer than the 30-year average of 1981-2010 -- more than 0.1C hotter than the previous record.For boreal autumn (September-November) temperatures in Europe were 1.9C above the standard reference period, 0.4C higher than the average temperature in 2006, which was the previous warmest.“These records are consistent with the long-term warming trend of the global climate,” said C3S director Carlo Buontempo. “All policy-makers who prioritise mitigating climate risks should see these records as alarm bells and consider more seriously than ever how to best comply with the international commitments set out in the 2015 Paris Agreement”.The landmark deal, which turns five this month, enjoins nations to limit temperature rises to “well-below” 2C (3.6 Fahrenheit) above pre-industrial levels.Last week the World Meteorological Organization said 2020 was on course to be among the three hottest years ever recorded.C3S said that with just one month left to go, 2020 is on par to match 2016, the current record holder. With just over 1C of warming so far, Earth is already dealing with the devastation caused by more frequent and stronger extreme weather events such as wildfires and tropical storms.Satellite images analysed by C3S also showed that Arctic sea ice extent was the second lowest for November in the database, which began in 1979.The largest negative sea ice concentration anomalies were in the Kara Sea, while there was below average cover in the eastern Canadian archipelago and Baffin Bay.“This trend is concerning and highlights the importance of comprehensive monitoring of the Arctic, as it is warming faster than the rest of the world,” said Buontempo.Temperatures were substantially higher than normal across the Arctic and much of Siberia last month, and higher than average across the United States, South America, southern Africa, eastern Antarctica and most of Australia, C3S said.The five hottest years in history have all come since 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/last-month-the-hottest-november-on-record-eu/story-zXIkqTPFl2HN0VYLNjbdGO.html
07-12-2020||World||PTI government has become ‘nightmare for poor,’ says Jamaat-e-Islami chief||Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf government has become a nightmare for the poverty-ridden people, said Jamaat-e-Islami emir Senator Sirajul Haq.Dunya News quoted Haq as saying in a statement on Sunday that those who claim to have put the economy on track should find out the price of flour and pulses.He further said that millions of people such as workers and labourers are on the streets due to rise in unemployment.Haq said that from steel mills to Pakistan Railways and PIA have gone to a ventilator and bad governance, law and order situation are the gifts of the current government, Dunya News reported.Condemning the death of seven COVID-19 patients due to lack of oxygen cylinders, Haq said that the patients died “under the nose of the PTI provincial government”. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pti-government-has-become-nightmare-for-poor-says-jamaat-e-islami-chief/story-7p8qj3woVtzmgMzEwMyBJM.html
07-12-2020||World||‘Wear a mask’: Anthony Fauci’s plea tops list of 2020’s most notable quotes||A plea from Dr. Anthony Fauci for people to “wear a mask” to slow the spread of the coronavirus tops a Yale Law School librarian’s list of the most notable quotes of 2020.The list assembled by Fred Shapiro, an associate director at the library, is an annual update to “The Yale Book of Quotations,” which was first published in 2006.Also on the list is “I can’t breathe,” the plea George Floyd made repeatedly to police officers holding him down on a Minneapolis street corner. Several quotes from the presidential campaign appear including Joe Biden telling a student: “You’re a lying dog-faced pony soldier.”Shapiro said he picks quotes that are not necessarily admirable or eloquent, but rather because they are famous or particularly revealing of the spirit of the times.____THE LIST1. “Wear a mask.” — Dr. Anthony Fauci, CNN interview, May 21.2. “I can’t breathe.” — George Floyd, plea to police officer, Minneapolis, May 25.3. “One day — it’s like a miracle — it will disappear,” President Donald Trump, referring to the coronavirus in remarks at an African American History Month reception at the White House, Feb. 27.4. “I see the disinfectant that knocks it out in a minute, one minute. And is there a way we can do something like that by injection inside or almost a cleaning?” — Trump, in remarks at a White House Coronavirus Task Force news briefing, April 23.5. “I will never lie to you. You have my word on that.” — White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany, at her first press briefing, May 1.6. “My most fervent wish is that I will not be replaced until a new president is installed.” — Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, statement dictated to granddaughter Clara Spera, September.7. “If you have a problem figuring out whether you’re for me or Trump, then you ain’t Black.” — Joe Biden, in an interview with “The Breakfast Club” radio program, May 22.8. “The science should not stand in the way of this.” — McEnany, referring to school reopenings in a news briefing, July 16.9. “You’re a lying dog-faced pony soldier.” — Biden, in a remark to student at campaign event, Hampton, N.H., Feb. 9.10. “We are all Lakers today.” — Los Angeles Clippers coach Doc Rivers, in a remark to reporters after the death of Kobe Bryant, Orlando, Fla., Jan. 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/wear-a-mask-anthony-fauci-s-plea-tops-list-of-2020-s-most-notable-quotes/story-hIis2ajmDBQ177JHlZfwyH.html
07-12-2020||World||US set to sanction more China officials over Hong Kong||The US is preparing to sanction at least a dozen more Chinese officials over their role in the recent disqualification of Hong Kong legislators, according to two people familiar with the plans.The latest round of sanctions over Hong Kong could be announced as soon as Monday, said the people, who asked not to be identified because the measures haven’t been formally announced. The move comes as President Donald Trump continues to pile pressure on China’s Xi Jinping and the ruling Communist Party in his final weeks in office.While the names or positions of any of the potential targets weren’t immediately known, US Secretary of State Michael Pompeo was expected to sign off on a list that included high-ranking officials. The Trump administration had previously declined to sanction any members of the Politburo’s supreme Standing Committee.Also read | US raises concerns over CCP’s threat to American national securityAs many as 14 people were expected to be impacted, Reuters, which first reported the sanctions, said separately.Hong Kong has continued to be rocked by political upheaval in recent weeks. Last month, China passed a resolution allowing the disqualification of Hong Kong lawmakers who weren’t deemed sufficiently loyal -- prompting opposition legislators to resign en masse.Their departure fueled concern about Hong Kong’s autonomy from Beijing in the wake of China-drafted national security legislation imposed on the former British colony in June. Prominent local activist Joshua Wong was also sentenced to more than a year in prison last week for leading a 2019 protest outside police headquarters, the latest in a series of moves by Chinese and local officials to clamp down on the city’s battered opposition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-set-to-sanction-more-china-officials-over-hong-kong/story-l9AoJPBHUYshI8SRtYMp9H.html
07-12-2020||World||Rudy Giuliani, personal lawyer of Donald Trump, tests positive for Covid-19||Rudolph Giuliani, personal lawyer of Donald Trump, became the newest member of the US president’s inner circle to come down with Covid-19.President Trump revealed Giuliani’s infection in a tweet saying he “tested positive for the China Virus”, deploying a description of the pathogen he used to shield him from any blame. Giuliani leads the president’s legal and political efforts to challenge his election defeat to Joe Biden.President Trump indicated those efforts will continue unaffected by Giuliani’s infection, saying “we will carry on”.Giuliani is 76, is over-weight and a prostate cancer survivor, which taken together would put him in the high-risk category for developing severe symptoms of Covid-19. The former New York City mayor, who had been called America’s Mayor for leading the city’s response to and recovery from the 9/11 terrorist attacks, is undergoing treatment at a Washington DC hospital.In another potential setback for the outgoing president, attorney general William Barr is reported to be weighing his exit from the administration before the end of Trump’s tenure. Once a fierce loyalist, he invited the president’s wrath recently by declaring his department had found no evidence of widespread election fraud, disputing Trump’s claims he was robbed of a second term.President-elect Joe Biden, meanwhile, is reportedly set to name California’s Hispanic attorney general Xavier Becerra as secretary of health and human services (DHS), which will lead the Biden administration’s fight against Covid1-9.Trump and his legal team have forwarded baseless allegations of election fraud and malpractices that have been thrown out by courts in all six key states where the president lost the battle for the White House. They are now trying to persuade Republican lawmakers of those states to reject the outcome, using technicalities of the electoral college system.Giuliani is the newest member of the expanding circle of Trump’s aides, associate and family members to have been infected by the deadly virus, in no small measure because of their refusal to abide by routine social distancing norms.President Trump himself was infected and hospitalised with a bout of Covid-19 just days after the first of the two presidential debates in October. Melania Trump, the first lady, and their son Barron Trump followed shortly. As did Trump’s eldest son Don Trump Jr, Chief of Staff Mark Meadows, National Security Adviser Robert O’Brien, and Trump campaign officials Bill Stepien and David Bossie (who was assigned by Trump to lead his legal efforts before Giuliani).The United States has been hit the hardest by the pandemic with more than 14 million infections and 282,000 fatalities and President Trump’s mishandling of the most severe public health crisis — he has strenuously contested that criticism and claimed to have responded adequately —and the economic devastation that followed may have cost him a second term.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/rudy-giuliani-personal-lawyer-of-donald-trump-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-pCGB3vASrP82DORS1dKbgL.html
07-12-2020||World||US on alert after link surfaces between Nevada govt website, ISI-linked company||The United States and the Nevada government have been put on alert by an Anti-Voter Fraud group after a suspicious link was found between the state government website and a Lahore-based company allegedly linked to the Pakistani intelligence services.According to an article by Kristina Wong titled ‘Anti-Voter Fraud Group Finds Suspicious Link Between Nevada State Website and Intelligence-Linked Pakistani Company’ published in Breitbart News on December 5, “The organization, True the Vote, alerted state and federal authorities after it requested a Nevada voter registration list through the Nevada secretary of state’s website, and received an email back with a downloadable voter file. That email arrived with an employee of Pakistani company Kavtech carbon copied.”Catherine Engelbrecht, ‘True the Vote’ President, informed John C. Demers, Assistant Attorney General for National Security in a letter, obtained exclusively by Breitbart News, that upon receiving the email, “I was shocked to see the inclusion of another email address in the CC line.”“The address was waqas@kavtech.net. Waqas Butt is the CEO of Kavtech Solutions Ltd.. Kavtech is a Pakistani owned company, located in Lahore, Punjab, Pakistan, with ties to Pakistani intelligence, military, and the interior,” she said in the letter.Also Read | Trump running out of time to solidify immigration agenda after US election lossMeanwhile, the election researchers familiar with the incident has opined that the inclusion of another email address in the CC line could either be an “an accident by a contractor who worked on the Nevada secretary of state’s website” or even an indication of the involvement of an unauthorised company allegedly linked to Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) into the backend of the Nevada government’s website system.“Such an intrusion could be problematic if downloading the voter registration list also worked as a phishing attack, where hackers could gain entry into the servers of those requesting the lists, or if hackers had access to state government email communications,” Kristina said.“The fact that this company was cc’ed on an email containing access to the Nevada voter registration database appears to be evidence of a breach within the Nevada Secretary of State’s email system,” Engelbrecht told Demers.“Obviously, the problems that such a breach may evidence include access to at least the voter registration information of Nevada residents. At worst it could reveal a breach that gives a foreign power access to not only the State of Nevada’s systems, but also to the email systems of anyone whom the State communicates with via email,” she added.Post the incident, Engelbrecht said in an interview with Breitbart News, “Why would they [Pakistani company] be getting this information? Why would they show up on a cc line? There’s no good way to look at that should make anyone feel confident in the security of this process.”“Further, all we can speak to is our experience. Who knows where else that is showing up and what else they’re tracking? If it’s embedded in a form like that, they could be doing that for any number of things,” she further said.“The implication here that a foreign national company with known ties to the intelligence community in Pakistan -- there’s no way to overlook that. It’s inexplicable and it should be investigated,” she added.This incident comes even after a Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) executive committee on November 12 had said in a statement, “While we know there are many unfounded claims and opportunities for misinformation about the process of our elections, we can assure you we have the utmost confidence in the security and integrity of our elections, and you should too.”Meanwhile, despite sending requests for comment to the Arizona secretary of state and the Justice Department regarding the matter, Breitbart News is not received any comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-on-alert-after-link-surfaces-between-nevada-govt-website-isi-linked-company/story-ZRb3x3eZHxFyGVwC4uaz1N.html
07-12-2020||World||International Day of Civil Aviation today: All you need to know||The world is observing the International Day of Civil Aviation on Monday. The day was first celebrated by the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) on December 7, 1994, to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the signing of the Convention on International Civil Aviation.Here’s all you need to know about the International Day of Civil Aviation:1. In 1996, with the assistance of the Canadian government, the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) officially recognised December 7 as the International Day of Civil Aviation in the UN calendar.2. The purpose behind observing this day, according to both the UN and ICAO, is to “help generate and reinforce worldwide awareness of the importance of international civil aviation to the social and economic development of the States, and of the unique role of ICAO in helping States to cooperate and realise a truly global rapid transit network at the service of all mankind.”3. Every five years, coinciding with the ICAO anniversaries, the ICAO Council selects a special anniversary theme. A single theme is selected for four full years between two ICAO anniversaries.4. For its 75th anniversary, in 2019, ICAO had selected the theme “75 years of connecting the world.” From 2020 to 2023, the theme will be “Advancing innovation for global aviation development.”5. Headquartered in Montreal, Canada, ICAO is a specialised agency of the UN. Its objective is to change the principles and techniques of international air navigation and plan and develop international air transport.6. The Convention on International Civil Aviation was signed on December 7, 1944. Also called “Chicago Convention,” it was signed by 52 states in Chicago. It came into effect on April 4, 1947, and on the same date, ICAO, too, came into being. In October, it became a specialised agency of the UN.7. As of March 2019, all member states of the UN, except Liechtenstein, are signatories to the Chicago Convention.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/international-day-of-civil-aviation-today-all-you-need-to-know/story-DnNGKyJQ1HsBi9BJnahtiJ.html
07-12-2020||World||China’s Covid-free ‘Hawaii’ chases local tourist dollar with a vengeance||Millions of domestic tourists are descending on China’s southernmost island province of Hainan, presenting a surreal contrast with grim hospital scenes, shuttered restaurants and stifling home quarantine elsewhere in a virus-ravaged world.Known at home as the “Hawaii of China”, the island, about the size of Taiwan, has been free of coronavirus for six months, drawing eager shoppers to duty-free malls, couples seeking a sub-tropical backdrop for wedding pictures, and surfers just looking to “breathe freely”. October arrivals of 9.6 million, according to official data, exceeded the year-earlier figure, before the pandemic struck, by 3.1%, although foreign visitors slumped 87%. That was a far cry from February, when arrivals had dropped almost 90%. The rapid surge in tourism shows China’s consumer sector may be throwing off its virus-induced slumber as the closure of many international borders pushes travellers to destinations such as Hainan, traditionally costlier than most of Southeast Asia. Tourism spending has got a leg up since a new duty-free spending cap of 100,000 yuan ($15,186) for travellers took effect in July, up from 30,000 yuan earlier.Hainan has raked in 12 billion yuan in such sales in the following four months, to stand up 214.1% on the year, or almost on par with 2019 sales of 13.61 billion. Tourists racing through the Haitang Bay Duty Free Shopping Center in the island’s city of Sanya were astonished at the queues outside the boutiques of luxury brands from Chanel to Gucci, with some likening the scene to a yard sale. “This is crazy - we did not expect so many people,” said a visitor from the southwestern city of Chengdu, who gave her name only as Mrs Xie.But she was willing to queue for more than 30 minutes in the 12 million-square-foot (1.1 million-sq-m) mall just to enter a Gucci store. “Seriously, is Gucci that cheap? With these many people in line, I would’ve thought it’s free,” said the 32-year-old. A 53-year-old woman surnamed Liu who used to visit Thailand or Malaysia at this time of year said Sanya had been a good substitute. She paid more than 14,000 yuan for a Gucci handbag. “Such a steal!” said the native of Chongqing, another southwestern city.“We already bought cosmetics in Haikou and we’re here for the bags,” she added, referring to the island’s capital. As the “stay-home” economy grew in China because of the global pandemic, Morgan Stanley estimates “reshored consumption” could reach up to $165 billion this year. NORMALCYAlthough the 46 million visitors Hainan received from January to October were well below the 2019 figure of 83 million domestic and foreign tourists, Chinese travellers are set to extend the tourism boom into the winter. Reflecting demand, the average daily rate of bookings in Sanya soared 43% in November from a year earlier to $151, and jumped 51% to $190 for December，says analytics firm AirDNA, which tracks bookings on Airbnb and Vrbo. While the number of properties with at least one night booked rose 7% in November, the figure for December had already reached 85% of the year-earlier level.Hainan is also the travel destinations for the Lunar New Year coming up in February, says analytics firm ForwardKeys.On a beach stretch studded with five-star hotels along Yalong Bay, dozens of newly-weds prepared for elaborate wedding shoots.The pandemic thwarted the plans of Xia Weini, 30, and her 28-year old husband Wang Yu, natives of far western Xinjiang, to visit the Thai resort island of Phuket to pose for their photos. “Xinjiang is probably the most landlocked place in China, so we’ve always wanted to get married near the sea,” said Xia.They ended up spending more than 10,000 yuan in Sanya for the pictures instead. Apart from the glitz, Hainan offers a sense of normalcy that is a powerful draw. Business is proving so good in Houhai village, a surf spot about a 40-minute drive from the centre of Sanya, that many are turning homes into surf clubs, said Che Linxin, brand manager at Jile Surf Inn. As surfing catches on among young people stuck at home during the pandemic, the six-year-old club has drawn surfers, musicians and painters among its customers, who tripled from last year. “There’s no off-season in Sanya this year. Everyday is peak season ever since we first reopened in March,” Che added. Yanzi, a 25-year-old tour guide from Beijing, is a regular. “I had bad headaches when I was in Beijing. Maybe it’s the air or the fact my company is not even paying me my base salary,” she said. “But here, I can just walk around in public in my bikini, bathe in the sunshine and breathe freely.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-s-covid-free-hawaii-chases-local-tourist-dollar-with-a-vengeance/story-hqr6FrKRb1zPxEr45S3ryL.html
07-12-2020||World||Queen Elizabeth to be among first to be vaccinated in UK||Queen Elizabeth, 94, and Prince Philip, 99, are expected to be among the first to receive the Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine, whose first consignment has arrived in the UK and is set to be administered first to those above the age of 80 from Tuesday.Anti-vaccine claims on social media and elsewhere are among major obstacles faced by the UK’s health officials planning the biggest mass vaccination programme in the country’s history. Leading figures such as the British queen taking the Covid-19 vaccine is expected to help overcome anxieties. The initial batch received from Belgium has 800,000 doses. The UK has ordered 40mn doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, which is enough to vaccinate 20mn people with two does, 21 days apart. It has also reached agreement for early access to over 300mn doses of other vaccines, when approved.In China, local governments are placing orders for domestically made coronavirus vaccines. More than 1 million health care workers and others in China have received experimental vaccines under emergency use permission. Pakistan: 7 Covid patients die as O2 supply runs outAt least seven patients admitted at a Covid-19 ward and at another ward of a hospital in Pakistan’s Peshawar died after oxygen supply at the hospital ran out. Khyber Teaching Hospital officials said that seven patients died overnight due to lack of oxygen supply. A hospital spokesperson said that the hospital had the capacity to keep 10,000 litres of oxygen, which had been maintained on a daily basis. He said the oxygen supply was sourced from a company in Rawalpindi and supplies had run out after demand rose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/queen-elizabeth-to-be-among-first-to-be-vaccinated-in-uk/story-Ru75sCVaH3fZm9gb8F8GZM.html
07-12-2020||World||Warning for US: 500,000 Covid-19 deaths by spring||In a chilling warning to the American public, the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) at the University of Washington in Seattle has projected in a report that more than 500,000 people could die from the Covid-19 pandemic in the country by early spring despite the roll-out of a coronavirus vaccine.“Even with expected vaccine roll-out, the US is forecast to see 539,000 deaths by April 1... In the US, the expected vaccine roll-out only reduces the toll by April 1 by 9,000 deaths,” Sputnik quoted IHME as saying. The IHME also said that the steady decline in Covid-19 infection rates around the world is expected to start in February.The projection came as the US notched a record number of coronavirus cases in 24 hours for the third day running. A tally by Johns Hopkins University showed the world’s worst-hit country witnessed nearly 230,000 new infections and 2,527 Covid-related deaths on Saturday alone.For two weeks, the US has regularly topped 2,000 deaths per day, as it had in the spring at the height of the first wave of the country’s outbreak.The coronavirus has now killed more than 1.5 million people and infected 66 million around the world since emerging in China last year, according to a tally from official sources compiled by AFP.South Korea, meanwhile, raised its coronavirus alert to the second highest level in Seoul and surrounding areas on Sunday after new infections jumped from around 100 a day to more than 500 in recent weeks. All gatherings of more than 50 people will be banned and professional sports will be held behind closed doors with no spectators.Italy is seeing a dramatic resurgence of infections after it largely tamped down an earlier outbreak by enforcing a strict lockdown, while Latin America and the Caribbean region have seen an 18% spike in cases in a week.Other countries will also see holiday restrictions, with Switzerland banning Christmas caroling in the streets and Madrid cancelling most New Year events in the city centre.In another development, Indonesia’s minister of social affairs, Juliari Batubara, has been arrested on suspicion of accepting $1.2 million in bribes linked to food aid distributed to people affected by the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/warning-for-us-500-000-covid-19-deaths-by-spring/story-rVwJGc6ASWuYrmXB1uHnoO.html
07-12-2020||World||Covid-19 vaccine update: Serum Institute of India seeks emergency use approval for Covishield, Sputnik V phase 2 trials begin in Pune||Worldwide search for a vaccine for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has arrived at a critical stage now, with countries like the United Kingdom and Bahrain having given nod for emergency use of Pfizer Inc’s vaccine candidate. Authorities in the United States, too, will decide this week on giving emergency use authorisation (EUA) to Pfizer’s candidate. According to reports, the American pharmaceutical corporation has sought emergency use approval in India as well.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageWith various other vaccine candidates at different stages of trials globally, here are the latest updates on the Covid-19 vaccine development front:1. Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) on Sunday applied for emergency use approval for Oxford University-AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate, Covishield. This makes SII, which is conducting trials of Covishield in India, the second firm to seek approval for emergency use of a Covid-19 vaccine candidate in India after Pfizer, as well as the first indigenous firm to do so.Also Read | SII seeks emergency use authorisation for Oxford Covid vaccine Covishield in India2. Also in Pune, phase 2 human trials of Russia’s Sputnik V have begun with 17 volunteers being administered the first dose. The shots were administered at the Noble Hospital between December 3-5. On August 11, Russia had become the first country to register a Covid-19 vaccine-Sputnik V.3. The first batch of vaccine candidate of China’s Sinovac Biotech Limited arrived in Indonesia late on Sunday night. As many as 1.2 million doses arrived on Sunday while 1.8 million more doses are likely to arrive in early January, Indonesian president Joko Widodo said. The Indonesian government has also placed orders with at least three other drugmakers, including AstraZeneca.4. The United Kingdom will, this week, become the first country to roll out a vaccine after health authorities, last week, gave approval for emergency use of Pfizer-BioNTech SE’s candidate. The first shots are set to be administered on Tuesday, with the National Health Service (NHS) to give priority to frontline workers and those above the age of 80.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-vaccine-update-serum-institute-of-india-seeks-emergency-use-approval-for-covishield-sputnik-v-phase-2-trials-begin-in-pune/story-nJJkYWWJK2YWGXVPNgmEsO.html
07-12-2020||World||Joe Biden makes picks for key public health roles as pandemic rages: Report||President-elect Joe Biden has made his selections for two key public health positions, sources said on Sunday, as he prepares to take office next month as the coronavirus pandemic rages to new levels across the United States.Biden plans to nominate California Attorney General Xavier Becerra as secretary of health and human services, two sources said, placing the Latino former congressman in a critical role battling the pandemic.The former vice president is also expected to nominate Rochelle Walensky, chief of infectious diseases at Massachusetts General Hospital, to run the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, a person familiar with the decision said.The choice of Becerra, 62, who also had been considered a candidate for U.S. attorney general, came as Biden faced more pressure to add diversity to his Cabinet appointments, including complaints from the Congressional Hispanic Caucus about the lack of Latinos.Becerra will lead the health agency as it struggles to handle a resurgence of the coronavirus, including record infections and a daily death toll that has exceeded 2,000 in recent days, and prepares a mammoth effort to vaccinate Americans against the virus.More than 281,000 Americans have died from the Covid-19 disease, according to a Reuters tally.The announcement of the choice of Becerra could come as soon as Monday, said one of the sources familiar with the decision. Biden named some top members of his health team last week, and is expected to roll out the full team this week.“Biden is living up to his commitment to make the Cabinet a reflection of diversity,” said Robert Garcia, mayor of Long Beach, California, and a longtime ally of Becerra and Biden.Garcia said Becerra “has a strong record on healthcare but I think it goes beyond that. The president-elect selected someone with the highest levels of integrity and intellect.”In Congress, Becerra played a key role in passing the Affordable Care Act - former President Barack Obama’s key domestic policy achievement. In his current role, Becerra leads the coalition of 20 states defending the program better known as Obamacare, including before the Supreme Court last month.Biden has asked Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and a member of President Donald Trump’s coronavirus task force, to stay on as chief medical adviser. The Democratic president-elect also has named Jeff Zients, an economic adviser touted for his managerial skills, as a coronavirus “czar” to oversee an unprecedented operation to distribute hundreds of millions of doses of a new vaccine, coordinating efforts across multiple federal agencies.Biden picked Vivek Murthy, a physician and former surgeon general who has gained prominence in recent months as co-chairman of Biden’s advisory board dealing with the pandemic, to return for a second go-around as surgeon general.Becerra served as a Democratic U.S. representative from 1993 to 2017 before moving back to his home state to become attorney general. In that post, he succeeded Vice President-elect Kamala Harris.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-makes-picks-for-key-public-health-roles-as-pandemic-rages-report/story-jdY4fnfZIYSNDtPd2MLKpO.html
07-12-2020||World||Nepal PM Oli skips standing committee meeting citing differences with Prachanda||Nepal Prime Minister and Chairman of ruling Nepal Communist Party has replied to party’s standing committee meeting that he won’t be able to attend the meeting to discuss on prevailing issues.Sending a two-page letter to the standing committee meeting on Sunday afternoon, PM Oli expressed his unwillingness to come to party office for standing committee meeting where he has been losing his majority.“In today’s (Sunday) meeting, Chairman KP Sharma Oli remained absent. Giving a reason to his absence, he sent a letter addressing the meeting. The letter was read out by Secretariat member Ishwor Pokhrel formally informing the meeting about it. Oli has reiterated his earlier opinion stating that Prachanda’s (Pushpa Kamal Dahal) proposal cannot be discussed in the meeting formally. Oli has cited this reason for not being able to attend the meeting,” Narayan Kaji Shrestha, spokesperson for ruling Nepal Communist Party told reporters on Sunday.In the letter, Oli has reiterated his previous stance that Dahal should withdraw his political proposal tabled in the Secretariat without any pre-conditions. Furthermore, Oli accused Dahal of working towards the dissolution of the party by tabling an “allegation paper” against him.“I suggest that the Standing Committee meeting should discuss finalising the pending works relating to the party unification, making preparations for the party’s upcoming general convention and working toward a better response to the COVID-19 pandemic,” Oli mentioned in the letter.Oli expressed his determination that he wants to keep the party unity intact and run the party based on consensus.“The ongoing intra-party crisis must be resolved through dialogue and the party should remain united as there are just four months left to hold the first general convention of the party. The question of leadership change in the party can be well settled through the general convention,” the Prime Minister stated.The Standing Committee meeting of ruling Nepal Communist Party (NCP) was called on for Sunday afternoon at Party Head Office in Dhumbarahi, Kathmandu. It was scheduled to hold deliberation on the proposals tabled earlier by the chairmen duo KP Sharma Oli and Pushpa Kamal Dahal.Earlier on November 28, PM Oli had presented a 38-page long rebuttal in response to 19 paged political document floated by Dahal where the latter had raised questions on the ability of the incumbent government’s performance.In the next round of meeting, Oli has had demanded the withdrawal of Dahal’s political paper, claiming it to be mere allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepal-pm-oli-skips-standing-committee-meeting-citing-differences-with-prachanda/story-5BxYIdT6JgyKzCdEMJG72L.html
07-12-2020||World||South Korea’s Moon orders coronavirus testing to be expanded amid third wave||South Korean President Moon Jae-in on Monday ordered testing for the new coronavirus to be expanded by mobilizing the military and more people from the public service, as the country continued to report triple-digit daily new cases.Moon said testing sites should operate longer hours to allow people working to get tested at their convenience and more drive-through testing facilities should be set up, presidential Blue House spokesman Chung Man-ho told a briefing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-korea-s-moon-orders-coronavirus-testing-to-be-expanded-amid-third-wave/story-9mcdg1VzHon5pD6nEgPHRI.html
07-12-2020||World||China’s Sinovac secures $500 million in funding for Covid-19 vaccine development||China’s Sinovac Biotech said on Monday that it had secured approximately $500 million in funding for Covid-19 vaccine development.In a statement on its website, the company said it expects to be able to manufacture 300 million vaccine doses annually, and that it aims to complete construction of a second production facility by the end of 2020 to increase annual Covid-19 vaccine production capacity to 600 million doses.Sinovac said the investor is Sino Biopharmaceutical Ltd.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-s-sinovac-secures-500-million-in-funding-for-covid-19-vaccine-development/story-5EEpeKgHclF29O4f1sxtIK.html
07-12-2020||World||US, China dominated arms market in 2019: Report||US and Chinese companies dominated the global arms market in 2019, while the Middle East made its first appearance among the 25 biggest weapons manufacturers, a report by the SIPRI research institute said Monday.The US arms industry accounted for 61 percent of sales by the world’s “Top 25” manufacturers last year, ahead of China’s 15.7 percent, according to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute.Total sales by the “Top 25” rose by 8.5 percent to $361 billion, or 50 times the annual budget of the UN’s peacekeeping operations.Six US companies and three Chinese firms were in the top 10, rounded out by Britain’s BAE Systems in seventh spot.“China and the United States are the two biggest states in terms of global arms spending, with companies cut to size,” Lucie Beraud-Sudreau, director of SIPRI’s arms and military expenditure programme, told AFP.The US has dominated the market for decades, but for China -- whose companies’ sales rose by almost five percent in 2019 -- “this increase corresponds to the implementation of reforms to modernise the People’s Liberation Army underway since 2015,” she said.US companies Lockheed Martin, Boeing, Northrop Grumman, Raytheon and General Dynamics clinched the top five spots, while China’s AVIC, CETC and Norinco held spots six, eight and nine. US group L3Harris Technologies was in 10th place.“Europe remains a bit dispersed...but if you combine the European companies together you could have European companies the same size” as US and Chinese manufacturers, Beraud-Sudreau noted.Airbus (European, 13th in the ranking) and Thales (French, 14th) can meanwhile boast of having the strongest international presence -- each is represented in 24 countries, ahead of US Boeing.“European companies are more internationalised” than others, Beraud-Sudreau said.- Breakthrough in the Mideast -For the first time, a company from the Middle East made it into the “Top 25”: EDGE, of the United Arab Emirates, was formed by the consolidation of some 25 defence entities in 2019.In 22nd spot, EDGE “is a good illustration of how the combination of high national demand for military products and services with a desire to become less dependent on foreign suppliers is driving the growth of arms companies in the Middle East,” SIPRI researcher Pieter Wezeman said in the report.SIPRI also noted that French group Dassault had shot up from 38th to 17th place, boosted by exports of its Rafale fighter jets in 2019.Meanwhile, two Russian companies were also in the “Top 25”, Almaz-Antey in 15th spot and United Shipbuilding in 25th. Beraud-Sudreau noted that Russian companies were in better shape several years ago thanks to a vast modernisation programme for its military, but business had since “slowed sharply”.Sanctions imposed on Moscow after its 2014 annexation of Crimea and a drop in natural gas and energy prices had impacted Russia’s economy, she said.“Russia has had to slow down its plans to modernise its military equipment... As a result there have been fewer orders from the Russian state, fewer new projects launched, and a drop in revenue,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-china-dominated-arms-market-in-2019-report/story-ByVRlhseCCxbkoR9Qf5qAI.html
07-12-2020||World||Georgia campus on lockdown amid report of intruder||Kennesaw State University outside of Atlanta has reported that an “armed intruder” has been seen on campus and is urging students and others there to seek shelter until further notice.The school said via Twitter that the suspect was last seen near the Machinist Lodge on the Marietta campus at about 2:40 p.m. The school is located in Marietta, about 20 miles (about 32 kilometers) north of Atlanta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/georgia-campus-on-lockdown-amid-report-of-intruder/story-JvYkbEHnwNZI6HLCuGIvlL.html
07-12-2020||World||Trump lawyer Rudy Giuliani tests positive for coronavirus||President Donald Trump says his personal attorney Rudy Giuliani has tested positive for coronavirus.The former New York mayor has travelled extensively to battleground states in recent weeks in an effort to help Trump subvert his election loss.Trump, who confirmed Giuliani’s positive test in a Sunday afternoon tweet, wished him a speedy recovery.“Get better soon Rudy, we will carry on!!!” Trump wrote.Giuliani made an appearance earlier Sunday on Fox News to speak about his legal challenges in several states on behalf of Trump.The diagnosis comes more than a month after Trump lost re-election and more than two months after Trump himself was stricken with the virus in early October. Since then, a flurry of administration officials and others in Trump’s orbit have also been sickened, including White House chief of staff Mark Meadows and Ben Carson, the secretary of housing and urban development.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicLast month, Giuliani’s son, Andrew Giuliani, a special assistant to Trump, said he tested positive for coronavirus.“I am experiencing mild symptoms, and am following all appropriate protocols, including being in quarantine and conducting contact tracing,” the younger Giuliani said in a Nov. 20 tweet disclosing his COVID-19 positive test.The extraordinary spread in Trump’s orbit underscores the cavalier approach the president has taken to a virus that has now killed more than 280,000 people in the U.S. alone.Those infected now also include the vice president, his chief of staff, the White House press secretary, advisers Hope Hicks and Stephen Miller, as well as Trump’s campaign manager and the chair of the Republican National Committee.Trump spent the waning days of his campaign trying to persuade the American public that the virus was receding, and repeatedly claimed it would miraculously “disappear” after Nov. 3. Instead, the country is experiencing a record-breaking spike in infections.Also Read: US Covid-19 cases remain over 200,000 for fourth straight dayWhite House coronavirus task force coordinator Dr. Deborah Birx on Sunday offered tacit criticism of Trump’s attitude on the virus during an interview on NBC’s “Meet the Press.”Asked about Trump and other administration members flouting public health experts’ warnings to avoid large gatherings and calls to wear masks, Birx replied that some leaders are “parroting” myths and called the pandemic “the worst event that this country will face.”“And I think our job is to constantly say those are myths, they are wrong and you can see the evidence-base,” Birx added||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-lawyer-rudy-giuliani-tests-positive-for-coronavirus/story-r6toLqMiG2a1OxlWQ2L9OK.html
07-12-2020||World||India questions Scotland Yard security after protest over farmers’ issue||The Indian high commission on Sunday questioned the security provided by Scotland Yard after nearly 4,000 protestors were allowed to gather to protest against farm laws in a demonstration that it said included anti-India elements.Scotland Yard arrested 13 people and advised motorists to avoid the area around the Indian mission in central London after thousands converged from various parts of the UK, leading to traffic jams in the area for some hours. Four of the arrested were later de-arrested after they provided details to the police and were fined.Indian quarters expressed strong disappointment over the security arrangements after the protestors were allowed despite restrictions in place over Covid-19 and the police stating that a “robust policing plan” was in place.Indian diplomat Vishwesh Negi said, “The high commission had been informed that as per normal practice permission had been sought... for a drive-past protest involving about 40 vehicles. We were also aware that the police had given specific warning against the gathering of more than 30 people”.“The developing situation was brought to the attention of the UK Foreign Office and Home Office. The London Metropolitan Police managed, controlled and eventually disposed the crowds. We could see that a few violent were arrested”.Also read: Satellite imagery shows China setting up border villages between India, Bhutan“Our high commission has been coordinating closely with the authorities concerned and we will, together with them, address the issues that have come up: for example, how this gathering of thousands could take place without specific permission, etc,” he added.The teenagers were arrested after they were seen setting off “firework towards a large crowd. They were also found to be in possession of a number of other fireworks,” the police said, adding that officers are in attendance at the protest in the Aldwych area.Motorists were advised to avoid Strand, Waterloo Bridge and Fleet Street near the Indian mission, which was cordoned off by a line of police officers, while a large crowd shouted slogans and held placards against the Narendra Modi government on the other side of the road, demanding scrapping of the controversial farm laws.There were also some demonstrations at Trafalgar Square. Reports from various parts of London and some approach roads into the capital also witnessed traffic jams as cars bearing flags and placards were driven by protestors arriving from various places.Negi added, “As expected, it soon became clear that the gathering was led by anti-India separatists who had taken the opportunity of the farm protests ostensibly not to back the farmers in India but use the opportunity to pursue their own agenda”.“As many are aware, the protest against agriculture reform bills in India is part of a democratic process. It is work in progress in our functioning democracy. Government of India is in talks with the protesters which are still ongoing. Needless to say, it is an internal issue of India”.Indian officials have been briefing interlocutors in the British government and parliament in recent days on the fundamental features of farm sector reforms.The protestors had gathered in central London even after the police issued a reminder that strict regulations remain in place to help prevent the spread of coronavirus disease. The reminder meant that anyone gathering for the protest risks enforcement action by officers, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-questions-scotland-yard-security-after-protest-over-farmers-issue/story-zyjRX0IlUmtEc2x4EpdVfI.html
07-12-2020||World||Austria postpones coronavirus testing after huge snowstorm||Several communities in the Austrian Alps put mass coronavirus testing on hold Sunday and others were urged to do the same after a storm dumped huge amounts of snow, sending some avalanche warnings to their highest level.Some parts of the province of Tyrol saw 70 centimeters (27.5 inches) of snow fall overnight Friday into Saturday, and another 110 centimeters (43 inches) were expected on Sunday, Austria’s APA news agency reported.In East Tyrol, 500 households were left without electricity after trees brought down power lines and the avalanche warning was at its highest level of 5. Several areas in East Tyrol postponed virus testing.In North Tyrol, the avalanche warning was at 4 on Sunday.Neighbouring Italy and Switzerland also issued avalanche warnings, and the Brenner Pass highway between Austria and Italy was partially closed, as were some train connections, APA reported.More than a meter (three feet) of snow fell within a few hours in the Italian Dolomites and rain burst riverbanks of the Panaro river, forcing a few dozen families to evacuate from the Modena area as a precaution, the ANSA news agency reported.The regional governor of Veneto urged residents to just stay home, noting in a Facebook post some areas of flash flooding where around 30 centimeters (one foot) of rain fell within a short period, isolating some small villages in the province of hard-hit Belluno.In Austria, Tyrol authorities told local communities to assess whether the conditions warranted postponing coronavirus testing planned for Sunday.“The safety of the population comes first,” authorities said.Austria on Friday started a voluntary mass testing program that officials hope will prevent long, hard lockdowns in the future. The fast antigen tests started in Vienna and in the westernmost Vorarlberg and Tyrol provinces.Over the first two days, some 300,000 people were tested out of Austria’s nearly 9 million. The government is hoping that several million will have been tested by mid December.The testing is part of Austria’s strategy to slow the spread of the coronavirus even as it starts to ease restrictions this coming week. Tough lockdown measures that took effect Nov. 17 expire on Sunday.Going ahead, Chancellor Sebastian Kurz said Austria will keep restaurants, bars and hotels closed until Jan. 7 but will allow skiing from Dec. 24.In other changes, a limited curfew that has applied around the clock will be eased and will apply only between 8 p.m. and 6 a.m. Schools will mostly be reopened, as will non-essential shops, museums, libraries and some other businesses.Austria has seen more than 300,000 coronavirus infections and more than 3,800 deaths, although its infection rate has declined in recent weeks. It is currently recording 266.5 new infections per 100,000 residents over seven days, down from around 600 last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/austria-postpones-coronavirus-testing-after-huge-snowstorm/story-tnptIYbOsY6tsOTefSoF0O.html
07-12-2020||World||Moscow aims to vaccinate 7 mn as Russia sees record rise in Covid cases||Moscow wants to vaccinate up to seven million people, its Mayor Sergei Sobyanin said, as Russia on Sunday reported yet another record high number of new Covid-19 cases.Moscow began distributing its Sputnik V Covid-19 shot via 70 clinics on Saturday to the most exposed groups, marking Russia’s first large-scale vaccination against the disease.“In prospect, we have to vaccinate six to seven million people,” Sobyanin told state TV Rossiya-1 in an interview published on Sunday.Russia reported a record daily increase of 29,039 new cases, taking the national total to 2,460,770 since the pandemic began, while the official national death toll rose to 43,141.Russia, which has the world’s fourth-highest number of coronavirus cases, puts high hopes on its vaccines but some scientists have raised concerns about the speed at which it gave the regulatory go-ahead and launched mass inoculations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/moscow-aims-to-vaccinate-7-mn-as-russia-sees-record-rise-in-covid-cases/story-zwE1wz5IsU1wt69XFj7W8L.html
07-12-2020||World||Double Dragons: SpaceX launches space station supplies||SpaceX launched a newer, bigger version of its Dragon supply ship to the International Space Station on Sunday, marking the first time the company has two capsules in orbit at the same time.The Dragon — packed with Christmas treats and presents — should reach the space station on Monday, joining the Dragon that delivered four astronauts last month.“Dragons everywhere you look,” said Kenny Todd, NASA’s deputy space station program manager.With NASA’s commercial crew program officially under way, SpaceX expects to always have at least one Dragon capsule at the space station.SpaceX’s Falcon 9 rocket blasted off with the latest Dragon from NASA’s Kennedy Space Center, where coronavirus precautions kept staff to a minimum. The first-stage booster — making its fourth flight — landed on an ocean platform several minutes after the late-morning liftoff. It was first used back in May for the first astronaut launch by Elon Musk’s company.The 6,400-pound (2,900-kilogram) shipment includes billions of microbes and crushed asteroid samples for a biomining study, a new medical device to provide rapid blood test results for astronauts in space, and a privately owned and operated chamber to move experiments as big as refrigerators outside the orbiting lab. Forty mice also are flying for bone and eye studies, two areas of weaknesses for astronauts during long space stays.Todd said all this research is “the ultimate Christmas present” for NASA astronaut Kate Rubins, a virus hunter who performed the first DNA sequencing in space a few years ago.As for more personal presents for the four Americans, two Russians and one Japanese on board, “I don’t like to get out in front of Santa Claus. I fear it might mess up my own Christmas,” Todd said late last week. “Let’s see what happens when they open the hatch ... I’m optimistic.”For the astronauts’ Christmas feast, the Dragon is carrying roasted turkey, cornbread dressing, cranberry sauce, shortbread cookies and tubes of icing.The station crew watched a live broadcast of the launch, from 250 miles (400 kilometers) up.This updated cargo-carrying model — as large as the SpaceX crew capsule — will dock to the orbiting lab by itself. Previous SpaceX cargo ships needed the station’s robot arm for anchoring.The capsule will remain at the space station for about a month as usual before undocking with experiments and old equipment, and splashing into the Atlantic. That’s another change from SpaceX’s older cargo ships, which parachuted into the Pacific. Returning closer to Cape Canaveral will save recycling time.This is SpaceX’s 21st station supply run for NASA since 2012. The flight was delayed a day by rough weather in the booster-recovery area offshore. This was the 68th successful booster landing by SpaceX.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/double-dragons-spacex-launches-space-station-supplies/story-jE8aqEVdaV16a7NRGqBofM.html
07-12-2020||World||US Covid-19 cases remain over 200,000 for fourth straight day||The United States on Saturday saw 213,877 new Covid-19 infections, the country’s fourth consecutive day of more than 200,000 daily infections, as per data compiled by the Johns Hopkins University and news agency Bloomberg. While the number was lesser than that of the previous day’s 228,419 cases, the seven day average in the country is above 191,300 cases, a 16 per cent increase from the previous week.Also, the data showed 2,301 new fatalities -- the fifth consecutive day of more than 2000 deaths -- after a record 2,867 fatalities on Thursday.With cases increasing, stay-at-home orders would be effective in Southern California, of which Los Angeles and San Diego are a part, and San Joaquin Valley from 11:59 pm local time after intensive care capacity fell in the regions below the threshold of 15 per cent, reports Bloomberg.About 33 million people or 84 per cent of the state’s population would be affected by the order, according to the Los Angeles Times. Bars, hair salons, live audience sports and other such activities would remain shut following the order that would last for at least three weeks. While intensive care capacity at the five San Francisco Bay Area counties are still above the 15 per cent threshold determined by the state, Covid-19 restrictions are expected to begin soon.Meanwhile, chief advisor of the Operation Warp Speed program Moncef Slaoui has said on Sunday that he would meet with the President-elect Joe Biden. The two would discuss about Covid-19 vaccines, as the first bunch of vaccines are expected to be rolled-out later this month, reported news agency Reuters.Saloui in an interview with CBS’ Face the Nation said that he looked forward to the meeting and that “things have been really very appropriately planned.”The meeting has been scheduled amidst Biden’s comments that his team has not yet seen a detailed plan for the vaccine distribution process, which he called difficult and expensive.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-covid-19-cases-remain-over-200-000-for-fourth-straight-day/story-lZsR6LOecwdqHgF5nxzrtM.html
07-12-2020||India||Bharat bandh: Major impact likely to be felt in Punjab||The ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Tuesday asked all states and union territories to strictly enforce Covid-19 protocol and make adequate security arrangements for Bharat bandh on Tuesday, called by various farmer bodies protesting against the three farm bills passed in the monsoon session of Parliament.All opposition parties except Biju Janata Dal and YSR Congress, and major labour and worker unions have extended support to the bandh call which is likely to have impact in Punjab, Haryana, West Bengal, western Uttar Pradesh, and parts of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Telangana. In an advisory, the home ministry has also asked the police departments and state governments to ensure that all Covid-19 guidelines issued are strictly adhered to by the protestors, officials familiar with the matter said. “Peace and tranquillity should be maintained during Bharat bandh and security arrangements should be in place to avoid any untoward incident,” the advisory said.After the MHA advisory, several state governments such as Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Odisha and Andhra Pradesh issued instructions to district officers to take “stern action” for those resorting to violence and violating Covid-19 guidelines.Also read: Bharat Bandh - All you need to know about services that may be affectedThe bandh, which will start in the morning and will continue till 3 pm, is expected to have a major impact in Punjab, where all political parties, traders bodies, truck union and mandi associations have extended support. The Sikh Gurudwara Prabhandak Committee (SGPC), the highest religious body of Sikhs, on Tuesday said the strike will be complete. In Haryana, five legislators of deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala-led Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) have extended support to the protest. All major markets in the state are expected to remain closed with farmer bodies planning blockades along major highways. Haryana’s Additional Director General of Police (ADGP-law and order) Navdeep Singh Virk said the public may have to face traffic blockages while travelling on various roads and highways of the state on December 8. “The main national highways Delhi-Ambala (NH-44), Delhi-Hisar (NH-9), Delhi-Palwal (NH-19) and Delhi to Rewari (NH-48) may also see some traffic disruptions for a short time. The peak time of impact is expected to be between 12 pm to 3 pm, the officer said. In Uttar Pradesh, opposition party leaders Akhilesh Yadav of Samajwadi Party and Mayawati of Bahujan Samaj Party asked its workers to participate in the bandh. Police officials expect the bandh to have impact in western UP, where Bharatiya Kisan Union has sizeable influence. UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, however, accused the opposition parties of making a ‘nasty bid’ to create a situation of anarchy and disorder in the country by using innocent farmers as a cover. “The opposition parties are trying to mislead innocent farmers on the Centre’s revolutionary and historic laws to further their selfish political ends,” Adityanath said. Also read: Besides Bharat Biotech,who else has applied for emergency use authorisationIn Rajasthan, various farmer bodies have announced to block all highways in the state till 3 pm even as chief minister Ashok Gehlot exhorted protestors to maintain peace. President, Rajasthan Kissan Mahapanchat, Rampal Jat said, “Over 50 farmer organisations of the state are supporting the bandh and there will be complete closedown tomorrow.” In Maharashtra, Shiv Sena along with alliance partners, the Congress and Nationalist Congress party, supported the bandh. In Madhya Pradesh, over 50 farmer bodies have decided to block traffic at various highways on Tuesday. Gujarat has invoked prohibitory orders across the state to prevent any major protests, officials said.There would be no strike in Kerala, where local body polls are to be held on Tuesday, even though the state government on Monday decided to approach the Supreme Court against three farmer bills. “Agriculture falls into the state list as per the seventh schedule of the constitution. States were not consulted before bringing such legislation and farmers’ bodies were also kept in the dark. We feel this legislation will only benefit big corporate houses engaged in the sector,” said state agriculture minister VS Sunil Kumar, adding that they support the farmer protests.In Tamil Nadu, DMK chief M K Stalin will lead the protests whereas in Telangana, chief minister K Chandrashekhar Roa has asked all party workers to ensure complete bandh. The opposition Congress, Janata Dal (Secular) and pro-Kannada bodies have supported the bandh in Karnataka. However, in Andhra Pradesh and Odisha the ruling parties, YSR Congress and Biju Janata Dal (BJD) have decided not to support the bandh.In West Bengal and Jharkhand, the bandh is expected to have an impact as all main parties and trade unions have given a call for complete strike. “Our government does not support strikes but the TMC fully supports farmers struggle,” said chief minister Mamata Banerjee. In Bihar, although RJD has given a call for strike, the impact may not be much as the government has invoked prohibitory orders on assembly of four people or more across the state. Additional Director General of Police (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said all district officers have been instructed to ensure law and order and deal sternly with those trying to resort to violence.Thousands of farmers at Delhi’s borders under the aegis of 32 farmer bodies from Punjab are protesting against the Centre’s new law agricultural laws for past 11 days demanding that they be repealed. Five rounds of talks with the government have not yielded any results and the next round of talks is on December 9.“The response is overwhelming, not only Punjab or the neighbouring state, it would be a total bandh in the entire country,” said BS Rajewal president of a faction of Bharatiya Kisan union who is camping at Singhu border since November 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-major-impact-likely-to-be-felt-in-punjab/story-BK4R4MuuvEI3VxUNftSjFO.html
07-12-2020||India||Woman killed by leopard in Maharashtra’s Chandrapur||A 65-year-old woman was killed by a leopard in North Brahmapuri forest division in Chandrapur, the 30 death in the district this year due to big cats, 23 of which were caused by tigers, an official said on Monday.Sayatrabai Shriram Thengari (65) of Chichgaon (Dorli) was returning home from her farm when the leopard attacked and killer her, said N R Pravin, Chief Conservator of Forests.This year, leopards have killed six people in the district, while 23 were fatalities in tiger attacks and one person was killed by a wild boar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-killed-by-leopard-in-maharashtra-s-chandrapur/story-DYE3HA6Uf8Gyv8bVvYw2GL.html
07-12-2020||India||Besides Bharat Biotech, who else has applied for emergency use authorisation in India||Bharat Biotech, which is developing the vaccine for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India, on Monday approached the government for emergency-use authorisation. The company filed its application with the Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI) earlier as its candidate “Covaxin” is still in the phase-3 trials.It is planning to deliver its vaccine candidate by the second quarter of 2021.The Hyderabad-based biotechnology company is the third firm after Serum Institute of India (SII) and American pharma giant Pfizer to apply for emergency-use approval in India.On Sunday, Pune based the Serum Institute of India which is the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer by volume, applied to the DCGI for emergency use authorisation for the Oxford/Astrazeneca Covid-19 vaccine. “’COVISHIELD’ will save countless lives, and I thank the Government of India and Sri @narendramodi ji for their invaluable support,” Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer of SII, had said in a tweet.The SII currently has two dedicated facilities with the capacity of manufacturing about 50-60 million doses a month that will be scaled up to 100 million doses by February when two more facilities are likely to be added. It is aiming to make the vaccine available for the general public use by the March-April of 2021.Among the leading candidates to develop a vaccine for Covid-19, Pfizer was the first company to seek emergency use authorisation in India. On Sunday, the Indian arm of the US pharmaceutical giant sent an application to DCGI after its parent company secured such clearance in the UK and Bahrain.The company’s vaccine candidate claims to offer up to 95% protection against Covid-19 and is safe for roll-out. However, concerns still remain as the vaccine requires an extreme low temperature of minus 70 degrees Celsius for storage which is a big challenge for its delivery in a country like India, especially in its smaller towns and rural areas where maintaining such cold chain facilities would be very difficult.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/besides-bharat-biotech-who-else-has-applied-for-emergency-use-authorisation-in-india/story-nffmpWWKJIswcDNEDPeXZL.html
07-12-2020||India||Odisha govt offices to stay shut during Bharat Bandh, civil services exam postponed||The Odisha government on Monday ordered that all its offices would remain closed on Tuesday in view of the Bharat Bandh called by farmers demanding the repeal of the recent farm laws.In a statement, the government said as transport and vehicular movements are expected to be affected by the bandh in the state, it decided to shut its offices on Tuesday. However, essential services provided by the government will remain functional in the state.Though the farmers in Delhi have called for Bharat bandh between 11 am and 3 pm, farmer bodies, trade unions and political parties in the state including Congress have called a dawn to dusk bandh. But BJD is yet to announce its stand on bandh.Meanwhile, the Odisha Public Service Commission rescheduled the General Studies Paper-I and General Studies Paper-II of the Odisha Civil Services-2019 Main examination that was to be held on Tuesday in view of the Bharat Bandh. As per the new schedule, the OCS 2019 main exam for General Studies Paper 1 and Paper 2 will now be held on January 2, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-govt-offices-to-stay-shut-during-bharat-bandh-civil-services-exam-postponed/story-VfvnYCHSEBypmbKHnhWJKN.html
07-12-2020||India||Man climbs tree to escape bear attack, waits for 5 hours for help||Nightmare of Babulal, a resident of Chattisgarh’s Pusla village, began on Sunday evening when he was loading paddy near his field and heard about a sloth bear attack in the jungle. Babulal never thought that it could be the worst day of his life.Four people, including two women, were killed and two others were injured in a sloth bear attack in Koriya district of Surguja division in Chhattisgarh, officials said on Monday. Six villagers, including Babulal, were returning from a nearby jungle on Sunday evening when they heard of a bear attack inside the jungle. Babulal and two others rushed to save them. Narrating the incident, Babulal said, “At around 3.30 pm, some people from the village started shouting about the bear attack. I, along with other two, decided to enter into the jungle to help them. The person who was walking in front of me, Phool Sai, was attacked by the bear when we entered the forest. I saw that he collapsed on the ground and was seriously injured in the attack. Subsequently, I started running back and climbed a tree while the third person escaped by running towards the village.” After the bear killed Phool Sai, the animal tried to climb the tree which Babulal had climbed but was unsuccessful because the tree was too small for it to climb. Also read: Bharat Biotech seeks emergency use authorization for Covid-19 vaccine“I climbed the tree at around 4 pm and the saw that the bear was roaming around the tree waiting for me to come down. I tied myself with an ‘Angaucha’ (a towel) to the trunk of the tree and waited for help. After five hours, at around 9 pm, the rescue team came and then I came down with the help of a JCB machine,” said Babulal. Inspector-General of Police, Surguja range, Ratanlal Dangi said that a group of six local tribals of Angwahi village were returning home after collecting forest produce from the jungle when a bear attacked them. “Three of them were killed in the first attack while one, who went for help, was later attacked and killed. We got information and launched a rescue operation inside the jungle. During the rescue operations, four bodies were recovered and the rescue team managed to save a person who climbed a tree. Three others who were injured in the attack were also rescued by the team,” Dangi told HT. The deceased were identified as Phool Sai, Ijaoria Sai, Rajkumari Sai and Shivachan Sai. “The bear was roaming around the area and the rescue team managed to shoo it away in the jungle at around 1 am. The injured were admitted to a government hospital,” said the IG.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-climbs-tree-to-escape-bear-attack-waits-for-5-hours-for-help/story-bnWmZCbPWMwapBXqfVhwSI.html
07-12-2020||India||No clue yet about mysterious disease at Eluru in AP, patients flood hospital||More than two days after a mysterious disease struck the people of several areas in Eluru town in Andhra Pradesh’s West Godavari district, the authorities are still clueless about its cause.The casualty ward of the government hospital at Eluru continued to be flooded with patients complaining of giddiness, seizures, convulsions and epilepsy even at 9 pm on Monday and ambulance sirens continued to blare in the hospital premises bringing more and more patients. K Gangadhar (35), who complained of giddiness and headache after returning home from his two-wheeler garage at Padamata Veedhi area, had vomited within minutes of being brought to the hospital. “He was not in a position even to sit. He had convulsions and collapsed,” his sister said. So was the case with 14-year old T Sekhar, who suffered severe headache and convulsions. “He was alright till afternoon. All of a sudden, he was crying complaining of headache and giddiness,” his mother Lakshmi said. Jaya Deepthi (16), a Class 10 girl was gasping for breath and nurses at the hospital had put her on oxygen to help her breathe. “She was panicky as she developed convulsions and shivering,” said her sister-in-law who got her admitted to the hospital.While the number of patients who were admitted till Sunday night were around 300, it rose to 471 by Monday night and is still counting. “We have not come across such a strange phenomenon till now. Strangely, most of them are showing signs of recovery within hours of being administered medicines for symptomatic treatment. But more and more patients are getting admitted to the hospital for the same symptoms,” Dr T Geetha Prasadini, director of public health told Hindustan Times. So far, there has been only casualty – that of a 45-year old patient Sridhar from Vidyanagar area, supposedly due to this mysterious disease. “He also got admitted with the same symptoms. He got cured by evening, but suddenly collapsed later. We are awaiting the post-mortem report to know the actual cause,” Dr Geetha said. According to her, most of the patients who suffered from symptoms of mysterious disease were in the age group of 20-30 years, but there were around 65 children below 12 years of age. Some of the patients were sent to Vijayawada and Guntur hospitals for better treatment. Several teams of medical experts, molecular biologists and public health experts have landed in Eluru to ascertain the exact cause of the disease. A team of doctors from All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Mangalagiri, has already collected samples of blood, urine and saliva of the patients to find out the causes for the mysterious disease. Dr Geetha said drinking water samples in 32 ward secretariat limits, from where the cases were mostly reported, were tested and reports of blood samples of the patients were normal. “Blood samples taken for Hb, CBP, LFT, RFT and GRBS- were normal and blood samples were inoculated, and reports are awaited. Viral markers for IgM ELISA, for Chikungunya, Dengue, HSV-2, and all samples reported negative. The CT scan reports were also normal,” she said. The causes of the outbreak are not known yet. She said the cases are being reported in Eluru rural and Dendaluru apart from Eluru urban and all age groups are prone to the infection. The people who have been drinking treated water and mineral water were also infected, she said. Blood samples of some patients have also been sent to Indian Institute of Chemical Technology, Hyderabad for examination. Similarly, experts from National Institute of Nutrition are also looking into the possible food contamination in the area. Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy visited the hospital on Monday and interacted with the patients and attendants and assured them of all help. He also reviewed the situation at a meeting with officials.Later, addressing a review meeting at the zila parishad office here on Monday, Jagan directed the officials to be vigilant and ready to handle any situation. He enquired about the treatment being given to the patients who fell ill, and the measures being taken for the control of the situation. He also enquired about the possible causes of the outbreak and about the medical tests and investigations that are being carried out on patients. He said a high ranking official of the Health Department should stay put to monitor the situation. He instructed the officials to create awareness among the people to call emergency numbers 104 and 108 if anyone faces any problem. Medical assistance should be provided as early as possible once the call is received. Meanwhile, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan constituted a three-member expert team led by AIIMS emergency health care head Dr Jamshed Nair, National Institute of Virology expert Dr Avinash Devashtawar and NDCC deputy director Dr Sanketh Kulakarni. The team will be coming to Eluru on Tuesday to assess the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-clue-yet-about-mysterious-disease-at-eluru-in-ap-patients-flood-hospital/story-P8d6ioXOzsFlocsAcKTIlI.html
07-12-2020||India||Who gave Bharat Bandh call and the parties supporting it: All you need to know||As many as 35 farmer unions have called for a ‘Bharat Bandh’ or a nationwide strike on Tuesday against the three farm laws passed by the Centre in September. The unions include the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) and its different factions, Krantikari Kisan Union and Kisan Sangharsh Committee. Some other Left Front backed groups are also part of this.Also Read: ‘Can’t build new century with old laws’, says PM ModiNumerous opposition and Left parties including the Congress, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Shiv Sena, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Trinamool Congress (TMC), Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Samajwadi Party, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) and Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) have supported the call for the bandh.A joint platform of 10 central trade unions has also extended its support to the call. The platform comprises of the Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS), Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), All India United Trade Union Centre (AIUTUC), Trade Union Co-ordination Centre (TUCC), Self-Employed Women’s Association (SEWA), All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU), Labour Progressive Federation (LPF) and United Trade Union Congress (UTUC).Also Read: Centre issues ‘Bharat Bandh’ advisory for statesThe controversial farm laws, that according to the farmers would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, are -- The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-gave-bharat-bandh-call-and-the-parties-supporting-it-all-you-need-to-know/story-5SkcowkjdPxTKOFuhbkdiO.html
07-12-2020||India||Farmers’ group in support of new laws meet Agri Minister, seek amendments||As thousands of farmers continue to protest on various borders of the national capital seeking repeal of three new farm laws, a delegation of 20 from Haryana met Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar to extend their support for the new legislations.Calling it a delegation of ‘progressive farmers’, a member of the team said the group led by Padmashree awardee Kamal Singh Chavan met Tomar in support of the farm laws enacted in September and demanded the government may amend some provisions but it should not repeal them.The delegation members said they were individual farmers and representatives of farmer producer organisations (FPOs).The delegation included Bharatiya Kisan Union (Attar) National President Attar Singh Sandhu.The meeting took place a day before a “Bharat Bandh” to be observed by protesting farmers’ organisations on Tuesday, while a meeting is already scheduled for the day after on December 9 between a representative group of agitating farmers and the government for their sixth round of talks.No breakthrough has been possible in the five rounds so far, as the protesting farmers have stuck to their demand for the repeal of the laws despite the government’s assurance to look into specific issues without abolishing the legislations.The three farm laws have been presented by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and scrap the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The Centre has maintained the MSP and mandi systems would continue and would be rather further improved and strengthened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-group-in-support-of-new-laws-meet-agri-minister-seek-amendments/story-bQqp0MQWqGHVa5TZeuMtII.html
07-12-2020||India||Prez Macron dials PM Modi, gets support on action against terror and radicalisation||French President Emmanuel Macron dialled Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday evening to discuss a wide range of issues including the digital and strategic autonomy, deepening defence cooperation, Indo-Pacific, and the security environment in Asia and the West Asia.PM Modi conveyed to President Macron his condolences for the terror attacks in France, and reiterated India’s full support to France in the fight against terrorism, extremism and radicalism, the Prime Minister’s Office said. The leaders also discussed other bilateral, regional and global issues of mutual interest including improving affordability and accessibility of Covid-19 vaccines, post-Covid economic recovery and climate change.People familiar with the matter said the two leaders are learnt to have decided to set up a hotline between the two leaders. The move comes against the backdrop of France’s greater focus on the Indian Ocean and China’s aggressive posture across the region that had prompted President Macron to appoint one of France’s most senior diplomats, Christophe Penot, as the country’s first special envoy for the Indo-Pacific in October this year. Spoke with my friend @EmmanuelMacron on the challenges and opportunities presented by the post-COVID world. India stands by France in its fight against terrorism & extremism. The India-France partnership is a force for good in the world, including in the Indo-Pacific.But French President Macron has been vocal about countering China for much longer. Two years ago, he was among the first to call for building a strategic alliance between India, France and Australia that could respond to challenges in the Asia-Pacific region and the growing assertiveness of China. This initiative had taken baby steps in September when the top diplomats of the three countries had their first meeting over a video conference.Like India, France believes in both strategic autonomy and plural democracy and is concerned about Chinese moves in the South China Sea and the French territory spread across dozens of islands in the South Pacific, New Caledonia, an official said.India and France’s strategic partnership dates back to 1998; it was then New Delhi’s first. Over the next few decades, the two countries have established a strong institutional mechanism to deepen cooperation in space, counter-terrorism, maritime security, as well as dialogues among defence chiefs and National Security Advisers.National Security Adviser Ajit Doval had spoken to his French counterpart last month and the strategic dialogue between the two countries is expected to take place in January 2021.The partnership between the two countries has particularly deepened over the last few years, coinciding with PM Modi’s decision to buy Rafale fighter jets. The two countries are also exploring joint manufacture of fighter jet engines and ancillaries in India that can power India’s indigenous LCA Mark II with a higher engine thrust.That Paris had recently asked Qatar, which had also bought the Rafale fighter jet, not to allow Pakistan-origin technicians to work with the plane is indicative of the sensitivity that France has demonstrated to New Delhi’s security concerns, an official said.New Delhi had reciprocated such gestures of the French leadership in October this year when it issued a sharply-worded statement condemning personal attacks targeting the French President from some Islamic countries such as Turkey and Pakistan for his stand on Islam and radicalism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-speaks-with-macron-extends-support-to-france-against-terror-and-extremism/story-7RDkowkxmuIUYaDEGQuDbM.html
07-12-2020||India||IT raids on Assam coal traders at 21 places reveal tax fraud of over Rs 150 cr||Multiple raids leading coal traders by the Income Tax (IT) department across 21 locations in Assam and Delhi have revealed tax fraud of over Rs 150 crore. The IT department started the raids on Friday at Guwahati, Digboi and Margherita in Assam and also at several places in Delhi, the government said in a statement on Monday. The main allegation against the coal traders was that they had routed accommodation entries of more than Rs 85 crore in the form of non-genuine share capital and unsecured loans through certain Kolkata-based shell companies. All this was done by suppression of true net profit. “It has been established that the group engages in out of book transactions. Handwritten documents/diaries regarding cash transactions have been recovered which are not reflected in the regular books of accounts,” the statement said. “Such transactions detected so far across all the locations combined are upwards of Rs 150 crore, of which payments made of a total of more than Rs 100 crore have been found to be violative of various sections of the Income Tax Act, 1961. Such seized documents are voluminous and are being investigated further,” it added. Loan transactions made in cash by the coal traders were found to be more than Rs 10 crore. Stock difference of Rs 7 crore was found and no cogent explanation regarding the same was provided by the traders. “In the Kolkata-based shell company acquired by one of the traders, no book of accounts and other essential documents were found, proving the same to be a bogus company used only to route unaccounted income of the group,” the statement said.Unexplained cash of approximately Rs 3.53 crore has also been found during the raids. Cash investments in share capital during the demonetization period were also found. Further investigations are on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-raids-on-assam-coal-traders-at-21-places-reveal-tax-fraud-of-over-rs-150-cr/story-JJ3lxRpux10Q0qEzkN3YVL.html
07-12-2020||India||Farm laws will ensure better price to farmers, have opened avenues of private investment: Narendra Singh Tomar||A day ahead of ‘Bharat Bandh’, Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has said that the three farm laws are aimed at providing better price to farmers for their produce and it would bring prosperity and employment to the villages that have evaded poor farmers even after 70 years of independence.The Union minister was interacting with farmer unions mainly from Haryana and explained to them how private investment will open up for agriculture due to these laws which will benefit farmers.The minister also referred to the ongoing agitation by farmers against the three farm laws.“Andolan chalenga to isse nibtenge ( if the agitation goes on, we will deal with it),” he said when some farmers claimed that agitating farmers are being misled.“Today, infrastructure like warehouse and cold storage will have to built near villages. The avenues for private investment have been opened by these laws. This will increase opportunities of employment generation,” Tomar told farmer unions.The minister met a delegation of 20 farmers who had come to urge him to not repeal the laws but make certain amendments.Tomar spoke how Congress despite writing about these laws in its election manifestos, failed to bring or implement them.“Swaminathan Committee was formed by former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. From 2006 to 2014 they had time to implement. Congress put that in election manifesto but never dared to implement,” the minister.He said the government has made attempts but private investments have largely eluded the agriculture sector and there was also a lack of individual investment.“Roads were blocked for investment. There are small farmers and they don’t go towards costly farming. FPOs will be formed in villages so investment too will go to villages. Infrastructure will be developed near big mandis. Farmers aren’t able to hold his produce so he never gets good price. But these laws will ensure good price to them,” the agriculture minister told the farmers.The minister also explained the investment planned by the government.He said the government is about to invest 1.5 lakh crore in agriculture infrastructure which includes food processing, bee harvesting, fisheries, herbal farming.He said there were also talks with a bank to give three per cent subsidy on interest to farmers.Farmers have been protesting on different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws-Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Farmers’ leaders have held several rounds of talks with the government but all of them remained inconclusive so far. After the fifth round of talks, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar has called another meeting on December 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-will-ensure-better-price-to-farmers-have-opened-avenues-of-private-investment-narendra-singh-tomar/story-p8ei6DFzX9qVUEYR4QFXYN.html
07-12-2020||India||SC refuses to entertain plea seeking protection from arrest for Republic TV’s staff in cases lodged in Maharashtra||The Supreme Court Monday refused to entertain a plea filed by ARG Outlier Media Private Limited, which owns the Republic Media network, seeking protection for the group and its employees in the cases lodged against them in Maharashtra.The matter came up for hearing before a bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud which said that prayers in the petition were “all ambitious”.“This petition is ambitious in nature. You want Maharashtra police not to arrest any employee and transfer the cases to CBI. You better withdraw this,” Justice Chandrachud told senior advocate Milind Sathe, who appeared for ARG Outlier Media.Sathe told the bench that they have filed the plea to stop the Maharashtra police from “hounding” their media network, its Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami and its employees.“You have sought all the reliefs and these can’t be entertained in one petition,” the bench said, after which Sathe said he would withdraw the plea.The apex court allowed Sathe to withdraw the petition with liberty to take appropriate remedies available under the law.Besides seeking protection for the media group, Goswami and its employees, the petition had said that Maharashtra government should be stopped from “hounding them” and all FIRs lodged against them be either quashed or transferred to the CBI.The petitioner had also said there should be CBI enquiry against the state and its police in the matter for lodging several cases against the media group and its employees.It had also sought a direction that no editorial and other staffs of the media group be arrested by the Maharashtra police. Mumbai Police had registered a case in the alleged Television Rating Points (TRP) manipulation scam and Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh had claimed that three channels, including Republic TV, had manipulated the TRP.ARG Outlier Media Pvt Ltd has denied these allegations.The alleged racket came to light when BARC, an organization which measures TRP, filed a complaint in this regard through Hansa Research Group Pvt Ltd, the police had said.Besides this, some other cases are pending in Maharashtra against Goswami.The apex court had on November 27 extended the interim bail of Goswami and two others till four weeks after the Bombay High Court decides their pleas for quashing of an FIR in the 2018 abetment to suicide case, saying that the judiciary should ensure criminal law does not become a weapon for selective harassment. PTI SJK ABA MNL SA||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-refuses-to-entertain-plea-seeking-protection-from-arrest-for-republic-tv-s-staff-in-cases-lodged-in-maharashtra/story-XZwufztqEh36h9gEy1oJyK.html
07-12-2020||India||Don’t force anyone to join Bharat Bandh, says farmers’ union||Farmers’ union on Monday urged farmers not to force anyone to join the call for Bharat Bandh on December 8. “We appeal to farmers no to force anyone to observe Bharat Bandh. People are supporting our movement willingly. Even railway people will support the bandh. Four states business people are with us. We don’t have to go and tell that tomorrow is Bharat bandh,” Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU-Rajewal), president Balbir Singh Rajewal said at a press conference at the Delhi-Haryana Singhu border. Rajewal said that emergency services will be allowed during the complete Bharat Bandh. The farmer union also stated that no political party will be allowed on the stage.“The bandh will be observed the whole day tomorrow. Chakka jam till 3 PM. It will be a peaceful bandh. We are firm on not allowing any political leaders on our stage,” said farmer leader Dr Darshan Pal while addressing the press conference. Rajewal reiterated that government will have to accept the demands of the farmers and said, “We want nothing less than withdrawal of new farm laws.”Opposition parties have lent their support to the Bharat Bandh demonstration on December 8 called by farmers’ unions in protest against the new farm laws enacted by the central government.Thousands of farmers have been protesting on different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws--Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Farmers’ leaders have held several rounds of talks with the government but all of them remained inconclusive so far. After the fifth round of talks, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar has called another meeting on December 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-force-anyone-to-join-bharat-bandh-says-farmers-union/story-nVtTYcZZhKztDUrnZwOpIO.html
07-12-2020||India||Bharat Biotech seeks emergency use authorization for Covid-19 vaccine||After Pfizer and Serum Institute, Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical firm Bharat Biotech on Monday applied to the central drug regulator seeking emergency use authorisation for its COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin, official sources said.Covaxin is being indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).On December 4, Prime Minister Narendra Modi at an all-party meeting had expressed hope that a COVID-19 vaccine may be ready in a few weeks.That same evening, the Indian arm of US pharmaceutical giant Pfizer sought emergency use approval for its vaccine from the central drug regulator, after the firm secured such clearance in the UK and Bahrain.The Serum Institute sought such nod for the Oxford COVID-19 vaccine, Covishield, on December 6.The applications of Bharat Biotech, Serum Institute of India and Pfizer will be reviewed by the subject expert committee (SEC) on COVID-19 at the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) in the coming days.“However, none of the applications has so far been forwarded to the committee and no date has been fixed as on when the SEC will meet for assessing and evaluating the applications,” the official source said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-seeks-emergency-use-authorization-for-covid-19-vaccine-govt-source/story-HmmD0JnniJeigdF6xmjxBO.html
07-12-2020||India||BJP a bank for robbers to deposit loot, says Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee lashed out at the Bharatiya Janata Party on Monday alleging that it has turned into a bank for robbers to safely deposit their loot and accused it of using money power to break other parties and topple governments. “It has become a fashion to join BJP because the party is like a bank where lootere (robbers) can deposit the wealth they have accumulated. The BJP gives protection to such people. It is like an identity card,” Banerjee said in West Midnapore. She also attacked the Centre over the contentious farm laws and disinvestment policy and said either the farm laws should be rolled back or the BJP should quit. She also demanded a white paper on PM CARES Fund. The TMC chief while lending her full support to Bharat bandh called by the farmers directed her party to organize demonstrations across the state from Tuesday. Protests would also be staged in Kolkata. “The BJP should either roll back farm laws or quit. The entire country is speaking on the same lines,” said while attacking the BJP for its privatization policy. She also took on the CPI(M) and the Congress alleging that the two parties are helping the BJP in West Bengal. She said women would hit the streets with cooking utensils to stop “outsiders”. “I would urge all party workers and the people to watch out for outsiders in your localities who are distributing money. Take the money from the BJP as it public money and vote for the TMC. I won’t be able to say these before the elections as it would be against the Model Code of Conduct. So I am saying it now,” she said.Although the BJP was her main target, all eyes were on Banerjee for a different reason. It was her first rally in West Midnapore where Suvendu Adhikari a TMC heavyweight and a former minister has a strong support. Adhikari’s rift with the party has widened over the past few weeks. While she did not mention Adhikari, none from the Adhikar family, including Suvendu Adhikari himself, his father Sisir Adhikari and brother Dibyendu Adhikari - both TMC MPs - were present in the rally. Local TMC leaders close to Adhikari also didn’t turn up. She also took a swipe at the BJP’s Bengal unit chief Dilip Ghosh’s recent remark that the saffron party would turn Bengal into another Gujarat by emulating the western state’s growth model. “I won’t allow Bengal to become Gujarat. I would rather remain in jail than shake hands with the BJP and be branded a traitor,” she said. “The BJP is using central investigating agencies to scare people.” The BJP hit back saying that Banerjee’s allegations are nothing new and that they had got the answer in 2019. “The TMC has no issues and hence bringing baseless allegations. They had raised similar allegations in 2019. They got the people’s response. They will again get the response from the people in 2021,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson in West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-a-bank-for-robbers-to-deposit-loot-says-mamata-banerjee/story-fysesZYNiZD5GQo8MaFuOM.html
07-12-2020||India||MP: On Bharat bandh eve, people stock essentials in Indore||People rushed to stock essential commodities in Indore city of Madhya Pradesh on the eve of the Bharat Bandh called by farmers’ bodies against three agriculture laws passed by the Centre.Though major organisations have not backed the shutdown call, people crowded shops to buy essential commodities.On Tuesday, senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh would lead a protest at Chavni Anaj Mandi here, said Congress district president Sadashiv Yadav.Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Mahasangh (RKMM) spokesman Ashish Bhairam said a rally will be taken out.He said RKMM workers will request shop owners to down the shutters for the sake of farmers.A police officer has warned of stern action if anybody tries to take law into his hands during bandh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-on-bharat-bandh-eve-people-stock-essentials-in-indore/story-DTpHb7dzT3OmFb6lODG3UO.html
07-12-2020||India||Ahead of ‘Bharat bandh’, Congress, BJP spar in MP on farm laws||The Congress and BJP in Madhya Pradesh indulged in a war of words on the agriculture sector a day before Tuesday’s ‘Bharat bandh’ called by various outfits to protest against the Centre’s new farm laws.While senior Congressman and former MP chief minister Kamal Nath said the three laws were passed by the Narendra Modi government without discussions with farmers, the BJP hit back with state agriculture minister Kamal Patel stating that the Congress, in 55 years in power, had done nothing to alleviate farm distress.In a statement, Nath said, “There is no mention of minimum support price (MSP) guarantee in these new laws. The mandi system will also be destroyed. It will only benefit the corporate world and will lead to profiteering and hoarding.” He said Congress workers will agitate at every district headquarter in MP on Tuesday.His colleague and Rajya Sabha MP Digvijaya Singh said the new laws wanted to ensure the entry of corporates into the agriculture sector which currently is worth Rs 12-15 lakh crore.The CPM’s central committee member and Madhya Pradesh Kisan Sangarsh Samiti convener Badal Saroj said over 1,500 farmers from the state are taking part in the ongoing protest in Delhi against the laws, while former MLA and Kisan Sangarsh Samiti working president Dr Suneelam said farmers will not agree to anything less than the cancellation of these three laws.However, Madhya Pradesh agriculture minister Kamal Patel told reporters farmers were with the BJP and had extended full support to it in the recent bypolls to 28 seats in the state.“The Congress has done nothing for farmers, neither constructed homes or toilets for them. Under Congress rule, farmers had to pay compound interest on loans and, due to this, many had to sell their lands,” Patel alleged.He said the earlier system benefited only middlemen who went on to become rich at the expense of farmers.He said those protesting against these laws must “convince us” about “discrepancies” in the new laws.“The government is ready to talk, but protesters are adamant as they are aware that if these laws are implemented, then the fate of farmers will change and they will become atmanirbhar (self-reliant),” Patel claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-bharat-bandh-congress-bjp-spar-in-mp-on-farm-laws/story-Z862ePz7doRHJt9umiUMLN.html
07-12-2020||India||Bankers not to participate in Bharat Bandh on Tuesday||Bank unions said they will not participate in the ‘Bharat Bandh’ on Tuesday, even as they expressed solidarity with farmers protesting against the new farm laws. Farmer groups, camping at various Delhi border points for over a week, have called for a nationwide shutdown on Tuesday to protest against three recently enacted agriculture-related legislations. All India Bank Officers’ Confederation (AIBOC) General Secretary Soumya Datta said the union has expressed its solidarity with farmers but will not be participating in the Bharat Bandh called by them. Similarly, All India Bank Employees’ Association (AIBEA) General Secretary C H Venkatachalam said the union would not go on strike or abstain from work but it supports the farmers’ agitation. Union members would wear black badges while on duty, stage protest after or before working hours and display placards before bank branches to support the cause of farmers of the country, Venkatachalam said, but added that banking operations will not be hit. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting against the new farm laws which they claim will dismantle the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporate houses. Meanwhile, farmer leaders have said that nobody should be forced to observe ‘Bharat Bandh’ on Tuesday and that emergency services will be allowed. Several rounds of talks between the Centre and farmers have failed to break the deadlock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bankers-not-to-participate-in-bharat-bandh-on-tuesday/story-vhHY7toDPoKD2XF0lWDZXN.html
07-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Delhi records 1,674 new coronavirus cases, daily positivity rate drops 3.15% and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi records 1,674 new coronavirus infections, daily positivity rate drops 3.15%After experiencing a severe third wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Delhi is now witnessing a steady dip in the number of new cases of the infection. On Monday, the national capital recorded 1,674 fresh Covid-19 cases and 63 deaths in the last 24 hours, as per the official health bulletin. Read moreKerala to move Supreme Court over farm law this weekKerala will move the Supreme Court against the new farm law in a couple of days, said state agriculture minister VS Sunil Kumar. He said since agriculture falls in the concurrent list, new law encroaches upon the rights of states and it was against the federal structure of the country. Read moreIndia, Nepal discuss creation of cross-border economic zonesIndia and Nepal on Monday reviewed the development of cross-border trade infrastructure and discussed ways to boost trade and investment, including the creation of cross-border economic zones. Read moreIndia vs Australia, 3rd T20I Preview: Stats, form indicate a whitewashConsidering India’s record against Australia in the shortest format of the game especially in Australia, it really shouldn’t be a surprise if Virat Kohli’s men go on to win the third and final T20I at the Sydney Cricket Ground on Tuesday to blank the hosts 3-0. Who would have thought this was possible when India ended November with a bag full of questions and little hopes of finding the answers. But strange things happen in cricket, especially with the change of formats. Read moreAK vs AK trailer: Anil Kapoor has to find kidnapped Sonam Kapoor in a clash of ego with ‘sasta Tarantino’ Anurag KashyapThe first trailer for Vikramaditya Motwane’s AK vs AK is out and it promises a lot of chaos. The film pits filmmaker Anurag Kashyap against Anil Kapoor in a clash of egos. Read more CEO of fashion company resigns to focus on family, prioritize wife’s careerThe chief executive of online fashion retailer Zalando is stepping down to focus on his family, saying his wife’s career should “take priority” in the coming years. Read more Watch: ‘Shameless double standards’: BJP attacks opposition over farmers’ protestUnion Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad lashed out at the opposition parties over the protest by farmers. Prasad said that the UPA government had done the same when it was in power and added that they are opposing only for the sake of it. ‘The Congress, in their 2019 manifesto, had promised to repeal the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act and make trade of agricultural produce including export free from all restrictions,’ Prasad said. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-delhi-records-1-674-new-coronavirus-infections-daily-positivity-rate-drops-3-15-and-all-the-latest-news/story-FFWPitA1VnjUkGSNBJBkIJ.html
07-12-2020||India||Air India allows for a free date change on tickets if passengers miss flights due to Bharat Bandh||Passengers who are unable to reach the airport in time for their flights on Tuesday due to the nationwide strike or Bharat Bandh called by farmers protesting against the farm laws will not have to pay no-show charges and will be eligible for a free date change on confirmed tickets for flights from all Indian airports, Air India said on Monday.“For passengers who are unable to reach the Airport due to possible disturbance on 8th Dec, no-show charges will be waived and one free date change allowed for those with confirmed tickets for travel on 8th Dec, 2020 from any Indian Airport,” a statement issued by Air India read.Also Read | Bharat Bandh: All you need to know about parties supporting it and services that may be affectedMeanwhile, the Delhi Traffic Police shut some routes in view of the strike. Tikri, Jharoda, Dhansa, Singhu, Auchandi, Piao Maniyari and Mangesh borders of the national Capital with Haryana were closed. National Highway-44 was also shut and commuters were suggested to take alternative routes via Lampur, Safiabad and Saboli borders. The Ghazipur border on NH-24 was also closed for traffic from Ghaziabad to Delhi.Thousands of farmers protesting near the national Capital against the three farm laws - the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 - have demanded that these laws be repealed.Also Read: Bharat Bandh will begin at 11am. Here’s whyParties like the Congress, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Shiv Sena, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Trinamool Congress (TMC), Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Samajwadi Party, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) and Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) have supported the Bandh call. As many as five rounds of talks between the government and the protesting farmers have been inconclusive as the agitating farmers seek complete withdrawal of the laws. The Centre, on the other hand, has agreed to ‘as many amendments’ as demanded by the farmers. “The farmers seemed like a divided lot with few convinced of laws and government’s intention to make amendments on their suggestions whereas there was a handful of those who remained adamant on the repeal of farm laws,” an official familiar with the developments told news agency ANI. The next round of talks is set to take place on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-allows-for-a-free-date-change-on-tickets-if-passengers-miss-flights-due-to-bharat-bandh/story-rnofgmHOlqLpjQNPvv4QqK.html
07-12-2020||India||India speeding up review of Pfizer, Astra Covid-19 vaccines: Official||India is accelerating its review of coronavirus vaccines developed by Pfizer Inc and AstraZeneca for emergency use, a senior government official said on Monday, as the world’s second-most affected country struggles to contain the outbreak.The Indian government is pinning its hopes for mass supply of the vaccine on Serum Institute of India, the world’s largest vaccine producer by volume, which on Monday lodged the first formal application for emergency use approval for AstraZeneca Plc’s Covid-19 vaccine.Click here for complete Covid-19 coveragePfizer Inc had already applied for emergency use approval for its vaccine in India over the weekend, the official said, declining to be identified.“We are in the process of reviewing. It is an accelerated reviewing process, which is there for Serum too,” the government official said.“It is the need of the hour. We have to review at the earliest.”The world’s second-most populous country with over 1.3 billion people has 9.68 million infections, while more than 140,000 people have died of Covid-19. Lockdowns imposed to contain the spread of the virus have plunged the economy into one of its worst downturns in decades.Serum Institute CEO Adar Poonawalla tweeted that the move to apply for emergency use “will save countless lives,” but did not give any other details.The company declined to reply to Reuters’ follow-up questions about the process.AstraZeneca, Pfizer and Moderna Inc are among the drugmakers seeking advanced approvals for their vaccines, which are increasingly being seen by governments as the only way to stop a pandemic that will soon complete a year since it was first reported in China.AstraZeneca’s vaccine, called “Covishield” by Serum Institute, has less stringent storage requirements and is expected to be easier to distribute and faster to scale up in low-income countries.But it is also facing queries from scientists over its trial data, which showed a 1.5 dose regimen delivered more than 90% efficacy and a full two-dose regimen just 62%, both administered over two stages.Britain and some other nations have pressed on with plans to roll out the AstraZeneca vaccine, while the Philippines and Thailand secured millions of doses, giving the shot a vote of confidence after experts raised questions about trial data.AstraZeneca said two weeks ago that it could launch an additional trial to evaluate the lower dose regimen, but Serum Institute has said it would continue to test only the two full doses as it would delay trials.Poonawalla has said the company will first focus on supplying the vaccine in India before distributing it to other countries, pricing it at 1,000 rupees per dose ($13.50) for private markets.Serum Institute has also said an emergency use approval could preface a full rollout by February or March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-speeding-up-review-of-pfizer-astra-covid-19-vaccines-government-official/story-b17fSMZzQmLHM56TkN1DCK.html
07-12-2020||India||‘Congress’ boat sinking’: Shivraj Chouhan in attack on opposition over farmers’ stir||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Monday hit out at the opposition parties including Congress over protests against the farm reforms recently passed by Parliament. Speaking at a press conference in Hyderabad, Chouhan said, “Congress’ boat is sinking and that is why they are trying to save themselves by misleading farmers.”“Today I will expose the hypocrisy of Congress and other political parties including Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Samajwadi Party (SP), Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), Trinamool Congress (TMC), Left parties on the farm laws,” Chouhan said. “Sharad Pawar Sahab wrote to me in 2011: ‘There’s need to amend Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act on lines of model APMC Act to encourage private sector investment in marketing, infrastructure and providing alternate competitive marketing channels in the overall interest of farmers, consumers and agriculture trade’,” Chouhan added.Click here for live udpates on farmers’ protestHe further said that the “government stands with the farmers” and will “clarify their doubts and resolve their issues.” “We won’t spare those elements who may try to create chaos in the country under the cover of farmers’ protest,” Chouhan also said.Chouhan’s attack against opposition parties came a day before the farmers called for a Bharat Bandh, a nationwide strike on Tuesday. The call has been supported by several political parties including Congress, NCP, Shiv Sena, AAP, Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), TMC, DMK, Samajwadi Party, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) and Indian National Lok Dal (INLD).Earlier in the day, Delhi chief minister and AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal met the farmers protesting at the Singhu border along with his cabinet. During the visit, Kejriwal briefly interacted with farmers and inspected the arrangements made by the city administration for them.The AAP has also announced to hold a peaceful demonstration on Tuesday in Delhi in support of the farmers.The farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-boat-sinking-shivraj-chouhan-in-attack-on-opposition-over-farmers-stir/story-fBw1FMIIi5oseve9ohgNjK.html
07-12-2020||India||Challenges, adventures and joys of being first tiger ladies of Corbett Tiger Reserve||In less than a month, the first seven women nature guides of Corbett Tiger Reserve have won over tourists in their stint working as tour guides. But these women are also facing challenges both at professional and personal level. Despite all odds, these tiger ladies of Corbett are steadily finding their foothold in the job that was primarily held by men in these jungles so far. For the first time this year, Corbett Tiger Reserve appointed female nature guides to bring gender equality in the wildlife tourism sector and the guides have received a mixed response. Urmila Belwal, 28-year-old nature guide posted at Garjiya gate of Corbett, said that working as a nature guide is an enriching experience but comes at the cost of her 8-year-old son staying with relatives without his parents. “Both my husband and I work with the Corbett Tiger Reserve. I joined last month as a nature guide where my duty starts early morning at 6:30 am. My husband works in Bijrani zone on a night shift. On certain days, when I have tourists in both morning and afternoon shifts, I am not able to pay any attention to my son and he stays with our relatives. With my husband working night shift, there have been days when only one of us is available for our son,” said Belwal. Speaking more about her experience, Belwal also said that she, along with other nature guides, has to manage transportation and travel in groups as they cross patches of forests while going for work covering around 12-15 kilometres from her village. Also read: India, Nepal discuss creation of cross-border economic zones“Every job has an occupational hazard and ours is crossing through forests with the constant fear of being attacked by animals. But we have grown up living around wild animals so we can manage that. We are five women who usually travel together so that our families also do not worry,” she added. Deeksha Kargeti, 22-year-old from Dhela village who also works as a nature guide in Garjiya zone said, “I am enjoying this opportunity and trying to learn as much as possible about wildlife. It is nice when tourists acknowledge us, click selfies with us and want to go on safaris with female guides, it motivates us to work better.” Kargeti also said that travelling through forests in early morning hours is “a little risky and scary”. However, not all female guides have had the same experience. Despite being appointed and trained, three guides from Luthiya village near Kotdwar in Pauri district are waiting for tourists to arrive amid Covid-19 epidemic. Monika Rawat, 20-year-old from Ludhiya village, who has been posted at Sonanadi gate of Corbett, said they are facing multiple challenges like distance from their village, lack of transportation and lesser number of tourists compared to other gates of the reserve. “I went to the Sonanadi for around five to six days after the gates were opened for tourists on November 15 but tourists were not coming. Even if there were some tourists, they were not interested in safari. We also spoke to divisional forest officials for helping us with transportation as it is a problem in the early morning hours. When not many tourists are visiting, I stop going,” said Rawat. Rahul, director of Corbett Tiger Reserve, who goes by his first name, said that many tourists are praising the efforts of women nature guides, especially all-female group tourists, but the officials are also working to solve their problems. “There are seven women who have been selected as guides this year. Four have been posted at Garjiya and three who are from Pauri district have been posted at Sonanadi. I have learnt about the problems of transportation faced by them. Indeed, tourism in the Pauri side is not much compared to the other zones, so we are trying to shift them from Sonanadi to Bijrani or Garjiya zone. I have asked them to write to me about difficulties that they face,” said Rahul. In October, 488 candidates had appeared in the guide recruitment test held in Ramnagar of which 102 were women. A total of 67 candidates cleared the test, including seven women. Corbett Tiger Reserve, which is spread across 1,288 square kilometres, is one of the most loved tourist destinations in the state. The gates of Corbett open on November 15 every year for six months till mid-June. Corbett witnesses a footfall of around 300,000 tourists every year. There are 231 tigers inside CTR and 266 using the reserve according to the latest report on tigers. This is the highest number of tigers in 50 tiger reserves in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/challenges-adventures-and-joys-of-being-first-tiger-ladies-of-corbett-tiger-reserve/story-9YsLcnUWh8ZZc3P3GsqhLN.html
07-12-2020||India||‘With friends near me, those were the best days’||Actor Rajesh Jais feels his earlier days in the industry were made easy because of his group of friends. “See, whatever profession it be, one needs time to settle and make a place. I don’t call it a struggle. Also my group of friends including Saurabh Shukla, Irrfaan Khan, Manoj Bajpayee, Tigmanshu Dhulia and others were my biggest support. Saurabh called me to Mumbai from Delhi as it was he who got our tickets done. Those were the best days of my life,” said the ‘Gandhi The Mahatma’ actor.Talking about his work and early days, Jais said, “I come from a defence background and tried my hand at multiple things including NCC Air Wing, air shooting, aero-modelling, journalism, music and completed the Air Force Attachment Course leading me closer to join the defence services. It was one fine day I saw a few students practising a street play and I joined them too. It was such a fun experience and it was my first exposure to acting. Eventually it took me to the National School of Drama.”Jais came to Mumbai way back in early 90s and got his break with the TV drama, ‘Shanti’. “It was a role that was supposed to be done by Manoj Bajpayee but he introduced me to the makers and eventually I got the show. Then my film debut happened with Ketan Mehta’s ‘Oh Darling Yeh Hai India.’ But for me the real cinema was the art one with legends like Nasseruddin Shah, Om Puri and I was one of their biggest followers,” he said.After almost 30 years in the industry the ‘Why Cheat India,’ actor wishes to continue acting as the kind of content appearing on the Web has aspired him to take up more work. “The kind of stories that are being made on the Web as well as in films, they’re inspiring actors.”Currently, the actor is waiting for the release of the film ‘Indoo ki Jawani’ with Kiara Advani in the lead and shooting for a horror flick, ‘Chhori’ in MP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/with-friends-near-me-those-were-the-best-days/story-pC0OEcmcqTUei5p5KoRngJ.html
07-12-2020||India||Private doctors in Uttarakhand to shut OPDs on Dec 11 to protest ayurveds performing surgery||The Uttarakhand chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA) has called for the closure of out-patient departments in private hospitals on December 11, in protest against the Centre’s recent decision to allow a certain section of Ayurveda doctors to perform surgeries. Officials from IMA Uttarakhand alleged that the move would endanger the lives of patients as there can be different side-effects of Ayurveda and allopathy being mixed. Dr DD Choudhury, national vice-president and state secretary of IMA said, “It is not that we do not want AYUSH medicine to flourish in the country, but we are against the mixing of two different kinds of treatments.” “Protesting against this move, over 2000 doctors from Uttarakhand will keep OPDs shut from 6 am to 6 pm on December 11. The courts in the country say that those practicing modern medicine cannot practice Ayurveda, then why is it not the same vice-versa. Using Ayurvedic medicines during modern medicine treatment can become fatal for the patient, and who would be responsible then?” Dr Choudhury asked.The medical body will also hold a symbolic silent protest at different areas across the state on Tuesday in line with Covid-19 protocol.As per a notification, Central Council of Indian Medicines has mandated that ayurvedic post graduation in Shalyathanthra and Shalakyathanthra are to undergo training to independently perform 58 procedures that include general surgery, urology, surgical gastroenterology, ENT, ophthalmology and dental medicine, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/private-doctors-in-uttarakhand-to-shut-opds-on-dec-11-to-protest-ayurveds-performing-surgery/story-Zb2sIccGmR8F0mtcbFuvVJ.html
07-12-2020||India||ADB approves $2.5 million for advanced biofuel development in India||Multilateral lending agency Asian Development Bank (ADB) on Monday said it has approved a $2.5 million (about Rs 18 crore) technical assistance to support advanced biofuel development in India.The grant is funded from the Asia Clean Energy Fund, financed by the Government of Japan under the Clean Energy Financing Partnership Facility, and the Republic of Korea’s e-Asia and Knowledge Partnership Fund.In a statement, ADB said the technical assistance (TA) will support development of advanced bioethanol, bio-compressed natural gas, and biodiesel plants to demonstrate the best practices for suitable feedstock, efficient conversion technology, and sustainable biofuel value chain.It will also support incorporating gender main-streaming design in the feedstock value chain to promote the empowerment of rural women in agriculture.Using novel technology, advanced (or second-generation) biofuels could be produced from non-edible sources like agricultural residue, municipal solid waste, and used cooking oil. They can be used as bioethanol, biogas, and biodiesel for energy, transport, manufacturing, and medical purposes.“This renewable energy will lower net greenhouse gas emission without threatening food security. India has a massive amount of wastes, but crop burning causes severe air pollution. If agricultural waste can be collected effectively as feedstock for biofuels, its sales will be able to supplement rural farmers’ income and negate the need to burn crop waste,” the statement said.The advanced biofuels can provide simultaneous solutions to address energy security, waste recycling, climate change, and air pollution reduction.The Manila-headquartered organisation further said that technical and financial barriers discourage commercial production of biofuels, such as the absence of technology standards, lack of feedstock supply chain mechanism, limited access to finance, and resultant high production costs and financial viability risks.“The ADB’s TA will help address these obstacles and prepare for advanced biofuels’ commercial application and large-scale production,” it said.ADB Finance Specialist for South Asia Jongmi Son said ADB supports the government of India’s National Policy on Biofuels established in 2018 to promote advanced biofuel market, which will harness waste, strengthen energy independence, create new industries and jobs, and mitigate global warming.“The TA will take a cross-sector approach to tackle various thematic issues, such as energy security, transport mobility, agribusiness, financial stability, air and water pollution, waste disposal, public health, climate change, and the urban–rural divide,” Son said.As per the statement, holistic studies will be conducted in aid of establishing technical designs, effective business models, catalytic financing schemes, regulatory frameworks, and awareness programs.To boost advanced biofuel investments, ADB will collaborate with the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas, the Oil Industry Development Board, and public financial institutions, such as the Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency and the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development.ADB will also work with public oil companies, including the Indian Oil Corporation Limited and the Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adb-approves-2-5-million-for-advanced-biofuel-development-in-india/story-bz58Q1JiOBE58JXC0hiBpM.html
07-12-2020||India||Railway unions extend support to farmers’ call for Bharat Bandh||Farmers demanding the repeal of three farms laws received a shot in the arm on Monday with two of the biggest unions of the national transporter-- The All India Railwaymen’s Federation (AIRF) and the National Federation of Indian Railwaymen (NFIR) – extending their support for Bharat Bandh on Tuesday.The railway unions on Monday announced that their members will hold rallies and demonstrations on Tuesday in a show of solidarity with the farmers who have called the bandh.All India Railwaymen’s Federation (AIRF) general secretary Shiva Gopal Mishra met the agitating farmers at Delhi’s Singhu border and assured them that members of the railway union are with them in their fight against the new agriculture laws.“We have written to our affiliates all over the Indian Railways to extend support to the farmers in their struggle to achieve their genuine demands, on December 8, 2020 during Bharat Bandh’. I have already advised AIRF affiliates to organise agitation programmes, dharna, demonstrations and rallies during lunch hour against anti-farmer policies of the Government of India. I hope that the government will give cognizance to the genuine demands of the farmers and redress the same at the earliest,” he said in a statement.M Raghavaiah, general secretary, NFIR in a statement appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to accept the demands of the farmers and said that the railway families are with the “annadatas” in their struggle against the anti-farm laws which are “detrimental to the farmer community of the nation”.“The NFIR general secretary advised all its affiliate unions throughout the Indian Railways to conduct dharnas, rallies and demonstrations in solidarity with the farmers’ struggle and against anti-farmer decisions of the central government,” the statement said.The two unions comprising nearly 13 lakh current railway employees and around 20 lakh retired employees, are the latest to show solidarity with agitating farmers. Support for farmers have also poured in from the Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS) and the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU). The All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) has also extended its support.“Earlier it was decided that the transport fraternity from Northern India will participate in the Bharat Bandh announced by farmers, but now it has been resolved in the meeting that transport associations and unions in other parts of the country will join the Bharat Bandh of farmers and voluntarily suspend their operations on December 8, 2020,” the AIMTC said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railway-unions-extend-support-to-farmers-call-for-bharat-bandh/story-7Q40iTQUCv6LTD2dSO29FP.html
07-12-2020||India||India, Nepal discuss creation of cross-border economic zones||India and Nepal on Monday reviewed the development of cross-border trade infrastructure and discussed ways to boost trade and investment, including the creation of cross-border economic zones.These matters were discussed during a virtual meeting of the bilateral inter-governmental committee on trade and transit, seen as another step towards the normalisation of ties that were hit by a border row earlier this year. Nepal had indicated its desire to review various issues related to trade and transit arrangements during foreign secretary Harsh Shringla’s visit to Kathmandu last month.A statement from the Indian embassy in Kathmandu said the meeting reviewed the development of cross-border trade infrastructure and discussed ways to promote investments, including a new proposal on developing cross-border economic zones and holding a meeting of the joint business forum.The two sides also reviewed the treaties on trade and transit. The commerce secretaries of the two countries noted that despite the Covid-19 pandemic, there was smooth and unimpeded movement of trade and commercial cargo in trucks across the land border with the facilitation of both governments.Also read: Body found 11 days after MiG-29 pilot goes missing, DNA test result awaited“The wide-ranging discussions today and the progress made in the meeting are expected to further support the expansion in economic and commercial ties between India and Nepal,” the statement said. The inter-governmental committee is the apex bilateral mechanism to review and set the way forward for bilateral trade and economic ties. Monday’s meeting was chaired by commerce secretary Anup Wadhawan and his Nepalese counterpart Baikuntha Aryal and attended by representatives of different ministries from both sides.India-Nepal ties took a hit when Kathmandu issued a new political map in May that laid claim to Indian territories in the Kalapani region. India rejected the map and the two sides agreed during Shringla’s visit to respect each other’s sensitivities and to handle the border issue through existing mechanisms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-nepal-discuss-creation-of-cross-border-economic-zones/story-t4Eb1cqElawxtL0TvGEzAJ.html
07-12-2020||India||Delhi-Haryana borders shut ahead of Bharat Bandh on Tuesday||In view of the farmers’ protest against the three farm laws passed by Parliament, the Delhi Police on Monday shut Tikri, Jharoda, Dhansa, Singhu, Auchandi, Piao Maniyari and Mangesh borders of the national Capital with its neighbouring state Haryana. The borders were shut a day before the countrywide strike or Bharat Bandh called by the agitating farmers on Tuesday. Update : Tikri, Jharoda Borders, Dhansa are closed for any Traffic Movement.Badusarai Border is open only for Light Motor Vehicle like Cars and two wheelers.Jhatikara Border is open only for two wheeler traffic @dtptraffic @DelhiPoliceThe National Highway-44 was also shut on both sides and commuters were suggested to take alternative routes via Lampur, Safiabad and Saboli borders. The traffic police advised those travelling towards Noida to take the DND as the Chilla border on the Noida Link road too was closed for traffic. The Ghazipur border on NH-24 was also shut for traffic from Ghaziabad to Delhi.Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders were among the few open borders with Haryana, the official twitter handle of the Delhi Traffic Police said. Update: Available Open Borders to Haryana are following Borders *Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera Borders* @dtptraffic @DelhiPoliceThe three laws that the farmers are protesting against - the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 - have been hailed as reforms needed to remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country.Meanwhile, the farmers say these laws will leave them at the mercy of big farmers.“We do not want corporate farming. The government will benefit from this law, not the farmer,” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-haryana-borders-shut-ahead-of-bharat-bandh-on-tuesday/story-fDr845fzIOYel88ZIDaWJN.html
07-12-2020||India||Opposition parties misleading innocent farmers, says Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath waded into the farm protests on Monday with a scathing attack on opposition parties, accusing them of making a ‘nasty bid’ to create anarchy and disorder in the country by using “innocent farmers” as a cover. His attack comes a day before the Bharat bandh that various farmer organisations have called on Tuesday, with the opposition parties lending their support to demand rollback of the three farm laws enacted recently.“The opposition parties are trying to mislead innocent farmers on the Centre’s revolutionary and historic laws to further their selfish political ends,” Adityanath said at a press conference at his official residence.He also said by goading farmers to organise the bandh amid the pandemic, the opposition parties were exposing farmers to the risk of the coronavirus.Also read: Akhilesh Yadav, stopped from joining ‘Kisan Yatra’, detained outside his Lucknow house“This is also a conspiracy to weaken the country’s fight against the Covid-19 and some nefarious powers are behind the proposed bandh,” he alleged.Replying to a question, the CM said the call for the Bharat bandh was uncalled for considering the fact that the Centre’s representatives, including Union agriculture minister, were regularly holding dialogues with farmers to hammer out an agreeable solution. Accusing the opposition parties of displaying “double standards”, Adityanath said the Congress-led UPA government had made a strong case for the implementation of the model APMC Act with the provision for contract farming in the larger interest of farmers.“The then agriculture minister and Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar even wrote a letter to chief ministers of all states in 2010-11 asking them to modify their APMC laws in accordance with the Model APMC Act made by the Centre,” he said.He further said then the SP, BSP, NCP and the TMC etc were all either a part of the then Congress-led UPA government at the Centre or were supporting it from outside.Adityanath said leaders, including SP patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav, supported the proposal for mandi reforms when it was referred to the Parliament’s standing committee last year.“If the reforms were in the interest of farmers, how can the same reforms go against the interests of farmers now when the Modi government showed the courage to take the plunge?” he asked and demanded the opposition parties to apologise to the nation for misleading innocent farmers by adopting double standards on agriculture reforms and shying away from their old stand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-parties-misleading-innocent-farmers-says-adityanath/story-5HYo3LU6OwV6p4eUmQeaUM.html
07-12-2020||India||Delhi records 1,674 new Covid-19 cases, daily positivity rate dips 3.15%||After experiencing a severe third wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Delhi is now witnessing a steady dip in the number of new cases of the infection. On Monday, the national capital recorded 1,674 fresh Covid-19 cases and 63 deaths in the last 24 hours, as per the official health bulletin.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Delhi’s positivity rate plummeted to 3.15 per cent, according to Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain.The health minister further said this is the lowest positivity rate in six months and urged the citizens to keep practising Covid-19 precautions.“In a month positivity declined to 3.15% today from 15.26% on 7th Nov. During the same period RTPCR positivity reduced to 6.68% from 30.20%.Lowest positivity in last 6 months. Steadily corona cases and positivity coming down.Hope this will continue.Please observe all precautions,” Satyendar Jain said on Twitter.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said on Sunday, “I am glad that the third wave also seems to be getting weak. Delhi fought a v difficult war against corona.”However, the number of RT-PCR or Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction tests conducted on Sunday were less as compared to the number of tests conducted on Saturday. The total number of RT-PCR tests conducted on Saturday were 32,023, while only 21,362 RT-PCR tests were done on Sunday. RT-PCR test is considered to be most authentic and accurate for covid testing. RT-PCR tests provide more true results in contrast to RAT or rapid antigen tests.As per the health bulletin, the recovery rate of Delhi has also increased in the last 24 hours to 94.57% from 93.55% on Thursday with total recovered patients at 5,61,732. The total active caseload of coronavirus in Delhi after the release of Sunday’s report stands at 22,486 and the total coronavirus cases tally now stands at 5,93,924.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-records-1-674-new-covid-19-cases-daily-positivity-rate-dips-to-historic-low/story-LkQRcpsYQ1MsIqYEiceadN.html
07-12-2020||India||Bharat Bandh will begin at 11 am. Here’s why||The farmers protesting against the three farm reforms enacted by the Centre recently will observe a nationwide strike or Bharat Bandh on Tuesday. During the strike, they will block roads and various services including transport, banking are expected to be affected. There will be complete ‘Bharat Bandh’ on Tuesday, farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said at a press conference. However, the road blockage will begin from 11 am and will continue till 3 pm.Speaking at a press conference today, Rakesh Tikait, Spokesperson of Bharatiya Kisan Union, said that the timings for the road blockade or chakka jam has been set as they don’t want to cause any trouble to the common public.Also Read | Bharat Bandh: All you need to know about parties supporting it and services that may be affected“We don’t want to cause problems for the common public. Therefore, we will begin at 11 am, so that they could leave for the office on time. Work hours in offices will end by 3 pm,” Tikait said. “Services such as ambulances, even weddings, can go on as usual. People can show their card and leave,” he added.“Our protest is peaceful and we’ll continue that way. It is a symbolic protest to register our opposition,” Tikait also said.Watch | TMC says no strike in Bengal; Delhi Police warns: Key details of Bharat Bandh Farmers from across the country are protesting against the three farm laws for 11 days now. They have been camping in and around Delhi and demanding the complete withdrawal of the laws passed by the Parliament in September this year.So far, five rounds of talks have taken place between the government and the protesting farmers. However, they have been inconclusive as they remain firm on the demand for complete withdrawal. The next round of talks is set to take place on Wednesday.Also Read | ‘Can’t build new century with old laws’: PM Modi’s pitch for reforms amid farmers’ protestIn view of the strike, police in Delhi are taking extensive measures to maintain the law and order situation on Tuesday. As per the traffic advisory, Singhu, Auchandi, Piao Maniyari, Mangesh, Tikri and Jharoda borders (on the Haryana side) are closed. The National Highway-44 has also been closed on both sides.People travelling towards Noida are also advised to take DND flyover as the Chilla border on the Noida Link road too is closed for traffic. The Ghazipur border on NH-24 is also closed for traffic from Ghaziabad to Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-will-begin-at-11-am-here-s-why/story-hYBQvx8i4EaczrdvcyP3HJ.html
07-12-2020||India||Law and order plans in place for ‘Bharat bandh’, say Mumbai cops||Strict action will be taken against anyone trying to force shops and other establishments to down shutters during Tuesday’s ‘Bharat bandh’ called by various outfits and political parties against the Centre’s new farm laws, Mumbai police officials said.Deputy Commissioner S Chaitanya, the Mumbai police’s spokesperson, told PTI all preparations have been made to maintain law and order during the shutdown, including deployment of three State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) companies in the metropolis.Also Read | Bharat Bandh: BEST buses, cabs, autos to ply as usual on Mumbai roads“We will take strict action if anyone is found forcing people to shut their establishments. Patrolling and nakabandis will be intensified on Tuesday during the bandh,” the DCP said.The bandh has been called against Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020, all of which were passed by Parliament recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/law-and-order-plans-in-place-for-bharat-bandh-say-mumbai-cops/story-T0691lbof0r9Bnv7lfA2qI.html
07-12-2020||India||Body found 11 days after MiG-29 pilot goes missing, DNA test result awaited||A body believed to be of Indian Navy pilot Commander Nishant Singh, missing since a MiG-29 combat jet crashed into the Arabian Sea 11 days ago, has been found by naval rescue teams. The officials are awaiting the result of a DNA test to confirm the identity. The result of the DNA test alone can confirm the identity as the body was beyond recognition when it was found, people familiar with the developments said on condition of anonymity on Monday. “Mortal remains of a human body have been recovered in the vicinity of the wreckage. The samples are being sent for DNA testing for confirmation of identity,” said a statement from the Indian Navy. The people said the body was recovered near the site where the MiG-29 crashed into the Arabian Sea on November 26. One of the two pilots in the jet was rescued soon after the crash. Also read: Bharat Bandh - BEST buses, cabs, autos to ply as usual on Mumbai roads“All sections of the aircraft wreckage, including ejection seats, have been accounted for using side scan sonar and HD cameras. The FDR/CVR [flight data recorder/cockpit voice recorder] along with other important material have been recovered so far for analysis [and] investigation,” the statement said. The navy had mobilised nine warships, 14 aircraft and several small vessels for the search and rescue mission to locate Singh. The rescue teams had earlier recovered several components of the Russian-made jet, including the landing gear, fuel tank and engine. The statement said maritime surveillance aircraft and helicopter had flown sorties totalling 270 hours during the search. The underwater search around the crash site included extensive efforts by divers and continuous overnight search using high-definition cameras over the past 10 days. The navy has ordered an inquiry into the crash, the third involving a MiG-29K, the naval variant of the jet, in the past year. A MiG-29K twin-seat jet crashed in Goa on November 16 last year, though both pilots ejected safely. Another of the jets crashed off the Goa coast on February 23 after taking off from INS Hansa, the main naval airbase in the region. In the second case too, the pilot had ejected safely. The Indian Navy had purchased 45 MiG-29Ks, the carrier-based version of the multirole combat jet, to be used with the aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/body-found-11-days-after-mig-29-pilot-goes-missing-dna-test-result-awaited/story-j7uEssip1kW8SDgIoYmFUK.html
07-12-2020||India||Railway union AIRF extends support for Bharat Bandh||The All India Railwaymen’s Federation (AIRF) on Monday extended its support to Bharat Bandh on December 8 called by farmer unions which have been protesting on Delhi’s borders against the Centre’s new agri-marketing laws.Shiva Gopal Mishra, general secretary, AIRF met the agitating farmers at Singhu border and assured them that members of the railway union are with them in their fight against the new agriculture laws.“We have written to our affiliates all over the Indian Railways to extend support to the farmers in their struggle to achieve their genuine demands, on December 8, 2020 during ‘Bharat Bandh’. I have already advised AIRF affiliates to organise agitation programmes, dharna, demonstrations and rallies during lunch hour against anti-farmer policies of the Government of India.“I hope that the government will give cognizance to the genuine demands of the farmers and redress the same at the earliest,” he said.The railway union, which has around 9 lakh members, is the latest to show solidarity with the agitating farmers, who have found support from transport unions and the joint forum of trade unions like the Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS) and the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU).Opposition parties like the Congress, NCP, SP, INLD and the Left parties have also come out in support of the stir.After five rounds of talks between the Centre and the farmer unions failed to end the impasse, the two sides are again set to meet on December 9, a day after the countrywide strike.The three farm laws enacted in September have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price (MSP) and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.The Centre has repeatedly asserted that these mechanisms will remain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railway-union-airf-extends-support-for-bharat-bandh/story-FmGxxYpGOs2tQmk3QJONpJ.html
07-12-2020||India||Railway unions AIRF and NFIR extend support to protesting farmers, a day before Bharat Bandh||The All India Railwaymen’s Federation on Monday extended its support to the farmers protesting against the Centre’s farm laws, demanding their repeal. The farmer unions have called for Bharat Bandh (nationwide strike), in a signal that the stir has intensified. Many political parties and unions have backed Bharat Bandh, which will begin at 11 am on Tuesday.Shiva Gopal Mishra, general secretary, All India Railwaymen’s Federation (AIRF) on Monday announced that the Indian Railways will be extending its support to the farmers in their struggle to repeal the new agri laws passed by the Parliament recently.Mishra, on Monday, met the agitating farmers protesting at Singhu border of the national capital and assured them that the AIRF will completely back them in their peaceful protest against the laws and for the demand of Minimum Support Price in agriculture.Also Read | BSNL employees come out in support of farmers’ demands“We have written to our affiliates all over the Indian Railways to extend support to the farmers in their struggle to achieve their genuine demands on 8th December, 2020 during “Bharat Bandh”,” Mishra in a statement. He also said that the railway body has already advised AIRF affiliates all over the Indian Railways “to organise agitation programmes, like dharna, demonstration and rallies” against anti-farmer policies of the government.The general secretary also expressed hope that the government will consider the genuine demands of the farmers and address the issue at the earliest.The railway union with over 9 lakh members is the latest party extending support to the farmers in their fight against the new laws. Before them, the farmers’ union proposed Bharat Bandh had garnered support from transport unions and the joint forum of trade unions like the Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS) and the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU).Another railway body, the National Federation of Indian Railwaymen (NFIR), also came out in support of the farmers and urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to concede to the demands of the protesters.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railway-unions-extend-support-to-farmers-protest-and-call-for-bharat-bandh/story-d5yZXKkgvHow4bElhrF73L.html
07-12-2020||India||Sushil Modi elected to Rajya Sabha, BJP now has 4 Bihar MPs in upper house||With the election of senior BJP leader and former deputy chief minister of Bihar Sushil Kumar Modi to the Rajya Sabha unopposed, the number of the party’s MPs in the upper house from the state has risen to four. Modi was on Monday declared elected unopposed to the Rajya Sabha in a bypoll that was necessitated by the death of Union minister and Lok Janshakti Party founder Ram Vilas Paswan. In addition to the former deputy chief minister, a lone Independent candidate, Shyam Nandan Prasad had filed his nomination papers which were rejected during scrutiny. Prasad’s papers were not supported by at least 10 members of the 243-strong assembly as proposers, which is mandatory, poll officials said. Modi was handed over his certificate in the presence of a host of dignitaries, including Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, with whom he is known to enjoy an excellent rapport, his successors as deputy chief minister Tar Kishore Prasad and Renu Devi and state BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal. Of the 16 members to Rajya Sabha from Bihar, JD (U) and the RJD have five each while Congress has one representation to the Rajya Sabha and one seat is vacant. Besides Modi, the other three BJP Rajya Sabha MPs are Gopal Narain Singh, Vivek Thakur and Satish Chandra Dubey.The senior BJP leader, while being elected to RS, attained a rare distinction of representing all the four houses of the country. He had been a member of Lok Sabha, Bihar Legislative Assembly and Legislative council and now a member of the Rajya Sabha. Modi was the leader of the opposition in Bihar assembly from 1996-2004. In 2004, he was elected to 14 the Lok Sabha from Bhagalpur parliamentary constituency, a seat which he vacated after becoming the deputy CM of NDA government in Bihar in 2005.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushil-modi-elected-to-rajya-sabha-bjp-now-has-4-bihar-mps-in-upper-house/story-Hyo7rOFA5pZCFOM2VnXJMO.html
07-12-2020||India||Bharat Bandh: All you need to know about parties supporting it and services that may be affected||The farmers protesting against the three farm laws passed by Parliament have given a ‘Bharat Bandh’ call in a signal that they are intensifying their stir. The nationwide strike will begin at 11 am and go on till 3 pm, as the protesters said they don’t want to cause problems for the common man. The Centre has tried to find a solution to end the stir, but five rounds of talks so far have not been able to placate the farmers.In Delhi, the police have made elaborate security arrangements and warned that strict action will be taken against those trying to disrupt movement of people or “forcefully” shut shops. The farmers have been protesting near the national capital since November 26.Also Read: Centre issues ‘Bharat Bandh’ advisory for statesThe Delhi Traffic Police have said that Singhu, Auchandi, Piao Maniyari, Mangesh, Tikri and Jharoda borders (on the Haryana side) are closed. The National Highway-44 has also been closed on both sides. So those travelling are suggested to take alternative routes via Lampur, Safiabad and Saboli borders. Those travelling towards Noida have been advised to take DND as the Chilla border on the Noida Link road too is closed for traffic, it said. The Ghazipur border on NH-24 is also closed for traffic from Ghaziabad to Delhi.Also Watch l Bharat Bandh: TMC says no strike in Bengal; Delhi Police warns l Key details Here’s everything you need to know about the Bharat Bandh tomorrow:• The farmers’ stand: The farmers from Punjab and Haryana, who have been protesting for the past 11 days, are adamant that the three farm laws should be repealed. They have called these laws “anti-farmer”, saying they would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of minimum support price (MSP) and do away with mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.• What the government has said: The Centre has projected these three laws - the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 - as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. The government has said that it won’t rollback the laws, but has agreed to amend them as demanded by the farmers. Another round of meeting is scheduled on December 9.Also Read: ‘Can’t build new century with old laws’, says PM Modi• The parties backing Bharat Bandh: Political parties like the Congress, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Shiv Sena, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Trinamool Congress (TMC), Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Samajwadi Party, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) and Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) have supported the Bandh call. The AAP will hold a peaceful demonstration at 11 am at the ITO crossing in the national capital on Tuesday in support of the nationwide strike.• What about banking and trade unions? A joint platform of 10 central trade unions has extended its support to the ‘Bharat Bandh’ call. These trade unions are - Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS), Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), All India United Trade Union Centre (AIUTUC), Trade Union Co-ordination Centre (TUCC), Self-Employed Women’s Association (SEWA), All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU), Labour Progressive Federation (LPF) and United Trade Union Congress (UTUC). A number of bank unions have expressed their solidarity with protesting farmers and requested the government to resolve their issues at the earliest. However, bank unions - like All India Bank Officers’ Confederation (AIBOC) and All India Bank Employees’ Association (AIBEA) - have said that they will not participate in the ‘Bharat Bandh’. • Transporters and traders: Transporters’ union AIMTC on Monday said it will suspend operations in the entire country on Tuesday to support the Bharat Bandh called by agitating farmers. The All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) is the apex body of transporters, representing about 95 lakh truckers and other entities. Some auto and taxi unions in New Delhi, including those associated with app-based aggregators, have also decided to join the ‘Bharat Bandh’ on Tuesday. However, many other auto and taxi unions have decided to continue normal services despite their support to demands raised by the agitating farmers. Traders’ body CAIT and All India Transporters Welfare Association on Monday said markets across the country including in Delhi will remain open on Tuesday and the transport sector will function as usual. In Mumbai, BEST buses and taxis will ply as normal.• Railway union AIRF extends support: The All India Railwaymen’s Federation on Monday extended its support to Bharat Bandh on December 8 called by farmer unions which have been protesting on Delhi’s borders against the Centre’s new farm laws. Shiva Gopal Mishra, general secretary, All India Railwaymen’s Federation (AIRF) met the agitating farmers at Singhu border and assured them that members of the railway union are with them in their fight against the new agriculture laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-all-you-need-to-know-about-parties-supporting-it-and-services-to-be-affected/story-jROC1L15J5sIiVPUb8PKhK.html
07-12-2020||India||Assam clamps Section 144 along Indo-Bangla border in Cachar district||Apprehending movement of extremist elements, the district administration in Assam’s Cachar district has clamped Section 144 of Cr. PC in areas along the Indo-Bangladesh border.In a statement on Monday, the government said the order was issued on Saturday by deputy commissioner Keerthi Jalli. In her order, the deputy commissioner also promulgated night curfew along the border areas. The order will remain in force for a period of two months. “Movement of individuals shall remain strictly prohibited between sunset and sunrise within one kilometer radius of Indo-Bangladesh border. No person shall move on the Surma river and on its high bank within the limit of the territory in actual control of India,” said a release issued by the district administration. “In view of extremist elements out to create law and order problems in the district and also unauthorized movement of commodities, including cattle from the district through the areas surrounding the district borders, the order has been promulgated,” it added. From now no person shall be allowed to ply boats on the Surma for fishing purposes and prior permission for fishing has to be obtained from the circle officer at Katigorah. No one would also be allowed to carry commodities like sugar, rice, edible oil, wheat, salt etc. on any vehicle including handcarts and rickshaws between sunset and sunrise within 5 km inside the district’s boundary with Bangladesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-clamps-section-144-along-indo-bangla-border-in-cachar-district/story-Z7uSXXEwf6fjLVLIPZe6wL.html
07-12-2020||India||J-K employees union locks horn with Srinagar Mayor over forced retirements||The Jammu and Kashmir Employees Joint Action Committee has said that Srinagar Mayor Junaid Mattu plan of forced retirement of the employees who have completed 28 years of service in the municipal corporation is unacceptable.Mattu who again took over the reins of the Srinagar Municipal Corporation after he won a vote of confidence last month said that he is seeking enactment of provisions of Article 226(2) to weed out deadwood from the SMC.“Seeking enactment of provisions of Article 226(2) of Jammu and Kashmir Civil Service Regulations to weed out deadwood, am writing to the Government to conduct a performance review of all SMC officers and employees who have attained 48 years of age/22 years of service,” Mattu had tweeted on December 4.The tweet evoked strong response from the largest employee body of the J&K.Rafiq Ahmad Rather, president of the Employees Joint Action Committee, said the Act mentioned by Mattu cannot be used arbitrarily.“SMC employees have been working in extremely tough and adverse working conditions. Article 226(2) should not be and can’t be used arbitrarily at one’s will,” he said adding that employees of SMC have been doing tremendous work whether in winter or summer.“SMC had always been on the forefront in solving the problems of people. The Mayor is trying to threaten the employees which is not good thing especially those employees who are known for their dedication and good work.”Shah Fayaz, president J&K Employees Coordination Committee termed it an attempt to make lower rung employees a scapegoat.“Lower rung employees are always scapegoats of the system, employees of SMC proved in any situation, 2014 floods 2020 ...Covid Mayor sahab start same exercise from administrative level,” Shah tweeted in response to Mattu.Last month the Jammu and Kashmir government had decided to prematurely retire an employee, the first such case in the newly formed union territory, over a month after framing new rules to fire government employees after he/she has completed 22 years of qualifying service or attained 48 years of age.The Jammu and Kashmir Board of School Education (JKBOSE) had issued a notice to one of its class-iv employees Fayaz Ahmad Siraj to retire from services as he had completed his 27 years of service on October 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-employees-union-locks-horn-with-srinagar-mayor-over-forced-retirements/story-PILoLylVkT1JqylkL4JLeN.html
07-12-2020||India||‘All is well’: Tripura BJP in-charge says nothing’s amiss after party activists raise anti-Biplab slogans||Differences in Tripura’s Bharatiya Janata Party seemed to have escalated after a large group of party workers raised their voice to replace chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb with arrival of Vinod Sonkar as party’s state observer for the first time. Even as the workers raised the slogan “Biplab hatao, BJP bachao” on Sunday at State Guest House in Agartala, Sonkar ruled out any difference in the party claiming “all is well”. In his two-day visit, Sonkar met with legislators, members of parliament, top leaders and, obviously, with Biplab Kumar Deb. “Our party is an organization of karyakartas (workers). Our prime thought is to listen to them with respect. As the state has no prabhari (observer) for a long time, people could not say what they want to say. There is no grievance in any of them. All is well. I will speak with everyone, but it is not possible in one go,” he told the media persons before leaving the state. “Excitement was noticed to meet the prabhari. This shows that the foundation of BJP is very strong in the state,” he said. Earlier in 2018, Sonkar visited the state as the party’s SC Morcha in-charge. Also read: ‘Can’t build new century with old laws’ - PM Modi amid farmers’ protestThe party workers who raised slogan against Biplab Deb could not be identified as they declined to speak to media. In October this year, a group of BJP legislators, led by former health minister Sudip Roy Barman, visited New Delhi and met party president Dr JP Nadda to discuss organizational matters and political scenario of the state and not to complain against anyone, as told by them earlier. No reaction was available from the dissident legislators regarding the recent anti-Biplab protest during Sonkar’s visit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-is-well-tripura-bjp-state-in-charge-says-nothing-s-amiss-after-party-activists-raise-anti-biplab-slogans/story-BktDri8H8WrH4aQ7AgbKYO.html
07-12-2020||India||Gauhati HC stays hydrocarbon exploration inside Dibru-Saikhowa national park||The Gauhati high on Monday stayed hydrocarbon exploration permission given to Oil India Limited (OIL) at seven locations inside the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park (DSNP) in Assam. A division bench comprising chief justice (acting) N Kotishwar Singh and justice Manish Choudhury passed the order while hearing a petition by Mrinmoy Khataniar and Amar Jyoti Deka. The petitioners had sought a stay on permission granted to OIL by the Centre in May this year to drill for hydrocarbons at seven locations in DSNP. After hearing arguments by advocates Debajit Kumar Das, RS Choudhury and H Betala who represented the petitioners, the division bench stayed the environmental clearance for non-compliance of a Supreme Court order of 2017 which required OIL to conduct biodiversity impact assessment study. Also read | Controversy over land allotment to NDRF near Amchang wildlife sanctuary in AssamIn an affidavit filed last month, OIL had stated that no public consultation for environmental clearance or biodiversity impact assessment has been done yet for proposed drilling for oil and natural gas in DSNP. The company maintained that existing rules don’t require it to conduct public consultation and stressed not work on oil and gas exploration and extraction has started till date. The company maintained that no biodiversity study of the proposed site has been done yet, but it is committed to the undertaking submitted before Supreme Court with regard to conducting such a study prior to the start of the drilling operation. Spread over 340sq km, Dibru-Saikhowa is one of the five national parks in Assam. The park, which is also a biosphere reserve, is home to 36 mammal species including tiger, Gangetic dolphin and feral horses and 382 bird species. OIL had maintained that the company won’t operate inside the national park and the drilling will have no impact on the area as operation would be conducted through a technique called extended reach drilling (ERD) which would have no impact on the surface area of DSNP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gauhati-hc-stays-hydrocarbon-exploration-inside-dibru-saikhowa-national-park/story-1SqerXwW5MoQsHynIsdbsJ.html
07-12-2020||India||India, Nepal review progress on wide-ranging bilateral agenda||A meeting of the India-Nepal Inter-Governmental Committee (IGC) on Trade and Transit was held on Monday, during which both sides reviewed the progress made on wide-ranging bilateral agenda including review of treaties of trade and transit, stated the Indian embassy here.The virtual meeting was led by commerce secretaries of both countries. The IGC is the apex bilateral mechanism to review and set the way forward for further enhancing bilateral trade and economic ties.“Anup Wadhawan, Commerce Secretary, Government of India was accompanied by the Ambassador of India to Nepal Vinay Mohan Kwatra and a 15 member delegation drawn from various Ministries and the Indian Embassy in Kathmandu, while his counterpart, Baikuntha Aryal, Secretary (Commerce & Supplies) of Nepal was assisted by representatives of various Ministries and Departments of Government of Nepal,” the embassy statement read. According to the Indian embassy, the meeting concluded with both sides reviewing progress made on the development of trade infrastructure as well as investment promotions including the new proposal of development of cross-border economic zones and holding meeting of Joint Business Forum.During the meeting, both commerce secretaries noted with appreciation that despite the Covid-19 pandemic, there was “smooth and unimpeded” trade and commercial cargo movement by trucks across the land border with support and facilitation of both the government, the embassy said.“The wide-ranging discussions today and the progress made in the meeting are expected to further support the expansion in economic and commercial ties between India and Nepal,” it added.The Inter-Governmental Sub-Committee (IGSC) at the level of Joint Secretaries met on December 3-4, 2020 in the preparation for IGC meeting.The meeting was held days after Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla visited Nepal. During his visit, Shringla had called on Nepali leadership President Bidya Devi Bhandari and Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli.Shringla had also met Nepal Foreign Minister Pradeep Kumar Gyawali and his Nepali counterpart Bharat Raj Paudyal.The embassy said India remains the largest trade and investment partner of Nepal both in terms of Nepali imports and Nepali exports.“In fact, India is the only trading partner of Nepal with whom Nepali exports have consistently increased in the last two to three years,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-nepal-review-progress-on-wide-ranging-bilateral-agenda/story-rDft0TfpQ3IGLp6rIfkDWO.html
07-12-2020||India||‘Can’t build new century with old laws’: PM Modi’s pitch for reforms amid farmers’ protest||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said that reforms are needed for development and some laws from the past century have become a burden now. The comments were made during the virtual inauguration of Agra metro rail project, at a time when farmers are protesting the three laws passed by Parliament.“Reforms are needed for development. Reforms are very much needed for a new order and to give new facilities. We cannot build the next century with the laws of the previous century,” PM Modi said.“Some laws that used to be good in the past century have become a burden in the present century. Reforms should be a continuous process,” he added.Watch | ‘Can’t build new century with old laws’: PM Modi amid farmer protests The Prime Minister added that his government is carrying out “holistic reforms”. “Earlier, reforms used to happen in a piecemeal manner, or keeping in mind some sectors and departments,” he said.PM Modi’s remarks come a day before the ‘Bharat Bandh’ - a nationwide strike call given by various farmer organisations demanding repeal of the three laws passed in September.The bandh (shutdown) call has been supported by several opposition parties and state governments. However, the Centre has asked all states and union territories to tighten security, asserting that peace and tranquillity must be maintained durign ‘Bharat Bandh’.The farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Major political parties, such as the Congress, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Samajwadi Party (SP), Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) and Left Front have come out in support of the bandh.The strike is going to affect commuting, especially in the national capital as most of its borders are sealed. The Delhi Traffic Police has released a list of borders which are open for people coming from Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. Some of the taxi and cab unions, including those associated with app-based aggregators, have also decided to join the one-day strike.Thousands of farmers have gathered at Delhi’s borders to protest against the new farm laws, which they say will pave way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporates.Talks between the government and protesting farmers remained inconclusive on Saturday even after five rounds of discussions as union leaders stuck to their demand for the repeal of the new farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-t-build-new-century-with-old-laws-pm-modi-s-pitch-for-reforms-amid-farmers-protest/story-nJLtyhSJ6MMzb0UNlmw03J.html
07-12-2020||India||Manipur ranks first in N-E states in implementing PM-SVANidhi||Manipur ranked first among hill and north-eastern states category in implementation of Pradhan Mantri Street Vendor’s Atma Nirbhar Nidhi (PM-SVANidhi) for the highest number of loans disbursed till date. Sharing this through a Facebook post on Monday, chief minister N Biren Singh wrote, “Currently, Manipur is ranked No.1 among Hilly Region and North Eastern States category in implementation of PM-SVANidhi for the highest number of loans disbursed till date.”Earlier in the day, Biren Singh-led council of ministers disbursed loans to another 3,362 vendors in a function organised by Manipur Urban Development Agency at chief minister’s Secretariat.Of these, 3,015 were benefited under PM-SVANidhi and 347 were under MUDRA scheme. It was the third such instance since August 25 this year that the chief Mminister distributed loans to vendors.PM-SVANidhi was launched on June 1,2020, by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs to help street vendors recover losses suffered due to Covid-19 pandemic. In Manipur, 5,354 vendors have been benefited so far under PM-SVANidhi and MUDRA schemes. The state government has set a target of extending assistance to a total of 20,000 vendors.In his address during the function, Biren said, “The state Cabinet would resolve to extend PM-SVANidhi and MUDRA schemes to hill districts in the Cabinet meeting scheduled to be held on December 9 at Senapati district headquarters.”Stating that improvement of rural economy is the key to enhancement of the overall economy of the state, he lauded women’s role in the economic activities of Manipur, adding that ten new women’s markets would be constructed in different hill districts and in Bishnupur and Sekmai of valley districts.On the other hand, in his speech, municipal administration housing and urban development minister Okram Henry urged the vendors to repay the loans on time so that they may apply for a bigger amount.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-ranks-first-in-n-e-states-in-implementing-pm-svanidhi/story-HHIa7XvBVNOYX0u82qcqTP.html
07-12-2020||India||Centre highlights 3 major points in ‘Bharat Bandh’ advisory for states: All you need to know||As the protests against the contentious farm laws intensifies, farmers across the country will observe a nationwide strike, Bharat Bandh, on Tuesday. In view of the strike, the central government sent an advisory to all the state governments and union territory (UT) administrators on Monday asking them to tighten security and maintain the law and order.In the advisory, the Centre asked the state governments and UT administrations to ensure that protesters strictly adhere to all Covid-19 guidelines issued with regard to health and social distancing.It also asked the states and UTs to take all precautionary measure in order to avoid any untoward incident in the country. The Centre’s main focus in on peace and tranquillity, which it said should be maintained.Thousands of farmers are protesting against the Centre’s new agricultural laws for the past 11 days. As the talks with the government have so far remained futile, the protesting farmers have called for a nationwide strike on Tuesday. Protesting farmers will begin their strike from 11am and it continue toll 3pm.Also Watch l Bharat Bandh: TMC says no strike in Bengal; Delhi Police warns l Key details Also Read | Bharat Bandh tomorrow: Will begin from 11am, don’t want to trouble common man, say farmers During the strike, they are expected to block roads and services such as transport and banking may be affected. However, medical services like an ambulance or even weddings will go as usual.“It is a symbolic protest to register our opposition. It is to show that we don’t support some of the policies of the Govt of India,” a spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union Rakesh Tikait said.The next round of talks between the government and the protesting farmers is scheduled to take place on Wednesday.Also Read | Akhilesh Yadav, stopped from joining ‘Kisan Yatra’, detained outside his Lucknow houseMeanwhile, in Delhi, the epicentre of protests, several borders connecting the national capital to its neighbouring states are blocked. As per the traffic police advisory, borders that are completely closed are Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Jharoda, Piao Maniyari, and Mangesh in outer and south-western parts of the city and the Chilla border, connecting Delhi and Noida, in east Delhi.The farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-highlights-3-major-points-in-bharat-bandh-advisory-for-states-all-you-need-to-know/story-VMqs08XLhNl80AxhodrkPP.html
07-12-2020||India||Uttarakhand to start geo-tagging of wetlands for better conservation, documentation||Uttarakhand government will soon start geo-tagging of wetlands in the state for better conservation and documentation, informed officials. The revenue and forest department will work together to conduct ground inspections and check the status of wetlands under the guidance of Uttarakhand Space Application Centre (USAC). USAC director MPS Bisht said the initiative is part of a nationwide project of Space Application Centre, Ahmedabad, that is trying to gather information about wetlands across the country. “We are being provided satellite data by Space Application Centre. This data will be used to geo-tag wetlands of the state. Our scientists will study the data and then conduct field visits to map the wetlands,” said Bisht. Also read | Uttarakhand to create export hub in all 13 districts to promote local productsHe added that mapping will help the state government track the development of the wetland, using satellite data. “Once the wetlands are geo-tagged, their progress can be tracked through satellite data, whether they are increasing or the area has decreased due to various developmental activities and plan conservation policies accordingly, as wetlands are very important for the ecology,” added Bisht. Last week, state chief secretary Om Prakash had met department officials for rejuvenation of water bodies and wetlands in the state. “Rejuvenation of water bodies in the state should be taken up as a project on priority. On one hand, there will be an improvement in groundwater level and on the other, means of employment will also increase. Ground mapping of the wetlands identified by the World-Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) and Space Application Centre Ahmedabad should be done at the earliest. The priorities of these wetlands should be decided through the Department of Drinking Water,” said Prakash. In October, Asan Conservation Reserve in Dehradun district became the first Ramsar site, a wetland of international importance. From the nine criteria for being declared as a Ramsar site, Asan Conservation Reserve had cleared five: species and ecological communities, specific criteria based on water birds and specific criteria based on fish.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-to-start-geo-tagging-of-wetlands-for-better-conservation-documentation/story-9QzkHBGxkMj4dPCnQeXmpO.html
07-12-2020||India||BSNL employees come out in support of farmers’ demands||BSNL Employees Union on Monday said it fully supports the demand of farmers’ organisations for repealing the farm laws.Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi against the new farm laws enacted in the Monsoon Session of Parliament.“BSNL Employees Union (BSNLEU) is fully supporting the demands of the farmers’ organisations calling for the repealing of the Farm Acts, undemocratically passed in the last session of the Parliament,” the union said in a statement.“BSNL Employees Union fully shares the apprehensions of the farmers’ organisations, that the recently passed Farm Acts will take away the minimum support price being offered by the government,” it added.The union has called upon its circle and district branches throughout the country to organise lunch hour demonstrations on Tuesday, it said.“BSNLEU is also fully supporting the demand of the farmers’ Organisations, calling for total withdrawal of the Electricity Bill-2020,” BSNL Employees Union said.Major political parties, such as the Congress, NCP, DMK, SP, TRS and Left, on Sunday came out in strong support of the ‘Bharat Bandh’ called on December 8 by farmers protesting against the three recently enacted agri-marketing laws.Talks between the government and protesting farmers remained inconclusive on Saturday even after five rounds of discussions as union leaders stuck to their demand for the repeal of the new farm laws and went on a ‘maun vrat’ seeking a clear ‘yes or no’ reply, forcing the Centre to call for another meeting on December 9 to resolve the deadlock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsnl-employees-come-out-in-support-of-farmers-demands/story-jVMMpYsHKWE6IjZe54H2ZP.html
07-12-2020||India||Opposition has double standards on farm sector reforms: Ravi Shankar Prasad||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday slammed the Opposition parties for politicising concerns about the recently passed farm laws and misleading the farmers, saying they are opposing the Narendra Modi government for the sake of doing so. Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said the political parties that have lent support to the ongoing protest by farmers shows the “double standards” as far as reforms in the farming sector is concerned. A bunch of political parties like the Congress, the NCP, the TMC, the SAD, the Samajwadi Party are supporting the farmers from Punjab and Haryana who have been camping in protest at the Delhi border seeking the repeal of the recently passed farm laws. Accusing them of “duplicity”, Prasad said parties like the Congress and the NCP had in the past tried to undertake similar reforms in the agriculture sector, but are opposing the Modi government for trying to do what they had tried to do. Watch l ‘Shameless double standards’: BJP attacks opposition over farmers’ protest “The Congress, in their 2019 manifesto, had promised to repeal the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act and make trade of agricultural produce including export free from all restrictions. In 2013, Rahul Gandhi had called a meeting of all Congress chief ministers and said Congress-ruled states should give farmers the right to sell directly. He said they will delist fruits and vegetables from the APMC and give free choice to farmers,” Prasad said.He went on to say that Sharad Pawar who was a former agriculture minister and is currently opposing the new farm laws had also written to chief ministers for private sector participation in market infrastructure. “He had written to then Delhi chief minister Sheila Dikshit and MP chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan that agricultural sector needs improvement and the market requires huge investment in marketing infrastructure including cold chain and private sector participation is essential...There was a standing committee that had Mulayam Singh Yadav as a member, which said it was necessary that farmers have to be set free from the bindings of the Mandis,” Prasad said.Blaming the Opposition for using the farmers’ protest as a platform to “retain their political relevance”, Prasad said between 2007-12 the Manmohan Singh government had recommended contract farming. He said in states such as Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Maharashtra, MP, Mizoram, Nagaland, Orissa and Rajasthan contract farming was enabled to allow more opportunities for farmers and to increase their income. “Yogendra Yadav had wanted the Modi government to make improvements in the APMC act. Arvind Kejriwal on November 23 notified the new laws that have been drafted ...The political parties are misleading the farmers and their entire approach is double faced,” he said.He also assured farmers that their land will not be sold or leased under the new contract farming laws. “I want to assure them that the land will not be sold, leased or mortgaged under the new contract farming laws,” he said. Referring to the digital mandis, the national agriculture market portal that has given farmers access to markets outside their states the minister said one thousand mandis of 21 states are functioning on the portal and business worth Rs1.15 crore has been carried out. He said if the government’s intent was to close down mandis it would not have carried out buying of crops. Till November end, 31.8 million tonne of paddy has been bought of which 64% is from Punjab, he said.Meanwhile, the Congress blamed the Centre for the ongoing farmers’ agitation, saying the NDA government was responsible for the protests as it had not held discussions with the farmers before enacting the new laws. Addressing a news conference, Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar said the Centre had also attacked the opposition for its critique of the farm bills in the monsoon session of Parliament. He claimed the Centre would be responsible for any inconvenience faced by the people during Bharat bandh on Tuesday. “The only solution is to call a session of Parliament and repeal the laws,” Jakhar told reporters. “The Centre is being rigid. It is responsible for the farmers agitating in bitter cold,” he added. The Congress leader also attacked the government over the construction of new Parliament building. “The government is spending money on constructing a new Parliament building. They should realise that Parliament runs on emotions not buildings,” he added. Congress leaders from Punjab and Haryana staged a protest at Delhi’s Jantar Mantar, demanding immediate convening of winter session of Parliament to discuss the farmers’ issues. Party MPs from Punjab and Haryana Preneet Kaur, Manish Tewari, Ravneet Singh Bittu, Gurjeet Singh Aujla, Amar Singh, Mohammad Sadique and Deepender Hooda held a sit-in at Jantar Mantar to press upon the government to withdraw the contentious laws and discuss the issue in Parliament. (With input from Aurangzeb Naqshbandi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ravi-shankar-prasad-slams-opposition-for-double-standards-on-reforms-in-farm-sector/story-l8lfpUJjNzvbPYt1KKrASL.html
07-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5pm: ‘Let Rajinikanth reveal his political policy’, says DMK chief on actor’s political plunge and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Let Rajinikanth reveal his political policy’: DMK chief reserves comment on actor’s political plungeDays after Tamil actor Rajnikanth announced that he will launch his political party in January next year, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) president MK Stalin on Monday said that anyone can join politics. Read more Actor-politician Vijayashanti joins BJP, day after meeting Amit ShahFormer Member of Parliament from Telangana and popular Telugu actress M Vijayashanti returned to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday after a formal induction ceremonyin Delhi, news agency ANI reported. Read more Bengal police use tear gas, water cannon to stop BJP rally in Siliguri; chaos prevailsPitched battles marked the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) rally at Siliguri in north Bengal on Monday afternoon when police lobbed tear gas shells and used water cannons to stop the party workers and leaders from approaching towards Uttar Kanya, the state secretariat in north Bengal. Read moreIndia’s imports from China dropped 13%, exports went up by 16% in 2020: State mediaIndia’s exports to China increased by 16% in the first 11 months of the year despite the ongoing border military friction and the economic impact of the coronavirus pandemic, latest Chinese customs data showed on Monday. Read more Hardik Pandya, patience and then the big pushIt is remarkable that Hardik Pandya, for whom several cases could be made to justify his reputation of being the finest T20 player in the game today, has never scored a fifty for India in T20 cricket. Read more Nissan Magnite gets 5,000 bookings in 5 days, max traction for top variantsNissan Magnite is off to a strong start in a bid to mount a challenge in the sub-compact SUV segment which also features the likes of Kia Sonet, Hyundai Venue, Maruti Suzuki Vitara Brezza, Tata Nexon, Mahindra XUV400, among others. Read more Anand Mahindra’s Monday motivation post on New Year resolutions is a hit among netizensBusiness tycoon Anand Mahindra is well-known for sharing thoughtful posts on Twitter. His latest share is no different. With the new year just around the corner, Mahindra has shared an insightful message on how he wants to plan his resolutions for the brand-new year. Read more Watch: PM Modi’s ‘vocal for local tourism’ push at Agra metro project inauguration||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5pm-let-rajinikanth-reveal-his-political-policy-says-dmk-chief-on-actor-s-political-plunge-and-all-the-latest-news/story-HCm29TlaYcn3J3FVX7M7SM.html
07-12-2020||India||Body of missing MiG-29 pilot found 11 days after crash||A body believed to be that of the missing MiG-29 pilot Commander Nishant Singh was recovered from the area where the plane crashed, Indian Navy officials said. However, the result of a DNA test to confirm that the body was of Singh, was awaited, they added.Commander Singh had gone missing on November 26 after his MiG-29K trainer aircraft crashed into the Arabian Sea. Rescue teams were able to rescue the other pilot on board.The Russian-origin twin-seat trainer jet went down off India’s west coast after taking off from the deck of the country’s only aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya. The November 26 crash was the fourth accident involving the MiG-29K maritime fighter fleet. India’s top auditor had pointed to some deficiencies in the deck-based fighter, including engine troubles, airframe problems, deficiencies in its fly-by-wire system and poor serviceability, in a report tabled in Parliament four years ago.The MiG-29K is riddled with problems relating to airframe, RD MK-33 engine and its fly-by-wire system, Comptroller and Auditor Generalsaid in the July 2016 report.(with ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/body-of-missing-mig-29-pilot-found-11-days-after-crash/story-FICNZDu2R7tJLEXgE4Q0NN.html
07-12-2020||India||GST investigators uncover fraudulent transactions of Rs 290 cr||The Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI), Nagpur has come across fraudulent transactions of Rs 290.70 crore, including fake input tax credit (ITC) of Rs 25.22 crore, after searches at a private firm and one person has been arrested, an official said on Monday.As per a DGGI release, searches were conducted on a Mumbai-based firm, M/s M & M Advisors and Consultants Private Limited, as follow-up of the detection of a non-existent advertising firm in Dhule.The searches uncovered documents which revealed the company was engaged in licensing rights of film production houses for broadcast on national and international channels.“They were purchasing rights of movies produced by top banners and transferring these rights under contract system to Rights Assignors, which was availing input tax credit. We have found fraudulent transactions of Rs 290.70 crore and fake ITC of Rs 25.22 crore passed on to Rights Assignors,” the release said.A director of the firm was arrested on December 5, an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-investigators-uncover-fraudulent-transactions-of-rs-290-cr/story-HtXsZV5I0z0gRYDBi98nJJ.html
07-12-2020||India||‘Want all demands of farmers fulfilled’, say fruit growers of Kashmir||Fruit growers in Kashmir valley have extended their support to the Bharat Bandh called farmers who are seeking the repeal of three recent farm laws.The fruit growers have decided to shut all the activities on Tuesday, especially in the fruit markets across Kashmir valley in support of the bandh. “We fully support the strike call given by farmers on Tuesday. The presidents of all fruit growers’ associations of the valley have been requested to close all their mandis for all sorts of business,” said Bashir Ahmad Basheer, chairman Kashmir Valley Fruit Growers cum Dealers Union and president of the New Kashmir Fruit Association.He said all the shops in the fruit mandi Srinagar will remain shut on Tuesday in a show of support to the farmers who have been protesting for many weeks. “We want all the demands of the farmers to be fulfilled as they are the backbone of our society,” Basheer said.Asia’s second largest fruit mandi Sopore will also suspend its business on Tuesday. The fruit season in Kashmir is at its peak and growers after harvest sell thousands of boxes in the fruit mandis which have been established in the Valley at different places.Fruit trade is one of the biggest economic activities in Jammu and Kashmir and 10,000 to 20,000 metric tons of fresh fruit is produced and sent across the country every year. Around 2.5 million people are directly or indirectly connected with the trade. This is the first time in recent times when fruit growers from Kashmir have extended support to any nationwide strike. “The farmers are just like growers who are protesting for genuine demands. The government should shun a rigid approach and roll back the laws which in the long run will be harmful for farmers,” said Ghulam Rasool Bhat former president of Fruit Growers and Dealers Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/want-all-demands-of-farmers-fulfilled-say-fruit-growers-of-kashmir/story-9n5TC00JHZezJrUzU7GNEJ.html
07-12-2020||India||‘Let Rajinikanth reveal his political policy’: DMK chief reserves comment on actor’s political plunge||Days after Tamil actor Rajinikanth announced that he will launch his political party in January next year, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) president MK Stalin on Monday said that anyone can join politics. He also took a dig at the actor saying he came to know that Rajnikanth was regretting his choice of the political adviser. “Anybody can join politics, let Rajinikanth launch his party first and say what is his political policy, then I will comment on it. I came to know that he is regretting his decision of choosing Tamilaruvi Manian as his political advisor,” Stalin was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. Ending months of speculation, the Tamil superstar last week announced that he will make his political debut in January 2020, the formal announcement of which will be made on December 31. On the same day, three years ago, the actor had made the announcement of his entry into politics but did not take any concrete steps in that direction hence.Rajinikanth’s political entry seemed increasingly doubtful recently as doctors advised him against it in the time of the Covid-19 pandemic, owing to his age and health condition. His announcement came as a relief for fans and the political extension of his fan club, Rajini Makkal Mandram (RMM).Rajinikanth has also vowed to win assembly elections in the southern state next year. “We will win the assembly polls with people’s support and we will surely form an honest, transparent, corruption-free, caste-less and spiritual politics in Tamil Nadu. A wonder and miracle will happen,” Rajinikanth said in a on Twitter with hashtags translating into “if not now then never”.While the actor’s aides are persuading him to project himself as the chief ministerial candidate, in March 2020, Rajinikanth had said he did not wish to be the chief minister and would pick someone educated and responsible as the chief ministerial candidate. “We will make a youngster who is educated, farsighted, self-respecting and affectionate to sit (in the chief minister’s chair). That person will govern. The party will critique but not interfere with their work. But, it won’t be like parallel power centres. This is my plan,” the actor had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-rajinikanth-reveal-political-his-policy-dmk-chief-reserves-comment-on-actor-s-political-plunge/story-NjD7KQzUHcXUu2F1tWvTwO.html
07-12-2020||India||Former high court judge to head panel to study caste-wise data in Tamil Nadu||Tamil Nadu on Monday appointed retired high court judge A Kulasekaran to lead a committee that would be set up to gather case-wise data in the state. This comes after chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami had announced last week that a panel will study the data and submit a report following his meeting with PMK leader Anbumani Ramadoss. The PMK is demanding 20% reservation for the Vanniyar community in government jobs and education. One of PMK’s demands has been for the government to constitute a panel to examine the beneficiaries of reservation from each caste as it believes only 4 to 6% of Vanniyars have benefited. But the government’s panel refers only to forming a methodology to collect quantifiable caste data. Palaniswami had earlier said that this data will be useful for a case pending in the Supreme Court on 69% reservation policy in Tamil Nadu.Also read | Tamil Nadu govt seeks Rs3,758 crore as Nivar relief from CentreThe PMK and its parent outfit, Vanniyar Sangam, have revived this old demand ahead of the 2021 assembly elections in Tamil Nadu where it is an ally of the AIADMK. PMK workers from other districts reportedly indulged in violence and stalled traffic on the first day of their agitation on December 1 as police did not allow them to enter Chennai. Similar agitations were put to rest after the Most Backward Category (MBC) was created in the late 1980s in which Vanniyars were among the 108 other caste groups that were included.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-high-court-judge-to-head-panel-to-study-caste-wise-data-in-tamil-nadu/story-bf9lx7wMpjm81Hk10e1ijP.html
07-12-2020||India||Assam Rifles, Mizoram Police seize heroin worth Rs 7 lakh||The Assam Rifles and the Mizoram state police in a joint operation have seized 90 gm of heroin and arrested one person in Champhai district, an officer of the paramilitary force said on Monday.The operation was carried out in Zokhawthar-Melbuk area by the Serchhip battalion of Assam Rifles and Champhai district police based on specific information, he said. One Chinese origin Kenbo bike and an air rifle were seized during the operation and one person was also arrested in connection with the seizure of the heroin valued at Rs 7 lakh in the local market, he said.In another operation, Assam Rifles in collaboration with Custom department also recovered huge quantity of areca nuts at Ruantlang area in Champhai district and detained one person on Sunday.The areca nuts worth Rs 51.52 lakh in the international market were smuggled from Myanmar, the official said.On November 23, the country oldest paramilitary force also seized two banned Kenbo motorcycle in Champhai and Serchhip and recovered arms, including Bretta pistol.Besides, the paramilitary forces have also seized 390.4 gm of heroin, smuggled areca nuts worth Rs 76.83 lakh and 5,600 kg (80 bags) of poppy seeds worth Rs 25.20 lakh in Mizoram’s Champhai district recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-rifles-mizoram-police-seize-heroin-worth-rs-7-lakh/story-vHq6YHVPR7sUFCMWMTMCYI.html
07-12-2020||India||Uttarakhand man murders elder brother for not offering him tea||A man allegedly murdered his elder brother by slashing his neck with a sickle for not offering him tea in a remote area of Pithoragarh district, police aid Monday. Ayush Angri, station officer Askote police station said the incident occurred in a remote Dhami village, which is around 85 km from the district headquarters, on Sunday evening. Angri said, “Our staff rushed the area and arrested the accused who had allegedly killed his elder brother. He is being produced in court and the body of the deceased is being sent for post-mortem.” He said Gopal Singh (32), and his younger brother Chandra Singh were at home while their father Vishan Singh had gone to the nearby market. “The brothers had an argument over preparing tea. Later, Gopal prepared tea but didn’t offer the same to Chandra. As he started sipping tea in the courtyard, the younger brother Chandra in a fit of rage went inside the house and brought out a sickle and hit it on Gopal’s neck. Gopal fell down, profusely bleeding,” said Angri. Their neighbours rushed to help but due to the severe injury, Gopal died on the spot. The accused then went towards the market and informed his father about the crime, the officer said.“Askote police reached the village Dhami village, 25 km from the police station, late in the evening and arrested the accused. The deceased’s body was sent for post-mortem on Monday”, he said. Angri said, “We have registered a case on Vishan Singh’s complaint against his son Chandra under IPC section 302 (murder). The accused is being produced in Pithoragarh court.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-man-murders-elder-brother-for-not-offering-him-tea/story-zUuXDR2poDK5rccGrUkSTP.html
07-12-2020||India||CPI(M) worker stabbed to death in Kerala, BJP member arrested||A BJP member has been arrested after a CPI(M) worker was stabbed to death post an altercation in Kollam in south Kerala on Sunday night. The ruling state party called it a political murder and alleged that workers of the Bhartiaya Janata Party are behind it. The police, however, say personal issues led to the murder. Police said CPI(M) worker Manilal, also an owner of a resort, received serious stab wounds and succumbed to his injuries later in the night. Police said Manilal had a heated argument with a retired Delhi police official P Ashokan, who recently quit the CPI(M) to join the BJP. Police said initially Ashokan, the main accused, was allegedly manhandled by Manilal and others but he later came back and attacked Manilal. Both Ashokan and Manilal are from the same village - Villimangalam. “It is a well planned and executed murder. BJP and RSS workers are behind it. There is a deliberate attempt to vitiate peace in the state. We hope people will give a befitting reply through ballots to the advocates of hatred and division,” said the CPI(M) acting state secretary A Vijayaraghavan condemning the incident. The party is observing a shutdown in five villages in Kollam district to protest the killing. Kollam district president of the BJP BB Gopakumar distanced his party from the killing, saying personal reasons led to the murder. He said the ruling CPI(M) was giving political colour to routine crimes to get sympathy. He said both men clashed after a drinking session and it was wrong to give a political colour to such incidents. The state is witnessing a fierce three-cornered contest in local body elections, considered a semi-final before the assembly elections due in April. Stakes are high for all three major players - ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF), opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) and BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA.) First phase of the election will be held on December 8, second on 12 and final round on 14. The results will be announced on December 16. In six corporations, four are with the LDF and two in UDF kitty. The LDF rules the majority of municipal and local bodies now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cpi-m-worker-stabbed-to-death-in-kerala-bjp-member-arrested/story-v9gYRqlhet5SYaeUIPkljI.html
07-12-2020||India||Suvendu Adhikari, family skip Mamata Banerjee’s mega rally, she accuses BJP of trying to break TMC||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of trying to break her party, the Trinamool Congress (TMC), using money power. The allegations were made at a rally in West Midnapore after influential TMC leader Suvendu Adhikari and his family gave it a miss.“All TMC MLAs of West Midnapore are present here today. I want to tell those who spread canards against TMC leaders that we are the most honest party. We are not like the BJP which is using its moneybags to dislodge opposition-run governments in states and trying to break opposition parties,” Banerjee said while addressing the rally on Monday.Calling the TMC “a hard nut to crack” that will not surrender before the saffron party, Banerjee, without naming anyone, said she would also not give in to attempts to “blackmail and bargain” her party ahead of the polls.“Those who are corrupt are now joining the BJP. CPI(M) goons now have switched sides and are working as cadres of the BJP,” she alleged.This was Banerjee’s first rally in West Midnapore district after Adhikari resigned from the state cabinet, widening his rift with the ruling party. It was meant to test waters in the district where Adhikari has a support base; his hometown is located in the neighbouring East Midnapore district.Adhikari recently quit as a minister and said it was difficult for him to work with the TMC leadership. Attempts were made by the party leaders to pacify Adhikari, but the stalemate is continuing.Banerjee had recently issued a stern warning to those indulging in anti-party activities and asked TMC leaders in touch with the opposition to quit the ruling party instead of weakening it.Adhikari had last week organised a rally without the TMC banners and flags at Garbeta in West Midnapore district.Soon after Adhikari started distancing himself from the ruling party, the BJP began flexing its muscles in the state. On Saturday, West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh held a rally in Wast Midnapore district. On Monday, the party tried to hold a protest march to Uttar Kanya, the branch of state secretariat at Siliguri in north Bengal, as part of the BJP’s ongoing agitation programmes against the TMC government.In 2019 bypolls, the ruling TMC made impressive gains in the assembly constituencies of Kaliaganj in Uttar Dinajpur and Kharagpur in West Midnapore. Adhikari, who was the party’s in-charge of five of the state’s 23 districts, was credited for the success. The Adhikari family wields influence over at least 40-45 assembly seats in West Midnapore, Bankura, Purulia and Jhargram, parts of Birbhum - mainly in the Junglemahal region and areas in minority-dominated Murshidabad.Elections to the 294-member West Bengal Assembly are likely to be held in April-May next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suvendu-adhikari-family-skip-mamata-banerjee-s-mega-rally-she-accuses-bjp-of-trying-to-break-tmc/story-tIz4FLE88XypGNMyBaCi5J.html
07-12-2020||India||PM Modi to virtually inaugurate India Mobile Congress on Dec 8||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the 4th India Mobile Congress which is scheduled to start from December 8, according to industry body COAI.The 4th edition of the three-day telecom industry event will be held online for the first time due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI) DG Lt Gen SP Kochhar confirmed the programme schedule.  According to Kochhar, Reliance Industries Limited Chairman Mukesh Ambani, Bharti Group founder and Chairman Sunil Bharti Mittal besides Telecom Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, Minister of State for Communications and IT Sanjay Dhotre will be present during the inaugural session.“It’s an absolute one of the kind memorable event that is going to extend the diversity and open a plethora of opportunities in the telecom world. We are extremely ecstatic about the active participation of the Hon’ble Prime Minister, at the IMC 2020 Virtual event, that is going to accentuate the importance of the Telecom Sector,” Kochhar told PTI. The title theme of IMC 2020 will be inclusive Innovation - Smart, Secure and Sustainable. Around 210 national and international speakers and over 150 exhibitors are expected to participate in the event. The event in 2019 recorded 75,000 visitors, 350 exhibitors, 350 speakers, 56 live 5G demos, over 50 thought leadership sessions and participation from over 60 countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-virtually-inaugurate-india-mobile-congress-on-dec-8/story-9eM9dCbKIfTwV4aHtIG31H.html
07-12-2020||India||Centre sends advisory for ‘Bharat Bandh’; asks states to tighten security, ensure peace||The Centre has asked all states and Union Territories to tighten security during Tuesday’s ‘Bharat Bandh’ called by the farmers unions and supported by opposition parties, while asserting that peace and tranquillity must be maintained on that day, officials said.In a countrywide advisory, the Union Home Ministry also said the state governments and UT administrations must ensure that the Covid-19 guidelines issued with regard to health and social distancing are strictly followed.The states and UTs were told that peace and tranquillity must be maintained during the ‘Bharat Bandh’ and precautionary measures taken so that no untoward incident takes place anywhere in the country, a home ministry official said on Monday.Also Read | Bharat Bandh tomorrow: Will begin from 11am, don’t want to trouble common man, say farmersThe ‘Bharat Bandh’ has been called by the farmers unions who have been protesting the three farm laws enacted in the Monsoon Session of Parliament. Major political parties, such as the Congress, NCP, DMK, SP, TRS and Left, on Sunday came out in strong support of the bandh.Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi against the new farm laws.Talks between the government and protesting farmers remained inconclusive on Saturday even after five rounds of discussions as union leaders stuck to their demand for the repeal of the new farm laws and went on a ‘maun vrat’ seeking a clear ‘yes or no’ reply, forcing the Centre to call for another meeting on December 9 to resolve the deadlock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-sends-advisory-for-bharat-bandh-asks-states-to-tighten-security-ensure-peace/story-REZl2VXzsWfgoj0YI8O92O.html
07-12-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh CM takes part in TN BJP’s yatra, says party will repeat Bihar performance in state||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Monday joined the Tamil Nadu BJP’s vetrivel yatra (victorious spear march) on its concluding day in Tiruchendur in Thoothukudi district. Chouhan had tweeted that the rally is to “conserve and protect Tamil culture”. BJP’s national general secretary and Tamil Nadu in-charge CT Ravi and the state BJP leaders welcomed Chouhan at the Thoothukudi airport. Speaking at the concluding function, Ravi accused the Opposition DMK of corruption and acting against the Hindu beliefs of Tamils. BJP is trying to make a mark in the 2021 assembly elections in the state where it is battling the perception of an outsider. “Some in Tamil Nadu are saying that BJP is against Tamils,” said Ravi in Kannada aided by a Tamil translator. “But Tamil Nadu’s true friend is Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Modi brought Chinese premier Xi Jinping to Mahabalipuram. He recites Thirukural at functions and speaks highly of Tamil language, even in his Mann Ki Baat addresses. How can he be against Tamils?” He said that for the BJP, all languages were the same.Speaking in Hindi with the help of party’s former national secretary H Raja who translated his words in Tamil, . Chouhan said that BJP’s victory in Bihar and Hyderabad will be repeated in Tamil Nadu. Hitting out at DMK several times, he also warned the Opposition that anyone who has an alliance with the Congress will drown. He said that Donald Trump lost the presidential elections because the US could not control Covid-19 unlike India where PM Modi has got the public’s support because of his work in controlling the pandemic.The BJP embarked on this elaborate yatra on November 6, defying its ally AIADMK. The government denied permission citing Covid-19 pandemic but BJP state president L Murugan, with hundreds of workers and leaders, led a massive roadshow across the state by visiting Tamil deity Lord Muruga’s temples. Following that, they led rallies accusing the Opposition DMK of being against Hindu beliefs of Tamil people. Police detained them at every rally and they were let off later. The yatra was also briefly cancelled due to cyclone Nivar and Buveri that has caused heavy rainfall in the state.BJP’s launched the yatra after the party went up against YouTube channel Karuppar Kootam which allegedly ridiculed Kandha Sashti Kavasam, a devotional hymn dedicated to Lord Muruga. On BJP’s complaint, police arrested members who made the video. BJP has accused DMK of backing the members though the latter has denied it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-cm-takes-part-in-tn-bjp-s-yatra/story-TbB5osPv2GmEVXIrg6iPDI.html
07-12-2020||India||HC reserves order on Manoj Tiwari’s plea against summon in Sisodia defamation case||The Delhi High Court on Monday reserved its order on a plea filed by BJP MP Manoj Tiwari and MLA Vijender Gupta challenging summon issued against them by a trial court in a defamation case filed by Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia.A single-judge bench of Justice Anu Malhotra, after the conclusion of lengthy arguments, decided to keep order reserved in the matter. The court also asked the counsels of both sides to submit their written submissions, if any.Manish Sisodia and Delhi Police opposed the pleas filed by Tiwari and Gupta.Senior advocate Vikas Pahwa appeared for Manish Sisodia in the matter, while senior standing counsel Rahul Mehra represented the state. On the other hand, senior lawyer Pinki Anand and Sonia Mathur represented Manoj Tiwari and Vijender Gupta respectively.Manoj Tiwari and Vijender Gupta, in their pleas, sought directions to quash the order passed by Rouse Avenue Court on November 28, 2019, issuing summons against them.The trial court had also issued summons to BJP MPs Hans Raj Hans and Pravesh Verma and MLA Manjinder Singh Sirsa.Sisodia had filed a defamation case against BJP MPs Manoj Tiwari, Hans Raj Hans, Pravesh Verma, MLA Manjinder Singh Sirsa, MLA Vijender Gupta and BJP spokesperson Harish Khurana for making false allegations regarding the former’s involvement in corruption of Rs 2,000 crore in the building of classrooms of Delhi government schools. All accused are out on bail in this matter.Sisodia, in the defamation case, had said that all the allegations made by these BJP leaders were false, defamatory, derogatory and with an intention to harm and damage the reputation and goodwill of the Delhi deputy CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-reserves-order-on-manoj-tiwari-s-plea-against-summon-in-sisodia-defamation-case/story-Zwu9BYQR0TygUDms6j26pN.html
07-12-2020||India||J&K administration seeks review of order on Roshni Act; court adjourns petition to December 16||In a U-turn, the Jammu and Kashmir administration has sought a review of October 9 high court judgment that had declared the 2001 J&K State Land (Vesting of Ownership to Occupants) Act (Roshni Act) null and void.The high court on Monday adjourned the main PIL as well as review petition filed by the J&K government to December 16. In its October 9 order, the high court had also ordered a CBI probe and directed the government to cancel all mutations of state lands under the Act, and work out modalities to evict encroachers from such land and retrieve it within six months.Following the order, the administration was uploading the names of “encroachers” on government website. These names included those of National Conference president Farooq Abdullah, party vice-president Omar Abdullah, Peoples Democratic Party chief Mehbooba Mufti, PDP leader and former finance minister Haseeb Drabu, and politicians from Congress. On December 4, the administration, through special secretary (revenue) Nazir Ahmad Thakur, filed a review petition before the high court.While Thakur refused to comment on the development, the petition has sought to distinguish between “landless cultivators and individuals residing in dwellings on small areas” and “rich and wealthy land grabbers” who obtained title over state land via provisions of the “unconstitutional” Act.It further said the court’s intent was to probe any mala fide intent in the manner the Roshni Act and its Rules were framed, and also to identify the wealthy and influential individuals, who manipulated the system to obtain benefits under the Act.The review petition also sought the court’s directions to CBI to rein in influential and powerful people who defrauded the state. BJP’s chief spokesman and high court lawyer Sunil Sethi said, “a review has been sought by the government of its judgement so as to insulate landless farmers and small city dwellers, who were given proprietary rights of small land holdings”.The government decision has drawn sharp criticism from various quarters, especially those who had challenged the Roshni Act. Farooq Abdullah had already called the entire exercise a political vendetta. Talking to HT, he had said, “We purchased the house in Srinagar in 1974 and it was not under Roshni scheme. Neither we purchased the house in Jammu under it. It is only propaganda against us. I just can’t understand what they want to do? Sunjwan colony was not raised by me.. it was raised long back. Don’t we have the right to live”. Former minister Haseeb Drabu and family also figured in the list. He also rubbished suggestions that he was involved in any irregularities, saying his grandfather had bought the land in question in 1956 in the name of his mother, who divided it among her children after extending its lease. “I have only one kanal of land. Just because I have been a minister does not mean that you have a right to sully my name,” he said.Advocate Sheikh Shakeel Ahmad, counsel of Prof SK Bhalla, who had filed the main PIL, said, “If the government wants an amendment for the poor and landless, I see no harm in the review petition. It is yet to be seen how the high court takes the review petition but somewhere (along the line), the government must have also realised that the maximum number of people who were given proprietary rights were poor. You can’t equate land mafia with a poor man. If the intention is to protect the poor, then a review petition is justified.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-administration-seeks-review-of-order-on-roshni-act/story-LvT6jel9sCbTrj8Yvyh1TL.html
07-12-2020||India||Maharashtra: 47 accused in Palghar lynching case get bail||A Thane court on Monday granted bail to 47 people arrested in the Palghar mob lynching case. District Judge PP Jadhav ordered that the accused be released on a surety of Rs 15,000 each.Last month, the court granted bail to four accused in the case. Nearly 200 people have so far been arrested in connection with the case.Advocates Amrut Adhikari and Atul Patil, who appeared for the applicants, submitted in the court that their clients had no role in the incident and the police arrested them on mere suspicion.On April 16, 2020, a mob lynched two sadhus, Chikne Maharaj Kalpavrukshagiri (70) and Sushilgiri Maharaj (35), and their driver Nilesh Telgade (30) at Gadchinchale in Maharashtra’s Palghar district, located about 140 km north of Mumbai.While the two monks were heading for Gujarat in a car to attend a funeral, the mob suspected that they were child- lifters.The CID (crime) of the Maharashtra Police has filed a charge sheet in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-47-accused-in-palghar-lynching-case-get-bail/story-NUBUtSFQ5GTjvbOekRvsfM.html
07-12-2020||India||Take a decision soon to address farmers’ issues: Delhi environment minister Rai to Centre||Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Monday appealed to the central government to take a decision soon to address the issues of farmers. Rai, who also raised the issue in a meeting of ICAR called by the Centre on Monday, said if the income of farmers has to be increased, the minimum support price (MSP) will have to be implemented. “The farmers are shivering in cold since the last 11 days. If the income of farmers has to be increased, then as per the recommendations of the Swaminathan committee, MSP will have to be implemented,” Rai told reporters.Also Read |  Akhilesh Yadav, stopped from joining ‘Kisan Yatra’, detained outside his Lucknow house “As the farmers are demanding, the central government must deliberate on their demands and take a decision soon to address the issue of farmers,” he added. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi against the new farm laws. The Centre’s offer to amend the contentious laws failed to cut ice with farmer groups during the fifth round of talks on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/take-a-decision-soon-to-address-farmers-issues-delhi-environment-minister-rai-to-centre/story-Tom0W8QxxaAwwBjqGFnwJK.html
07-12-2020||India||Actor-politician Vijayashanti joins BJP, day after meeting Amit Shah||Former Member of Parliament from Telangana and popular Telugu actress M Vijayashanti returned to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday after a formal induction ceremonyin Delhi, news agency ANI reported. This comes a day after she met Union home minister Amit Shah. Vijayashanti had recently quit the Congress party which she had joined in 2014.After her meeting with Shah, Telangana BJP leader G Vivek Venkatswamy had said, “BJP will definitely win in Telangana Assembly next time. Vijayashanti ji will be at the forefront for the development of the party in the state.”Vijayashanti began her political career with the BJP in 1998 and was made secretary of the party’s Mahila Morcha. When the Telangana movement reached its peak, she quit the BJP and floated her own regional party Talli Telangana, but could not sustain it for long. She merged her party with the Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) in 2009 and got elected to Lok Sabha from Medak parliamentary constituency. However, when she was sidelined in the TRS during the formation of Telangana in 2014, Vijayashanti resigned from the TRS and joined the Congress.She was the star campaigner for the Congress in 2019 Lok Sabha elections, and later made advisor to the election campaign committee of the Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC).However, she had been keeping away from meetings and other activities of the Congress for quite some time and on many occasions, she expressed her unhappiness over the PCC not inviting her to the party meetings.The BJP had made major gains in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) polls as it won 48 seats, seven less than the ruling TRS which emerged as the single largest party winning 55 seats.The strong performance by BJP came on the heels of its victory last month in the Dubbaka assembly seat. The party had wrested the seat from the ruling TRS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/actor-politician-vijayashanti-joins-bjp-day-after-meeting-amit-shah/story-hgM36PEE4FoMoeNDUry1SN.html
07-12-2020||India||BJP govt able to start, finish development projects on time: PM Modi||Taking a dig at previous governments, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the BJP government at the Centre has not only focused on starting new projects but also arranged adequate funds to complete the projects on time.“A big problem with infrastructure development in the country was that projects were announced but not much attention was paid on the arrangement of funds. Hence, projects kept dragging for years. My government focused on starting new projects as well as arranging funds for them,” PM Modi said while inaugurated the construction of Phase-1 of the Agra Metro project via video conferencing.Talking about the culture and history of Agra, PM Modi said, “This city which has a rich history and culture is now catching up to the 21st century. To develop smart facilities, a lot of work is underway for projects worth around Rs 1000 crores.”He said, “This (Agra) metro project, worth over Rs 8000 crores, will strengthen the mission related to the establishment of smart facilities in Agra.”The Agra Metro project comprises two corridors with a total length of 29.4 km and will connect major tourist attractions like Taj Mahal and Agra Fort with railway stations and bus stands.The estimated cost of the project will be Rs 8,379.62 crores and it will be completed in five years.The Prime Minister listed the various developmental projects that were completed in six years after 2014 including more than 450km of metro lines that have become operational in the country. Further talking about the Centre’s effort to ramp up development projects with the help of modern facilities, PM Modi said: “In the last six years, the speed and scale at which the metro construction work was done, reflect the commitment of this government. Till 2014, 225 km of the metro line were operational in the country. In six years, more 650 km of the railway line is now operational and work is being done on nearly 1000 km at a fast pace.”“Moreover, in 27 cities, construction of the metro has either been completed or is underway in different phases,” he said.During his speech, he also made a reference to the recent Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), where BJP made major gains as it won 48 seats out of 150 seats.Prime Minister Modi said, “The faith of sisters, daughters, farmers, labourers and traders of India was seen in results of every election in recent past. In Hyderabad elections, the poor and the middle class blessed the efforts of the government. Your support is my inspiration.”Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath also joined PM Modi during the programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-govt-able-to-start-finish-development-projects-on-time-pm-modi/story-fVTfbVE3NjTlIqYKV9SuOI.html
07-12-2020||India||4th phase of DDC polls: Internet suspended in South Kashmir as ‘precautionary measure’||Mobile internet services were again suspended in South Kashmir on Monday even as voting was being held in the fourth phase of district development council (DDC) elections in Jammu and Kashmir. “Internet has been suspended today in South Kashmir as the elections are going on.It was suspended in earlier three phases as well,” said one of the senior police officers of South Kashmir not wishing to be identified.Police control rooms of Pulwama, Anantnag and Shopian dustricts in South Kashmir confirmed that the internet was suspended. Local militancy is more prominent is South Kashmir. Meanwhile, officials said the fourth phase of DDC elections had recorded a voter percentage of 26.02 % across different constituencies spread over different districts of Jammu and Kashmir till 11am.As per the figures given by the office of State Election Commissioner, KK Sharma, Kashmir division had recorded an overall polling percentage of 14.87% while Jammu recorded 37.88% up to 11am.In Kashmir division, Kupwara had recorded voting percentage of 14.8%, Bandipora 27.49%, Baramulla 21.12%, Ganderbal 25.15%, Budgam 21.14%, Pulwama 3.79%, Shopian 1.24%, Kulgam 3.58% and Anantnag 16.28% till 11am.In Jammu division, Kishtwar had recorded voting percentage of 36.49%, Doda 43.52%, Udhampur 28.65%, Ramban 36.39%, Reasi 26.61%, Kathua 35.37%, Samba 38.58%, Jammu 42.93%, Rajouri 42.35% and Poonch 37.09% till 11am.The DDC elections are the first major electoral exercise taking place in J&K after the revocation of Article 370 in August last year and the bifurcation of the former state into the Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh.The eight-phase election will end on December 19 and the counting will be held on December 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fourth-phase-of-ddc-polls-internet-suspended-in-south-kashmir-officials-call-it-a-precautionary-measure/story-pqBEQX99iyrM6mD8xo1oEK.html
07-12-2020||India||Bharat Bandh tomorrow: Will begin from 11am, don’t want to trouble common man, say farmers||The Bharat bandh or the nationwide strike called by the farmers against the farm laws will begin at 11am and continue till 3pm on Tuesday, a spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union said on Monday. Thousands of farmers are protesting against the Centre’s new agricultural laws for the past 11 days. As the talks with the government have so far resulted futile, the protesting farmers have called for a nationwide strike on Tuesday.“We don’t want to cause problems for a common man. Therefore, we will begin at 11am, so that they could leave for office on time. Work hours in offices will end by 3pm,” BKU’s Rakesh Tikait was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. “People can show their card and leave,” Tikait said.Also Watch | ‘Farmers’ demands valid’: Kejriwal visits Singhu border day ahead of Bharat Bandh During the strike, they are expected to block roads and services such as transport and banking may be affected. However, medical services like an ambulance or even weddings will go as usual.Also Read | Akhilesh Yadav, stopped from joining ‘Kisan Yatra’, detained outside his Lucknow house“It is a symbolic protest to register our opposition. It is to show that we don’t support some of the policies of the Govt of India,” Tikait added.The next round of talks between the government and the protesting farmers is scheduled to take place on Wednesday. The farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Meanwhile, with the farmers’ protests intensifying in Delhi, Delhi Traffic Police advised commuters moving in and out of the Capital to use alternative routes to avoid traffic snarls. Commuters are likely to get caught in long traffic snarls because many of the city’s borders will remain shut for traffic movement, the traffic police warned.The borders that are completely closed are Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Jharoda, Piao Maniyari, and Mangesh in outer and south-western parts of the city and the Chilla border, connecting Delhi and Noida, in east Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-want-to-cause-problems-to-common-man-bharat-bandh-to-begin-at-11am-says-bku-spokesperson/story-BeoE2b2wk3OTQm2YovMgNO.html
07-12-2020||India||Landmark achievement, says govt as active Covid-19 cases fall below 400,000 for first time since July||As India’s active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) slipped below the 400,000 mark on Monday, the government said it was the country’s lowest tally since July 20 when 390,459 infections were reported. India recorded 32,981 new Covid-19 infections in the last 24 hours, taking the country’s tally past 9.67 million, the Union health ministry’s data showed.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“India has reported a landmark achievement today. India’s total active Covid-19 caseload has fallen below four lakh mark today to 396,729. This number translates to just 4.1% of total cases. This is the lowest after 140 days. The total active cases were 390,459 on July 20,” the government said in a press release. India’s total active COVID-19 caseload has fallen below 4 lakh mark today to 3,96,729. This number translates to just 4.1% of total cases. This is the lowest after 140 days. The total active cases were 3,90,459 on July 20: Govt of IndiaThere were 39,109 recoveries in the last 24 hours as against new cases which meant the total number of active cases slumped by 6,519, as per the ministry’s dashboard. The total number of recoveries and fatalities, meanwhile, is at 9,139,901 and 140,573 respectively. Recoveries, active cases and deaths constitute 94.45%, 4.10% and 1.45%, respectively, of India’s total cases.Also Read | With 32,981 fresh Covid-19 cases, trend of fewer than 40,000 daily infections continues for 8th dayIndia has continued the trend of reporting more new recoveries than daily Covid-19 cases as in the last 10 days, the government noted. Additionally, it said new cases recorded per million population in India in the last seven days, 182, are among the lowest in the world.These numbers come even as it came to light Adar Poonawalla’s Serum Institute of India (SII) has applied for emergency use authorisation of Oxford University-AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 candidate, Covishield. This makes the Pune-based SII the second firm to have sought emergency use authorisation in India, after America’s Pfizer Inc, and the first indigenous firm to do so.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/landmark-achievement-says-govt-as-active-covid-19-cases-fall-below-400-000-for-first-time-since-july/story-vdZGrkgVoNOmWJDTRmegZK.html
07-12-2020||India||28 more hospitalised in AP’s Eluru with symptoms of mysterious disease||Another 28 people suffering from symptoms of a mysterious disease were admitted to the government hospital in Eluru town on Andhra Pradesh’s West Godavari district in overnight even as chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy flew down to the town to visit the patients. According to hospital authorities, as many as 345 patients were admitted with symptoms of epilepsy, seizures, giddiness, vomiting and frothing at the mouth in the last two days.“Since Sunday night, another 28 patients were admitted to the hospital, including five patients on Monday morning. So far, 180 patients were discharged after being treated for symptoms,” the hospital said. A 45-year-old man, identified as Sridhar from Vidyanagar area of Eluru town succumbed to the mysterious disease on Sunday evening. Though his family members took the body home, the police took it back to the hospital again late in the night for autopsy to find out the actual reason.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/28-more-hospitalised-in-ap-s-eluru-with-symptoms-of-mysterious-disease/story-BfUj81Ju3dxpYEcXwP5kRL.html
07-12-2020||India||4, including 2 women, killed in bear attack in Chhattisgarh||Four people, including two women, were killed in a bear attack in Koriya district of Surguja division in Chhattisgarh, officials said on Monday. The bear attacked the villagers when they were returning from a nearby jungle on Sunday evening after which the district administration, police and forest department launched a rescue operation, which went on till late night. “A group of local tribals of Angwahi village were returning home after collecting forest produce from the jungle when a bear attacked them. Four of them were killed while some people climbed on trees. We got information and launched a rescue operation inside the jungle. During the rescue operations, four bodies were recovered and the rescue team managed to save a person who climbed a tree. Three others who were injured in the attack were also rescued by the team,” Inspector General of Police, Surguja Range, Ratanlal Dangi told HT. The IG further said that the villagers reported the bear attack on Sunday evening and subsequently Collector Satyanarayan Rathore, Superintendent of Police ( SP) Chandramohan Singh and rushed to the spot along with a team. “The rescue operation started in the evening and ended at around midnight. We have found four bodies, including two women,” the IG said. The deceased were identified as Phool Sai, Ijaoria Sai, Rajkumari Sai and one Shivachan Sai. “The bear was roaming around the area and the rescue team managed to shoo him away in the jungle at around 1 am. The injured were admitted to government hospital,” said the IG.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-including-2-women-killed-in-bear-attack-in-chhattisgarh/story-LLNGeurRu7D13ROaQgxcOO.html
07-12-2020||India||Medical teams, tests: How govt is tackling Eluru mystery illness||As more than 20 additional people with a range of symptoms from nausea to fits have been admitted to the government hospital in Eluru town in Andhra Pradesh’s West Godavari district in the last 12 hours, authorities are yet to find a cause behind the mystery illness.At least 345 people have complained of epilepsy, seizures, giddiness, vomiting and oozing of froth from the mouth in the last 48 hours, according to officials. Most of the 345 patients, who showed symptoms of the mysterious disease, were in the age group of 20-40 years, there were at least 45 children below 12 years of age, they added. One of them died on Sunday.Also read | 1 dead, hundreds take ill: What we know about Eluru mystery disease so far“Since Sunday night, another 28 patients were admitted to the hospital, including five patients on Monday morning. So far, 180 patients were discharged after being treated for symptoms,” the hospital authorities said. “Most of the patients were quite normal till Sunday morning, but suddenly collapsed due to symptoms,” K Raju, correspondent of a local television channel, said.Also Watch Over 300 hit by ‘mystery disease’ in Andhra; CM Jagan meets patients A team of doctors from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) is going to visit Eluru to find out the cause behind the unidentified illness. Blood samples of some patients have been sent to Indian Institute of Chemical Technology in Hyderabad for examination, hospital authorities said. CT scans of the patients’ brain were performed and cerebral spinal fluid tests also turned out to be normal. E-coli results were also awaited, according to reports.It was initially suspected that water contamination could have been the cause of the outbreak but sample tests ruled that out. The Bharatiya Janata Party’s lawmaker GVL Narasimha Rao said, after talking to experts at the AIIMS, New Delhi, that poisonous organochlorine substances could be the most likely cause of the disease.Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy called on the people undergoing treatment at the Eluru government hospital and assured of all help. He instructed health department authorities to take steps to ensure the best medical care to the patients. He later held a meeting with the officials the local Zilla Parishad office.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/medical-teams-tests-how-govt-is-tackling-eluru-mystery-illness/story-LaXtHjl19ehv5ke4b2EjIL.html
07-12-2020||India||India’s human space flight mission ‘Gaganyaan’ to be delayed by a year due to Covid-19||India’s first human space flight mission, Gaganyaan, is likely to be delayed by a year owing to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. “That (Ganganyaan mission) will be delayed because of Covid,” ISRO chairperson K Sivan told PTI. “We are targeting for some time next year-end or the subsequent year,” he said on being asked about the two uncrewed missions before an astronaut is sent to space. The first of these was scheduled for December 2020, the second for June 2021, before the first manned mission on December 2021 ahead of the Prime Minister’s deadline. In his Independence Day address of 2018, the PM had said that an Indian astronaut will be sent to space before the country celebrates its 75th year of Independence in 2022. The pandemic has also delayed other big-ticket missions that ISRO had planned for the year, including India’s first solar mission – Aditya L1 – scheduled for mid-2020. Also read | Shukrayaan: India’s proposed Venus mission attracts international payload proposalsSpace activity cannot be done through work from home. Each and every one of the space engineers has to be available in labs, industries, integration areas, as well as the field. Each engineer, technician, tech assistant has to come all from different centres and work together for a launch. Hardware from different parts of the country has to be transported to SHAR (the launch site),” Sivan had said after the first launch of the year took place on November 7, when India’s workhorse PSLV carried an Indian Earth Observation Satellite along with nine international satellites to orbit. ISRO chief had said that the PSLV will launch a communication satellite next, followed by the second earth observation satellite EOS 02 in its maiden flight. Apart from the solar mission, ISRO was to also send a lander-rover mission to moon either by 2020-end or 2021 beginning. “We have not yet fixed the schedule (for the Chandrayaan-3 launch),” Sivan told PTI. The space agency is reviewing all its future missions, including the Venus mission that had been planned for June 2023. If missed, the next launch window would be after 19 months when the planet is closest to the Earth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gaganyaan-likely-to-be-delayed-by-a-year-due-to-covid-19/story-j5Sck2x4170F4dq7Nx0eYM.html
07-12-2020||India||Centre unlikely to share draft amendments to farm laws with protestors before talks, hopes to resolve agitation through dialogue: Report||The Union government’s unrelenting attempts to resolve the farmers’ agitation through dialogue is making little headway with few of the farmer unions remaining adamant on their demand to repeal the new agriculture laws.While farmers expect the government to send the new draft with amendments to them before they come for the next round of meeting on December 9, sources in the government said that the draft will be discussed only at the discussion table. “It doesn’t make any sense to send in draft before they come for discussion. They are most welcome to come and discuss and debate the amendments they want in the laws,” added the source. The farmers had claimed that once the government sends the draft to them, they will first discuss it among themselves before coming for the meeting. The government, in a bid to make headway in the discussions, agreed to ‘as many amendments’ as demanded by the farmers. “The farmers seemed like a divided lot with few convinced of laws and government’s intention to make amendments on their suggestions whereas there was a handful of those who remained adamant on the repeal of farm laws,” added a source. Also Read |  Farmers’ demands valid, will back Bharat Bandh: Kejriwal at Delhi’s Singhu borderSources stated that farmers came with a list of demands not just demanding amendments but also amenities they expect the government to provide to facilitate their protest and agitation. “They want mics, street lights, sanitation and other things to be able to communicate with others effectively,” added the source. To assuage the agitated farmers, the ministers committed to making amendments brought in as demands. “To this, one of the leaders quipped that so many amendments would be like changing all the sweets inside the box and yet keeping the box. So why not change the box,” stated the source. The fifth round of talks remained inconclusive with government and farmers agreeing on drafting a new set of amendments to the existing farm laws.Hundreds of farmers have been protesting on different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws--Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Farmers’ leaders have held several rounds of talks with the government but all of them remained inconclusive so far. After the fifth round of talks, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar has called another meeting on December 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-unlikely-to-share-draft-amendments-to-farm-laws-with-protestors-before-talks-hopes-to-resolve-agitation-through-dialogue/story-DiBt67MIz1pq5Tinpm77oJ.html
07-12-2020||India||Maharashtra pollution board shuts down 4 industries; pulls up civic body over river pollution||Acting on a series of complaints of pollution in Ulhas and Waldhuni rivers, the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) has directed four industries to close down and issued show cause notices to local municipal bodies.Environment group Vanashakti, petitioners before the Supreme Court (SC), had flagged violations through three major complaints between November 26 and November 28 wherein a large stretch of Waldhuni river along the Ulhasnagar railway station was spotted foaming with effluents. Industrial effluents were also discharged into Waldhuni near Vriddhashram Pipeline Road at Ambernath, leading to a reddish layer over the water, and the third complaint pertained to a stench at night near Ambreshwar Shiv temple at Dombivali Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) where untreated effluents were entering Waldhuni.Also read | Waterfront project in Thane: 5 bodies get notice for CRZ violations“Acids and hazardous chemicals are being discharged into the river. There is no fear of the law among the polluting industries of various MIDCs in the Ulhas-Waldhuni influence zones,” said Vanashakti director Stalin D. Responding to the complaints, MPCB said that an investigation was undertaken by a team of officers between November 28 and December 1 that confirmed each of the complaints to be accurate. “As the Supreme Court monitors the progress, we are following a focused approach to ensure natural streams are not polluted and there is proper treatment by industries and effluent treatment plants. However, both industries and civic bodies need to work harder. They have made a timeline for improvement and should stick to it,” said Ashok Shingare, member secretary, MPCB.According to a letter regarding the action taken, MPCB regional officer (Kalyan) SL Waghmare said the white foam near Samrat Ashok Nagar was due to the sewage treatment plant under the Ambernath municipal council (AMC) being non-functional. “In this regard, the board has issued a show cause notice to the AMC,” read Waghmare’s submission. In the second case, MPCB confirmed they saw a reddish coating on the surface water upstream of the Vriddhashram pipeline road coming from electroplating (metal surface treatment) industries in Additional MIDC Ambernath. Also, municipal solid waste and tree trunks had clogged this stretch of the river at one end. “We issued closure notice to four industries and a show-cause notice to another industry,” said Waghmare. At MIDC Dombivli, MPCB found excavation work had damaged a pipeline carrying effluents from industries that had leaked into the river while AMC had allowed the discharge of a part of domestic sewage into Waldhuni despite having an underground sewage system. While the executive engineer Dombivli MIDC was directed to investigate and take action against those responsible for damaging the pipeline, a show cause notice was issued to AMC for inadequate treatment. Supreme Court to hear matter this FridayOn November 3, the SC bench of justices DY Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee, while hearing Vanashakti’s application, had pulled up the Maharashtra government for shoddy efforts to address water pollution at Ulhas and Waldhuni rivers based on a two-day inspection report of both rivers by the Central Pollution Control Board and National Environmental Engineering Research Institute in September. The report found at least 139 industrial units to be responsible for causing pollution, and suggested 25 specific recommendations to improve water quality. The SC bench directed immediate implementation of the report suggestions and the state chief secretary to oversee it. Subsequently, the Maharashtra government submitted an affidavit confirming that suggestions would be implemented, and squads had been made to detect pollution and nab offenders. It also stated that these squads would commence action from November 18. However, a series of violations have now been unearthed by petitioners, and confirmed by MPCB. The matter before the Supreme Court is listed to be heard on December 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-pollution-board-shuts-down-4-industries-pulls-up-civic-body-over-river-pollution/story-dQRzLw7Sxn77k3KP90f7kI.html
07-12-2020||India||Akhilesh Yadav, stopped from joining ‘Kisan Yatra’, detained outside his Lucknow house||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav was on Monday detained after he launched a sit-in protest outside his residence in Lucknow before being stopped from going to Kannauj to lead a protest against the Centre’s three farm laws. Over hundreds of workers of the party, who continued with their protest against the farm laws enacted earlier this year, were also arrested in Kannauj.Yadav also wrote to Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla over the protests asking him to step in. “Apart from being a Lok Sabha member and Samajwadi Party national president, I had fulfilled my constitutional duty as UP chief minister. There was a pre-announced programme of mine in Kannauj in support of farmers. All preparations were in place. But on the instructions of the UP government, I was prevented from going to Kannauj,” he said.Follow latest updates on farmers protests hereHe added that a heavy police force has been deployed at his house on Vikramaditya Marg. “The police even took my vehicle under their control. This undemocratic behaviour of the state government is not only an infringement of my rights as a citizen but also of special privileges as an LS member. Kindly interfere so that my right to my democratic duties is restored,” Yadav wrote.The Samajwadi Party president had announced statewide Kisaan Yatra - on foot, bicycles, motorcycles, tractors, etc - to protest the new agricultural reforms and lend support to the farmers’ cause. Earlier in the day, the SP president had tweeted asking people to join the protest rally. “Step by step, bow your head. Yeh jung hai zameen ki. Join the ‘Kisan Yatra’!” he wrote on Twitter in Hindi. The police have cordoned off Vikramaditya Marg where Yadav’s house is and also deployed anti-riot vehicles. They already took two SP legislative council members - Ashu Malik and Rajpal Kashyap - and sent them to the police lines.After Yadav was prevented from going to Kannauj, Rajendra Chaudhary, SP state spokesperson and former UP minister said, “This government is so scared of Akhilesh ji taking to streets. He has to go there to participate in the farmers’ protest and drive a tractor along with the farmers to raise their issue. First, the central government introduced draconian kind of farm laws and now the state government is preventing our party from protesting. This all is so anti-democratic,” said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhilesh-yadav-sits-on-dharna-outside-his-house-over-hundred-sp-workers-protesting-against-farm-laws-arrested/story-tEkCkPfrVg1jH780LzFpFO.html
07-12-2020||India||In jail, BSP lawmaker Atul Rai booked for defaming woman complainant||A woman who had filed a rape case against BSP MP Atul Rai in 2019 registered another case against him and his close associate Sudhir Singh on Sunday for maligning her image through propaganda on social media. Mahesh Pandey, station officer, Lanka police station, said a case had been registered under sections of IT Act against the accused. Rai is presently in jail in connection with the rape case against the complainant. He had surrendered in a Varanasi court in June 2019. A police official said that the woman claimed ever since she filed the case against Rai last year, people of Mukhtar Ansari gang and Atul Rai have been harassing her and her family and made their lives difficult. The woman also named Rai’s close associate Sudhir Singh for cooking up a story against her and labelling her as a blackmailer. She alleged that Singh also circulated the story on social media. She also claimed that on Rai’s behest Singh was running a vicious propaganda against her and Satyamprakash Rai, a witness in the rape case. She alleged that her mother and younger brother took ill after hearing the propaganda against her, the police said. The crime branch is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-jail-bsp-lawmaker-atul-rai-booked-for-defaming-woman-complainant/story-R8eV76LTPZukqlabnT0UtM.html
07-12-2020||India||Gaganyaan likely to be delayed by 1 year due to Covid-19, says ISRO||India’s first human space flight mission Gaganyaan is likely to be delayed by one year due to the adverse impact from the COVID-19 pandemic, according to Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) officials.As per the mandate of Gaganyaan, two uncrewed missions would be undertaken prior to the manned mission.Accordingly, the unmanned missions were slated for launch in December 2020 and July 2021, and the first manned mission was scheduled in December 2021.“That will be delayed because of COVID,” ISRO Chairman, Kailasavadivoo Sivan, told P T I.“We are targeting for sometime next year-end or the subsequent year,” he said on the expected time-line for the first of the two proposed uncrewed missions.The Gaganyaan project has the objective of demonstrating human space flight capability to Low Earth Orbit (LEO) with three crew members in orbit and safely recovering them after the mission.Bengaluru-headquartered ISRO said last month its heavy lift launcher, GSLV MkIII is identified for the Gaganyaan mission and the process for human rating of this rocket is in progress.The high thrust solid propellant strap-on boosters S200 play an important role in the human-rated GSLV MkIII. In order to human rate the booster, many new design features have been introduced in the hardware.The first critical booster segment of the motor case with a diameter of 3.2 metre, 8.5 metre in length and weighing 5.5 tons has been indigenously developed and delivered by L&T to ISRO.“This is the first step towards the uncrewed space mission,” an ISRO official said.Sivan also said the work on the Chandrayaan-3 mission, comprising a lander and a rover, is in progress.“We have not yet fixed the schedule (for the Chandrayaan-3 launch),” he said.On the proposed orbiter mission to Venus, “Shukrayaan”, he said ISRO is yet to finalise the payloads, adding, work on the project is going on.According to ISRO officials, the space agency has short-listed 20 space-based experiment proposals for the ‘Shukrayaan’ mission to study the planet for more than four years.They include “collaborative contributions” from Russia, France, Sweden and Germany, sources in the space agency said.ISRO was eyeing June, 2023 for the country’s first mission to Venus.“But we are currently reviewing this mission timeline due to delays arising from the pandemic situation,” an ISRO official said.“Future launch opportunity is either in 2024 or 2026”.It was noted that the optimal launch window (when Venus is closest to the Earth) comes about every 19 months.Of the Indian and international payload proposals it received in response to an announcement of opportunity for novel space-based experiments to study Venus, ISRO has short- listed 20.PTI RS SS PTI PTI PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gaganyaan-likely-to-be-delayed-by-1-year-due-to-covid-19-says-isro/story-jlm7GJYImwr0ectf3e5mEM.html
07-12-2020||India||BSP extends support to ‘Bharat Bandh’ call by farmers||The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) on Monday extended support to the ‘Bharat Bandh’ called by protesting farmers, with party chief Mayawati appealing to the Centre to accept their demands. In a tweet on Monday, she said, “Farmers are protesting against three farm laws and are demanding their withdrawal. Farmer organisations have given a ‘Bharat Bandh’ call on December 8, and the BSP supports it. Along with this, it appeals to the Centre to accept the demands of farmers.” The BSP is among several political parties, including the Congress and the AAP, that are supporting the nationwide strike called by farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsp-extends-support-to-bharat-bandh-call-by-farmers/story-rjjVHPe5cYtNfMmKGfKU1N.html
07-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1pm: Agra Metro project will give a boost to local tourism, says PM Modi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Narendra Modi inaugurates construction of Agra Metro projectPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday inaugurated the phase one of the construction of Agra Metro project virtually. While the Prime Minister joined the event virtually, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath was physically present in the city. Read more 5 associated with terror outfits held after shootout in east Delhi, say policeFive men belonging to different terrorist organisations have been apprehended after a shootout in east Delhi on Monday, the Delhi Police’s special cell said. The exchange of fire took place in the national capital’s Shakarpur area around 7am. Read more Centre has received nearly 40,000 corruption complaints related to Covid-19The Centre has received nearly 40,000 complaints dealing with corruption related to Covid-19, officials familiar with the matter told Hindustan Times. Read more ‘If Steve Smith found his hands in this series then Hardik Pandya found his bat’: Sanjay Manjrekar heaps praise on India all-rounderHardik Pandya has been having a tour to remember in Australia. He was playing in the Indian jersey for the first time this year and he proved why he is such a big asset for Indian cricket. Read more 2 years of Kedarnath: Sushant Singh Rajput ‘was very troubled during shoot’, felt ‘lost’ after releaseSushant Singh Rajput’s work would always keep the actor alive in the hearts of his millions of his fans after his untimely death in June this year. One of his notable works is the 2018 film Kedarnath, which saw the actor playing ‘pithu’ at the holy Kedarnath shrine. Read more Harley Davidson tie-up will speed up premium segment strategy: Hero MotoCorpThe country’s largest two-wheeler maker Hero MotoCorp expects the tie-up with Harley-Davidson to help accelerate its presence in the premium bike segment where it aims to establish a complete portfolio cutting across segments and engine capacities, as per a senior company official. Read more Latest software for iPhones kills 50% battery in 30 minutes, here’s what is happeningLast week, we talked about how iOS 14.2 unexpectedly bumped-up the FaceTime video resolution in older iPhones that were not even in the list. While that was the good part, users have now started highlighting one of the drawbacks of this version. Read more Gordon Ramsay shares fun video of ‘this and that’ challenge with daughter Matilda. WatchFor the world, Gordon Ramsay may be a renowned and stern chef but at home, he definitely is a doting dad. The videos featuring Ramsay along with his 19-year-old daughter Matilda perfectly capture that notion. Read more Watch: Gold concealed in bandage and jeans seized at Chennai airport||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1pm-agra-metro-project-will-give-a-boost-to-local-tourism-says-pm-modi-and-all-the-latest-news/story-z6Pki1PD9KzoJtPQEuP69H.html
07-12-2020||India||Priyanka Gandhi attacks BJP government over unpaid dues of UP sugarcane farmers||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday hit out at the BJP government over unpaid dues to sugarcane farmers of Uttar Pradesh.“The BJP government has Rs 20,000 crores to build a new Parliament corridor, Rs 16,000 crores to buy a special plane for PM. However, it has no money to pay Rs 14,000 crores dues to the sugarcane farmers of UP. The price of sugarcane has not increased since 2017. This government only thinks about billionaires,” Vadra tweeted.Meanwhile, Congress alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi wants to weaken farmers by destroying the minimum support price system.“The Prime Minister wants to weaken farmers by destroying the minimum support price system. Every decision of the Prime Minister is intended to bring profits to the capitalists. Farmers have now understood this conspiracy,” Congress tweeted.Hundreds of farmers have been protesting on different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws--Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-attacks-bjp-government-over-unpaid-dues-of-up-sugarcane-farmers/story-7hMOGo7UAGmx8sZIfsLe4H.html
07-12-2020||India||Electoral bonds worth Rs6,210 crore sold since 2018, reveals RTI query||Electoral bonds worth Rs62,103,947,000, printed over 13 phases, have been sold until March this year since 2018, according to the State Bank of India in response to a query filed under the Right to Information (RTI) Act.The query, which was filed by activist Commodore Lokesh Batra (Retd.), shows that nearly 660,000 electoral bonds have been printed until March 19,2020. However, only 12,452 were sold until March.Electoral Bonds are issued four times a year -- in January, April, July and October. This year, however, they were only issued in January and in October, just ahead of the Bihar elections. Until March this year, only 47 electoral bonds worth Rs1,000, 70 worth Rs10,000, 1,722 worth Rs100,000, 4,911 worth Rs1,000,000, and 5,702 worth Rs10,000,000 have been sold. Nearly 92% of the printed Rs10,000,000 electoral bonds have been sold, whereas nearly 7% of those worth Rs1,000,000 have been sold. The remaining denominations have barely been sold, amounting to less than 1% of the total printed. Of the bonds printed, 12 have been cancelled so far, one worth Rs1,000 and eleven worth Rs10,000,000. “The department of economic affairs hasn’t shared the reason for their cancellation,” Batra told Hindustan Times. The printing of electoral bonds, since their inception in 2018, has cost over Rs18,599,000. These are printed at a price of Rs28 per bond, including GST. “The printing cost is borne by the government, that is, the tax payers,” said Batra. “The denominations sold also shows that only rich corporates are buying these bonds.”Electoral bonds have been a contentious issue among Opposition and civil rights activists who allege that it makes the system opaque, with no means of tracing the contributor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs6-210-crore-worth-of-electoral-bonds-sold-since-2018-reveals-rti/story-FiakdolDyRbZg8tsQj7zcO.html
07-12-2020||India||Improved infrastructure boosts local tourism: PM at Agra Metro project construction inauguration||Agra has always had a very ancient identity but now with new dimensions of modernity, the city has joined the 21st century, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said as he inaugurated the phase one of the construction of Agra Metro project on Monday. While the Prime Minister joined the event virtually, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath was physically present in the city.Taking a dig at the previous governments, Modi said, “A big problem with infrastructure development in the country was that projects were announced but not much attention was paid on the arrangement of funds. Hence, projects kept dragging for years. My government focused on starting new projects as well as arranging funds for them”.The Prime Minister said that in the six years after 2014, more than 450km of metro lines have become operational in the country and about 1000km of metro lines are in progress. He added that connectivity in western UP is increasing at a fast pace due to modern facilities. “The country’s first rapid rail transport system is being built between Meerut to Delhi,” the Prime Minister said. “A 14-lane expressway between Delhi-Meerut will also start serving the people of this region soon,” Modi added.Speaking about the scope and need to boost local tourism, PM Modi said, “Improved infrastructure - Better connectivity benefits our tourism sector the most. It has always been my opinion that tourism is a sector in which there are means of earning for everyone.”The government has not only significantly increased the number of countries involved in the e-Visa Scheme, but has also reduced the tax on hotel room tariff significantly, he informed.The Agra Metro project, an official says, will ease the movement of about 2.5 million local residents and provide connectivity to monuments, railway stations and major markets. There is optimism that hassle-free connectivity through Agra Metro would assist in promoting tourism.The Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC) has set the target to complete the first phase of the Agra Metro Rail Project, estimated at Rs 8379.62 crore, by December 2022. The Metro rail project would help boost tourism in the Taj city, said Kumar Keshav, UPMRC’s managing director.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-inaugurates-construction-of-agra-metro-project/story-H9WkQGG1iJmN5u4ros36LP.html
07-12-2020||India||Emergency use authorisation for Covid-19 vaccines explained||After the Indian arm of US pharmaceutical giant Pfizer Inc, Pune-based Serum Institute of India on Sunday became the first indigenous company to seek emergency use authorisation for the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine in the country.The Pune-based company has collaborated with Britain’s Oxford University and pharmaceutical company Astra Zeneca for making the vaccine and is conducting trials in India. “As promised, before the end of 2020, @SerumInstIndia has applied for emergency use authorisation for the first made-in-India vaccine, Covishield,” SII CEO Adar Poonawala tweeted. “This will save countless lives, and I thank the Government of India and Sri @narendramodi ji for their invaluable support,” he added.Also read | With 32,981 fresh Covid-19 cases, trend of fewer than 40,000 daily infections continues for 8th dayPfizer India had said last week it has applied to Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), India’s drug regulator, for emergency use authorisation for its Covid-19 vaccine, after the company’s parent received clearance for the treatment from Britain and Bahrain.What is Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA)?Regulatory authorities need to approve vaccines, medicines, diagnostic tests and medical devices before they can be administered to people or used by medical professionals. These authorities give their nod after assessing the safety and effectiveness of these vaccines, medicines, etc, based on data from trials. Each and every phase of the trials has to be approved by the regulator.Also read | What is a placebo? Why is it used in vaccine trials?The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) says an emergency use authorisation is a “mechanism to facilitate the availability and use of medical countermeasures, including vaccines, during public health emergencies, such as the current COVID-19 pandemic.” FDA says it may allow the use of unapproved medical products, or unapproved uses of approved medical products in “an emergency to diagnose, treat, or prevent serious or life-threatening diseases or conditions when certain statutory criteria have been met, including that there are no adequate, approved, and available alternatives.”“Taking into consideration input from the FDA, manufacturers decide whether and when to submit an EUA request to FDA. Once submitted, FDA will evaluate an EUA request and determine whether the relevant statutory criteria are met, taking into account the totality of the scientific evidence about the vaccine that is available to FDA,” the agency said on its website.Exceptions for emergencyFDA has said that the development process may be atypical in public health emergencies, such as a pandemic. However, it said, that efforts to speed vaccine development to address the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic “have not sacrificed scientific standards, integrity of the vaccine review process, or safety.”Also read | What side effects to expect from a vaccine shot? Will it be more painful than flu vaccine?“Recognizing the urgent need for safe and effective vaccines, FDA is utilizing its various authorities and expertise to facilitate the expeditious development and availability of vaccines that have met the agency’s rigorous and science-based standards for quality, safety, and effectiveness. Early in a public health crisis, FDA provides clear communication to the pharmaceutical industry pertaining to the scientific data and information needed to ensure development of vaccines and works quickly to provide advice on their proposed development plans and assessment of the data that are generated,” it said.What is the process in India?India’s drug regulations do not have provisions for EUA and the process for receiving one is not clearly defined or consistent. However, CDSCO has granted emergency or restricted emergency approvals to Covid-19 drugs - remdesivir and favipiravir in June and itolizumab in July - during the current coronavirus pandemic.How are volunteers kept in the loop?FDA says it must ensure that recipients of the vaccine under a EUA are informed “to the extent practicable given the applicable circumstances”, that the agency has authorised the emergency use of the vaccine, “of the known and potential benefits and risks, the extent to which such benefits and risks are unknown, that they have the option to accept or refuse the vaccine, and of any available alternatives to the product.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/emergency-use-authorisation-for-covid-19-vaccines-explained/story-TAQbk1W5OhRJZjtGo0siVK.html
07-12-2020||India||Serum Institute seeks approval for Covid-19 vaccine; Adar Poonawalla thanks PM for support||The Serum Institute of India, world’s largest vaccine manufacturer by volume, has applied to the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for emergency use authorisation for the Oxford/Astrazeneca Covid-19 vaccine. “As promised, before the end of 2020, @SerumInstIndia has applied for emergency use authorisation for the first made-in-India vaccine, COVISHIELD. This will save countless lives, and I thank the Government of India and Sri @narendramodi ji for their invaluable support,” said Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer of Serum Institute of India, in a tweet. A trial of the vaccine with 1,600 participants across 15 sites in India is underway. Results from the global studies have shown that it can be 90% effective in preventing an infection when a person receives a half dose and then a full dose. Also read | Covid-19: What you need to know todaySerum Institute of India’s move comes on the heels of the US pharmaceutical giant, Pfizer, applying for a similar approval with the DCGI. The Pfizer vaccine, which was found to be 95% effective, is likely to cost about five times more than the Oxford vaccine and has to be stored at -70 degrees Celsius. Oxford University’s Covid-19 vaccine will be priced at Rs 500-600, Poonawalla had said during the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit. “Emergency use authorisation will be for healthcare workers and other frontline workers, and by March- April, the vaccine should be available for use to general public. Emergency use licensure is based on the positive UK results. There is a good T-cell and antibody response but nobody at this stage can answer whether these vaccines can protect long-term,” he had said. The results of the Indian trial is likely to be announced by December. “As soon as the UK authorities approve of it, we will apply to the Drugs Controller General of India but initially for limited use. We are stockpiling millions of doses to get a head start,” he had said. He had said that the vaccines could be made available to the general public within three to four months. Serum Institute has entered a manufacturing partnership with AstraZeneca to produce their Covid-19 vaccine. Serum Institute of India currently has two dedicated facilities with the capacity of manufacturing about 50-60 million doses a month that will be scaled up to a 100 million doses by February when two more facilities are likely to be added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-applies-for-emergency-approval-of-oxford-covid-19-vaccine-in-india/story-DlqJatNjyWUNG8jDn0IBVI.html
07-12-2020||India||India is proud of army’s heroic service and selfless sacrifice: PM Modi on Armed Forces Flag Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday expressed his gratitude to the armed forces and their families on the occasion of Armed Forces Flag Day and said India is proud of their heroic service and sacrifice. “Armed Forces Flag Day is a day to express gratitude to our armed forces & their families. India is proud of their heroic service & selfless sacrifice. Do contribute towards welfare of our forces. This gesture will help so many of our brave personnel & their families,” PM Modi tweeted.Defence minister Rajnath Singh also saluted the service and valour of the Indian armed forces on the occasion of Armed Forces Flag Day. “On Armed Forces Flag Day, I salute the valour and service of the Indian Armed Forces. This day reminds us of our solemn duty to ensure the welfare of ex-Servicemen, differently-abled soldiers and the families of those who lost their lives defending the nation,” Singh tweeted.Expressing his gratitude towards the armed forces and their families, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Jagat Prakash Nadda said, “On the occasion of Armed Forces Flag Day, I express my gratitude to the member of the Armed Forces & their families for their courage and sacrifice for the nation. Let’s take pledge to contribute towards the welfare of families of the brave personnel.”Armed Forces Flag Day is marked in India every year on December 7 to honour martyrs and the men in uniform who serve India. Citizens are urged to make voluntary contributions towards the Armed Forces Flag Day Fund for the welfare of personnel and ex-servicemen, their family members and also to rehabilitate those injured in battles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-is-proud-of-army-s-heroic-service-and-selfless-sacrifice-pm-modi-on-armed-forces-flag-day/story-xMxNPnZl8J3eAC56JocrwK.html
07-12-2020||India||India accuses China of helping rebel groups on Myanmar border||Indian officials say China is assisting rebel groups that have stepped up attacks on its border with Myanmar in recent months, opening another front in the conflict between two nations already engaged in a deadly standoff in the Himalayas.Armed groups in Myanmar -- including the United Wa State Army and the Arakan Army, which was designated a terrorist organization this year -- are acting as Beijing’s proxies by supplying weapons and providing hideouts to insurgent groups in India’s northeastern states, according to Indian officials with knowledge of the situation, who asked not to be identified due to rules for speaking with the media.The officials said multiple security agencies warned Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government that at least four of India’s most wanted insurgent leaders were in the southern Chinese city of Kunming to train and source weapons as recently as mid-October. The group -- including three ethnic Naga rebels fighting for a separate homeland in an area straddling the India-Myanmar border -- met with acting and retired Chinese military officials as well as other middlemen who make up an informal network, the Indian officials said.Also Read | China setting up villages on borders with India and Bhutan, satellite imagery showsThe increased activity along the Myanmar border has sparked concern in New Delhi that India’s military is becoming stretched as tensions remain with China and Pakistan on other parts of its land border, which runs for roughly 14,000 kilometers (8,700 miles). The officials said India moved several battalions consisting of about 1,000 troops each into the Myanmar border area after a soldier was killed in an ambush on Oct. 21.Chinese DenialChina’s Foreign Ministry denied claims the country was supporting armed groups against India, saying it doesn’t interfere in the affairs of other countries. “China has always taken a prudent and responsible attitude toward arms exports,” the ministry said in written responses to questions. “We only conduct military trade in cooperation with sovereign states and do not sell arms to non-state actors.”The United Wa State Army also denied a role in providing any aid or support to Indian rebel groups on China’s behalf, citing, among other factors, the over 500 miles between their headquarters and the India-Myanmar border.The group doesn’t “have any connection with India’s national security, and we do not harm that country at all. So, we think we don’t need to comment on such kind of allegations,” Nyi Rang, the spokesman of United Wa State Army said, adding that accusation his group acts as a proxy for China “are groundless.”Indian officials said the recent upsurge in violence stems back to September, when Naga insurgents had walked away from decades-long peace negotiations. On Sept 28, Indian border guards intercepted a large cache of weapons meant for Indian insurgent groups along the India-Myanmar border and arrested three suspected gun runners, according to officials with direct knowledge of the matter.The New Delhi officials said those arrested explained that Indian insurgents were being supplied weapons by the Arakan Army, which in turn received China’s support to protect investments such as roads and gas pipelines in an economic corridor stretching from Sittwe port to Kunming. China was also helping Indian rebels with weapons and logistics including hideouts along the India-Myanmar border, the officials noted.Calls and Whatsapp messages to India’s Ministry of Home Affairs requesting comment went unanswered. Repeated efforts to contact senior members of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland, whose leaders were believed to have been in Kunming, were unsuccessful.Armed MilitiaSeveral dozen armed militias are active in India’s northeast, fighting for independence or greater autonomy. Asked by reporters on Nov 6 whether China was using armed ethnic groups in Myanmar to support Indian rebels, a senior Indian Home Ministry official declined to answer directly. “Some of the insurgent groups are troublemakers, but we are negotiating peace with others,” Ajay Bhalla, the Home Ministry’s top bureaucrat, said at a webinar hosted by the National Defence College.Brig. General Zaw Min Tun, the spokesman for Myanmar Army’s, didn’t respond to emailed questions. Myanmar earlier this year designated the Arakan Army as a terrorist organization.Also read China is using Tibet’s waters against India | AnalysisIndia’s army chief arrived in Nagaland on Nov. 24 for a three-day visit, underscoring the renewed intensity of the conflict. In late October, Indian and Myanmar troops launched joint operations targeting Indian rebel groups, including one named the People’s Liberation Army of Manipur. Myanmar’s military, meanwhile, has targeting armed ethnic groups like the Arakan Army on its side of the border.To be sure, the levels of Chinese support to insurgents in the region isn’t close to to the levels of the 1960s and 70s.As armed ethnic insurgencies erupted across India’s remote northeast states in the 1950s and 1960s, it was bitter rival Pakistan that first supplied the armed groups with weapons. Soon, however, “it was China that became the main provider of munitions for the ethnic insurgents. Many were also trained in China,” Swedish journalist and regional expert Bertil Lintner wrote in his 2012 book “The Great Game East: India, China and the Struggle for Asia’s Most Volatile Frontier,” adding that “today, the Chinese government does not openly support those groups, but they have had access to the so-called black — in reality more gray — arms market in China.”Competing InterestsChina is unlikely to use a third country to pressure India because that would prompt leaders in New Delhi to do the same in return, according to Fan Hongwei, a professor at the Research School of Southeast Asian Studies at Xiamen University.“China would hope to resolve bilateral issues between the two countries, rather than make it more complex, which would not keep with China’s consistent policy and interests,” he said.Both India and China are investing in Myanmar for strategic reasons. Beijing is investing in gas pipelines and roads to link its southern province of Yunnan with the Bay of Bengal, allowing for key imports to bypass the Malacca Strait between Malaysia, Indonesia and Singapore. India, meanwhile, is investing in the 29 billion rupee ($292 million) Kaladan Multimodal project to connect its underdeveloped northeastern states to the Bay of Bengal.“China knows that the region is crucial to India’s future connectivity into Southeast Asia,” said Ian Hall, professor of international relations at Griffith University in Queensland, Australia, and author of ‘Modi and the Reinvention of Indian Foreign Policy.’ “It knows too that securing the region is challenging and has been very costly to New Delhi in the past.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-accuses-china-of-helping-rebel-groups-on-myanmar-border/story-9D5UqoZ4NK1f0vgwX35aXO.html
07-12-2020||India||Armed Forces Flag Day reminds us of duty towards army personnel: Rajnath Singh||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday saluted the service and valour of the Indian armed forces on the occasion of Armed Forces Flag Day and said it is the duty of the nation to ensure the welfare of the retired army personnel and those who have lost their lives in the line of duty.“On Armed Forces Flag Day, I salute the valour and service of the Indian Armed Forces. This day reminds us of our solemn duty to ensure the welfare of ex-Servicemen, differently-abled soldiers and the families of those who lost their lives defending the nation,” Singh tweeted.Union minister of state for defence Shripad Naik also greeted soldiers on the Armed Forces Flag Day and lauded their efforts and sacrifices for safeguarding the country. Extending his good wishes to the armed forces, Naik, in a video message, said, “The national security is of utmost importance for the future progress of our great nation. The Indian armed forces are entrusted with the honourable duty of protecting the nation’s unity and territorial integrity.”They together form the oldest institution of the country which has made supreme sacrifices for the country and its people, the parliamentarian from Goa said. “We need to applaud and appreciate the magnificent efforts of our brave and patriotic soldiers whose heroic achievements in safeguarding the national unity makes us proud to call ourselves as Indians,” he said.Naik also appealed to citizens to contribute to the Armed Forces Flag Day Fund, which is meant for their resettlement and welfare. “Such a help, needless to mention, will go a long way in boosting the morale of soldiers, sailors and airmen in serving our country,” he said.The minister said while discharging their duties, “our soldiers, sailors and airmen remain susceptible to grave danger to their lives”. “In the past, many of our soldiers sacrificed their precious lives and many became permanently disabled. They and their families deserve our compassion to help overcome their difficulties and problems and lead a normal life,” he said.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Jagat Prakash Nadda also expressed his gratitude to the members of the armed forces and their families. “On the occasion of Armed Forces Flag Day, I express my gratitude to the member of the Armed Forces & their families for their courage and sacrifice for the nation. Let’s take pledge to contribute towards the welfare of families of the brave personnel,” Nadda tweeted.Armed Forces Flag Day is marked in India every year on December 7 to honour martyrs and the men in uniform who serve India. Citizens are urged to make voluntary contributions towards the Armed Forces Flag Day Fund for the welfare of personnel and ex-servicemen, their family members and also to rehabilitate those injured in wars.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/armed-forces-flag-day-reminds-us-of-duty-towards-army-personnel-rajnath-singh/story-vZw19BxsFw9wGA142oJ9pI.html
07-12-2020||India||Covid-19: Section 144 imposed in Gautam Buddh Nagar till January 2||Police in Gautam Buddh Nagar district of Uttar Pradesh have issued an order imposing prohibitory orders in Noida and Greater Noida towns of the district till January 2, 2021, as cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are on the rise.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe district police issued the order imposing Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) on Sunday night. Besides the pandemic, the order noted that Section 144 was being imposed to keep the law-and-order situation under check during the birth anniversary of former prime minister Chaudhary Charan Singh on December 23 and the Christmas and New Year celebrations. Under the order, all activities in containment zones, except medical emergency cases and supply of essential items, will remain prohibited. निषेधाज्ञा अंतर्गत धारा-144 दंड प्रक्रिया संहिता !@Uppolice pic.twitter.com/Sni7PjIpMZThe order said that in closed spaces outside containment zones, all activities which are to involve more than 50% of space’s capacity or 100 persons at the same time, shall be prohibited. In open spaces, activities involving more than 40% of the capacity will not be allowed. In both cases, activities are to be mandatorily carried out with face masks, thermal scanning, social distancing, hand sanitisers and hand wash in place. Any person found without a face mask at a public place shall also be penalised.The order also barred anyone from carrying out processions without permission from a competent authority said no one can ask others to participate in a procession. It also prohibits an individual from moving around with weapons including sticks. Only police officials and officials involved in administrative services shall be exempted from this restriction, the order noted.The Yogi Adityanath-led Uttar Pradesh government has taken a series of measures to bring the state’s Covid-19 situation under control. Last week, the government had ordered that no more than 100 people would be allowed to attend weddings and other functions. The government had also said that permission would be required to organise any such gathering.As of Sunday night, Uttar Pradesh’s Covid-19 tally stood at 554,944 including 7,924 fatalities, as per data from the state government. On the day, there were a total of 1,950 new cases and 24 deaths in the state, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-section-144-imposed-in-gautam-buddh-nagar-till-january-2/story-Vqai0MDQ8FUZeyFNHJj8cM.html
07-12-2020||India||PM seeks data on corruption complaints related to Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has asked for data regarding the number of corruption complaints related to the Covid-19 pandemic, officials familiar with the matter told Hindustan Times.In April this year, the government had set up a separate portal to expeditiously address any grievances related to coronavirus pandemic. The Centre has so far received over 1,67,000 complaints dealing with cases related to Covid-19, of which over 150,000 have been addressed. The complaints have been collated on the Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances website.The grievances of corruption, which are sorted according to ministries, include bribery, embezzlement of funds and harassment by government officials while dealing with Covid-19 cases. Although there is no separate category for corruption cases, officials are working to determine their estimate of the number of cases received.“The issue came up at the November 25 meeting of PRGATI,” an official who did not wish to be named said. PRAGATI (Pro-Active Governance and Timely Implementation) includes various ministries and is the government’s administrative reform initiative that was launched in 2015.“(At the meeting) the Prime Minister wanted to know how many of the complaints received were about corruption and how they were handled,” said the official.Officials said that the data asked for by Prime Minister Narendra Modi was being collated and will be presented to him at the follow-up meeting on Monday. “The PM wanted to the nature of complaints regarding the three Ps - persons, process and policy,” the official mentioned above said. On April 1, Hindustan Times had reported that a majority of grievances received related to Covid-19 had earlier revolved around sanctioning visas, bringing back stranded Indians from abroad and the availability of essential services.The categories under which the grievances are filed are: Inadequate facilities in hospitals, problem in donating to PMCares fund, essential supplies not being provided, request for rescue from a foreign country, being stuck at some place due to lockdown, harassment, lockdown not adhered to, examination-related, quarantine-related, suggestions and others, HT had reported. ‘Editor’s Note:This article has been corrected to reflect a change.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-has-received-nearly-40-000-corruption-complaints-related-to-covid-19/story-tGEn6SrJpsgNLl57Iozd4H.html
07-12-2020||India||‘Shouldn’t be a fait accompli’: Supreme Court allows Central Vista ceremony, not work||The Centre on Monday told the Supreme Court that it will not carry out any construction, demolition or translocation of trees at the site of the Central Vista project in the heart of national capital Delhi till the Supreme Court decides on petitions challenging the project.The court has, however, allowed the government to go ahead with the ground-breaking ceremony and complete the paperwork related to the project. The top court’s nod comes three days before Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to lay the foundation stone for a new Parliament building that was proposed as part of the mega project on Thursday, December 10. The building is estimated to cost Rs 971 crore.A bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maaheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna held a special hearing in the case - it has already reserved its verdict on the petitions against the project - and indicated their displeasure to Solicitor General Tushar Mehta at reports that the agencies had started work on the ground before their ruling.“It should not be a fait accompli presented to the court…. Stop at the foundation laying ceremony. Some deference must be shown to the court,” the bench observed.The judges indicated that they might pass a stay order if no statement is forthcoming from the Centre. Solicitor General Mehta took a five minute-break to take instructions from the government and returned with a promise that all physical work being carried out at the site will be put in abeyance till the court’s verdict. The top court recorded the SG’s statement and said, “We clarify that the authorities will be free to undertake other formal processes, including continuing with the foundation laying ceremony programme on December 10, without altering the site in question in any manner.” Mehta informed the apex court that construction is yet to commence and trees were being translocated to a nursery. He submitted that no demolition activity is being carried out. The Court, citing a press release, indicating construction work to commence shortly, said, “The fact that we have not granted stay does not mean that you can do everything.”Last month on November 5, the Court reserved orders on a batch of 10 petitions filed by Rajeev Suri, Anuj Srivastava and others which challenged the manner in which the Central Vista project got various clearances. The petitions claimed that the project has been planned by destroying heritage buildings and giving unified building bye-laws a go by. The redevelopment plan includes a new Parliament building, and a common secretariat for central government offices along with the Prime Minister office and residence, Special Protection Group building and Vice-President Enclave.Apart from a new parliament building, the Central Vista project involves constructing a common Central Secretariat along with residences of Prime Minister and vice-president, and a revamp of the 3-km-long Rajpath, from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate. The new triangular parliament complex, often described as the centre-piece of the Central Vista project, will be big enough to house 1,224 MPs lawmakers — 888 in the Lok Sabha and 384 in the Upper House. It is targeted to be built by 2024. The 64,500 sq m new building will replace the 93 years old existing Parliament house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-allows-foundation-ceremony-for-central-vista-project-after-centre-promises-to-stop-all-work-at-site/story-d4WqbL9Mt6sPWMLv8o30FN.html
07-12-2020||India||UP forms high-level team for security of Covid-19 vaccine storage areas||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday formed a high-level team of officers for managing the safety and security of Covid-19 vaccine storages, once it is available, across the state. The development comes a day after Yogi asked for “EVM strongroom kind of security” for the vaccine storage areas and scaling up the state’s vaccine storage capacity to 230,000 litres.The team comprises the chief secretary, additional chief secretary (home), additional chief secretary (health) and additional chief secretary (medical education). Yogi took the decision and formed the committee at the second meeting in two days dedicated to vaccine preparedness. Also read | Govt readying vaccine cold storage at airports“The government is fully committed to protecting people of the state from the infection and all possible efforts are being made,” he said at the meeting held at his official residence.On Saturday, the chief minister had asked officials to scale up vaccine storage capacity by December 15 from the current 90,000 litres to 230,000 litres. He had also discussed establishment of cold-chain maintenance, building a force of vaccinators and training them before any vaccine become available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-forms-high-level-team-for-security-of-covid-19-vaccine-storage-areas/story-BWT9WIIgoar6W475ULW9AI.html
07-12-2020||India||Akhilesh Yadav stopped from joining farmer protest, riot police outside house||Barricades and an anti-riot team have been placed outside former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Akhilesh Yadav’s residence in Lucknow to stop him from going to Kannauj to lead a farmers’ protest. The Samajwadi Party president had announced statewide Kisaan Yatra - on foot, bicycles, motorcycles, tractors, etc - to protest against the new agricultural reforms and lend support to the farmers’ cause.This comes on the day Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to virtually launch the construction of phase one of Agra Metro Rail project while chief minister Yogi Adityanath will be physically present in Agra.“This government is so scared of Akhilesh ji taking to streets. He has to go there to participate in the farmers’ protest and drive a tractor along with the farmers to raise their issue. First the central government introduced draconian kind of farm laws and now the state government is preventing our party from protesting. This all is so anti-democratic,” said Rajendra Chaudhary, SP state spokesperson and former UP minister. समाजवादियों को गिरफ़्तार कर उन्हें किसानों का साथ देने से नहीं रोक पाएगी दंभी सरकार !समाजवादी पार्टी के सभी कार्यकर्ता, नेता अपने अपने गृह जनपदों में किसान यात्रा को जारी रखें। pic.twitter.com/yENCvTPa8vThe police have heavily cordoned off the Vikramaditya marg (where SP office and Akhilesh’s house are located) and also deployed anti-riot vehicles. The police already took two SP legislative council members - Ashu Malik and Rajpal Kashyap - and sent them to the police lines.Last week, Akhilesh Yadav had announced to launch statewide Kisaan yatra (road rallies for farmers) from December 7.“Our yatras - scheduled to begin from today - were against BJP’s anti-farmer policy and in favour of farmers and will be taken out in each and every district,” said Rajendra Chaudhary.The party workers during the rallies were asked to raise the demand of “higher income for farmers, save farming”.Joint commissioner of police, Lucknow, Navin Arona said the police were deployed to prevent any law and order trouble.Akhilesh is currently Azamgarh MP but had been three-time former Kannauj MP. His wife Dimple Yadav too is a former Kannauj MP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhilesh-yadav-stopped-from-joining-farmer-protest-riot-police-outside-house/story-b73D91tZVA72NaiDNhVNDO.html
07-12-2020||India||3 children dead, over 50 people fall ill in Bihar’s Rohtas district||Three children have died and over 50 tribal people have fallen ill, allegedly after consuming contaminated water at Chunhatta village in Rohtas district of Bihar, said an official on Sunday.As many as 18 out of the 46 people examined by the medical team tested positive for malaria, however, the reason for others falling ill is not clear yet, said an official.The incident took place on Friday but the forest and health officials came to know only on Saturday after being informed by the mukhiya, following which civil surgeon Dr Sudhir Kumar along with his team of doctors rushed to the village 135km from district headquarters of Sasaram.The deceased were identified as Ravi Oraon, 10, Fulmati Kumari, 11, and Premsheela, 10, both daughters of Gorakhnath Oraon.Also read | Centre to bear cost of key stretch of land for Patna outer ring road projectThose ill have been admitted to different hospitals of Adhaura, Bhabua and Dehri and some of them are critical, said village chief Shyam Narayan Oraon, and they mostly comprise labourers who had been working on two watersheds of forest department in Chenari forest. “A forest department team is camping at the village to help the people,” said divisional forest officer (DFO) Pradyumn Gaurav.The DFO said over 60 tribal labourers belonging to Chunhatta village had been brought to Chenari forests for the watershed work. A camp had been set up at Chatari village where they were living with their families.As the work was almost complete, the labourers were ferried by department vehicles to their native village on Friday, he said. Some of them developed symptoms like fever, vomiting, diarrhoea and stomach ache but delayed going to doctors till their condition deteriorated, said the official.The actual cause behind the incident will be clear once the medical team returns from the hilly village, the DFO saidThe civil surgeon could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-children-dead-over-50-people-fall-ill-in-bihar-s-rohtas-district/story-TzFZu69bv2aFNw7bbxNjcK.html
07-12-2020||India||With 32,981 fresh Covid-19 cases, trend of fewer than 40,000 daily infections continues for 8th day||India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crossed 9.67 million after 32,981 new infections and 391 deaths were reported from across the country, according to the Union health ministry on Monday. The country’s death toll has mounted to 140,573 and the total active cases stood at 396,729, the health ministry’s dashboard showed. India has been reporting less than 40,000 cases of the coronavirus disease in a day for eighth days now. The number of single-day fatalities has fallen below 400 for the first time since July.With 39,109 new recoveries, the number of overall recovered Covid-19 patients stand at 91,39,901, pushing the recovery rate to 94.37 per cent on Monday morning, the health ministry’s data showed. The ministry has said that for the past nine days, the daily new recoveries recorded in the country have been more than the daily cases.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said that a total of 14,77,87,656 samples have been tested for Covid-19, up to December 6. Of these, 8,01,081 samples were tested on Sunday.India’s Covid-19 tally had crossed the 2-million mark on August 7, 3 million on August 23 and 4 million on September 5. It went past 5 million on September 16, 6 million on September 28, 7 million on October 11, crossed 8 million on October 29 and surpassed 9 million on November 20.The Union health ministry had said earlier that the country does not need to vaccinate all of its 1.3 billion people if it manages to break the transmission of coronavirus disease.Meanwhile, the Serum Institute of India have become the first indigenous company to apply to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) seeking emergency use authorisation for the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine in the country citing unmet medical needs due to the pandemic and in the interest of the public at large, official sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-32-981-fresh-covid-19-cases-trend-of-fewer-than-40-000-daily-infections-continues-for-8th-day/story-BaZHekdOwXaMESY6Vqln2I.html
07-12-2020||India||‘Complaints are there in big project’: Bihar deputy CM on tap water promise||Urging entrepreneurs to come up with solutions, Bihar deputy chief minister Renu Devi on Sunday admitted lapses in chief minister’s flagship Har Ghar Nal Ka Jal scheme, saying some complaints are bound to be there when a project is being carried out on a big scale. The comment comes days after HT reported that some 41% of the tap water supply projects were partially or fully non-functional.“When projects are being carried out on a big scale, some complaints are bound to come. However, we have resolved 745 complaints received within three days,” said Devi, adding, steps are being taken to streamline the things from district to the panchayat level.A survey was conducted on the instructions of the public health and engineering department (PHED) in different districts on the tap water supply project, part of the seven resolves programme.As per the reports submitted by the district magistrates of 28 out of 38 districts, 186 of the 2,954 projects inspected were noticed incomplete, while 279 projects were found non-functional during the inspection. As many as 1,952 projects were running without any complaint, but 562 projects of different scales had minor issues and 189 had major problems.Citing an example of a complaint from Amwa Majhar village in West Champaran, Renu Devi said, “It was resolved immediately after it was brought to our notice.” Talking about the survey being undertaken across the state, she said encouraging results have been found.The deputy CM said, “A toll free number has also been given and any complaint received would be resolved proactively.”Appeals youth to set up industriesMeanwhile, Renu Devi also appealed to the youth and masses to set up industries at their own level. “We are focussing on small, as well as large industries. Entrepreneurs have started to respond to invitations extended within the few weeks after the formation of the new government. We will extend all the necessary help to the youth and other people as per the skill acquired,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/complaints-are-there-in-big-project-bihar-deputy-cm-on-tap-water-promise/story-pOJrSRPW0GnUrAwpVZe8yL.html
07-12-2020||India||UP anti-conversion law: Six FIRs in five districts; 29 booked||Within a week of promulgation of the new law against forced and dishonest conversions in Uttar Pradesh, six FIRs have been registered in five districts, police said on Sunday. The law aims to check religious conversions carried out by “allurement, coercion, force, fraud, or marriage”. Violations of the law have been made cognizable and non-bailable offence. Bareilly has recorded two FIRs while 1 FIR each has been registered in Sitapur, Moradabad, Mau and Muzaffarnagar.Also, 10 people, out of the 29 booked under this new law, have been arrested in three cases registered in Sitapur, Bareilly and Moradabad districts since Wednesday, police said in Lucknow. A senior police official said seven people were arrested in connection with an FIR registered with Tambaur police station of Sitapur district while one arrest was made in the connection with the FIR registered at Devraniya police station of Bareilly. Meanwhile, Moradabad police on Friday arrested a Muslim man and his brother under the new law when he visited the registrar’s office to record his marriage to a Hindu woman. An agency report quoted Moradabad’s Kanth station house officer Ajay Gautam as saying that the two men were arrested on the basis of a complaint by the woman’s parents.“In the Sitapur case, an FIR over the elopement of a 19-year-old girl was registered on November 26 and the provisions of new ordinance , which came into being two days later, were added later. The girl’s father alleged in the FIR that she was abducted by a Muslim man to compel her for marriage. He later stated that the girl was abducted to be forced into conversion,” said the police.Another official at the police headquarters said the first two cases under this law were registered in Bareilly on November 28 and 29. In the second case in Bareilly, Tahir Hussain and his brothers Sageer and Munna were accused of forceful religious conversion. The complaint was lodged by Tahir’s wife. Another FIR under the new law was registered against 14 people in Mau district after a woman eloped with a Muslim man who was already married to someone else. The FIR was registered against Shabab Khan and 13 others under IPC Sections 366, 506 and 3/5 of new law at Chiraiyakot police station on Tuesday. Yet another FIR was lodged at Mansoorpur police station of Muzaffarnagar district on Thursday wherein two Muslim men were booked for allegedly trying to force a married Hindu woman to convert. They were booked under the new law as well as Sections 504 (criminal intimidation), 506 and 120 B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-anti-conversion-law-six-firs-in-five-districts-29-booked/story-XpZO4RH06cG7309TJExNHJ.html
07-12-2020||India||PM Modi to virtually inaugurate construction of Agra Metro project today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually launch the phase one of the construction of the Agra Metro project on Monday for which Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath will be physically present in the city. The launch was initially scheduled on December 1 but could not materialise. There was uncertainty about the chief minister’s physical presence during the launch. A big screen has been placed to show the virtual Metro launch. The Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC) has set the target to complete the first phase by December 2022. The Agra Metro project is aimed at easing the movement of about 25 lakh locals and providing connectivity to monuments, railway stations and major markets. There is optimism that hassle free connectivity through Agra Metro would assist in promoting tourism. The total cost of Agra Metro Rail Project is estimated at Rs 8379.62 crore. The Metro rail project would help boost tourism in the Taj city, said Kumar Keshav, managing director, Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation. “The Metro project will not only strengthen the transport system of Agra but also improve the heritage value of its historical monuments. That’s why the Detailed Project Report (DPR) was prepared in such a way that the skyline of Agra was not disturbed and the beauty of its monuments remains intact. However the DPR by the Rail India Technical and Economic Service (RITES) Ltd kept the heritage point in mind,” said Kumar. The cost of the project has further been optimised by rationalising the facilities based on benchmarking exercises undertaken by the ministry of housing and urban affairs, said the top officer. “We have focused on protecting the skyline of Agra, especially in the area around Taj. The Agra Metro envisages 2 corridors with a total length of 29.4 Km. The first corridor comprises 14 km and stretches from Taj East Gate to Sikandra which is partly elevated and partly underground with an elevated section of 6.3 km and an underground section of 7.7 km. In the priority section, the 6 km long primary section of 14 kms Sikandra – Taj East Gate corridor will be constructed and it will have six stations. While Taj East Gate, Basai and Fatehabad Road stations will be elevated, the Taj Mahal, Agra Fort and Jama Masjid halts will be under ground because we didn’t want to disturb the skyline near Taj,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-virtually-inaugurate-construction-of-agra-metro-project-today/story-Nj7DgiGnmAouNOcY2RKgaN.html
07-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Indian Air Force fully prepared to transport Covid-19 vaccines and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Indian Air Force fully prepared to transport Covid-19 vaccinesThe Indian Air Force (IAF) is fully prepared to pitch in for the distribution of a Covid-19 vaccine to the farthest reaches of the country using its extensive fleet of transport aircraft, people familiar with developments said on Sunday. Read morePrice, capacity key areas as Pfizer files for licence in IndiaIndia is yet to discuss the pricing of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine and the ability of the company to deliver orders placed by the country even as the Central Drugs Standard Control Organization or CDSCO reviews the emergency authorisation sought by the vaccine developer. Read more‘Prove faith, donate Rs 101 crore for Ram temple’: BJP leader to CongressIn a counter attack, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel demanded that the BJP give an account of the money it has collected in the name of Ram temple construction in Ayodhya. Read more‘The next 4-5 years’: Virat Kohli talks about the selection of Hardik Pandya in 2016The recent exploits of Hardik Pandya with the bat has convinced Virat Kohli that the all-rounder can be India’s next finisher. Kohli feels the time has come for Pandya to take the next step in his career. Also Read Queen Elizabeth to be among first to be vaccinated in UKQueen Elizabeth, 94, and Prince Philip, 99, are expected to be among the first to receive the Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine, whose first consignment has arrived in the UK and is set to be administered first to those above the age of 80 from Tuesday. Read moreAnushka Sharma congratulates Virat Kohli, Team India for win in Australia: ‘Congratulations my love’Actor Anushka Sharma took to her Instagram Stories to post a congratulatory message for Team India and her husband Virat Kohli after India registered a spectacular win against Australia down under. Read moreThousands gather in London to protest against India’s farm lawsPeople protested in London over India’s farm laws on Sunday. Demonstrators gathered near Indian embassy with posters. People reportedly raised pro-farmers slogans during the demonstration. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-indian-air-force-fully-prepared-to-transport-covid-19-vaccines-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ZW1bXU3ubQmdBroHJuETcL.html
07-12-2020||India||Voting for first phase of Bodoland Territorial Council election begins||Polling for the first phase of Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) election began on Monday morning with heavy security measures and Covid-19 protocols in place. Over 13.59 lakh voters will decide the fate of 130 candidates in 21 constituencies in Udalguri and Baksa districts in the first phase. Voting for the other 19 constituencies in Kokrajhar and Chirang districts will take place on Thursday. Polling started at 7:30 am and will continue till 4:30 pm in 1739 polling stations. As per initial reports, voting is underway smoothly. “There are 10 constituencies in our district. All security arrangements are in place and polling parties have been given face masks, sanitisers for themselves and also to give to those voters who come without masks. Social distancing will also be maintained during voting,” Prakash Ranjan Gharphalia, deputy commissioner of Udalguri said. This is the first election being held in Assam amid the raging Covid-19 pandemic. The polls were scheduled to be held in April but had to be postponed because of the pandemic and all the four districts under BTC were placed under the Governor’s rule. The BTC polls are being seen as a crucial contest before the state Assembly polls in Assam due in March-April next year. Since its formation in 2003, the BTC had been governed by Hagrama Mohilary, a former rebel who now heads the Bodoland Peoples’ Front (BPF), a partner in the ruling coalition headed by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) with Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) as the third partner. But relations between BJP and BPF started souring after the BTC was placed under the Governor’s rule. Both parties are now contesting the BTC polls separately. The BPF has fielded candidates in 37 seats while the BJP is contesting 26 and supporting Independent candidates in the other seats. Apart from the BJP and BPF, opposition Congress and All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), which have a tie-up for the assembly polls, are contesting 20 seats. The other prime contenders are United Peoples’ Party Liberal (UPPL), which is contesting all 40 seats, and Gana Surakha Party (GSP) of Kokrajhar MP Nava Sarania, which is fighting in 35 seats.Counting of votes will take place on December 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-voting-for-first-phase-of-bodoland-territorial-council-election-begins/story-5BBQM5st82oWKc9CIy16QO.html
07-12-2020||India||1 dead, hundreds take ill: What we know about Eluru mystery disease so far||A 45-year-old man died on Sunday and nearly 300 people have taken ill in Eluru town in Andhra Pradesh’s West Godavari district with complaints of giddiness and epilepsy since Saturday night. Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy is scheduled to visit the patients at Eluru Government Hospital on Monday around 10.30am. He will hold a meeting with the hospital officials and a conference later.Patients who flocked to the Eluru government hospital complained of symptoms of seizures, vomiting, giddiness and severe headache, officials have said. The cause of the sickness is yet to be ascertained.Here is what we know so far:1. The 45-year-old man, identified as Sridhar from Vidyanagar area of Eluru town, succumbed to the disease on Sunday evening, his family members said. He was admitted to the local government hospital in the morning with symptoms of epilepsy and giddiness in the morning.2. According to doctors at the government hospital, Sridhar died of other symptoms as he had recovered from his epilepsy symptoms by evening. The police have called for an autopsy report of the deceased.3. An update from the health authorities on Sunday night showed that the number of affected persons crossed 285. Of them, 117 were discharged upon fully recovering and about 30 are ready for discharge, officials said on Saturday.4. Deputy chief minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas said that five people have been shifted to the Vijayawada government hospital and many patients are also being treated in private hospitals.5. The government claimed that water samples from 22 affected areas showed no signs of contamination and that no viral infections were detected after blood tests of all the affected people were conducted. All the patients were also tested for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and all reports were negative. The test results for chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) are expected on Monday.6. The deputy chief minister has said special focus is being given to areas with such cases and medical camps are being set up there. A door-to-door survey is being conducted to monitor the health condition of the people, he also said.7. The opposition Telugu Desam Party (TDP) blamed the government for the sickness of hundreds of people in Eluru. TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu pointed out that the health hazard took place in health minister’s own constituency, where people were not getting protected drinking water for the last 18 months.8. Naidu has also demanded a full-fledged inquiry into the disease outbreak and declaration of health emergency in Eluru.9. Officials said scientists from the National Institute of Nutrition (NIN) in Hyderabad would be visiting Eluru on Monday to study the situation.10. BJP lawmaker GVL Narasimha Rao, who spoke to the state’s chief secretary Nilam Sawhney, said a five-member team of doctors from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) at Mangalagiri was sent Eluru to treat the patients. Rao said he spoke to the director of AIIMS in Delhi, Randeep Guleria, and other experts on the mysterious disease.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-dead-hundreds-take-ill-what-we-know-about-eluru-mystery-disease-so-far/story-NS6B5QhWDJNOIhKc017RVJ.html
07-12-2020||India||Moderate snowfall likely today in J&K, Himachal Pradesh||A fresh western disturbance is likely to bring widespread rain and snow over the western Himalayan region from today, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).Under the influence of the western disturbance, widespread rain and snow is very likely over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh from December 7 to 9 and scattered rain over Uttarakhand from December 8 to 9.Heavy rain and snow are also very likely over J&K, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad on December 8, said IMD in its Sunday bulletin. Dense fog is likely over some pockets of east Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, south Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura today.“We are expecting moderate snowfall in the higher reaches of western Himalayas but some parts may also record heavy snowfall starting Monday. But minimum temperature will not fall significantly immediately because another western disturbance is likely to impact the region around December 12 and 13. There is likely to be clouding associated with the western disturbances which inhibits radiation cooling,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre. The minimum temperature over Delhi on Sunday was 11.4 degree C, 2 degree C above normal.Many cities and towns in northwest India recorded very poor and severe air quality on Sunday. Baghpat, Bulandshahr, Ghaziabad, Noida, Rohtak etc recorded severe air while Delhi recorded an air quality index of 389 in very poor category.Air quality is likely to improve on Monday as north-westerly winds pick up. “Wind direction has changed to north-westerly and wind speed is likely to be around 12 kmph on Monday so we are expecting dispersal of pollutants,” Shrivastava added.There is likely to be widespread rain and moderate thunderstorm activity over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Kerala till Monday due a low-pressure area over Gulf of Mannar which is a remnant of cyclonic storm Burevi. “Rains are likely to continue in the region for 3 to 4 days. There is a chance that a feeble low pressure area forms over Arabian Sea in the next two days and then moves westwards. It may not have much impact on the Indian coast,” said Sunitha Devi, in charge of cyclones at IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/moderate-snowfall-likely-today-in-j-k-himachal-pradesh/story-npvDC0FFVeJQiILDREE5bL.html
07-12-2020||India||Farmers’ Protest Updates: They are ‘misguided,’ says farmers in support of farm laws||As many as seven borders connecting Delhi with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh remained completely closed on Monday due to the ongoing farmers’ protest, causing traffic snarls and inconvenience to motorists in many parts of the city.The opposition parties, including Communist Party of India (Marxist), Communist Party of India, Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist), Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP), Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Samajwadi Party (SP), All India Forward Bloc (AIFB), National Congress Party (NCP) and Congress and Shiv Sena have extended their support for December 8 ‘Bharat Bandh’ call by farmers who are protesting against the farm laws. Farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The three laws seek to open up farm trade.Farmers have said that they would occupy toll plazas on December 8, the day of Bharat Bandh, if their demands for repealing the farm laws are not met. They are demanding that a special session of Parliament is called to repeal the laws. The next talks are scheduled to be held on December 9.Follow live updates here:Farmers who are protesting are misguided: Progressive farmers club“Farmers who are protesting are misguided. Prime Minister has assured that MSP and mandi system will remain,” Kanwal Singh Chauhan, president of progressive farmers club after meeting Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar.Delhi’s Azadpur Mandi to remain closed tomorrow“Delhi’s Azadpur Mandi and all other mandis in the city to remain closed tomorrow, in support of ‘Bharat Bandh’ call made by farmers,” news agency ANI quoted Adil Ahmed Khan, Chairman, Azadpur Mand, as saying. Harayana chief minister ML Khattar hit out at oppositionSlamming opposition parties for supporting protests by farmers, Harayana chief minister ML Khattar said, “Opposition parties are doing petty politics in the name of farmers, it’s condemnable. Public and farmers should understand that there is no harm in implementing the laws that have been enacted for the progress of farmers. PM has assured that MSP will continue.”Railway unions extend support to call for Bharat Bandh The All India Railwaymen’s Federation on Monday extended its support to Bharat Bandh on December 8. “We have written to our affiliates all over the Indian Railways to extend support to the farmers in their struggle to achieve their genuine demands, on December 8, 2020 during ‘Bharat Bandh’. I have already advised AIRF affiliates to organise agitation programmes, dharna, demonstrations and rallies during lunch hour against anti-farmer policies of the Government of India,” said Shiva Gopal Mishra, general secretary, All India Railwaymen’s Federation (AIRF).AAP to hold demonstration on TuesdayAam Aadmi Party will hold peaceful demonstration in the city on Tuesday in support of ‘Bharat Bandh’, Delhi minister Gopal Rai said on Monday.Government will have to accept our demands, says farmer leader“Government will have to accept our demands, we want nothing less than withdrawal of new farm laws,” PTI quoted farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal, as saying.We appeal to farmers to not force anyone to observe ‘Bharat bandh, farmer leaders also said.Farmers to observe ‘Bharat bandh’ whole day; road blockade till 3pm The nationwide strike in the country will be observed the whole day on Tuesday, farmer leader Dr Darshan Pal informed media at Delhi-Haryana Singhu border. However, chaka jam (road blockade) will only be in effect till 3pm due to the office hours.”It will be a peaceful bandh. We are firm on not allowing any political leaders on our stage,” Pal also said.Emergency services will also be allowed.Tamil Nadu minister D Jayakumar warns protesters“For those holding protest without permission, law will take its own course,” says Tamil Nadu Minister D Jayakumar on Bharat Bandh tomorrow.Transport services, essential supplies likely to be affected in Delhi on TuesdayAs various unions and associations of cab drivers and mandi traders decide to join the ‘Bharat Bandh’ call on Tuesday, transport facilitates and supplies of essentials like vegetables and fruits are likely to be affected in Delhi, PTI reported.‘We want Centre to repeal the farm laws,’ says Akhilesh Yadav“We want the Centre to repeal the farm laws. They should tell the farmers, when will they bring the MSP (Minimum Support Price) that will double the farmers’ income?” asks Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav.Centre issues advisory to states, UTs for Bharat BandhA day before the nationwide strike, the Centre asked all states and Union Territories to tighten security during ‘Bharat Bandh. In a countrywide advisory, the Union Home Ministry also said the state governments and UT administrations must ensure that the Covid-19 guidelines issued with regard to health and social distancing are strictly followed. It also asked the state and UT government to take required precautionary measurers maintain peace and tranquillity.Karanataka Congress chief DK Shivakumar extends support “We would like to extend our support to the farmers who are great support to the economy. Entire country would like to support them. We would like to thank leaders from various parts of the world who’ve expressed solidarity with our farmers,” said Karnataka Congress chief DK Shivakumar.Sportsperson march towards Rashtrapati BhavanSeveral sportsperson including wrestler Kartar Singh marched towards Rashtrapati Bhavan in Delhi to return they awards as sign of protest against the farm laws. However they were stopped midway by the Delhi police. “30 sportspersons from Punjab and some others want to return their award,” ANI quoted Singh as saying.BJP’s Ravi Shankar Prasad slams opposition parties“The leaders of the Kisan movement have categorically stated that political people do not come to our forum. We respect these sentiments. But they are all jumping, as they are getting another chance to oppose BJP and Narendra Modi,” news agency quoted Ravi Shankar Prasad as saying.“Today, when they are losing their political existence, they join any conflicting movement to save their existence,“ he also said.Punjabi writer, poet Surjit Patar decides to return Padma Shri over farm laws rowI'm deeply hurt with the behaviour of the Centre with the farmers protesting at Delhi borders. Despite making repeated attempts, nothing conclusive done to satisfy them. I have decided to return Padma Shri in support of farmers: Surjit Patar, Punjabi writer & poet #FarmLawsI would call Congress leaders, workers and right-minded people to fully support the farmers : Punjab Congress Chief Sunil JakharI would call Congress leaders, workers and right-minded people to fully support the farmers in Bharat Bandh so that the self-conceit government could open their eyes and ears: Punjab Congress Chief Sunil Jakhar.We don’t want to cause problems for common man: Bharatiya Kisan Union spokespersonWe don’t want to cause problems for common man. Therefore, we will begin at 11 am, so that they could leave for office on time. Work hours in offices will end by 3 pm. Services such as ambulance, even weddings, can go on as usual. People can show their card & leave: Rakesh TikaitOur protest is peaceful and we will continue that way: Bharatiya Kisan Union spokespersonOur protest is peaceful and we will continue that way. Tomorrow’s Bharat Bandh is from 11 am to 3 pm. It is a symbolic protest to register our opposition. It is to show that we don’t support some of the policies of the Govt of India: Rakesh Tikait, Spokesperson, Bharatiya Kisan UnionSamajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav detainedSamajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav has been detained. He was staging a sit-in protest near his house.BJP govt at Centre must withdraw farm bills or step down: Mamata BanerjeeBJP governmentt at Centre must withdraw farm bills or step down, said Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee at rally in West Midnapore.Delhi Police has made proper arrangements ahead of tomorrow’s Bharat Bandh: Delhi Police PRODelhi Police has made proper arrangements ahead of tomorrow’s Bharat Bandh. We are trying to ensure that the lives of the common people are not affected. If someone tries to shut down shops forcefully or block roads, legal action will be taken: Eish Singhal, Delhi Police PROSamajwadi Party Sadar MLA Anil Dohre and many leaders arrested by police in KannaujSamajwadi Party Sadar MLA Anil Dohre and many leaders arrested by the police in Kannauj.Akhilesh Yadav sits on dharna as he was stopped from joining farmer’s protestSamajwadi Party national president Akhilesh Yadav came out and sat on a dharna near his house. Farmers who participated in the protest (in the state) were arrested: MK StalinFarmers who participated in the protest (in the state) were arrested. I had also participated in a protest (in Salem). Edappadi Palaniswami government is against protesters: DMK president MK Stalin.We will support Bharat Bandh and participate in it: DMK president MK StalinThe Opposition has already said that we will support the bandh (December 8th Bharat Bandh) and participate in it: DMK president MK Stalin.Police has stopped our vehicles, we will walk: Akhilesh YadavOur workers have protested at several locations. They (Police) can put us in jail if they want. They have stopped our vehicles. We will walk: SP chief Akhilesh Yadav.He is scheduled to visit Kannauj to stage a demonstration in support of farmers agitating against Centre’s farm laws.Cong MPs from Punjab protest demanding winter session of Parliament to discuss farmers issueCongress MPs from Punjab protest at Jantar Mantar, demanding winter session of Parliament to discuss farmers issue.“Session should be called, anti-farmer laws should be reconsidered and withdrawn. Government is avoiding the session. It’s against democracy,” says MP Manish Tewari.Akhilesh Yadav urges people to take part in ‘KisanYatra’Former chief minister of Uttar Pradesh Akhilesh Yadav urged people to take part in ‘Kisan yatra’. क़दम-क़दम बढ़ाए जा, दंभ का सर झुकाए जाये जंग है ज़मीन की, अपनी जान भी लगाए जा‘किसान-यात्रा’ में शामिल हों! #नहीं_चाहिए_भाजपाNew farm bill has raised several doubts and insecurity in minds of farmers regarding MSP : NCPThe new farm bill has raised several doubts and insecurity in minds of farmers regarding MSP and other issues which the government has failed to address. Modi government couldn’t form broader consensus and has failed to satisfy legitimate apprehensions of the farmers and entire opposition, said NCP.Farmers are in trouble today, we should stand with them: Arvind KejriwalOur party, MLAs and leaders have been serving farmers as ‘sevadars’ ever since. I haven’t come here as CM but as a ‘sevadar’. Farmers are in trouble today, we should stand with them. AAP supports December 8th Bharat Bandh, party workers will participate in it across the nation, said Arvind Kejriwal.We support all demands of farmers: Arvind KejriwalWe support all demands of farmers. Their issue and demands are valid. My party and I have stood with them from the very beginning. At the beginning of their protests, Delhi Police had sought permission to convert 9 stadiums into jails. I was pressurised but didn’t permit, said Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal.Akhilesh Yadav is scheduled to visit Kannauj to stage a demonstration in support of f protesting armersPolice force deployed outside Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav’s residence at Vikramaditya Marg. Yadav is scheduled to visit Kannauj to stage a demonstration in support of farmers protesting against the farm laws.Arvind Kejriwal reaches s Guru Teg Bahadur Memorial near Singhu border Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal reaches Guru Teg Bahadur Memorial near Singhu border (Delhi-Haryana border); meets protesting farmers, inspects arrangements made for them.Arvind Kejriwal leaves for Singhu borderDelhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal leaves from his residence. He will visit Singhu border today.Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to visit Singhu border todayDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to visit Singhu border (Haryana-Delhi border) today where farmers’ protest, against Centre’s farm laws, entered 12th day. Other ministers of Delhi government to also accompany the CM. They will inspect arrangements made by the UT government for farmers at the spot.BSP supports Bharat Bandh call by farmersBahujan Samaj Party (BSP) supports the Bharat Bandh called by farmer Unions on December 8 over farm laws, tweets party chief Mayawati.Farmers continue to camp at Singhu borderFarmers continue to camp at Singhu border (Haryana-Delhi border) to protest against the farm laws.The farmers’ protest at Singhu border, against Central Government’s Farm laws, entered 12th day today.Singhu, Auchandi, Piao Maniyari, Mangesh borders are closed: Delhi Traffic PoliceSinghu, Auchandi, Piao Maniyari, Mangesh borders are closed. NH 44 is closed on both sides. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road: Delhi Traffic PoliceShiv Sena supports ‘Bharat Bandh’ called by farmers on December 8Shiv Sena supports ‘Bharat Bandh’ called by farmers on December 8, tweets party leader Sanjay Raut||https://www.hindustantimes.com/live-update/farmers-protest-live-updates/story-Jinx0sUitsir01Nm7emP3J.html
07-12-2020||India||‘Prove faith, donate Rs 101 crore for Ram temple’: BJP leader to Congress||In a counter attack, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel demanded that the BJP give an account of the money it has collected in the name of Ram temple construction in Ayodhya - whose foundation stone was laid by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in August - when a BJP leader asked the state government to donate Rs 101 crore for the temple if the grand old party “had faith in Lord Ram”.The Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, tasked with building a grand new ram temple, will raise over Rs 713.45 crore through coupons for the construction of the Ram temple. “Pahele to ye batayein ki jo shila pujan kiye aur paise le gaye the uska hisaab kya hai...matlab ye dhandha hee bana liye hain kya (They should first give the account of money they had collected after performing ‘shila pujan’ ( laying foundation stone) in the past. Have they made it business?),” asked CM Baghel during a press conference on Sunday while replying to BJP MLA Brijmohan Agrawal’s demand for Rs 101 crore for temple donation. The CM further said that in 1992 the BJP had performed shila pujan and collected funds in crores. The BJP, the CM said, should answer how that money was used. “How much money and bricks were collected for building the Ram temple? Its accounts should be disclosed,” the CM asked. Reacting to the CM’s statement, Agarwal said that the Congress has no right to raise questions on the Ram Mandir account because they have made no contribution in the temple construction. Senior BJP leader and former minister Rajesh Munat said that the Vishva Hindu Parishad has all records of donations made towards temple construction in Ayodhya. “Congress party should look into their own history and should make public the funds which they have raised through various means... The people of Chhattisgarh are suffering... This government has not done a single work in the last two years and they are continuously boasting about their achievement,” said Munat. On November 9, 2019, the Supreme Court had ruled in favour of Ram mandir ending decades-old Ayodhya title dispute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prove-faith-donate-rs-101-crore-for-ram-temple-bjp-leader-to-congress/story-tDvNmqp99F9GfB1Yv1DpwJ.html
07-12-2020||India||Armed Forces Flag day: Honouring the sacrifice of soldiers||Armed Forces Flag Day is marked in India every year on December 7 to honour martyrs and the men in uniform who serve India. Citizens are urged to make voluntary contributions towards the Armed Forces Flag Day Fund for the welfare of personnel and ex-servicemen, their family members and also to rehabilitate those injured in wars.Appealing people to contribute in Armed Forces Flag Day Fund (AFFDF) to honour sacrifices made by soldiers in the line of duty, Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on December 2 announced that ‘Armed Forces Flag Day’ would be celebrated throughout December. “The Centre and states along with Sainik Board will celebrate ‘Armed Forces Flag Day’ throughout December. It’s our national responsibility to support families of our security personnel, who have lost their lives or suffered injuries in the line of duty,” Singh said while speaking to news agency ANI.To celebrate the day, all three branches of the Indian armed forces - the Indian Army, the Indian Air Force (IAF) and the Indian Navy - arrange a variety of shows, carnivals, dramas and other entertainment programmes to showcase to the general public the efforts of their personnel to ensure national security.The day was first observed on December 7, 1949. That year, the then government attempted to involve the common people to contribute to the welfare of the defence personnel. After the country gained Independence, there was an imminent shortage of funds for the welfare of armed forces. On August 28, 1949, a committee set up under the defence minister decided to observe a Flag Day annually on December 7. The committee had suggested that it would distribute flags to the citizens in exchange of them contributing to the fund for armed forces personnel.The Indian Armed Forces Flag Day is mainly observed to rehabilitate those wounded in wars, for the welfare of serving soldiers and their families and the welfare of ex-servicemen and their families. Also, the money collected is used for providing help to the ex-servicemen who are battling serious health issues including heart ailments, cancer, and joint replacement, etc.According to the ministry of defence, each year around 60,000 defence personnel are compulsorily retired, to keep the armed forces young. They are released between 35-40 years of age and they are physically fit and young. Therefore, caring for these ex-soldiers and their families is a national responsibility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/armed-forces-flag-day-honouring-the-sacrifice-of-soldiers/story-zXNEaXwTQMG3JqI2VBLOHM.html
07-12-2020||India||Indian Air Force fully prepared to transport Covid-19 vaccines||The Indian Air Force (IAF) is fully prepared to pitch in for the distribution of a Covid-19 vaccine to the farthest reaches of the country using its extensive fleet of transport aircraft, people familiar with developments said on Sunday.Though there has been no official request so far from the government to the armed forces to assist in the delivery and distribution of a vaccine, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity that there are no doubts about the IAF’s capability to transport millions of doses across the country.“There has been no formal request till now for the IAF to help in the transportation of a Covid-19 vaccine. But we do have a formidable fleet of transport aircraft and we can pitch in at short notice if required,” said one of the people.Also Read: SII seeks emergency use authorisation for Oxford Covid vaccine Covishield in IndiaIt is understood that the military has worked out modalities that will have to be put in place for transporting vaccines if there is a request from the government. This will primarily involve moving vaccines from the 28,000-unit cold storage network and ensuring the doses reach remote areas without losing their efficacy.“The vaccines will be transported in special boxes and there will be no need to reconfigure the aircraft to carry them. It’s not as if the aircraft will have to be modified in any way,” the person cited above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-air-force-fully-prepared-to-transport-covid-19-vaccines/story-TYMQBhzrEzPDrhrRJWxeDP.html
07-12-2020||India||Rajasthan couple ties knot in PPE kits after bride tests Covid-19 positive||A couple tied the knot at Kelwara Covid Centre in Bara, Shahbad on Sunday, wearing personal protection equipment (PPE) kits as bride’s Covid-19 report came positive on the wedding day.The marriage ceremony was conducted following the government’s Covid-19 protocols.In a video, the couple can be seen sitting at the havan kund while following all rituals of the wedding as was being told to them by the priest who also spotted in a PPE suit. #WATCH Rajasthan: A couple gets married at Kelwara Covid Centre in Bara, Shahbad wearing PPE kits as bride's #COVID19 report came positive on the wedding day. The marriage ceremony was conducted following the govt's Covid protocols. pic.twitter.com/6cSPrJzWjRThe groom was seen wearing the traditional turban over the PPE suit along with the gloves while the bride was also wearing a face shield and gloves while performing the rituals. In a unique twist during the wedding season, the video of the couple is doing rounds on social media platforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-couple-ties-knot-in-ppe-kits-after-bride-tests-covid-19-positive/story-3UnQpfle2MUFkyrMpcJkxM.html
07-12-2020||India||BJP wins 6 out of 11 MLC seats, SP bags 3||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday won six out of the total 11 MLC seats in polls for the teachers’ and graduate constituency seats of the state legislative council. Of the 11 seats, the BJP contested nine and backed an independent for the teachers’ quota seat in Gorakhpur. . Out of the 11 seats, the Samajwadi Party won a total of three and the independents two, according to the final results of the biennial elections held last Tuesday.Out of the five graduates’ constituency seats in the Council, the BJP won three and the SP two, while out of the six teachers’ constituency seats, the BJP bagged three, the SP one and independents two. Following the declaration of the results for the 11 legislative council seats, the tally of BJP in the 100-member Upper House of the state rose to 25 from 19, SP’s to 55 from 52 and independents to four from two. “Despite desperate efforts to rig the polls by misusing official machinery, the BJP has suffered reverses from Jhansi till Kashi. The Samajwadi Party’s symbol cycle raced ahead triumphantly and is well set to win the 2022 assembly polls. The party’s popularity is growing and it has started showing too,” SP MLC Sunil Yadav said. Reacting to the party’s performance in the polls, UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh said, “In the teachers’ constituencies, three out of 4 candidates fielded by the BJP won. The BJP contested this polls for the first time.”“This has been a historic performance for the BJP. In the Graduates’ constituency, the BJP won three seats,” he added.Political experts said the BJP’s aggressive foray in these polls, where it got its top state leaders to campaign for the first time, was set to impact teachers’ politics in the state. “It’s now clear that like these polls, the BJP would aggressively contest the panchayat polls, too, where a good show would definitely provide a psychological edge to the party ahead of the 2022 UP assembly polls,” said Irshad Ilmi, a veteran political observer. “The results would impact teachers’ politics both inside and outside the UP Legislative Council,” agreed SK Dwivedi, a retired head of the department of political science in Lucknow University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-wins-6-out-of-11-mlc-seats-sp-bags-3/story-TDe87vtAmqQoRH3VKARx5J.html
07-12-2020||India||BJP will hit the streets over CAA in Bengal from Jan: Vijayvargiya||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will start campaigning in January for implementation of the new citizenship law in poll-bound West Bengal, the party’s national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and national vice-president Mukul Roy said at a public meeting in Kolkata on Sunday afternoon.The issue is bound to increase political tension in the state as chief minister Mamata Banerjee is opposed to the law and has declared that she will never enforce it.The Citizenship (Amendment) Act offers citizenship to non-Muslims who entered India from Afghanistan, Pakistan and Bangladesh before December 31, 2014. Opponents of the law, among whom Banerjee is a prominent face, insist that it is discriminatory and unconstitutional as it leaves out Muslims and links citizenship to faith in a secular country. Accusing Banerjee of appeasing Muslims, Vijayvargiya said at a BJP programme at Mayo Road in Kolkata that his party will hit the streets next month to campaign for implementation of the law. “The chief minister calls the Prime Minister outsider. She calls the Union home minister outsider. But to her, the Rohingya refugees, who are spreading terror, and the infiltrators from Bangladesh are not outsiders. Are you (Mamata Banerjee) their aunt,” asked Vijayvargiya. “Mamata Ji is opposed to giving citizenship to Hindus who came to India as refugees. Why should we allow that? Do Hindu refugees not have the right to live as citizens with equal status?” he said.Mukul Roy made it clear that the issue would be raised by the BJP during the campaign for the crucial assembly elections due in six months. “We will go to the people. Citizenship is an important issue. The TMC {Trinamool Congress} cannot read the writing on the wall. That is immaturity in politics. We will win the election with more than 200 seats. If we cannot win more than 200 seats, all this hard work will mean nothing,” said Roy.TMC Lok Sabha member and party spokesperson Saugata Roy said: “Mamata Banerjee made her stand clear long ago. We are opposed to the law and we will resist the BJP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-will-hit-the-streets-over-caa-in-bengal-from-jan-vijayvargiya/story-L7cEL9dXP7dtsG6uvzqfXM.html
07-12-2020||India||French mid-air refuellers could boost Air Force||The defence ministry is considering a French proposal to acquire six Airbus 330 multi-role transport tanker (MRTT) aircraft on a government-to- government basis for expanding the strike capability of the Indian Air Force (IAF) by purchasing the latest mid-air refuelers.The IAF now operate seven Russian IL-76 M refuellers with Pakistan acquiring four of the same refuellers from Ukraine and China operating three of the same Russian refuellers along with 10 vintage modified versions of Russian bombers.According to officials at South Block , while the IAF wanted to get an Airbus 330 MRTT on wet lease from a British company, the French proposal involves selling six 5-7-year-old aircraft to the IAF with a certification of another 30 years of platform life at a much reduced price. The IAF has been eager to acquire an MRTT over the past decade, with the previous request for proposal (RFP) expiring without any results.According to a former Indian Air Force chief who didn’t want to be named, the Airbus 330 MRTT platform has much larger wings of the Airbus 340m as a result of which the aircraft can refuel two fighters mid-air at the same time through drogues (attached to wing pods) or a central refuelling boom system. The best part about the Airbus aircraft is that it can transport 260 personnel in cabin and fuel in the cargo hold due to highly efficient and high-powered engines. The MRTT can be turned into purely a tanker or transport or air ambulance or all three at the same time with a total crew of three.Mid-air refuellers are a key to expanding the operational envelop of the IAF and Indian Navy carrier-based fighters by extending their range. According to the former IAF chief cited above, a mid-air refueller can be used to extend the flight of a Su-30 MKI or Rafale flying from Port Blair all the way up to Sunda, Lombard and Malacca Straits for freedom of navigation missions.“ The French proposal is a win-win for IAF as the international market for aerial platforms is down due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The aircraft does not guzzle fuel and has high-power engines to operate from high altitude air bases in Ladakh like Leh, Thoise and Nyoma and at the same time transport troops or conduct medical evacuation if required,” said a senior IAF official, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/french-mid-air-refuellers-could-boost-air-force/story-lbpLOIjx1El8VlYwu7o55N.html
07-12-2020||India||China setting up villages on borders with India and Bhutan, satellite imagery shows||Satellite imagery has emerged of China setting up villages in hitherto uninhabited stretches on its disputed borders with India and Bhutan, particularly in Arunachal Pradesh, with experts saying the move could be aimed at buttressing Beijing’s territorial claims. Several villages have come up in the tri-junction between India, Bhutan and China, and the move follows the upgrading and construction of Chinese military facilities, including heliports and missile bases, all along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the aftermath of the 2017 standoff at Doklam. Imagery shared by the open source intelligence analyst who uses the name @detresfa on Twitter on Sunday showed what appeared to be five new border villages built near Bum La, the border pass located between Cona county in Tibet Autonomous Region and Tawang district in Arunachal Pradesh. In a tweet, @detresfa said there is evidence of “new villages and accommodation similar to what was seen in Pangda village, Bhutan” in the vicinity of Bum La. The relocation of people to these villages “promises China with better border surveillance and patrols through a network of herders”, the tweet said. Also Read: Top US official says China conducted human tests to develop super soldiersSatellite imagery from Planet Labs, a private US company, was cited by NDTV to show that at least three villages have come up in an area about five kilometres from Bum La. The imagery suggested construction of these villages, which are on the Chinese side of the LAC, had continued even as thousands of Indian and Chinese troops faced off in Ladakh sector of the LAC. One image from Planet Labs dated February 17 showed only one village with some 20 structures in the area. A second image dated November 28 showed three additional villages in the same area with a total of about 50 structures. The villages are located about a kilometre from each other and connected by new roads. Satellite imagery that emerged last month showed China has built a village called Pangda some two kilometres within territory claimed by Bhutan on Doklam plateau. This imagery also showed China has built a road in the same region that goes about nine kilometres inside Bhutanese territory. Pangda is located about 10 km from the site of the 2017 standoff. In August, Chinese state media reported on how the government has improved infrastructure in villages close to the Arunachal Pradesh border. State-owned Global Times tabloid cited authorities in Yadong county of Tibet Autonomous Region as saying that 27 households with 124 people had “voluntarily moved from...Yadong county to Pangda village in September”. Also Read: China dismisses ‘Wolf Warrior diplomacy’ charge as akin to ‘China threat’ theoryIn 2017, President Xi Jinping had also written a letter to Tibetan herdsmen living near the Arunachal Pradesh border to “set down roots” and safeguard “Chinese territory”. Strategic affairs expert Brahma Chellaney pointed to the new villages near Bum La and said building border villages to “fortify claims and escalate cross-frontier intrusions is integral to China’s territorial aggrandisement”. Sim Tack, a Belgium-based security analyst for Force Analysis, said the new villages were clearly part of a strategy to “push Chinese presence and strengthen claims on disputed areas”. “We have seen the relocation of civilian populations into sparsely populated and disputed border regions by other countries, for example, by Morocco in Western Sahara. The Chinese are doing the same, so that they can infringe on the border and potentially build a case for their territorial claims,” he said. A report released in September by Stratfor, a leading security and intelligence consultancy, had said China has more than doubled the number of airbases, air defence positions and heliports near the LAC since 2017. China began building at least 13 new military facilities near the LAC after the standoff at Doklam, and work on four heliports began after the current tensions in Ladakh, the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-setting-up-villages-on-borders-with-india-and-bhutan-satellite-imagery-shows/story-Lq1uwiFxAZ16LOWlnnMDPN.html
07-12-2020||India||SAD, Shiv Sena meet to discuss ties, farm stir||Shiromani Akali Dal’s delegation met Maharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday over various issues related to “Centre’s interference into states’ rights”, in a significant step by the political parties from opposition at national level. Besides discussing the issues related to Centre-state relations, the two parties also decided to support the ongoing farmers protests together.The SAD delegation led by vice president and former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra called on chief minister Uddhav Thackeray at latter’s official bungalow in Mumbai. The delegation discussed its stand on the farmers’ protest, decided to come together on Centre’s alleged interference into the rights of state governments and on the larger national issue as combative front. Leaders from key parties in opposition are expected to meet in Delhi in next couple of weeks to discuss the further course of action.“We have already held meetings with a few regional parties and are meeting leaders from DMK, TRS, TMC with the common intention of opposing the Centre’s intervention in the states’ rights. The Centre has been suppressing the rights of the states in state subjects including law and order, agriculture, finances. In the garb of cyber crime, the Centre is intervening in law and order, by passing the farm laws it intends to overtake state’s powers of agriculture marketing... We want to collectively oppose this attempt,” Chandumajra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sad-shiv-sena-meet-to-discuss-ties-farm-stir/story-JGzuYw1Dlto26Um2nh5RjM.html
07-12-2020||India||J-K DDC polls phase 4: Over 7 lakh voters to decide fate of 249 candidates||More than seven lakh voters will decide the fate of 249 candidates contesting in the fourth phase of the District Development Council (DDC) elections in Jammu and Kashmir on Monday. The polling will be held between 7am and 2pm in 34 constituencies -- 17 each in Jammu and Kashmir divisions. Besides DDC elections, polling will be held for panchayat bypolls in 50 vacant sarpanch seats and 216 vacant panch seats falling within the DDC constituencies, an official spokesperson said, according to news agency PTI.So far, three phases of the maiden DDC elections, the first democratic exercise in Jammu and Kashmir after the reorganization of the erstwhile state last year, were held on November 28, December 1 and December 4, registering a voter turnout of 51.76 per cent, 48.62 per cent and 50.53 per cent, respectively. In the 17 DDC constituencies of Kashmir division, 138 candidates, including 48 women, are in the fray. In Jammu division, 111 candidates, including 34 women, are contesting in this phase. “There were 123 sarpanch vacancies notified in the 4th phase and out of these 45 have got filled unopposed. There shall be a contest in 50 constituencies and 137 candidates, including 47 women, are in the fray,” the spokesperson said. Out of the total 1,207 panch vacancies notified in this phase, 416 have got filled unopposed and there is no contest in these constituencies. Polling would take place in 216 panch constituencies and there are 478 candidates in the fray including 129 women, he added. In the fourth phase, 7,17,322 electors are eligible to cast their votes -- 3,76,797 men and 3,40,525 women. Among them, 3,50,149 are from Jammu division and 3,67,173 from Kashmir division, he said. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, adequate arrangements have been made to ensure safety of all stakeholders, including voters. Special polling stations at Women College Gandhinagar, Jammu and Girls Higher Secondary School Udhampur have been set up to facilitate physical voting by Kashmiri migrants, the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-ddc-polls-phase-4-over-7-lakh-voters-to-decide-fate-of-249-candidates/story-5ivDYeZ2ygrlXYFS4cQmlI.html
07-12-2020||India||Sarpanch from Maharashtra to undergo DNA test||The sarpanch of a village in Maharashtra has to pass a different kind of test to retain his position - a DNA test.Having denied fathering a third child, the man has been directed by the Supreme Court to undergo the test to prove his claim.The Sarpanch is alleged to have the third child from his second wife. But he claimed his second wife never had any child from their marriage. Also, the second marriage is over, he contended.According to the Maharashtra Village Panchayats Act, a person is disqualified from holding any position in the gram panchayat if he or she has more then two children. Such a person cannot contest any post too.Since the case has been pending in the top court since 2016, an SC bench, headed by justice Rohinton F Nariman, said the dispute over paternity must now be settled beyond doubt.“A DNA test will conclusively prove as to whether the child is, in fact, the third child of the petitioner,” said the court order.The bench, which also included justices Navin Sinha and KM Joseph, added that the DNA test will put an end to the controversy over whether the claimed separation between the sarpanch and his second wife was a ploy to remain in his position or whether the assertions were genuine. “Therefore, a DNA test is to be conducted on the petitioner (who is Sarpanch) as well as the child on any day next week at the Government Hospital (Aurangabad), in the presence of a responsible medical officer,” stated the order.The bench directed the medical officer of the hospital to furnish the test results confidentially, which will be taken up for hearing next month.The Sarpanch had moved an appeal after the Bombay high court disqualified him for having more than two children. The high court had noted that he had also partitioned his land in favour of the male child.The invitation card for marriage of the Sarpanch’s daughter also mentioned this child’s name, and the high court had taken note of as it put its stamp of approval on the order of disqualification.The high court added the Sarpanch can go to a civil court if he wants a legal declaration that the child was not his.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sarpanch-from-maharashtra-to-undergo-dna-test/story-vjoIhylGF1JSHHLU4qUQEP.html
07-12-2020||India||Polling for Bodoland Territorial Council to take place in 2 phases next week||Ahead of assembly polls in the state due in March-April next year, political parties in Assam are battling it out in what has been billed as a semi-final to assume control of the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC). Polling for the council, which administers the Bodoland Territorial Region covering Udalguri, Kokrajhar, Baksa and Chirang districts, will take place in two phases on Monday and Thursday. The votes will be counted on December 12. Polling for 40 seats in the council, which comes under the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution, scheduled in April was postponed because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the area was placed under Governor’s rule. Since its formation in 2003, BTC had been governed by Hagrama Mohilary, a former rebel who now heads the Bodoland Peoples’ Front (BPF), a partner in the ruling coalition headed by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) is the third partner. Relations between the BJP and BPF started souring after BTC was placed under Governor’s rule. Both parties are now contesting the BTC polls separately. BPF has fielded candidates in 37 seats while the BJP is contesting 26 and supporting independent candidates in the other seats.The campaign has been bitter and personal with senior minister Himanta Biswa Sarma accusing Mohilary of large-scale corruption and the latter terming the former a bully. “There’s lack of development in BTC areas due to misrule of BPF. The large crowds at our rallies indicate the BJP will come to power in BTC this time,” Sarma said at an election rally in Udalguri district on Saturday, the last day of campaigning for the first phase of polling. “Sarma can be a bully in Dispur, but he has no say in BTC. We are coming back to power again and the BJP’s plan to rule BTC will fall flat,” Mohilary said at an election rally. Apart from BJP and BPF, the opposition Congress and All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), which have a tie-up for the assembly polls, are contesting a total of 20 seats. The other prime contenders are United People;s Party Liberal (UPPL), which is contesting all 40 seats, and the Gana Suraksha Party (GSP) of Kokrajhar MP Nava Sarania, which is fighting in 35 seats. The BTC polls would be the first election in Assam since the Covid-19 pandemic started and the administrative and electoral machinery are geared to ensure smooth polling while maintaining all and health and safety protocols. “There are 11 constituencies in our district and nearly 7 lakh voters. Polling parties have gone to their stations and security arrangements are in place for Monday’s voting. Face masks, sanitisers etc. have been provided to the poll officials and social distancing will be maintained during polling,” Ranjan Sarma, the deputy commissioner of Baksa district, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/polling-for-bodoland-territorial-council-to-take-place-in-2-phases-next-week/story-5PAWtdpjJxyrXuooVYIEEM.html
07-12-2020||India||PM Modi to virtually inaugurate construction of Agra Metro project||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate via video conferencing the construction of the Agra Metro project on Monday.In a tweet, the Prime Minister said that the Agra Metro project will boost ‘ease of living’ for the people of Agra as well as tourists.“At 12 noon tomorrow, 7th December, construction work of the Agra Metro Project will commence. This project is spread across two corridors and will boost ‘Ease of Living’ for the people of Agra as well as benefit tourists who visit this vibrant city,” PM Modi tweeted.Union minister of housing and urban affairs Hardeep Singh Puri, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and other dignitaries will also attend the event that will be held at 15 Battalion PAC parade ground in Agra.The Agra metro project comprises two corridors with a total length of 29.4 km and will connect major tourist attractions like Taj Mahal, Agra Fort, Sikandra with railway stations and bus stands, a PMO release said.The estimated cost of the project will be Rs 8,379.62 crore and it will be completed in five years.The project will benefit Agra’s population of 2.6 million and also cater to more than 60 lakh tourists who visit the historic city every year. It will provide an environment-friendly mass rapid transit system to Agra, the statement said.Last year on March 8, the Prime Minister had inaugurated the Agra Metro project along with the commencement of commercial operations of Lucknow Metro on the entire 23 km long North-South corridor from CCS Airport to Munshipulia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-virtually-inaugurate-construction-of-agra-metro-project/story-FWO3ybiOuucihPdIOOtypO.html
07-12-2020||India||Failed to keep word: Bimal Gurung targets BJP||Making his first appearance in north Bengal after being on the run for three-and-a-half years, Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung on Sunday attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), his ally since 2009. He called the BJP a party of “ungrateful people” and swore to make Mamata Banerjee, his foe until last month, chief minister for the third time after elections next year. “The Gorkhas will never forgive Prime Minister Narendra Modi who had once said that the dream of the Gorkhas was his dream,” Gurung said at a rally in Siliguri in Darjeeling district and asked his followers to defeat the BJP in the coming polls. “The Prime Minister has to tell the people why he lied to the Gorkhas about finding a permanent political solution (to the Gorkhaland issue) and granting scheduled tribe status to 11 Gorkha communities,” said Gurung. “Even though we supported the BJP in previous elections, the party failed to keep its promises...We lost 12 years because of the BJP. Our people must give a befitting reply in the coming assembly election,” he said. Gurung was charged by the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government under numerous sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for violence during the 2017 Gorkhaland agitation. He went into hiding with his close aides and surfaced in Kolkata last month with an offer to help Banerjee defeat the BJP in the 2021 polls. The BJP has won Darjeeling Lok Sabha seat thrice since 2009 with GJM’s support. Gurung demanded that Raju Bista, the BJP MP from Darjeeling, resign. “You (Bista) have spoiled everything by talking too much. Your chapter has been closed by the BJP because it made you a national spokesperson. You can no longer speak for the Gorkhas. An epic war has started and I will keep fighting till the 2021 elections are over,” Gurung said. “The BJP has to be defeated at any cost and I will achieve this by keeping chief minister Mamata Banerjee in front of me. I will not rest for a day till she becomes the chief minister for the third time. She has assured us that she will find a permanent political solution to the hill problem,” said Gurung. Political equations in the Darjeeling hills have changed after Gurung pledged support to the TMC last month. His followers had been keeping a low profile since 2017, when Gurung’s former lieutenant Binoy Tamang led his own faction and suspended Gurung in his absence. On Sunday, Gurung’s men appeared in full strength. BJP state general secretary Sayantan Basu said, “Gurung says the BJP didn’t help him but Mamata Banerjee will. Let voters decide who should be supported; those who want to divide Bengal for Gorkhaland or those who don’t.” Bengal Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said, “Banerjee will shake hands with anyone to serve her interest. Gurung, who she accused of killing a policeman, is now her ally. Tomorrow she may shelter a terrorist.” TMC leaders refrained from commenting on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/failed-to-keep-word-bimal-gurung-targets-bjp/story-5K1syrHzn0q0dpGfNSzyxJ.html
07-12-2020||India||2 held as interfaith couple tries to register marriage||A group of right-wing activists stopped the registration formalities of an interfaith marriage in Kaanth area of Uttar Pradesh’s Moradabad district on Saturday and brought the couple and the groom’s brother to the local police station.A case under Section 3 of new Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance 2020 was registered against Rashid and his brother Saleem and they were sent to jail.A one-minute video circulating on social media shows the activists of the Hindu organisation Bajrang Dal, with saffron scarves around their necks, questioning the woman in the presence of policemen inside the police station. “Show us the permission you have taken from the district magistrate to convert your religion,” an activist asks the woman. Another man asks: “Have you read the new law or not.”The Uttar Pradesh ordinance outlaws religious conversions by marriage, coercion, deceit or enticement. The law was promulgated about a month after Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath vowed to end “love jihad”, a term used by right-wing activists to describe marital relationships between Muslim men and Hindu women.The Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, was promulgated on November 24. The law prescribes a jail term varying between one to five years, in addition to fine of up to ₹15,000 for those convicted under the law. The jail term goes up to 10 years and fine up to ₹25,000 for conversions of women belonging to scheduled caste or scheduled tribe communities or those who are minors.Inspector of the Kaanth police station Ajay Gautam said that the girl’s mother had complained against Rashid and his brother Saleem in which she charged Rashid with enticing her daughter by posing as Sonu and hiding his original identity. He is now forcing her daughter to convert her religion, she alleged. The woman, in the video, however denied the charges levelled by her mother. “I am 22-year-old and we married on July 24 and came here to get it registered in the court,” said the woman. It was not clear whether she had already changed her religion.Inspector Gautam seemed convinced that Rashid and Saleem were forcing the woman to convert her religion. When asked how he had verified the matter of her religious conversion, Gautam said: “The girl was wearing a burqa and was taken to a Maulvi”. Reacting to the incident, Mufti Zulfikar, state president of the All India Imam Association, said: “This new law has been enacted only to fulfil the political agenda of the BJP {Bharatiya Janata Party} and it would be misused to send innocents to jail”.In a week since the promulgation of the law, six FIRs have been registered under it in five districts of the state, police officials said on Sunday.Of the 29 people booked, 10 have been arrested in three cases filed in Sitapur, Bareilly and Moradabad districts since Wednesday, the officials said.The state cabinet cleared the law earlier in November, targeting what many right-wing outfits term “love jihad”, which involves Muslim men marrying Hindu women with the aim of changing the latter’s religion after marriage. According to the ordinance, marriages with the intention of changing the woman’s religion will be declared null and void.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-held-as-interfaith-couple-tries-to-register-marriage/story-xYiG06RjbhpkUpXkodtjbM.html
07-12-2020||India||Price, capacity key areas as Pfizer files for licence in India||India is yet to discuss the pricing of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine and the ability of the company to deliver orders placed by the country even as the Central Drugs Standard Control Organization or CDSCO reviews the emergency authorisation sought by the vaccine developer.A senior government official said there will be a negotiation on the price and availability after the vaccine is approved for use in India. This person pointed to the vaccine’s $20 price tag in the US and compared it with the $3-4 at which the AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine being made locally by the Serum Institute of India will be available.A second office confirmed this. “(The) Pfizer (vaccine) not only poses a major logistical challenge as it has to be stored at Antarctic temperatures but it also carries a hefty price tag. There is scope of negotiation.”The company has struck a deal with the EU for $18.34 a dose, the second person added.The mRNA vaccine was approved for use by the UK last week and may be approved by the US this week. Regulatory approvals can be sought in geographies other than those where clinical trials are carried out, presenting detailed trial data.Also Read: SII seeks emergency use authorisation for Oxford Covid vaccine Covishield in IndiaThere is another problem with the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine though: supply.“If they get the emergency authorisation, they need to tell us how they will provide the required vaccine,” said the first official. Neither official wished to be identified.While the EU has booked 200 million doses from Pfizer, India will require 580 million doses for 290 million people or the first three priority groups comprising health workers, frontline staff and old people with co-morbidities. These three groups are expected to be administered vaccines between January and July 2021.Pfizer also has deals with the US, UK, and Japan.“The government is looking at a bouquet of vaccines for immunising Indian population. While our focus remains on Made in India vaccines, we have not shut our doors to imported ones,” said the first official.To be sure, the only locally made vaccine anywhere close to being approved is the SII-manufactured AstraZeneca/Oxford one.Still, discussions on pricing and supply will have to wait till the CDSCO, headed by Drugs Controller General Dr VG Somani goes through the company’s filings. He may even seek a virtual meeting with Pfizer for clarifications. Also Read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe company has submitted detailed data from its trials to the Indian authorities. “But it too, didn’t come easily,” pointed out the first official. “Pfizer had insisted on a non-disclosure agreement with the Union government. As a sovereign country, we sign such pact with a company that too, a US-based one, so we had to ask an agency under biotechnology department to sign the non-disclosure pact.”According to top-line data released by Pfizer, its vaccine has 95% efficacy.Russia’s Gamaleya Center too, extracted a similar promise for secrecy while sharing trial data for its Sputnik V vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/price-capacity-key-areas-as-pfizer-files-for-license-in-india/story-fPF2dcurb3NJ7kwZ2AcE4M.html
07-12-2020||India||Will cash transfers help SC/STs better? A look at a Niti idea||The idea of cash transfers of various kinds, from Universal Basic Income (UBI) to replacing producer and consumer subsidies with them, have been doing the rounds of policy making circles for a long time now. In some cases, such as subsidies on cooking gas cylinders, subsidies are now being directly transferred to consumers.On November 27, the Economic Times reported that Niti Aayog had proposed a plan for replacing the existing Scheduled Castes Sub Plan (SCSP) and Tribal Sub Plan (TSP) method of budgeting for the Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs) with a central consolidated fund. Forty per cent of this fund is proposed to be spent through direct conditional cash transfer to SC and ST households with a monthly income less than Rs 5,000 per month. The remaining 60% is likely to be earmarked for infrastructure development in districts with a high population of SCs and STs.While no such official announcement has been made by the Niti Aayog, and the government does not accept all Niti proposals, it is worth examining what such a proposal entails.How is the SCSP/TSP money spent currently?Since the 1970s, the central government has earmarked funds for development of SC and ST communities under the SCSP and TSP in proportion to their share in total population. This means that 16.6% (share of SCs in the population according to the 2011 census) of plan funds were to be spent as SCSP and 8.6% (share of STs in population) as TSP. Although the plan and sub-plan components of the budget were merged in 2017-18, ministries are still required to spend a certain percentage; at least half of the share of SCs (8.3%) and STs (4.3%) in population, of their expenditure on central sector and centrally sponsored schemes on the welfare of SCs and STs. The total budget for SCSP and TSP was Rs 83,257 crore and Rs 53,653 crore in the 2020-21 budget.In the last five years, the total spending under SCSP and TSP has risen from 2.8% to 4.5% of the size of the budget, although figures for 2019-20 and 2020-21 could be revised downwards. In 2020-21, just eight ministries out of the 33 which allocated money under these plans accounted for 80% of the total spending. They are the ministries of education (earlier human resource development), rural development, health and family welfare, and agriculture and farmers welfare.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();One of the reasons given by Niti Aayog for combining this welfare expenditure by different ministries under a central fund is that currently this spending is not always part of schemes targeting SC and ST communities specifically. This is also the view held by activists. An analysis of most SCSP and TSP schemes (comprising 83% of total such allocation) in the 2020-21 union budget by the National Campaign on Dalit Human Rights (NCDHR), a non-governmental organisation, for instance, identified only 34% of the amount as being allocated to schemes that benefit the SC and ST communities directly. A direct cash transfer of 40% of the total allocation, as proposed by Niti Aayog, could be an improvement on that figure.What could the direct cash transfer amount to?In the past three budgets, 40% of the allocation made for welfare of SCs and STs — the share proposed to be transferred directly — was Rs 36,493 crore, Rs 48,882 core and Rs 54,764 crore. But how much will it amount to in terms of per person transfers? It depends on what the selection criterion is. The ET report says that Niti Aayog is considering Rs 5,000 monthly income as the threshold. India does not have regular data on incomes of households.The findings of the latest Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS) can be used to get a rough idea on this count. The PLFS gives wage or salary income details for the salaried, self-employed, and casual workers. It also classifies households by social groups. The 2018-19 PLFS estimates 263.9 million households in India, of which 51.8 million and 23.5 million are SC-ST households. The share of SC-ST households earnings less than Rs 5,000 is 11.6% and 19.2%, which comes to roughly 9.2 million households. This means that if the allocations made in the 2020-21 budget were used, the cash transfer could amount to Rs 4,959 per month for each household. This number would fall to Rs 1,310 per month if the threshold were to be increased to Rs 10,000 per month.To be sure, this analysis excludes 13% of the households across all social groups that didn’t have an employed and earning household member, and any income households might have from sources other than wages – such as rent or interest on investments. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();Where will the proposed infrastructure spending go? Niti Aayog has proposed that the remaining 60% of the existing SCSP and TSP amount, after giving 40% of it in cash transfers, should be spent on infrastructure development in districts with high population of SCs and STs. West Bengal is likely to be the biggest beneficiary of such an exercise. Almost 90% of West Bengal districts (17 of 19, according to the 2011 census) are among the top 20% districts with the highest population of SCs and STs. Three-fourth of the districts in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana combined (17 of 23 districts according to the 2011 census) also figure among the top 20% of districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-cash-transfers-help-sc-sts-better-a-look-at-a-niti-idea/story-3amS3xHxD8bsr37bTMjIfK.html
07-12-2020||India||Govt readying vaccine cold storage at airports||The central government has started preparations for setting up a cold storage chain for the Covid-19 vaccine that will eventually be approved for use in India, and is finalising transport arrangements with top airlines to deliver the antidote to the viral disease, officials aware of the development said.The aviation ministry has held a round of meetings with airlines on transport logistics. Officials involved in the process told HT that the ministry was awaiting the Centre’s approval for a vaccine candidate; arrangements for its transport have been made.Also Read| Covid-19: What you need to know today“We are absolutely ready. We will come out with the specifics soon. We have enough capacity in terms of aircraft. The Prime Minister has also taken a meeting on Friday. We have to first prioritise according to the vaccine that will be chosen—whether it will be from Pune or the South… cold storage will have to come up accordingly. We have enough capacity in terms of aircraft to take them around the country and if need be to take them to other countries or get them from outside as well,” a senior government official said, requesting anonymity.“More than cold storage inside the aircraft, the challenge is to set up cold storage at the point of disembarkation and embarkation at the airport, setting up the whole cold-storage chain. That’s a separate exercise going on…We have started work and it is at a fairly advanced stage. It is only a matter of weeks before the vaccine is finalised,” the official added.Aviation sector experts were concerned about the availability of freighters required to carry out the task of distributing the vaccine once a candidate is selected.Also Read: SII seeks emergency use authorisation for Oxford Covid vaccine Covishield in India“It is going to be an absolute herculean task to transport the vaccine to billions of people across the world and in India it is not going to be easy at all. In terms of aircraft capacity to be able to transport and distribute it to districts, sub-districts, villages and even the remotest corners of the country will take years. According to our analysis, to cater to 1.3 billion people of India will need at least 2,000 Boeing 747 freighters, 3,000 Airbus A320s, 1,000 ATR 42s and additionally at least 400 Twin Otters or the Grand Caravan aircraft. It will be a ridiculously difficult task given our current capacity. To be able to distribute it across the world it will require at least 15,000 freighters, “said Mark Martin, chief executive of Martin Consulting LLC, an aviation consultancy.In a statement on Wednesday SpiceJet announced it will offer logistical support for the delivery of the Covid-19 vaccine. The airline’s dedicated cargo arm, SpiceXpress, will use a specialised service called Spice Pharma Pro, and the company has the capacity to transport drugs and vaccines in temperatures ranging from -40°c to +25°c.“Air India, as always, is willing and would be playing a major role like what it has been doing ever since it flew into Wuhan in January this year to evacuate the stranded…As far as our preparedness is concerned, Air India is always prepared to answer the call of our nation,” an Air India spokesperson said when contacted by HT. IndiGo said they are evaluating how they can chip in. “In line with our business model and cost leadership strategy, we are happy to evaluate the shipment of the Covid-19 vaccines on board our aircraft and will promise to contribute to the best of our abilities,” the airline said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-readying-vaccine-cold-storage-at-airports/story-di7emwVBEu7P8F7n75N58O.html
07-12-2020||India||Farmers across nation break language barriers, join protest||Pooja Morey, a 30-year-old woman from Maharashtra, cheers and claps as a farmers’ leader delivers a speech in Punjabi from the stage in Singhu Border on a warm Sunday afternoon. Not very fluent in Hindi, Morey understands little of the Punjabi, but says that doesn’t matter. “My father is a farmer. Having seen his pain, I know that the language of the speech doesn’t matter. Anything said here in any language will help ease the pain of farmers across the country,” said Morey, who belongs to Mirgaon village in Beed. Some distance away, amid the crowd seated near the stage, a group of men belonging to a political party in Tamil Nadu also cheer the speeches every few minutes. “We are also video recording the speeches so that we can get them translated later for those of us who don’t understand even Hindi,” said Jagdeesh Waran, a coordinator of the Naam Tamilar Katchi political party. Also Read: Opposition parties back call for Bharat bandhThe men from Tamil Nadu are luckier than Morey because they have a Punjabi man occasionally translating the speech for them. “Some of them understand Hindi and try to pick on the Punjabi words. I translate the important bits of the speech,” said Bhavneet Singh, a Delhi resident who accompanied the group to the Singhu Border.Morey and Waran are among farmers, politicians and volunteers who have arrived from states such as Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh to join the protests at the Singhu Border against the three farm laws passed by the Centre. Most of them have landed at the site over the last couple of days after travelling by train. Gajanand Bangale, a farmer from a village in Jalna district of Maharashtra, said that he even spoke from the stage on Sunday. “I don’t know how many Punjabi farmers understood me, but they clapped often,” said Bangale. Bangale said he owns several bighas of land in Maharashtra, but struggles to feed his family. “If the government doesn’t take back its three laws, my family will be in even more trouble,” said Bangale.He said that about 1,000 farmers are soon arriving at this border from Amravati in Maharashtra. “Today they are at the Bhopal border,” said Bangale. Many of the people who have arrived from south Indian states said they plan to stay put here until the government submits to their demand for the repeal of the laws that the farmers are concerned would put them at the mercy of powerful agribusinesses. Also Read: Donation drives in Punjab, Haryana feed lakhs at Delhi borders“On TV, I saw the videos of farmers being attacked with water cannons and tear gas. They needed the country’s support, so four of us caught a train to reach Delhi station and from there a cab to reach here on Saturday,” said Vijay Gorle, a farmer from Peddapuram town in Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh. The four men slept along with the Punjabi farmers at night and plan to stay on. “We tell the Punjabi farmers namaste and they feed us until we beg them to stop,” said Gorle. Apart from farmers, there was a group of young men and women who said they had arrived from Kashmir. “We come from a farming background. So, we picked up two cars to join the farmers here,” said a Kashmiri man who didn’t want to be identified. A few doctors and volunteers here too arrived from faraway places like Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal. “Our team of three doctors and one volunteer arrived here on December 2 after we heard the news that farmers were camping in the bitter cold. The bad weather means they’ll fall sick and so we decided to be available for them,” said Mridul Sarkar, an MBBS doctor from Kolkata.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-across-nation-break-language-barriers-join-protest/story-3twZii8vdQhSP9FNVr95NK.html
07-12-2020||India||Opposition parties back call for Bharat bandh||A raft of political parties, from the Congress to the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), have backed the call for a Bharat bandh (shutdown strike) on Tuesday in support of farmers who have massed at Delhi’ borders to protest against three farm laws introduced by the Centre, as the city’s traffic police braced for potential chaos on the roads in the days ahead. The proposed nationwide strike also has the support of the Left parties, Trinamool Congress (TMC), Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD). Farmers have been protesting against the three laws since November 26, demanding their repeal. Talks between the farmers’ unions and the central government have failed to produce a breakthrough. Another round of talks is scheduled on December 9.The recent reforms in the antiquated farm sector allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside the so-called government-controlled mandi system, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming. Farmers fear the reforms could pave the way for the government to stop buying staples at federally fixed minimum support prices (MSPs), erode their bargaining power and leave them at the mercy of private buyers.The Congress plans to hold demonstrations at its party offices, district and state headquarters in support of the farmers. The party has been vocal in backing the farmers, with former party chief Rahul Gandhi attacking the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government.Also Read| AAP to support Bharat Bandh called by farmers: Delhi CM Kejriwal“I would also like to announce that the Congress party extends its wholehearted support to the Bharat Bandh on December 8,” party spokesperson Pawan Khera said. The M K Stalin-led Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) also appealed to farmers’ unions, traders’ bodies, government employees’ associations, labour unions and others in Tamil Nadu to extend support to the strike and make it a success. AAP national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has also extended his party’s support to the farmers. ”The Aam Aadmi Party fully supports the Bharat Bandh call made by farmers on December 8. AAP workers across the country will support it peacefully. There is an appeal to all countrymen that everyone should support the farmers and participate in it,” Kejriwal tweeted.The Mamata Banerjee -led TMC has extended “moral support” to the nationwide strike. Telangana chief minister and TRS chief K Chandrashekhar Rao on Sunday also extended support to the Bharat Bandh. Rao appealed to party workers to make the bandh successful. He said the TRS rank and file would actively participate in the bandh. RJD has also extended its backing for the bandh. “All workers of the party, along with farmers’ unions, will work to make the bandh a success,” RJD tweeted. With the farmers’ protests intensifying in Delhi, Delhi traffic police advised commuters moving in and out of the capital to use alternative routes to avoid traffic snarls. Commuters are likely to get caught in long traffic snarls because many of the city’s borders will remain shut for traffic movement, the traffic police warned. Delhi traffic police officials said that even though the situation was under control at the weekend, commuters are likely to be caught in long traffic jams starting on Monday, especially around the city’s borders. The traffic police department informed commuters about alternative routes open for travelling to the neighbouring states of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. “Those commuting to Delhi could take the Delhi-Noida-Direct Flyway instead of the Noida Link road. Chilla border on Noida Link Road is closed for traffic from Noida to Delhi due to the farmers’ protest near Gautam Budh Dwar,” the traffic police said in a post on Twitter. It added, “The Ghazipur border on NH-24 is closed for traffic from Ghaziabad to Delhi due to farmers’ protests. People are advised to avoid NH-24 for coming to Delhi and use Apsara, Bhopra and DND for coming to Delhi.” The borders that are completely closed are Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Jharoda, Piao Maniyari, and Mangesh in outer and south-western parts of the city and the Chilla border, connecting Delhi and Noida, in east Delhi. Also Read: Weekend traffic calm, but brace for snarls today, say traffic policeApart from the seven, the Delhi-Meerut expressway at Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border is closed for vehicles coming to Delhi from Ghaziabad, while the opposite carriageway through which vehicles move towards Ghaziabad is open. The service road of NH-24 at the UP Gate border is also closed as the protesting farmers have occupied it for the past 10 days. The Chilla border remained closed on Sunday as well. Many motorists going to Noida were confused as the carriageway was closed with barricades at the start of the flyover near the Mayur Vihar-1 extension. “I had travelled to Noida through this road on Friday and the road was open. Today (Sunday), the road is closed and I am stuck here near the border. No policeman was present at the flyover where the road has been closed to guide us about the alternative route. I have to ask other commuters for the open borders through which I can enter Noida,” said Akash Kumar, a commuter. Deputy commissioner of police (traffic, east) G Ram Gopal Naik said the traffic police has been issuing alerts and advisories on social media on the closure of the borders and the alternate routes that commuters can take to travel between Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. Since the Delhi-Meerut expressway carriageway entering Delhi from Ghaziabad is also blocked, the vehicles are entering the national capital through Bhopra, Apsara and Anand Vihar borders, he said. About the possibility of traffic chaos on Monday, which is a working day, DCP Naik said that the presence of traffic personnel would be reinforced during the morning and evening peak hours on the routes where the volume of traffic remains heavy compared to the afternoon and night. “We will deploy 12-15 traffic personnel at the main congestion points mainly at the borders to manage the traffic. The first three-four traffic signals from the congestion points are important and we will increase our presence to regulate the traffic manually. Regular traffic updates are posted on social media and we use the platform to communicate with people who post queries regarding the traffic updates. The traffic helpline is functional 24x7,” said Naik. Also Read: As border agitations continue, vegetables and fruits may become costlierTo make matters worse for commuters, repair work being carried out near NH-24 by the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) might also lead to traffic jams on the stretch. On Sunday, to speed up work, the traffic police diverted traffic from the portion of road. DJB said that a pipeline which was around 25 feet below the highway had burst and the work might go on for a few days. “Due to heavy leakage in water pipeline on NH-24 near Nizamuddin Khatta, NH-24 from the Ring Road will remain closed for traffic today (Sunday). However, NH-9(Meerut Expressway) will remain open. Motorists coming from Pragati Maidan side are advised to take the second left turn instead of the first. Motorists intending to go towards Akshardham, coming from Ashram or Barapullah side may take the road up to Nizamuddin Khatta instead of Sarai Kale Khan flyover and then turn right under the flyover,” the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-parties-back-call-for-bharat-bandh/story-TkyBNw7MEfj3Ak2AExYuEJ.html
07-12-2020||India||SII seeks emergency use authorisation for Oxford Covid vaccine Covishield in India||The Serum Institute of India on Sunday became the first indigenous company to apply to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) seeking emergency use authorisation for the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine in the country citing unmet medical needs due to the pandemic and in the interest of the public at large, official sources said.A day earlier, the Indian arm of US pharmaceutical giant Pfizer became the first to seek a similar approval from India’s drug regulator for its own Covid-19 vaccine in the country, after securing such clearance in the UK and Bahrain.The phase-three clinical trial of the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine, Covishield, is being conducted by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India on Sunday (SII), co-sponsored by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), in various parts of the country in addition to clinical studies being carried out by Oxford-AstraZeneca in the UK and Brazil.Based on phase two and three clinical trial results, the SII with the help of the ICMR will pursue early availability of the vaccine for India, the country’s apex health research body had said last month.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicAccording to the ICMR, the SII has already manufactured 40 million doses of the vaccine under the at-risk manufacturing and stockpiling license it obtained from the DCGI.Official sources, citing the SII application, said the firm has stated that data from four clinical studies, two in the UK and one each in Brazil and India, shows that Covishield is highly efficacious against symptomatic and most importantly against severe Covid-19 infections.The results are in line with other anti-coronavirus vaccines and because of the huge disease burden, Covishield is predicted to alleviate substantial Covid-19 mortality and morbidity, the firm is learnt to have said.“In terms of safety, Covishield was well tolerated with respect to solicited adverse events and was not associated with an increased number of SAEs and deaths. A majority of solicited reactions were mild in severity and resolved without any sequelae.“Therefore, Covishield is safe and well-tolerated and can be used effectively for prevention of Covid-19 in the targeted population. Thus, the benefit to risk ratio strongly supports the widespread use of Covishield,” a source said quoting the application.In order to introduce an urgently needed vaccine against Covid-19 in India, SII, the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer, has entered into a collaboration with the University of Oxford and AstraZeneca to manufacture the vaccine.The SII has also submitted 12 batches of the vaccine to the Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) in Kasauli for testing, a source said.“In line with our philosophy we assure you that for Covid-19 vaccines also, we are committed to make our country ‘aatmanirbhar’ (self-reliant) and fulfil our prime minister’s clarion call of ‘vocal for local’ and ‘making in India’ for the world,” stated the application signed by Prakash Kumar Singh, Additional Director, Government and Regulatory Affairs at Serum Institute of India (SII).Also Watch| Covid update: Punjab CM seeks vaccine clarification; Pfizer asks for India approval In view of all these facts and unmet medical needs in the interest of the public at large to save millions of people in the country and across the globe, early availability of a vaccine against Covid-19 is a necessity, it stated.“So, in the national interest, we request you to grant us emergency use authorisation of Covishield based on our application and in view of immediate need for a safe, effective, programmatically suitable and affordable vaccine for our country,” the application read.According to sources, this vaccine is logistically feasible for distribution in the country’s both urban and rural parts as it can be stored at two to eight degrees Celsius, which is an ideal temperature for being kept in cold storages in the country.As a rapid regulatory response, the DCGI on August 2 had given nod to SII for conducting the combined phase two and three human clinical trials of the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sii-seeks-emergency-use-authorisation-for-oxford-covid-vaccine-covishield-in-india/story-HQ7RpOsunM4CpvgmNoX8qI.html
07-12-2020||India||‘I’m enjoying making people laugh in these tough times’||Kanpur based comic artiste Annu Awasthi who once dreamt of becoming a politician is now enjoying his role as a comedian, making people laugh in these tough times. “I am a car dealer and wanted to become a politician. I had also decided to contest Vidhan Sabha 2022 elections too but at present I’m satisfied doing comedy,” he said. “Since last few years, I am doing comedy shows at local weddings and functions. In 2018, I made a fun audio that went viral. I realised that it was good way to reach a wider audience,” said Annu of Bhabhiji Ghar Par Hain fame. Annu got a break on small screen after his fun videos became popular, telling us more about himself he said, “My first break on TV happened with an offer from Bigg Boss but it didn’t work out as expected and I landed an interesting role in the comedy show Bhabhiji. This show proved to be a turning point as it gave me a recognition and more work.” Currently, Annu is shooting for his new TV show. “Yes it’s a fun role and I play a phoney businessman. I am glad with the kind of roles coming my way and enjoying it to the fullest,” said Annu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-m-enjoying-making-people-laugh-in-these-tough-times/story-PiG0g82QcBHJwOuv33DOXP.html
07-12-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Last week, as several instalments of this column had pointed out, was going to be crucial for India in terms of how the trajectory of the coronavirus disease would play out in the country. It was to show whether India too would see the holiday effect seen in almost every other country where mass festivities and celebrations resulted in a spike in cases weeks later. Diwali, perhaps the biggest festival in India, was in mid-November, and if daily case numbers were going to rise on account of the parties, family gatherings and travel associated with the celebrations, last week is when this would have shown up. The week has come and gone. We are now on December 7, and India appears to have escaped the holiday effect.Daily case numbers through the first six days of last week, Monday to Saturday, were: 31,182; 36,421; 35,414; 36,653; 36,212; and 36,439. That works out to a six-day average of 35,387. All these numbers are from the HT dashboard. The average is the lowest India has seen in four-and-a-half months. That would take us back to the third week of July.These numbers lead to two interesting questions.The first question is why did India not see the spike the US and countries in Europe saw after similar celebrations and gatherings?The obvious answer — and because it is obvious there is also a strong likelihood of it being the wrong answer but more on this shortly — is that Diwali coincided with the end of the first wave of infections in India (or the beginning of the second), and because of this, it did not see a spike in cases two weeks later, despite people flouting social distancing norms or taking more risks by travelling.This doesn’t add up because if nothing really changed in the virus’s ability to infect people (it didn’t; for instance, there wasn’t a sudden mutation that made it less virulent), and if people actually took more risks than they previously did, there should have been a spike in infections. This is exactly what happened in the US after Labor Day and which experts say is now happening after Thanksgiving. And this is exactly what happened in European countries.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThis suggests that the answer could lie in the chain of infection being broken more often and more easily than it was previously, and despite violations of social distancing norms — something that is possible only if the virus, as it seeks to jump from person to person, encounters more people who are immune to it. It’s difficult to say this for sure in the absence of regular, widespread tests for SARS-CoV-2 antibodies — blood tests that are popularly called sero-surveys — but the answer seems to lie in that direction.The reason for the absence of a post-Diwali surge, then, could be a combination of two complementary factors: masking, social distancing and other safety protocols that some still followed (and continue to); and a relatively high level of exposure to the virus in the population, resulting in an equally high level of protection.This is not to suggest that India has achieved herd immunity or is close to doing so. Nor is this an endorsement of any approach that focuses on achieving herd immunity. It is merely scientific conjecture that seeks to explain why India has not seen a post-Diwali surge.Also Read: US Covid-19 cases remain over 200,000 for fourth straight dayThe second question (which, in some ways, derives from the first) is about the waves in which the coronavirus disease affects populations. We know that a wave starts waning when testing, tracing, and isolation start reducing the possibility of infection, and waxing as life returns to normal, as business and recreational and social activities increase, but there is also a natural trajectory to the infection. For instance, at a certain level of infection (or exposure), the number of new infections will start falling, gradually at first and then sharply. So, based on an understanding of these (the level of activity, and the infection rate), can one predict the timing of the next wave?That is for the experts to answer.Post Script: With India escaping the post-Diwali surge, if its current coronavirus disease trajectory stays in the plateau in which it finds itself till the end of the month, it is likely (a low but significant probability) that the second wave in India will be less intense — not just when compared to that in the US and Europe, but when compared to the country’s own first wave — because if all goes well, India could start vaccinating the people in the first of its six priority groups (prioritised in terms of when they will be administered the vaccine) early next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-z8S520WxGlBmfghKb4w6oK.html
07-12-2020||India||‘You never know what can work for you!’||Actor Amit Sial is having a successful stint with shows like ‘Jamtara’, ‘Mirzapur’, ‘Hostages’ and ‘A Simple Murder’. But, ‘Inside Edge’ was his last bet at acting! “Four times in life, I have decided to quit acting. ‘Inside Edge’ was my last attempt and I decided if it did not work, I will quit and open a ‘dhabha’ in a scenic mountain,” he said with a hearty laugh and added, “Devender’s character in the show was actually me! Bullying people, getting bullied, cricket at Green Park and Kanpuria language was all really me. His unpredictable attitude was actually my state of mind and it clicked.” Currently shooting in Lucknow he gives a peek into his journey. “I fail to understand when I hear about things like suicide, depression and all. I too have gone through all but what I learned and believe is that you need to move on. Maybe people expect too much from themselves or look at others and compare. It’s best to move on in life or take treatment. See, it has not ended till it ends!”Upset with actor Asif Basra’s suicide he said, “Asif bhai ended his life and I have last worked with him in ‘Hostages-2’. He was such a happy man and even invited me to his house in Dharamshala but then I read about his suicide. I get very upset and restless when people end their life.“You never know what can work for you! So, please don’t end your life before it ends! God has given us this instrument (body) and mind, so use it to do what you want to do and if you do not succeed choose something else but one needs to move on.”Amit spells out his mantra of three Ps — persistence, perseverance and patience. “At 30 years, I finally decided to take up professional acting and it has been 15 years since. The journey saw it all: pain, happiness, heartbreak and depression. But I was not the only one…others around me too were facing it all. Today, I am happy and thankful to God with what I achieved.” He admits Lallan of ‘Raid’, Maurya in ‘Mirzapur’ and Brijesh Bhan in ‘Jamtara’ give his career a big boost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/you-never-know-what-can-work-for-you/story-xPI8TqjCXTs7Ii81JAANcL.html
07-12-2020||Lifestyle||Opinion: Skip the useless Covid-19 rules, please||A clutter of unhelpful pandemic rules is wearing people down. One-way systems in stores, outdoor mask mandates, ceaselessly cleaning groceries and packages — should these things be our top priorities for limiting the spread of Covid-19? Harvard’s Joseph Allen is an associate professor of exposure assessment science and one of the world’s experts on why some indoor spaces are worse than others for spreading viruses. Like other experts, he agrees that poorly ventilated indoor sites are the prime spreading ground for SARS-CoV-2. So the longer people spend in any indoor space with other people, the greater the risk they pose to themselves and others.I asked him: Wouldn’t it be better if we did away with the one-way system so that people could dispatch with their grocery shopping quickly, without having to endure long waits behind price-comparers or other slowpokes? The answer is yes. Eliminating those annoying arrows would probably make shopping safer as well as less stressful.Businesses are, of course, free to impose their own rules, but it’s unlikely many would knowingly make shopping less safe. The fault lies with the public health community for being too shy in talking about which rules don’t help, leaving us with a tangle of rules and recommendations — and pandemic fatigue.State rules have an even bigger effect on our lives and are often thrown at people with no transparency. My state of Rhode Island has recently become one of the worst five states for per-capita infections, despite getting praise from Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, at the end of the summer for our strict rules and good compliance. With cases already climbing in late November, Governor Gina Raimondo held a press conference where she scolded citizens for not following the rules.Soon afterwards, a talk radio host voiced what I was thinking. Who are these people filling up the hospitals? Where do they live? What kind of work do they do? Do we have any idea how they got the virus? And which rules, exactly, were they breaking?As risk communication consultant Peter Sandman has said early in the pandemic, a public health policy that people don’t follow is a failed policy. That means even a really solid, science-based set of rules can fail if it’s not communicated with a clear rationale.In Massachusetts, governor Charlie Baker has focused his latest round of rules on outdoor mask wearing — something that many experts have said is unlikely to help since the virus is extremely unlikely to be transmitted over distances outside. The British Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies has deemed outdoor mask wearing of negligible benefit.Baker’s ruling prompted Harvard epidemiologist Julia Marcus to suggest in Boston.com that he’s playing pandemic theater. “Arbitrary public health rules are a way to break the public’s trust, which is essential to keeping people engaged in public health efforts,” she told a reporter for the site. “I think a mandate like this — that people know is arbitrary — is going to do more to reduce trust than it will to reduce infections.”Harvard’s William Hanage, who studies infectious disease dynamics, told me that people don’t need more rules. They need more information about how the virus is transmitted so they can take steps to avoid it. “When you phrase things in terms of rules, it leads people to try to come up with ways to get around those rules,” he says.Rules can become a form of misinformation. The rules in many states seem to suggest that walking outside is dangerous and eating in a restaurant is safe, but Hanage says the truth is the other way around.Baker has justified his outdoor mask mandate by saying it sends a message. The message I heard was that that the rules are not chosen for our health and welfare but to make our political leaders look like they are doing something.Rules should only be decreed along with evidence for their benefit, argued statistician and risk communication expert David Spiegelhalter in a piece for The Guardian: “Too often, the message is shaped by communication professionals working to ensure the greatest number of people ‘get the message’ rather than thinking about how to present the evidence so the greatest number of people can understand it, trust it, and then decide for themselves.”I hear from diverse readers who want to do the right thing, but need to know where to focus their efforts. A farmer in Florida recently wrote to me about the pandemic fatigue that’s affecting him and his neighbors. “What happens here is that we get worn out, beaten down and overloaded such that no matter how well-intentioned we are we are prone to latch onto something wrong.”“So I think people here get it that it’s serious … they like their neighbors and don’t want them dead,” he wrote. But they’re wondering how much effort to put into disinfecting groceries and kitchen counters — something that some media outlets recommended in the spring, as well as wearing gloves at the gas station, disinfecting credit cards and letting packages sit outside for a few days before opening them.Harvard disease expert Hanage says that the science to date points to the primary risk coming from what he calls the three C’s — close contact, closed spaces and crowds. He says in Japan, where they’ve had few Covid-19 deaths, people are advised to avoid these — not just to wear masks in these situations but to limit them or avoid them altogether. One place where the informational clutter can get sorted out is the CDC. In an encouraging trend, the agency is starting to make recommendations by explaining why they’re likely to improve public health. The agency cited good reasons people should avoid traveling for the holidays, including many combinations of those three C’s.  They’ve just issued new guidelines recommending masks when people are indoors outside their homes or cannot stay more than six feet away from other people. And they’ve just shortened the quarantine period for people exposed to the virus from 14 days to 10, or seven if you get a test at the end. Again, the rationale was explained — some cases can incubate for two full weeks, but most people develop symptoms sooner. A shorter quarantine period can still cut down on transmission and will get better compliance.It would be wonderful if the CDC could also start telling us which rules and recommendations are unlikely to work, so we can all  concentrate on the ones that will. There’s some denial out there, but there’s also enormous curiosity and willingness to help. It’s a resource we can’t afford to keep squandering. (This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text. Only the headline has been changed.)Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/opinion-skip-the-useless-covid-19-rules-please/story-f5SYFGdGGTZ96PprgCY98N.html
07-12-2020||Editorials||Balance order and dissent | HT Editorial||As a show of strength, and their opposition to the farm reforms, agitating farmer unions have called for a Bharat Bandh on December 8. This call has now been supported by almost the entire spectrum of Opposition parties. The bandh has been called in the backdrop of a movement that has already severely disrupted the right to liberty, movement, and trade of fellow-citizens. It also comes in the backdrop of three rounds of unsuccessful talks between the government and farm leaders, where the central government has indicated that repeal of laws is not an option and the protesters have made it clear that nothing less than a total repeal will be acceptable. In a democracy, citizens are allowed to express their will both within the confines of institutions — through Parliament, legal challenges, opinion-building through media — and outside institutional confines but within constitutional means — through street protests and mass mobilisation. But when interest groups resort to the latter, it comes with greater responsibility. Those who lead protests have to discipline their followers into adopting peaceful means, and must exercise their rights without infringing on the rights of other citizens. The Bharat Bandh is a legitimate political tactic — but calling for it brings the responsibility on farm leaders to ensure that it is peaceful and not violent, that their opposition does not result in coercion against other citizens, and their mass protests do not, at a time when the pandemic is still raging, result in a sharp spike in cases due to the violation of social distancing norms. Both farm unions and Opposition parties must abide by this on Tuesday. At the same time, the onus lies on the State to first engage with all dissenting stakeholders to prevent a call for a bandh in the first place. But if it is happening, then instruments of the State — particularly the security forces — have a responsibility to respect the democratic right to dissent, and exercise utmost restraint. The use of excessive force to quell a protest or harm protesters in any way is not only wrong but can also lead to further alienation and create a more vicious cycle of anger and repression. And, therefore, on December 8, there must be a delicate balancing act, the responsibility for which lies on both sides, to both maintain order and express dissent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/balance-order-and-dissent-ht-editorial/story-T951Jr69SLnr5k4rH924rO.html
07-12-2020||Editorials||A boost for defence ties in West Asia | HT Editorial||Indian Army chief Gen MM Naravane’s groundbreaking visit to Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) offers significant possibilities for elevating defence ties with two key West Asian powers at a time when that region is witnessing rapid changes in its political and security scenario. West Asia watchers cannot recall another visit to Riyadh by such a senior Indian military official. Gen Naravane is set to hold talks with the military and civilian leadership of both countries. This is the Army chief’s third consecutive foreign visit with diplomatic overtones, following his trips to Myanmar and Nepal, the second of which helped smooth over rancour caused by a border row. India has good reasons for describing West Asia as part of its extended neighbourhood — the region is home to nine million Indians, or 30% of the total expatriate workforce, whose annual remittances amount to about $48 billion. This alone is a good reason to bolster security ties with a country such as Saudi Arabia, home to three million Indians and one of the top two energy sources for India. It is also significant the visit is taking place in the wake of the UAE normalising ties with Israel and reports of back channel contacts between Riyadh and Tel Aviv, and there are indications India will benefit from its proximity to both the Arab states and Israel. Security ties between West Asian states and India have hitherto largely focused on intelligence-sharing and counterterrorism and Gen Naravane’s visit could lead to greater military exchanges, including joint exercises and defence cooperation, with a region that occupies a significant space in India’s national security interests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/a-boost-for-defence-ties-in-west-asia-ht-editorial/story-r6Pr614YiKWRafjvuzHz3O.html
07-12-2020||Editorials||The dangers of misinformation | HT Editorial||Over the weekend, Haryana’s health minister Anil Vij announced that he tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), leading many to draw connections with his participation in the trials of one of the vaccine candidates. The immediate media coverage and the social media conversations that followed conflated Mr Vij’s diagnosis with the trial in a way that suggested that the inoculation of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech may be ineffective. In reality, it is not known whether the minister was given a placebo or the actual inoculation. Even if he did get a shot of Covaxin, it is not meant to be protective until he gets at least two doses (he got only one) and his immunity has had 14 days after that to build the necessary protection against Covid-19.This is not the first instance in which inadequate information or improper understanding of a scientific process as complex as vaccine development has gained traction on mainstream as well as social media. Last week, cricketer Harbhajan Singh seemingly implied that recovery from natural infection appeared to offer more protection than vaccines, citing efficacy numbers that, in reality, hold no equivalence with disease recovery rates. A little earlier, at the end of November, the coverage of the adverse effect in a volunteer participating in the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine trial in Chennai amplified allegations that were later disproved.Helped by misleading semantics and a lack of awareness, such conversations around vaccines are prone to misinformation and could erode trust. This problem has been particularly pronounced in the West — recent polls showed only 60% of Americans are willing to take a vaccine — although it has not taken hold in a country like India, where most people have seen disease more closely. The enormous gains from vaccine campaigns like that of polio are still largely fresh in everyone’s minds. But this does not mean Indians are any less susceptible to misinformation on an issue where a difference between a headline and nuance could often be the line dividing fact and myth. Recent studies have shown that when it is amplified by sources that typically have high trust — like news organisations and celebrities — the spread of misinformation is more damaging and harder to mitigate. In these times, such groups must prioritise nuance. We must listen to experts first, before not just voicing but also forming our own opinions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-dangers-of-misinformation-ht-editorial/story-Dpn3kdORUkLH0RGA2HNixO.html
