08-12-2020||News||Tackling pollution, beyond stubble burning | Opinion||In what is an annual fixture, the onset of cooler weather signals the beginning of a prolonged ordeal for residents of the National Capital Region (NCR) as they grapple with severe air pollution. This year too, the infamous Delhi smog has made its presence felt with air quality levels falling to “very poor” and “severe” levels, posing a major health hazard, especially for senior citizens and children.While several factors contribute to the NCR pollution, the one that grabs maximum headlines is stubble burning by farmers in neighbouring states. However, the truth is that stubble burning is a temporary phenomenon that peaks during the months of October-November and cannot explain the long spell of bad air that Delhi endures, extending into December. Several studies have attributed this pollution to a mix of internal factors such as vehicular emissions, carbon-spewing power plants, industrial pollution including brick kilns and stone crushers, dust on roads and at construction/demolition sites, and burning of solid waste and biomass.While stubble burning continues to be a sensitive inter-state issue, the local administration should focus on these “internal” factors and mitigate them through proper planning, strict governance and the active participation of common citizens. There are no quick fixes, but by following what I call the 4C approach, we can make a positive start towards improving the air quality in NCR.The first C is choice. And here, the first step is accelerating the transition away from fossil fuel-driven thermal power plants towards renewable energy (RE). RE is carbon emission-free and harnesses sunlight and wind, both of which we are abundantly blessed with. Steady advances in technology have led to a steep fall in the price of power generated from renewables — it is, thus, the more economical choice, besides its obvious environmental benefits. Further, a sharp reduction in the prices of batteries has brightened the prospects of optimal storage solutions which will help nullify the intermittency barrier associated with renewables. Any new power purchased in the future must be renewables-driven and the central and state governments must push through additional reforms on a war-footing to further expand our renewables capacity. Similarly, industries must complement this by switching to low carbon and energy efficient technologies.The second choice is to hasten the shift to low carbon mobility. The Delhi government would do well to fast-track its plans of introducing electric buses, two and three-wheelers and cabs. It should offer the right mix of tax breaks for producers and subsidies for consumers to encourage adoption of electric vehicles (EVs) alongside innovative schemes such as buying back old petrol/diesel cars for cheaper EVs. It is equally important to have a wide network of charging stations which use RE for recharging. The government must expand the mass rapid transport system and establish it as a safe and affordable mode. Another key step should be to strengthen infrastructure for non–motorised transport by building dedicated pavements and lanes for cyclists and pedestrians.A third key choice is to increase the green cover amid the concrete jungle that Delhi-NCR has become. Trees, plants and shrubs act as a carbon sink and trap atmospheric dust. The creation of an urban forest land bank will pave the way for prompt compensatory afforestation.The second C is compliance. Despite having multiple regulations, there is weak on-ground implementation. Many agencies either lack the human resources to monitor and detect violation of pollution norms or lack the legal teeth to enforce punitive action. It is important that industries violating emission standards are strictly penalised. We should have zero tolerance for construction companies failing to comply with guidelines to mitigate dust, landfill fires and waste-burning.The third C is campaign, by involving “volunteer citizens”. Delhi government must undertake drives to educate and influence citizens to make lifestyle changes that can improve the environment. This includes simple ideas such as using public transport or carpooling, switching off the car at traffic stops (as Delhi has encouraged this year), using inverters instead of diesel generators and proper segregation and disposal of household waste. A well-conceived campaign can also boost rooftop solar adoption. For this, the Delhi government must share information about vendors, connect them to potential buyers and also ensure access to affordable finance.And finally, the fourth C is coordination. Bad air knows no boundaries and a multiplicity of agencies working in silos doesn’t help the situation. A regional approach and integrated planning are the need of the hour. Instead of working at cross purposes, we must have a clear delineation of responsibilities between various bodies so we can fix accountability. There must be information-sharing so that various programmes are aligned with each other.No doubt, the situation is dire but we hope that the central and state governments work in unison to clear the air in NCR. Citizens must not be denied their most basic right — that of breathing clean air. The 4C approach can be a guiding framework for an effective agenda to end the NCR’s pollution woes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/tackling-pollution-beyond-stubble-burning-opinion/story-haE7OG4nBF4VFX38355TLP.html
08-12-2020||News||Treating agriculture as a business||Entrepreneurs around the world will be delighted to run a business where raw material and inputs to the business are subsidised and the output price for specific quantities of purchases is guaranteed by the government of the land. To make the deal sweeter, there is no tax to be paid on the value added between the input and output.Indian agriculture has had all this and more — but there is a problem. It has not been seen as a business at all. As successive governments after Independence constantly battled food security challenges, the humble farmer got elevated to the hallowed ranks of the soldier guarding the border. But when food security was achieved and stocks of wheat and rice started rotting in the warehouses of the Food Corporation of India, there was no political will to nudge farmers towards rethinking their occupation as a business.This June, the Narendra Modi government finally acted to free Indian agriculture from a regime of State-endorsed monopolised value chain intermediation. The government was not taking away intermediation — that’s an essential part of any value chain in all businesses. It was only breaking the monopoly of the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees (APMC) and their traders.The government finally treating the largest occupational group in the country with the respect it deserves, by providing it choice and freedom, should have led to a cry of joy. Indeed, when these ordinances were brought in June, there was no widespread opposition. Ashok Gulati, eminent agriculture economist, called it a “1991 moment” for Indian agriculture. But winter is fast becoming the trimester for protesters to learn a new grammar of anarchy, and this year has turned out to be no different.Farmers mainly from Punjab, with sporadic support from other states, learnt well from the winter of ‘19. To be sure, the protesters still constitute a fraction of the total population dependent on agrarian economy. Yet, they marched to Delhi and blocked several borders of the national capital restricting flow of goods and services. Their demand? Repeal the agriculture reforms in totality.Punjab and Haryana were the earliest beneficiaries of the Green Revolution. Farmers in these states worked hard, and used the region’s natural abundance and the influx of new technology to soon become the grain bowl of India. The government would guarantee a Minimum Support Price (MSP) for their produce year after year; the APMC system worked well; and up to 70% of the central food grain procurement continued to happen from these two states.But this monopoly on government procurement also eventually became their undoing. First, other states such as Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh caught up on food grain production. Second, as Punjab and Haryana got guaranteed prices year after year, there was no local innovation. Instead, more chemicals made their way to the fields, leading to the rise of cancer. The story of the Bhatinda-Bikaner daily cancer train is well-documented. Third, young people from rich rural families migrated overseas or were happy to do odd jobs on farms, with labour coming in from far-off Bihar and other states, leading to the erosion and exodus of local talent.The problem of plenty has hit Punjab hard since the turn of the century. Since then, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu have gone past Punjab on per capita net state domestic product calculated at constant prices with 2011-12 reference. This data point, brought out by economist Shamika Ravi on her Twitter feed, explains the decay the state has suffered in the last two decades.Addicted to the allure of MSP, Punjab’s agriculture has become relatively uncompetitive. And its farmers are now up in arms, worried that the option of free market trade will expose that weakness. The MSP demand is simply a smokescreen — the government, to adhere to India’s food security act and to run a host of welfare programmes, will continue to procure on the basis of MSP.The Punjab farmer protest has had little resonance in most parts of India. This is because other states are hardly a beneficiary of MSP, except where state governments procure directly from farmers. Also, the adoption of collective negotiation through Farmer Producer Organisations and involvement of private buyers has been growing faster in other states, even if this remains low in absolute terms. These structural differences mean that farmers elsewhere are happier to experiment with a single national market, which is a new option available to them.As negotiations between Punjab farmers and the central government continue, the “1991 moment” of Indian agriculture hangs in balance. Any backtracking on part of the government will create a template for narrow interest groups to oppose future reforms. Staying put in its position exposes the government to a battle of attrition involving the siege of Delhi.Ronald Reagan once remarked that the government’s first duty is to protect the people, not run their lives. The farmers of Punjab clearly disagree.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/treating-agriculture-as-a-business/story-FWtVIL9RKIG3w8iaUuxSTM.html
08-12-2020||News||The illegality of Uttar Pradesh’s crackdown on interfaith marriages||With Uttar Pradesh leading the way, a set of states now plan to pass laws to end what they call “love jihad”, a term which lacks any real definition and is beyond comprehension. This will make it a non-bailable, cognisable offence. Apart from the fact that it has no basis in law, the practical implication of this is that the constable on the street will have the power to arrest someone considered guilty of this “crime” without seeking the court’s permission. This proposed law is wrong on many counts.First, the Constitution enshrines secularism. This means India is not anti-religion, pro-religion or irreligious. Despite this, several states have had anti-conversion laws for a long time, including Odisha, Arunachal Pradesh, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh and Jharkhand. However, these laws made it illegal to use force to convert a person. The so-called love jihad law plans to outlaw religious conversion which may take place for marriage purposes. This interferes with personal liberty.Second, based on Articles 25 to 28, an Indian citizen is guaranteed the freedom to practise any religion of his or her choice. The “love jihad” law curtails this freedom. The State wants to intervene not only in the citizens’ private relationship with God, but also in the choice of their spouse. In addition, the proposed law does not account for agnostics.Third, the Supreme Court in Shafin Jahan v Ashok KM (2018), after setting aside the annulment of the marriage of a Muslim convert from Kerala, Hadiya (Akhila Ashokan) and Shafin Jahan, a Muslim man, upheld the right to marry a person of one’s choice as a part of Article 21.The Court said, “Matters of dress and of food, of ideas and ideologies, of love and partnership, are within the central aspects of identity. The law may regulate (subject to constitutional compliance) the conditions of a valid marriage, as it may regulate the situations in which a marital tie can be ended or annulled…Matters of belief and faith, including whether to believe, are at the core of constitutional liberty. The Constitution exists for believers as well as for agnostics. The Constitution protects the ability of each individual to pursue a way of life or faith to which she or he seeks to adhere…The right to marry a person of one’s choice is integral to Article 21 of the Constitution.The Constitution also guarantees the right to life. This right cannot be taken away, except through a law which is substantively and procedurally fair, just and reasonable. Intrinsic to the liberty which the Constitution guarantees as a fundamental right is the ability of each individual to make decisions on matters central to the pursuit of happiness.” Therefore, the proposed law violates the right to life under Article 21.Fourth, in SC’s K.S. Puttaswamy v UOI (2017) judgment, it read the “right of choice of a family life” as a fundamental right. The regressive law limits the choice of a prospective spouse such that this spouse would only be one approved by the State.Fifth, the Allahabad High Court, on November 11, in the case of Salamat Ansari v Uttar Pradesh (2020), held that the choice of a partner is the exclusive domain of the individual. It also distinguished itself from the Noor Jahan Begum case (2014) by suggesting that this earlier case did not deal with the “liberty of two matured individuals in choosing a partner or their right to freedom of choice as to with whom they would like to live”.There is a robust legal framework which guarantees an individual the freedom to worship a God of his or her own choice and marry based on love. UP’s move is illegal for it will deny a citizen his or her choice in a deeply personal domain which is protected by the Constitution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-illegality-of-uttar-pradesh-s-crackdown-on-interfaith-marriages/story-B68tOEYFWxTjDYM75LWhVM.html
08-12-2020||Jaipur||‘Preparations on for first phase of Covid-19 vaccination’: Rajasthan health minister||Rajasthan health minister Raghu Sharma said the first phase of Covid-19 immunization vaccination will be started in the year 2021 to prevent the infectious disease in the state. He said necessary preparations for this have already been started.Sharma said that in the first phase, personnel working with the government, private medical services and those with the Women and Child Development Department in the state will be immunized by administering the Covid-19 vaccine. He said that the Covid-19 vaccine ‘operation guide’ was discussed in detail with the health department officers in a video conference organised by the Union health ministry on Tuesday.Also read: Govt not ready to repeal farm laws, say farmer leaders after meet with ShahDr Sharma said that preparations for Covid-19 vaccination have been started in the state and 2,444 cold chain vaccination points have been identified at district hospitals and community health centres.Three state-level vaccination centres have been set-up at Jodhpur, Jaipur and Udaipur and seven across divisional level. Besides this, District Task Force for immunisation teams have been made under the chairmanship of the district collector across all districts.According to the Union health ministry guidelines, counting of beneficiaries of Covid-19 vaccine will be done and their necessary database will be uploaded in ‘COVIN’ Software. He said that UNICEF, UNDP and the World Health Organisation will extend technical assistance in this campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/preparations-on-for-first-phase-of-covid-19-vaccination-rajasthan-health-minister/story-rt8pgnlcgWeoOcBgVDKrWN.html
08-12-2020||Chandigarh||SCERT puts NTSE mock test question paper, answer key online||Hundreds of Class 10 students preparing for National Talent Search Examination (NTSE) were in for a surprise after finding the question paper and answer key of the second mock test on State Council of Education Research and Training (SCERT) website — ssa.org.punjab — a day before the exam. The mock test was scheduled for Tuesday but due to Bharat Bandh call by the farmers, it was postponed to Wednesday. The goof up by the council sent the school principals and teachers in tizzy after they started receiving calls from students regarding the question paper and the answer key on the website. As per the education department, 3,083 Class 10 students are expected to appear in the exam in 232 government schools in the district. The first mock test was conducted on December 3 in which 2,993 students took the offline exam. The second mock test (mental ability test) was held on December 7 and its second part, scholastic aptitude test, was scheduled for Tuesday. Teachers said on December 7, the authorities sent the answer key late due to which many of them couldn’t evaluate the answer sheets. This time, officials put the answer key online in advance. Later in the evening, the question paper and answer key from the website.As per sources, the SCERT director had issued a statement regarding the postponement of the paper later in the evening on Monday, and the official in-charge of uploading the paper was unaware of it. Despite repeated attempts and messages sent to the SCERT director Jagtar Kulria, he was not available for a comment. NTSE nodal officer Balwinder Kaur said, “We have received no instructions from the higher authorities regarding the question paper and it is difficult to comment anything right now.” Meanwhile, the Class 9 social studies and Class 11 Punjabi exams scheduled for Tuesday will now be held on December 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/scert-puts-ntse-mock-test-question-paper-answer-key-online/story-Rk5vDRAA3jN1UgoxupxBgO.html
08-12-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad: Two held for injuring 30-year-old man, robbing his car||Ghaziabad: The Ghaziabad police on Tuesday morning arrested two alleged robbers who had fled with a 30-year-old man’s Creta car after shooting and injuring him on the intervening night of December 6 and 7. The police said that they also recovered the car which was taken away by the two suspects. The two men were identified as Mehtab Alam and his accomplice Tushar Kumar, both are residents of Hapur district. The police said that the victim, Yakshdutt Awasthi, is a resident of Kailash Nagar and returning home when he was overpowered in his car by the two men on a bike. The victim works as a zonal head of a private company in Ghaziabad, the police said. “It was around 1am on December 7 when the two men forcibly boarded the victim’s car at Vijay Nagar and looted his mobile phone and cash. They also shot him and dumped him at Masuri before fleeing with his car. A couple of hours later he was spotted by locals who informed police. The victim was rushed to a hospital. He is under treatment,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural). Following the incident, the police scanned CCTV footage on the NH-9 and other nearby locations and came to know the suspects had taken the car towards Hapur. “A lot of local intelligence was roped in and we later came to know that the two men in the Creta car were headed back to Ghaziabad late Monday night and had plans to give way to another robbery incident. They were intercepted near Masuri, but they opened fire at the police team,” Raja added. During the retaliatory firing, Mehtab sustained a bullet injury to his leg and was rushed to a hospital while his accomplice was nabbed by police. The police said that they recovered weapons from the possession of the two suspects and also recovered the looted Creta car from their possession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-two-held-for-injuring-30-year-old-man-robbing-his-car/story-hYFWPW5Diiqw6NbkItQ16J.html
08-12-2020||Noida||Noida waives off ₹1.4 cr advertising fee of businessmen||NOIDA: The Noida authority has waived off ₹1.4 crore as advertising rights’ fee of about 100 businessmen because they faced financial crisis during the Covid-19 pandemic.The authority was supposed to collect the fees from at least 100 businessmen who had taken space from the authority for the financial year 2019-20. In response to the authority’s notices sent to recover the advertising rights’ fee, the businessmen sought exemption for the lockdown period.In view of demands, the authority has decided not to collect the fees applicable for the period between March 22 and June 30, 2020 out of their total licence fees, officials said. The Noida authority was able to rake in ₹14 crore and ₹18 crore through outdoor advertising during 2017-18 and 2019-20.“₹1 crore was the licence fees that had to be collected and the remaining ₹40 lakh was the accrual interest amount due to non-payment. But now complete waiver will be offered to the advertisers for the lockdown period. We will revise our books to take haircut of about ₹1.40 crore due to this decision,” said Indu Prakash Singh, officer on special duty, Noida authority.But the waiver will be given only if the advertisers settle their dues by January 31, 2021.A spokesperson from Vani Advertising said, “We are happy with the move of the authority because the pandemic has shattered our business.”The city has a total of 133 licensed unipole operators at present. Among them, 115 have been installed at public toilets while the other 18 digital hoardings and wraps have been put up over 18 foot over bridges across the city. The 133 unipoles were given out as per build-operate-transfer model in the past and the license fees was revised last time in April 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-waives-off-1-4-cr-advertising-fee-of-businessmen/story-luHqfOgqZj9nf1LLuYBeLM.html
08-12-2020||Noida||Noida: Over 120 health workers get Covid-19 infection during treatment of positive patients||NOIDA: As many as 122 health workers, including doctors and paramedics, in Gautam Budh Nagar have tested positive for Covid-19 since March 8 when the first positive case was detected in the district. Also, one of them succumbed to the viral infection, according to the data provided by district health department. Officials said that these health workers got the viral infection while working in the isolation wards of different Covid-dedicated facilities in the district. On Tuesday, with death of a Covid-19 patient, the overall death toll in GB Nagar district has gone to 85. However, with 114 new cases and 139 others cured, the active cases on Tuesday in the district have come down to 965. The district has so far recorded over 23,500 positive cases. District chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said that all the health workers (except one), who got the viral infection during the treatment of positive patients, have been tested negative now. “Most of them have resumed their duties and they have no post-Covid complications right now. However, their follow-up is regularly being taken by the staff of their hospitals concerned,” he said. He further said that after the Covid-19 outbreak, the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) was made the first Covid facility. “Later, many government and private hospitals were included in this list, to accommodate the rising number of positive cases in the district. Ever since the state government allowed home isolation facilities for asymptomatic patients on July 25, the number of patients in these facilities has come down significantly,” he said. GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said that the health officials have been asked to ramp up effective and qualitative contact tracing, to check the further spread of infection. “We have ensured effective mapping of those areas, from where more cases are being detected. Based on this mapping, focussed surveillance in those areas has also been ramped up. The health officials have been asked to ensure maximum number of RT-PCR tests in those high-risk areas,” he said. Suhas further said that apart from increasing the testing, stress is being laid on proper contact tracing. “In the present situation, early and timely tracking and providing adequate treatment are the main goals before the administration. Our main focus is on reducing the number of deaths and curing the maximum possible number of infected patients on time. For that, the health workers have been told to ensure maximum contact tracing – precisely finding out 25 contacts of one infected patient. While recovery rate in GB Nagar is still over 90%, the current case fatality rate (CFR) is around 0.36%, which is much better than the state’s overall CFR of 1.42%,” the DM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-over-120-health-workers-get-covid-19-infection-during-treatment-of-positive-patients/story-jZG0jkJRQiFAsCuPB3oFHK.html
08-12-2020||Noida||18 persons arrested from spa centre in Greater Noida for running sex racket||Greater Noida: Police on Monday night conducted a raid and arrested 18 persons, including seven women, from a spa centre in Sector Gamma 1 for their alleged involvement in a sex racket. The police have recovered 18 mobile phones, ₹1.14 lakh in cash, gold jewellery, some medicines and a few packets of condoms from their possession. The police have also seized two digital video recorders of CCTV cameras and a register from the spa centre located in Jagat Farm market.Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Zone 3, said that police received information about operation of a sex racket from the spa. “The police conducted a search and found some men and women in cubicles in incriminating positions. The police team also found some condoms and sex medicines from their possession,” he said. The suspects were arrested and brought to Beta II police station where an FIR was registered against them under sections 3,4,5,7 (2) (a) of the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956. The complainant Brijnandan Rai, assistant commissioner of police, Greater Noida 1, in the FIR stated that the police team conducted a search and found a person at the reception. “The receptionist was identified as Deepak, a supervisor of the spa centre. He is a resident of Shahberi in Greater Noida West,” the FIR said. During interrogation, Deepak revealed that the spa centre was running a sex racket. “The spa centre used to charge ₹2,000-5,000 from each customer and took 50% commission and paid rest amount to the women,” Rai said in the FIR. Some female police personnel conducted a search of the premise and found six women and 10 men from the cubicles. The police also found the owner of the spa centre from the spot and arrested her. The women suspects told police during interrogation that they were involved in a sex trade to support their family. According to the police, the arrested persons are natives of various districts of UP, including Etah, Ghaziabad, Etawah, and Gautam Budh Nagar, and they lived on rented accommodations in the neighbourhood. Police said that the suspects had been running this sex racket for the last one year. All 18 suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/18-persons-arrested-from-spa-centre-in-greater-noida-for-running-sex-racket/story-jPPBWEh0DEiUAySN9LIl3J.html
08-12-2020||Noida||Noida: Garbage burning continues even as city suffers ‘severe’ air quality||Noida: Even as Noida has been suffering ‘sever’ air quality for the past five days, garbage burning continues unabated in the city. On Tuesday, residents of Bahlolpur village in Sector 63 complained of a huge waste fire allegedly lit by some miscreants. Stating that scrap dealers often dump garbage in their area, especially near the Bahlolpur underpass in Sector 63 along the FNG road, the residents complained that garbage is often set afire there.“Garbage is dumped along the roadsides or in open areas and set afire at least twice a week. Though waste is picked regularly, the dumping is random, especially by rag pickers and scrap dealers who get it from neighbouring factories and dump it here. We are used to feeling uneasy due to the smoke. We have been complaining about the same over Twitter and WhatsApp group, but the incidents persist,” said Sonu Yadav, vice-president of Bahlolpur RWA, Sector 63. The residents said that the underpass, which connects Sector 63 with the FNG road, is under construction and leads to a lot of dust due to heavy traffic, and incidents of garbage burning only add to the pollution. “On Tuesday, some people set a huge pile of garbage on fire near Radha Krishna Temple in Sector 63. We complained a few officers and later doused the fire by soiling it. This has become a common phenomenon,” said Sundar Yadav, a resident of Bahlolpur. “The issue needs to be resolved as the area is not a dump yard. But it has become a common practice to dump and burn garbage here,” said Naresh Singh, another resident. Garbage dumping and setting it afire had been an issue often reported by residents from other parts of the city too. In the past, complaints of waste burning have been reported from different residential areas, including sectors 123, 77, 51 and 54. Officials at the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) said they will look into the matter.“We will look into it and act accordingly. Garbage should not be dumped openly, and we have several times asked the authorities concerned to ensure that garbage or dry waste is regularly picked up from such open areas. Earlier as well, such cases of open burning had been reported and we had rushed fire tenders to douse them off,” said Praveen Kumar, regional officer, UPPCB, Noida. Officials of the Noida authority could not be contacted despite several attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-garbage-burning-continues-even-as-city-suffers-severe-air-quality/story-9sR4Nx678FezgwQx3LyqcP.html
08-12-2020||Noida||Noida: People using residential properties for commercial activities to face heavy penalty||NOIDA: The Noida authority has decided to impose a heavy penalty if commercial activities are operated from residential premises. The penalty will be 1% of total cost of the property, said officials. This means that if the value of a property is Rs1 crore as per prevailing circle rate, then the property owner will have to pay Rs1 lakh as penalty. The penalty will only be acceptable with the rider that the concerned project engineer submits their report that the property owner has shut down the commercial activity. In addition, the defaulting property owner will have to submit an affidavit stating that he or she will not restart the commercial activity.The authority has also decided to cancel the allotment of a property if the owner is found violating the land usage, even after submitting an affidavit stating that no commercial activity will be restarted.The authority started the move following residents’ complaints of unauthorised activities running from residential premises.Officials said the move will benefit the city.“The Noida authority will act as per law against commercial activities in residential premises. These not only create civic mess but also affect the objectives of planned development adversely,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer of the Noida authority.The Uttar Pradesh government had on April 17, 1976 established Noida a well-planned city where residential, commercial, institutional and mixed-land use, among plots of other usage, were allotted to property owners. As per rules, if an owner of a residential plot or flat is found running an office or a commercial activity from the property then it is in violation of building bylaws. Commercial plots are allotted for commercial activities keeping in mind the requirement of parking, waste disposal and other requirements.“If the property owner starts commercial activities in a property meant for residential usage then it leads to parking mess, violation of building bylaws and other civic issues in a locality. Therefore, the authority has brought in a policy to act tough against all kinds of properties, which are doing activities not permitted on that land,” said a Noida authority official, not authorised to speak to the media.Residents’ groups also supported the authority’s move, saying that unauthorised activities near people’s homes are a nuisance which give rise to unauthorised parking and traffic in small lanes.“The authority must act promptly and tough against whosoever is found using residential premises for activities which are not permitted there, because commercial activities trouble all those living near such a premise,” said PS Jain, president of confederation of National Capital Region residents’ welfare associations (CONRWA), a residents’ group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-people-using-residential-properties-for-commercial-activities-to-face-heavy-penalty/story-z3az1dBSNelYputSdSMBUI.html
08-12-2020||Noida||Farmers’ protests remain peaceful in Noida amid tight security; over 100 political leaders put under preventive detention||Noida: The farmers’ protests in Gautam Budh Nagar, in response to the nationwide strike call given by farmer organisations, remained peaceful on Tuesday as more than 3,000 police personnel were deployed at different strategic locations in the district. Also, over 100 district-level leaders of major political parties, including Congress, were put on preventive detention, which resulted in thin gathering at the Chilla Border and Dalit Prerna Sthal, the police said. Besides, the police also used drone cameras to keep aerial surveillance across the district. Some local farmer leaders were also put on preventive detention, the police said.However, a group of 50 farmers protested at the Eastern Peripheral Expressway and halted traffic for one hour in Greater Noida. The police said they had to divert the traffic. About 20 supporters of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Lok Shakti) tried to march from Dalit Prerna Sthal to DND Flyway, but were stopped by the police near DND Flyway loop and returned. The protest at Chilla border also remained mild, the police said. “We wanted to take DND Flyway and go to the Rashtrapati Bhawan to submit a memorandum. But the Noida police stopped us on the way. We have submitted the memorandum here and returned to the protest venue at 2.30pm,” said Thakur Swaraj Singh Bhati, national president of BKU (Lok Shakti). About 30 workers of BKU-Bhanu protested peacefully at Chilla border. Yogesh Pratap Singh, UP president of BKU-Bhanu, said that the government had engaged its entire machinery to fail the nationwide strike. “They have arrested some farmer leaders to ensure they do not come here for protest. But we will continue our protest till the demands are met,” he said. There was no major impact on businesses as most of the markets remained open. The bus, auto and truck services were functional in the district. Chaudhury Vedpal Singh, president of Noida Transport Sanyukt Morcha, said, “We have not joined the strike as it is purely a farmers’ call. There are over 6,000 trucks in our association. But we are not sending trucks in sensitive areas where protests are happening due to safety reasons,” he said. Om Prakash Gurjar, president of Noida auto union, said that there are 20,000 autos in the district. “We did not join the strike on Tuesday. Autos were running as usual in Noida,” he said. A visit to Sector 18 market found that most of the shops, food joints, etc. were open. SK Jain, president of Sector 18 Market Association, said that local traders have not joined the protest. “There is no enforcement of closure of shops. There was no significant impact of strike on traders. Since today is Tuesday, some individual shops may be closed due to weekly off,” he said.C B Jha, president of Atta Market Association, said that the market remained open. “There are 700 shops in the market and most of them were open. We are with the farmers, but we feel the issue has been politicised,” he said. Jha said that a police team had met him on Monday evening and assured of safety and security. However, at Sharma Market in Sector 27, several shops of garment and electronic gadgets were closed. Several local political leaders were taken into preventive detention. Manoj Chaudhury, district president of GB Nagar Congress, said that he had returned home on Monday night from a marriage ceremony. “A team from Beta II police station reached my home and detained me. They brought me to the police station and said I have to stay here till Tuesday afternoon. They released me at 3pm,” he said. Bhupendra Jadaun, GB Nagar AAP president, said that Noida police detained him for 18 hours to ensure he does not attend the protest on Tuesday. “On Monday 11pm, a police team had come to my home. They asked if I had any plan of protest on Tuesday. I said I will attend a peaceful protest in support of farmers. The police brought me to police station at night and released me at 5pm on Tuesday,” he said.Ashray Gupta, former president of Samajwadi Party youth brigade in Noida, said that the local police had also called him and asked about his plan. “I did not reveal my plan. In the morning, we protested at Shaheed Smarak Noida Sector 37 and then reached the Chilla border to extend support to farmers,” he said.Police officials said that the protests remained peaceful in the district. “We had made a coordinated effort and identified 110 persons belonging to different political parties and associations. The police put them under preventive detention till Tuesday evening and later released on personal bond. We also flew drone cameras but did not find any suspicious activity in the district,” said Love Kumar, additional commissioner of police, Gautam Budh Nagar. The officials said that GB Nagar police commissioner Alok Singh also inspected DND Flyway and other areas on Tuesday. The traffic was smooth at Kalindi Kunj and DND Flyway as the police did not allow protesters reach there, they said, adding that the Chilla border remained closed on both sides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/farmers-protests-remain-peaceful-in-noida-amid-tight-security-over-100-political-leaders-put-under-preventive-detention/story-NAS4fwfGIXr6QE3H6UzvFM.html
08-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC plans to hand over waste processing plant to private contractor||The municipal corporation is once again considering plans to hand over the waste processing plant in Sector 25 to a private contractor.It is likely to invite expression of interest from various agencies to run and upgrade the plant.The MC had taken over the plant around six months back from the Jaypee Group after a bitter dispute over its management.The plant is currently working at around 10% of its capacity, adding to the challenges of processing solid waste in a city that produces nearly 470 metric tonnes of waste daily. Like Jaypee, MC too has been disposing of unprocessed waste at the Dadumajra dumping ground.“For better utilisation of the plant, MC is planning to invite expression of interest from agencies. They will upgrade or replace the existing machinery and manage the plant,” said a senior MC official on condition of anonymity.The plant was built in 2008 according to Municipal Solid Waste 2000 (MSW) guidelines. “All machines are already 12 years old, at the end of their life. Primary and secondary shredders are not in working condition,” the official said.Notably, the National Institute of Technical Teachers Training and Research here, in a report earlier this year had said that “complete replacement of the machinery to process municipal solid waste with new technology” was required.The civil engineering department of the Indian Institute of Technology, Roorkee (IIT-R), in its Status report of 500 TPD (tonnes per day) solid waste processing plant, Chandigarh, had something else to say. The machinery required immediate repairs and maintenance and after that the could “be run at 40% of its capacity”.IIT-R had advocated setting up “a new modern 500 TPD plant for dry and wet waste treatment in the given plot. For the wet waste stream – biological treatment will be required to meet Solid Waste Management Rules (SWM), 2016,” the report said.NGT PANEL VISITS PLANTMeanwhile, the National Green Tribunal (NGT)-formed panel led by justice Pritam Pal on Monday visited the processing plant, three waste recovery centres and other sites. The panel directed the MC official to run the plant at its optimum capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-plans-to-hand-over-waste-processing-plant-to-private-contractor/story-bd31XivkI58VvVVmgzKIiM.html
08-12-2020||Noida||Covid protocols openly flouted with large gathering at UP Gate||Ghaziabad: The farmers’ protest at the UP Gate on National Highway 9 have been continuing since November 28, with farmers who have come in from different areas of Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, and other neighbouring states, but adhering to coronavirus (Covid-19) protocols is hardly observed at the site and the administrative officers seem to have given the least priority to the issue.The attendance at the UP Gate, below the flyover and also on NH 9, swelled to an estimated 3,000 people, besides heavy deployment of police and security personnel. The farmers, since the past 11 days have been camping at the site in their tractor-trolleys, with dozens sleeping in shared spaces and others huddled together in meetings and smoking common “hookahs” (smoking pipes). While those wearing masks were also seen among the crowd, many were without any face masks and social distancing was largely flouted in large gatherings. The farmers, however, said that if the pandemic doesn’t kill them, the farm bills surely will.“We are sleeping below tractor-trolleys in the winter chill and still there is no decision made by the government. We saw how much gathering was there during the Bihar assembly elections and also during the recent elections in Hyderabad. None of these politicians adhered to Covid-19 protocols. We feel that even if we escape Covid-19 somehow, these new farm bills will be our death knell. We are trying to adhere to protocols but it becomes very difficult in such large gatherings,” said Harpal Singh, a farmer from Bareilly district who has been camping at site. “We farmers have strong immunity and we will not get affected by Covid-19. We work in fields and in adverse conditions, so Covid-19 will not affect us. We eat eight-10 rotis (chapati) without any ghee, and sweat in fields. So, it draws out diseases and boosts our immunity. Many farmers have brought face masks with them but they are not using it as they have to often speak and raise slogans during the protest,” said Hari Bhagwan, a farmer from Lakhimpur Kheri in UP.Others said that focussing on their demands was more vital for farmers than focussing on Covid-19 and adhering to norms. “If there is strict adherence, our protests will suffer. Instead, we are focussing our energies towards the government so that they listen to our demands. They brought the bills in a hurry during the pandemic. If farmers are not happy then other like traders, shop-owners, etc., will also face difficulties,” said Jagandeep Singh, a farmer from Gurdaspur in Punjab, adding that he is camping at UP Gate for past two-three days and had also visited other protest sites at Singhu-border and Tikri-border.The district administration officials, however, offered a limited response over the issue and said that they are trying their level best to pursue farmers to adhere to Covid-19 protocols. “We have held meetings with them and appraised them about Covid-19 protocols and requested them to take precautions. We are also taking up regular sanitisation of the UP Gate area where protests are being held,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate, Ghaziabad.The district health department officials said that they have no testing camp at the protest site at present.“We have not setup any testing camp here as these are protesting farmers and may not pay heed to our requests. So, a camp at the site may not be feasible. The entire focus of the police and the administration is on ensuring that protests remain peaceful,” said an officer from the health department, who asked to remain anonymous. The UP Gate area is adjacent to Indirapuram locality, which has had the highest number of Covid-19 cases – 2,819 – in the Ghaziabad district till November 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/covid-protocols-openly-flouted-with-large-gathering-at-up-gate/story-bs4fhxqmqe9A2sIIK1QiOI.html
08-12-2020||Noida||Bandh call reduces traffic on Ghaziabad roads by 40%||Ghaziabad: The Bharat bandh call given by protesting farmers on Tuesday saw a substantial reduction in traffic on major city roads, as compared to normal days. The officials of the Ghaziabad traffic police said that traffic on roads was estimated to have gone down by about 40%.The majority the protest was concentrated at UP Gate, where the farmers lay seize of the Delhi-Ghaziabad carriageway. They vacated the area around 3pm; when the duration of the nationwide strike, which began at 11am, ended.“As a result of the bandh call, people preferred not to move out and this considerably reduced traffic. We estimate that there was a reduction of about 40% of traffic on Tuesday, as compared to any normal day. The majority of our traffic personnel, about 70-80%, were deployed at UP Gate and other nearby borders with Delhi,” said Ramanand Kushwaha, superintendent of police (traffic), Ghaziabad. Traffic officials said that the diversions, which were announced earlier in the wake of the blockade of Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway, will continue and that people were advised to make use of Kaushambi-Anand Vihar border instead.“I had to take an off from office and did not take any risk of getting stuck in protests or jams on the day of Bharat bandh. Even on regular days, there are long traffic snarls at Kaushambi-Anand Vihar border due to diversions. The traffic police should also consider opening the Hindon elevated road from Raj Nagar Extension to Indirapuram so that commuters can at least travel up to Indirapuram to get to trans-Hindon areas,” said Kuldeep Saxena, a resident of Shakti Khand in Indirapuram. The 10.3-km Hindon elevated road has been shut for vehicles by the traffic officials from the Raj Nagar Extension side, as it takes commuters to UP Gate where farmers are holding protests. The other side of the elevated road – from UP Gate to Raj Nagar Extension – is, however, open. “I had gone to Ghazipur (East Delhi) in morning and had to walk afoot as there were no autos since the Ghaziabad-Delhi side of highway is blocked. Since the other side also got blocked, I again had to travel afoot in the afternoon,” said Sushila Devi, a resident of Khoda. On the other hand, the bandh call had no major impact on city markets as Tuesday is a regular weekly off day. “About 40% of the shops were open in Indirapuram, even though it was a Tuesday – a weekly off for major markets in Ghaziabad. However, many shopkeepers had decided to open shop to make up for losses suffered during the lockdown. We are, however, sympathetic towards farmers and the government must continue to talk to them and some resolution must come through. Otherwise, continuing protests will hamper our businesses too,” said Pradeep Gupta convener of Vyapari Ekta Samiti – Indirapuram, a trader’ association. “We had our weekly off day on Tuesday and a majority of markets, like Turab Nagar, Chopla, Gandhi Nagar, Maliwara and Ramte Ram Road, among others, were shut. But it was due to weekly off and not in support of farmers,” said Rajneesh Bansal, chairman of Turab Nagar Vyapar Mandal. In Modinagar, members of several political parties staged protests on the Delhi-Meerut Road and tried to block the road. “They were prevented from doing so and normal traffic was restored. There were no other disruptions on roads on Tuesday,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/bandh-call-reduces-traffic-on-ghaziabad-roads-by-40/story-JIyjnyxIpUbc6DBNbUtIcK.html
08-12-2020||Noida||Bharat bandh: Protesting farmers shut NH-9 for four hours at Delhi-Ghaziabad border||Ghaziabad: The major impact of the Bharat bandh call given by protesting farmers’ unions was felt at National Highway 9 at UP Gate in Ghaziabad, where protesters blocked the entire Delhi-Ghaziabad carriageway from 11am on Tuesday. As a result, vehicular movement remained suspended on NH-9 till about 3pm when the farmers’ leaders gave a call to the protesters to vacate the carriageway. Farmers, congregated at UP Gate in Ghaziabad, have stayed put since November 28 and have occupied the blocked side going from Ghaziabad to Delhi since December 3. This side was still blocked on Tuesday; farmers said the blockade will continue till their demands are met.Around 11am, hundreds of farmers at the UP Gate protest site jumped to the other side of NH 9 and blocked incoming traffic from Delhi. Officials of the Ghaziabad district administration said the Delhi Police, on the other side, made diversions for vehicles, as a result. Around 2.40pm, Rakesh Tikait - Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader and spokesperson – made an announcement to the protesters to vacate the carriageway.“The time set for 3pm is over and it is good news for farmers that they have been successful in giving a message to the government by way of Bharat bandh. There has been no incident of violence reported from across the country and protests have remained peaceful. We will continue talks with the government and our agitation will continue till our demands are met,” Tikait said at the protest site.“We will also be going to meet the Union home minister on Tuesday evening and a bigger delegation will hold talks with the government on Wednesday in Delhi. So, we opened up the highway when the government received the message,” he added. The entire UP Gate area on Tuesday was filled up with thousands of protesters who had come in tractor-trolleys, while others have camped there since November 28. Many had come from Punjab, Uttarakhand and western Uttar Pradesh, as well as from the Terai belt of the state. Kushal Vir Singh, a farmer from Muzaffarnagar district, was holding a poster of farmers’ demands and had tied himself up with iron chains.“I want to send a message that farmers are basically reduced to ‘ghulam’ (servants) and have no power to decide the cost of their produce. We are sleeping in our fields or on roads here to press for our demands. Still, there is no resolution,” he said. Several farmers gave speeches from the protest site and also recited poems to portray their conditions. “It (the blocking of the highway) was just a small trailer and not the full picture. If they still wish to, we can make them see another trailer at any point of time,” one of the protesters said at the venue. According to Ajay Shankar Pandey, the district magistrate of Ghaziabad, “The Delhi police had diverted the traffic after the Delhi-Ghaziabad carriageway was blocked by farmers on Tuesday. The farmers, however, vacated the carriageway around 3pm and traffic from Delhi was restored to normal.”Shailendra Singh, additional district magistrate (city), said that the farmers’ leaders had assured the administration that their protest on the highway will go on from 11am to 3pm. The UP police, meanwhile, took no action when farmers occupied the Delhi-Ghaziabad carriageway on Tuesday morning but they were severe and resorted to lathicharge on protesters of a political outfit, who arrived and tried to join the farmers’ protest at UP Gate. “Seven people were detained and taken into preventive custody, and were shifted from the protest site,” said Kalanidhi Naithani, senior superintendent of police, Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/bharat-bandh-protesting-farmers-shut-nh-9-for-four-hours-at-delhi-ghaziabad-border/story-1Y6FuVtqzTo4WCgDJIMvBL.html
08-12-2020||Bhopal||‘Bill in state assembly to elect mayors directly by people’: Madhya Pradesh CM||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday said a law will be enacted for direct election of mayors and speakers of municipal corporations in the state by people in the respective corporation areas. For this, a bill shall be tabled in the state assembly’s winter session beginning December 28, an official communique stated.The BJP, on coming to power in March this year, decided to scrap the decision taken by the then Kamal Nath government to restore indirect elections to the post of mayors in 16 municipal corporations in the state whereby councillors elected were supposed to elect the mayors.Chouhan’s announcement on the direct election came during the state cabinet meeting held virtually on Tuesday.“It was decided in the cabinet that the speaker and mayor will now be elected through a direct system. The ordinance for this has come. Now, the bill will be introduced in the legislative assembly. The wards will also be fixed accordingly. Chief minister Chouhan said that voters will be now able to cast their votes directly for the speaker and mayor,” the official communique stated.The CM, as per the official information, said innovative ideas were needed for the development of the state, welfare of the people and making Madhya Pradesh self-reliant.Also read: ‘Should I go or stay?’ Tripura CM asks people if he should remain in power“Every department should come up with some innovative ideas and implement them under the leadership of ministers. Work is going on in Madhya Pradesh on the “Buffer mein Safar”, “Global Skill Park” and “Gas Tragedy Memorial” on the lines of Hiroshima-Nagasaki Memorial.“The chief minister said that the ministers should review the progress of the departments in departmental meetings every Monday. Cabinet meeting will be held every Tuesday,” said the statement.CM Chouhan said that Covid-19 had resulted in a financial crisis in the state. Therefore, all departments must pay special attention to the arrangement of “out of budget” amount for all construction works. Ministers must make efforts to ensure that Madhya Pradesh got the maximum amount in various schemes of the Centre, he saidAs per the official statement, the cabinet also approved land acquisition to Bhopal and Indore Metro Rail projects. After Bhopal and Indore metro areas were declared metropolitan areas, now the land for it would be acquired under “Metro Act 1978”. The CM said this would ensure better compensation to landholders. At the same time, those who put kiosks etc., on the land would also get compensation. This would enable full justice to the poor, the chief minister stated.As per other decisions taken in the meeting, the cabinet approved the revised amount for construction works of Gandhi Medical College, Bhopal and Shivpuri Medical College. Proposals for exemption of minimum fee prescribed to beer bars, opening of user-free toll plazas on some roads to Madhya Pradesh Road Development Corporation were also approved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/bill-in-state-assembly-to-elect-mayors-directly-by-people-madhya-pradesh-cm/story-HFTMra0DDrEkg1Ag8vBDIK.html
08-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Covid numbers drop second week running||The number of Covid-19 cases in the city have dipped for the second week running with positivity rates stabilising after a rise in November.With less infections, the number of active cases gradually dropped too and recoveries were four times more than the fresh cases recorded in a week.However, though active cases dropped to below 1,000 from 1,150, the rate of fatalities as compared to recoveries and new cases is not declining, health experts say.“The dip in number of infections is significant even as the testing levels are not seeing any major fluctuation. This could have been possible due to control of the infection spread in the city which is reflected in the decreased positivity rate. The active cases are seeing a decline again and a high number of recoveries is also an encouraging sign,” said Arun Kumar Gupta, UT health secretary.Testing levels and positivity rates have dropped slightly this week after 10,000 tests last week, the lowest level in over a month when it comes to positivity rates.“We are trying to maintain this momentum in the testing levels by encouraging the teams involved. The number of tests right after the festivals was ramped up as the requirement was to isolate the infected individuals as early as possible, which probably has helped keep infection numbers low,” said a senior health department official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-covid-numbers-drop-second-week-running/story-N4cDdSNDptW6LkVzFO9zwN.html
08-12-2020||Chandigarh||3 held for drug peddling in Ludhiana, 6.7-kg opium recovered||Three men were arrested in two separate case of drug peddling on Tuesday and 6.7-kg opium was recovered from their possession.In the first case, Jamalpur police arrested two men near Mundian on the basis of a tip-off and recovered 5.2-kg opium from them. The accused have been identified as Jagtar Singh of New Guru Nanak Nagar and Gurdeep Singh of Noorpur Mand village in Machhiwara.A case has been under Sections 18, 61 and 85 of NDPS Act. The SHO said police are questioning the accused to find out from where they were smuggling the contraband.In another case, Sadar police arrested Om Parkash of Behraich, Uttar Pradesh, and recovered 1.5 kg opium.Inspector Jagdev Singh, SHO at Sadar police station, said the accused was arrested from Jhande village on the basis of a tip-off. A case has been registered under Sections 18, 61 and 85 of NDPS Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/3-held-for-drug-peddling-6-7-kg-opium-recovered/story-NSM4yDCMwBPr9yOuG1sV7M.html
08-12-2020||Chandigarh||Zirakpur MC detects violations in 100 buildings, but does nothing||A day after a commercial building collapsed in Balaji Enclave here because of digging work in an adjacent plot, it is now understood that the Zirakpur municipal council had failed to take action against violations in 100 commercial buildings.In a 2019 survey, MC had found violations in 100 buildings in areas under its jurisdiction. Even though cases were filed before the Dera Bassi magistrate, MC officials did not pursue the matter, resulting in dismissal of some cases. In other cases , MC failed to provide evidence to the court because of which the other parties were not summoned. The violations include building shops in parking areas on highways, more floors built despite less floor area ratio and in some cases basements were built without permission.In 2019, despite MC deciding that no objection certificates will be issued to builders, who had violated rules for power, water and sewer collections, the approvals were given later. Jyoti Sadana, who was booked on Monday after a building next to his plot collapsed, did not have permission to build a basement. Interestingly, even though his drawings of a residential unit were approved, he was constructing a commercial building.When asked to comment on the matter, director, local bodies, Puneet Goyal said he was not aware of the issue and will look into the matter.Sukhdev Chaudhary, chairman of the Joint Action Committee in Zirakpur said, “Due to negligence of civic body officials, Zirakpur is considered to be an urban slum. The officials are hand in glove with the owners of buildings and do not take any action.” He alleged that the officials had political patronage.Harish Gupta, president of the Builder Association of Zirakpur, said due to “so called builders involved in unauthorised and illegal construction, the entire builder fraternity was getting a bad name, MC should take strict action against them.”In May this year, the Punjab local bodies department had suspended Zirakpur municipal council executive officer (EO) Manvir Singh Gill for misusing powers to issue completion certificates for eight major residential-cum-commercial projects.According to sources, Zirakpur MC officials did not even carry out physical verification of the projects for issuing fire safety no objection certificates or giving permissions for sewerage and water connections and setting up of sewage treatment plant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/zirakpur-mc-detects-violations-in-100-buildings-but-does-nothing/story-lCDB8XjUvkeJYWl0H2IKEO.html
08-12-2020||Chandigarh||Security lapses: Cases registered against staffers of 2 finance companies in Ludhiana||FIRs were lodged against the employees of five finance company offices on Monday after it was found that proper security measures were not in place on the premises.During a visit to these branches, police found that some of them had no security guards, while others had only part time guards. On September 23, police has issued orders asking finance companies to ensure that proper security measures are followed to avoid robberies.Even the Muthoot Finance office on Dugri Road, where six armed men injured four employees during a robbery bid on October 16, did not have proper security arrangements. Inspector Rajan Pal, station house officer at Model Town police station, said that besides not deputing security guards, some other guidelines were also not followed. A reminder was given to them about 15 days ago, but to no avail, the SHO said.Cases have also been registered against employees of Muthoot Finance offices at Gol Market, Feroze Gandhi Market and Humbran Road and Mannapuram Finance at Vivek Nagar under Section 188 of Indian Penal Code.Employees of the Muthoot Finance branch at Feroze Gandhi Market were booked as no security guard was deputed at the office at night. A hotline was also not installed at the branch.Sandeep Kumar, manager of Manappuram Gold loan Finance Limited, has also been booked. Inspector Jarnail Singh, SHO at Division Number 8 police station, said that as per the orders of police commissioner, finance company offices should have security guards for 24 hours. However, a night security guard was not deputed at the branch office. Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal has made it mandatory for all gold loan companies and other financial institutions to install night-vision CCTV cameras to cover the road in front of the branch, all entry and exit points, reception desk and all other vital points inside the branch with storage of upto 30 days and power backup, besides deputing security guards for 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/security-lapses-cases-registered-against-staffers-of-2-finance-companies-in-ludhiana/story-p6lq4DA9xVvKl8PY6zkfpN.html
08-12-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana cricket association to organise T20 tourney from Dec 18||The Ludhiana District Cricket Association (LDCA) will organise an invitational league-cum-knockout T-20 tournament in association with the Hara Cricket Club from December 18 to December 27. The matches will be held on the grounds of the cricket club.This is a golden opportunity for players from Ludhiana, as for almost three decades, cricket tournaments were mostly confined to Mohali and Patiala. Bhupinder Singh, former international player and member of the organising committee, said that the tournament is sponsored by Trident Group, Ludhiana, and has been approved by Punjab Cricket Association. The winning team will receive Rs 1.5 lakh and runners-up Rs 75,000. Covid safety measures will be followed strictly. Eight teams from clubs/institutions in Punjab will be put in two groups of four teams each. Each team will play at least three matches. The top two teams from each group will compete in the semi-finals, the winners of which will play in the finals. Only players from Punjab state can compete in the tournament. The tournament will be played as per the rules and regulations of BCCI and be officiated by state panel umpires/scorers, etc. All matches will carry the “Man of the match” prize. Individual prizes will also be given for best batsman, best bowler, best all-rounder etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-cricket-association-to-organise-t20-tourney-from-dec-18/story-zdifRA9gMmQoMk0J5q10IP.html
08-12-2020||Chandigarh||3 masked men open fire at advocate’s assistant in Ludhiana||Three motorcycle-borne assailants opened fire at the assistant of an advocate in Ishar Nagar on Monday morning.The victim, Sushil Kumar, 40, of Ishar Nagar, escaped unhurt. The accused managed to escape but were captured in the CCTV cameras installed in the area.Kumar identified one of the accused as Karanvir Singh Walia of Hargobind Nagar. He said that Walia and his accomplice had attempted to murder him in March 2019, following which a case was registered at the Division Number 6 police station, and an inquiry was marked to AIG (crime branch), Patiala.Kumar said he was on his way to Patiala for the hearing of the case, when the incident took place.Kumar said that at 7am, minutes after he had left the house in his car, three masked men on motorcycles fired two shots at him. One of the bullets had hit the windowpane on the driver side, and crossed after breaking the windowpane on the opposite end, while the other hit the bonnet. After the accused left the spot, he sounded the police. Two bullet shells have been recovered.He added that he had noticed the accused roaming near his house at 6.30am when he was washing his car. Assistant sub-inspector Ashwani Kumar, who is investigating the case, said that a case has been registered under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 34 (common intention) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of Arms Act against Karanvir Singh Walia and his two unidentified accomplices. Police have launched a manhunt for their arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/3-masked-men-open-fire-at-advocate-s-assistant/story-7D1CiIrzJWMX3Xv2VjKyAJ.html
08-12-2020||Chandigarh||IMA Chandigarh protests over Centre allowing AYUSH doctors to perform surgery||A protest demonstration was held by the Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) Chandigarh chapter at the IMA House here on Tuesday demanding the withdrawal of the central government’s decision to allow post-graduate practitioners in specific streams of Ayurveda to be trained to perform general surgeries.“It is fraught with danger as the decision aims at mixing the modern medicine studies with Ayurveda and other AYUSH disciplines which will greatly jeopardise the scientific and proven form of healthcare delivery worldwide. We demand rollback of such orders,” said Dr Ramneek Bedi, IMA coordination committee chairman.The association in a release said, “It is strange that allopathic MBBS doctors are not allowed to do an ultrasound. A gynae surgery cannot be done by another discipline’s surgeon. Ayurveda doctors have been allowed to do surgery, though there is no provision of giving anaesthesia in Ayurveda. It amounts to endangering the lives of gullible people, especially from rural areas. Instead of putting a ban on illegal practice of allopathy by AYUSH doctors, the government is legalising quackery.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ima-chandigarh-protests-over-centre-allowing-ayush-doctors-to-perform-surgery/story-DRqm2xvZWoOKb0E1Kgr2TJ.html
08-12-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man loses ₹1.71 lakh to online fraudsters promising to double his money||A city resident lost ₹1.71 lakh to online fraudsters who hacked his phone after tricking him into click a link on the pretext of doubling his money.The complainant, Amit Vohra of Pushp Vihar of Barewal road, said the fraudsters had contacted him after he posted an advertisement on OLX for selling worn-out furniture.The accused rang him up, posing as buyers and settled the deal at ₹4,000. They then called him again and told him that there was an online scheme through which he could double the payment he receives. They sent him a QR code on WhatsApp and asked him to activate the scheme by clicking on it. After activating the link, he sent ₹1 to the accused and received ₹2 in return within a few seconds. Following this, the accused sent him a few more links. After clicking one of the links, his phone got hacked and the accused managed to gain access to his online banking account and stole ₹1.71 lakh from it.The accused have been identified as Pritama Devi of Pilibhit of Uttar Pradesh, Neelam Rajput of Mathura and Gaurav of Ghautam Budh Nagar of Uttar Pradesh.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, investigation) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti said an FIR under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code and Sections 66-C and 66-D of Information and Technology Act has been lodged against them at Sarabha Nagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-man-loses-1-71-lakh-to-online-fraudsters-promising-to-double-his-money/story-5gzyBEUN74uUFY9Ymav2gK.html
08-12-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University teachers’ body writes to chancellor over ex-CMO’s extended stay at campus||Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) on Tuesday wrote to Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu, who is the chancellor of PU, seeking his intervention into the permission given to a retired former chief medical officer (CMO) to retain accommodation on the campus.This development comes days after the teachers’ body had written to PU vice-chancellor (V-C) Raj Kumar urging him to withdraw the order, which the former claimed was in violation of the regulations of the university.In their letter addressed to the chancellor, PUTA said that as per the PU Calendar, nobody, including the vice-chancellor, has been vested with the power to allow such retention of university accommodation to anyone after retirement and hence the order is legally invalid.“Never before has any doctor or ex-CMO been allowed to retain his house beyond the attainment of his/her retirement, which is 62 years, and hence the act is absolutely illegal,” the letter states.The teachers’ body has requested the chancellor to intervene immediately and direct the V-C to withdraw the orders allowing Dr Devinder Dhawan to retain the university house, in absence of any such rules and regulations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-teachers-body-writes-to-chancellor-over-ex-cmo-s-extended-stay-at-campus/story-n7oZLllDPXM5C7Ta2uYoCN.html
08-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai hospitals begin clinical trials of first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin||Mumbai’s JJ hospital and Lokmanya Tilak general hospital have commenced the third phase of clinical trials for Covaxin, the first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine. Till Tuesday, almost 190 volunteers have taken the first dose of the vaccine.The government-run JJ hospital started the trial on November 30 and, so far, 180 people have already participated in the trial. Sion hospital, after receiving the vaccine from the central government on Sunday, started the trial from Monday. Till Tuesday, the hospital has given the vaccine to around 10 volunteers.“Initially, we are giving the vaccine to 5-6 people, but we will soon increase the number of daily dosage to fasten the process,” said Dr Mohan Joshi, dean of the Sion hospital.Covaxin is developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR). The vaccine received Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) approval and the trials commenced across India from July.Also read: Amit Shah meets farmer leaders ahead of crucial talks on Dec 9Recently, the pharmaceutical firm applied to the central drug regulator seeking emergency use authorisation. It is the third firm after Serum Institute of India and American pharmaceutical giant Pfizer to apply for emergency use approval.In the last week of October, the ICMR selected the two hospitals for the pan-India trial or Covaxin. As many as 2,000 volunteers, between the age group of 18 and 60 years, will be included in the trial. Out of this, 20 per cent volunteers will be selected with co-morbidities while 5 per cent will comprise medical health workers. The volunteers will be followed up for 12 months as per ICMR rules.“The third phase will have two stages. After 28 days of the first vaccination, volunteers will be given the second vial,” added Dr Joshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-hospitals-begin-clinical-trials-for-first-indigenous-covid-19-vaccine-covaxin/story-9GobaUy0a4fjgljttzSdAO.html
08-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi health minister says deaths due to Covid-19 are on the decline||With a high number of tests being conducted and fewer new cases reported, the average positivity rate—the proportion of samples that test positive for Covid-19—has reduced to 4.28% over the last seven days. Delhi’s average positivity rate was 7.8% last week. Delhi has increased the number of tests from an average 61,600 tests daily to 74,600, shows the data from the government’s health bulletin. The number of tests, however, remained lower than the peak number of 85,000 tests that were reported in December 4’s bulletin. The government plans to scale up the number of tests to 100,000 or 120,000 a day. On Tuesday, Delhi reported 3,188 new cases, taking the total tally of the infection in the city to 597,000 so far. There were 57 deaths recorded on the day, with the total death toll of Covid-19 reaching 9,763. The cumulative case fatality ratio (CFR)—the proportion of people who died of the disease compared to those who were tested positive for it—stood at 1.64%. The cumulative CFR has consistently reduced since recording a high 4.11% on June 16 to 1.56% in mid-November, when it started increasing during the third wave of cases in Delhi. The highest number of deaths recorded in a day during the third wave was 131 deaths on November 18. “Number of deaths in Delhi are on a decline. Lowest deaths since 5th Nov. Our frontline warriors like doctors and nurses are working round the clock to save each and every life. I Request you all to observe all precautions for this trend to decline further,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain in a tweet. The number of new cases reported had peaked at 8,593 on November 10 and the positivity rate at 15.33% on November 15. Experts say that the number of deaths usually peaks a little after the number of cases do because patients are admitted to hospitals for some time before succumbing to the infection. Jain had earlier said that most deaths in Delhi hospitals took place ten days after admission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-health-minister-says-deaths-due-to-covid-19-are-on-the-decline/story-PTH4SXyBhWJCVgb4avtR6M.html
08-12-2020||Gurugram||Man shoots relative dead in heated argument||A 58-year-old man was shot dead by a cab driver in Sector 39 on Monday night after a dispute over some old issue. The deceased was on his way to the community centre of Sector 39 for a social event, when he was shot at by the suspect, who then called the police himself. He was rushed to a private hospital, where doctors declared him dead on arrival, said the police. The victim, Virender Singh (58), a resident of Jharsa village, was involved in farming and had no personal enmity in the area, the police said. The suspect, Kaushal alias Kosu (38), is a cab driver and is a relative of the victim. On Sunday, Singh was at home when a scuffle broke out between him and Kaushal, following which the latter allegedly threatened Singh with dire consequences and left his house. The police said Kaushal is a cab driver and often visited the deceased for financial help. The police said, on Monday, Virender informed his family members about the scuffle and told them that he was being threatened. Aman Yadav, assistant commissioner of police (Sadar), said that Singh’s son who works in a private company in Manesar informed the suspect’s family and asked them to resolve the issue. “On Monday night, there was a wedding at the community centre in the area and Singh was on his way to join the celebration. Kaushal intercepted his way and started abusing him. When Singh raised an alarm, he took out a countrymade pistol and shot at him, leaving him injured,” he said. Hearing a gunshot, people from the community centre rushed to the spot and found Singh lying in a pool of blood. He was taken to a hospital in Sector 38 for treatment, while Kaushal informed the police control room. The police said the suspect waited for the police team to reach and he confessed to the killing. He said he got agitated and he shot at his uncle.Yadav said they registered a case against Kaushal under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code(IPC) and sections of the Arms Act at the Sadar police station. Amit Kumar, the son of the victim, said, “My father had told me about the incident wherein Kaushal had threatened to kill him. I have no idea why he took this extreme step to kill him and what was the motive behind the murder,” he said. The police have recovered the weapon used in the crime and a probe is underway. The body was handed over to the family members after the post-mortem examination on Tuesday afternoon, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/man-shoots-relative-dead-in-heated-argument/story-lIomAAvCXVYCCC69YVResL.html
08-12-2020||Gurugram||District to prepare list of front-line workers for Covid-19 vaccine||After preparing a database of 50,000 healthcare workers in government and private hospitals for Covid-19 vaccination, the district health department will now be focussing on preparing a similar list for front-line workers from the police department, armed forces, home guard, civil defence, disaster management department, and the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG).Front-line workers are second in the list of prioritised population groups, who will be vaccinated for SARS-CoV-2 virus once the vaccine is rolled out. On Tuesday, in a meeting held with the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC), the state and district health department were directed to collate the data of front-line workers. Government departments like the police, urban local bodies, and armed forces will share the details with the health department, said senior officials who attended the meeting. “Further directives on the process and date line for data collection of front-line workers are awaited from state government,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer. “The department has almost finished finalising the health staff of 732 private health care units, under which over 50,000 employees have been identified.” Overall, in Haryana, 6.7 million people are to be vaccinated, which includes almost 2,50,000 health care workers, 4,50,000 front-line workers, 5.8 million people above the age of 50, and 2,20,000 people with comorbidities, aged below 50, as per the state health department document on Covid-19 vaccination.Other preparatory activities such as strengthening the cold-chain infrastructure, deployment of additional vaccinators, strategy on vaccine safety and effectiveness and the development of Co-WIN — a digital platform for Covid-19 vaccination delivery — were also discussed. Cold-Chain InfrastructureThe union health ministry is already in consultation with the state to assess the additional requirement for cold-chain storage like walk-in coolers, walk-in freezers, deep freezers and ice-lined refrigerators. They keep the vaccine at a recommended temperature from the point of manufacture until it reaches the target beneficiaries. Singh said, “It is likely the vaccine will require a temperature of 2 degrees Celsius to eight degrees Celsius and -15 to -25 degrees Celsius. For this, the cold-chain system has to be made robust. Currently, the district has 36 cold chain points where vaccines for routine immunisation are stored.” Across the state there are 686 cold-chain points. Also, a real time digital platform for Covid-19 vaccination storage and delivery, called Co-WIN, has also been created by the Centre. It will also help in tracing the beneficiaries of the vaccine.Vaccination sites and vaccinators“Vaccination session sites for Covid-19 are yet to be finalised,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer(CMO).For the routine immunisation, the district has 1,275 session sites. It includes primary health care centres and community health centres, along with some outreach areas which are far from cold-chain points. For the vaccinators, the health department, which is following the NEGVAC guidelines, will have Auxiliary Nurse Midwives (ANMs) as Covid-19 vaccinators. They are already vaccinators under Universal Immunisation Programme (UIP). “There are almost 550 vaccinators in the government set-up and over 3,500 in the private sector. The department has to work on the co-ordination plan for vaccinators. We have been directed in the meeting that due to Covid-19 vaccination drive, the routine immunisation should not be impacted,” said Singh. Even the document shared by the state health department shows that vaccinators from the private sector are to be included to minimise the disruption of routine immunisation service. At the session sites, there will be a five-member team for 100 beneficiaries, according to the state document. It will have one vaccinator, two support staff,a security personnel and one person to verify documents. The sessions site will have three rooms — one for verification, the second for vaccination and the third for observation, where after the immunisation, the person will be observed to check the health status. The training material for the health staff and vaccinators is, however, yet to be finalised at the national level, along with the standard operating procedures (SOPs), which are in the final stages. However, Singh said that since vaccines will require two to three doses, with each dose to be given after three to four weeks, they will have to give vaccine dosage from the same manufacturer. “A detailed record will have to be maintained,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/district-to-prepare-list-of-front-line-workers-for-covid-19-vaccine/story-pW8PhaMnEd3Fj2MNDnPsxK.html
08-12-2020||Gurugram||GMDA to re-examine link road project to minimise environmental impact on bio park||Presiding over the seventh authority meeting of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) on Tuesday, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar considered reservations raised by citizens with regard to the construction of twin link roads between Nelson Mandela Marg in Delhi and MG Road in Gurugram via Aravalli Biodiversity Park. This project, news of which first came to light in October 2018, had elicited concern from environmentalists as it would have subsumed at least a third of the Aravalli Biodiversity Park in Nathupur. However, GMDA officials on Tuesday clarified that these concerns, which were once again raised by its resident advisory council in November, are under consideration, and that the project will be “re-examined” to mitigate environmental harm to the park. In a release issued to the press following Tuesday’s meeting, the GMDA stated that it was “exploring the possibility of taking out an underground road without damaging the greenery and environment.” With these concerns taken into cognisance, Khattar on Tuesday approved the revised draft of the Comprehensive Mobility Management Plan (CMMP) for Gururgam, which was opened to public consultation in October this year. The draft plan, which has been steered by the Delhi School of Planning and Architecture, includes proposals for augmenting road networks, mass transit facilities and pedestrian infrastructure in Gurugram — in the form of walkways and cycle tracks — keeping in mind projected population growth till the year 2041. “Now that CMPs for both Gurugram and Faridabad are in place, we can submit our detailed project report (DPR) for the metro expansion in the region to the Centre,” said VS Kundu, CEO, GMDA, speaking to HT after the meeting. Meanwhile, a draft DPR of the metro connectivity from Rezangla Chowk to Sector-21, Dwarka is also pending with the Haryana Mass Rapid Transport Corporation Limited (HMRTC), he clarified. While Kundu did not directly address the issue of building roads through the biodiversity park, the relevant section in the GMDA meeting’s agenda (a copy of which is with Hindustan Times), states, “The revised CMMP was again presented to the GMDA’s resident advisory council on November 5. The RAC (residents’ advisory council) has agreed with the proposed CMMP. However, RAC has recommended to re-examine the need for the proposed Outer Ring Road from NH 48 to Gurugram-Mehrauli Road passing through the Aravali Biodiversity Park due to its environmental impact. This link is a part of the proposed Outer Ring Road in the CMMP. However environmental impact assessment of the proposal including mitigation measures will have to be undertaken before execution.”Hospital and medical college in Kherki Majra villageIn another significant development, the chief minister also approved a revised detailed project report (DPR) for an upcoming hospital and medical college in Kherki Majra village, Gurugram. With the district’s only other publicly funded hospital, Civil Hospital in Sector 10, stretched to capacity, officials said the district is in dire need of augmenting public health facilities — a situation that has only become more pronounced amid the ongoing outbreak of Covid-19. Earlier limited to a capacity of 650 hospital beds, 30 trauma beds and 150 teaching seats, the upcoming Sheetla Mata Hospital and Medical College will now house 950 beds, 100 trauma beds and 250 teaching seats, officials confirmed.VS Kundu, CEO, GMDA, said, “Though the DPR had been prepared earlier this year, an expert committee comprising officials from PGIMS Rohtak, ministry of health, and representatives from the private sector have reviewed it and suggested some upgrades to the hospital infrastructure. As such, the earlier budget of ₹679 crore has been augmented to ₹981 crore.” Of this, 50 percent will be provided by the GMDA while the rest if to be borne by the MCG and the Sheetla Mata Shrine Board. A draft of the detailed notice inviting tender (DNIT) for this project, Kundu confirmed, has been prepared. “The DNIT will be floated soon so that construction work can proceed,” he said.Four new bus routes in FaridabadIn a third significant development, it was also decided on Tuesday that the Gururgam Metropolitan City Bus Ltd. will, starting next year, operate four intra-city routes in Faridabad with 40 new low-floor buses. A senior official in the GMDA’s mobility department, seeking anonymity, said, “About 46 new buses had been procured for the GMCBL in March, prior to lockdown, while Faridabad was supposed to get its own city bus service under the Smart City mission this year. However, due to post-Covid constraints expansion of the bus network in Gururgam is not an immediate requirement. These buses will be deployed on four routes within Faridabad itself, which are being identified and rationalised by DIMTS.”It was also revealed during Tuesday’s meeting that the GMDA has so far earned ₹202 crore through its own revenue raising capacity, while its expenditure on public works so far amounts to ₹223 crore, resulting in a net loss of ₹21 crore. At the meeting, principal secretary of the state town and country planning department, AK Singh, said that an amount of ₹100 crore (raised through EDC funds) will be transferred to GMDA. The additional chief Secretary of the finance department, TVSN Prasad, provided assurance that an amount of ₹300 crore will be released to the Town and Country Planning Department early next year. Of this, AK Singh said that ₹150 crore would be made available to the GMDA to continue development works in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gmda-to-re-examine-link-road-project-to-minimise-environmental-impact-on-bio-park/story-nLrLq2hSxRER3lHldArJKI.html
08-12-2020||Gurugram||Despite bandh, transport services remain unhindered in Gurugram||Despite some transport unions in Delhi joining in the Bharat Bandh on Tuesday, in a show of solidarity with the ongoing farmer protests at the Capital’s borders, public transport in the city continued operations as per usual. Spokespersons from multiple transport unions in Gurugram said that they did not want to halt any services as it would inconvenience not just the passengers but also the service providers. While union leaders in the city extended their support to farmers, they clarified that they did not, at any point, consider halting operations. Yogesh Sharma, head of the Haryana Auto Chalak Sangathan in Gurugram, said, “We did not make any calls to stop operations. We are associated with the Bhartiya Mazdoor Sangh, which has opposed any bandh in relation to the protests. At a personal level, while we sympathise with the farmers and hope for a quick resolution, it would not be right to inconvenience the larger public. Some drivers may have chosen not to ply their autos, but that decision was left to their individual discretion.” Similar sentiments were espoused by Sandeep Dalal, a union leader with the Haryana Roadways Karmachari Sangh in Gurugram. “We have issued a statement in solidarity with the farmers cause, but did not participate in the bandh. All operations have run today as per usual.” Cab aggregator services remained normal throughout the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/despite-bandh-transport-services-remain-unhindered-in-gurugram/story-v988gK6SzMBMF1MGVbPWxK.html
08-12-2020||Gurugram||Social groups, workers unions back farmers’ demands||Multiple social groups, political outfits and workers’ unions took to the streets on Tuesday to extend support to farmers protesting against the recently passed farm laws on Tuesday, in view of the Bharat Bandh called by farmers’ organisations.At Bilaspur Chowk, around 350 farmers and trade union activists gathered to support the farmers’ agitation. Rajya Sabha member of Parliament, KK Ragesh, of the CPI (M), along with other leaders was detained by the police.“We were peacefully demonstrating in support of the Bharat Bandh but the Haryana Police forcefully arrested us and took us into custody. We were taken to a school nearby, where we continued with our demonstrations against the farm laws,” said Ragesh.In a separate demonstration, around 200 people including farmers, khap leaders and civil society members gathered at Jharsa Chowk in Sector 32 to voice their support for farmers. The gathering lasted for three hours, during which members from different walks of life demanded that the government repeal the three farm laws.Expressing solidarity with farmers, Mahender Singh Thakran, president of Jharsa 360 khap, said that keeping farmers’ interests is crucial since India is largely an agrarian country. “Our country will not be able to progress if farmers are unhappy. These laws are against farmers and if we stay silent today, our future generations will curse us for not having raised our voice at the correct time,” said Thakran.He said that the government needed to assuage the concerns of farmers and ensure that the minimum support prices (MSP) for crops is written into the law.“The government is saying that it has no intention of doing away with MSP for crops. What’s stopping them from giving this in writing? People will be satisfied only if MSP system is put in writing,” said Thakran.He added that the khaps would continue with their peaceful agitation till the time the government relented to the demands of farmers. “Lakhs of people are out on the streets. We will continue to support them and amplify our agitation if the next rounds do no yield results,” he said.RS Rathee, president of the Gurugram Citizen Council and municipal councillor for Ward 34, said that the gathering was aimed at lending support to farmers, who are fighting for their livelihoods. “Corporates and industrialists will benefit from these new laws that threaten the survival of farmers. The country is seeing one of the biggest farmers’ movement and if the government doesn’t relent, citizens of Gurugram will have to step forward and join the agitation,” said Rathee.He also criticised the state government for using water cannons and tear gas on farmers who were exercising their democratic right to protest.Towards the evening, around 300 workers took out a march from Hero Honda Chowk to Rajeev Chowk in support of the farmers’ agitation, on a call given by the Maruti Suzuki Mazdoor Sangh.In Nuh too, farmers’ groups and social organisations extended their support to the Bharat Bandh and gathered at Bhadas, amid heavy police presence. Salamudeen Meo, Mewat Vikas Sabha president, said that the farmers and youngsters gathered at Bhadas Chowk to extend support to farmers.“Youngsters and farmers tried to block the road in Bhadas village today to support the nationwide strike. Police tried to block us but we continued with our demonstrations,” said Meo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/social-groups-workers-unions-back-farmers-demands/story-l4GvxDH5atzN1EDCR27AiJ.html
08-12-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram largely unaffected by Bharat Bandh||The Bharat Bandh call given by protesting farmers on Tuesday had minimal impact on life in the city. Traffic on key stretches leading to Delhi and public services remained largely unaffected, amid heavy police presence, even as 120 protesters who had gathered at Bilaspur Chowk were taken into preventive custody and released in the evening.Despite heavy barricading, traffic on arterial roads was thin as most residents, anticipating trouble, stayed indoors. The police said that the situation in Gurugram was better than other parts of NCR as not many local farmers had joined the protest and the police did not let protesters from other districts move on the arterial roads.Around 200 people, including farmers, khap leaders and civil society members had gathered at Jharsa Chowk in Sector 32 to voice their support for farmers. The demonstration lasted for three hours and was peaceful.The police had deployed 2,500 personnel and set up 123 checkpoints at the district borders with Nuh, Rewari and Faridabad to ensure better law and order situation. All major markets, including Sadar Bazar, remained open and the supply of essentials was not disrupted, according to the police and officials of the administration.Astha Modi, the deputy commissioner of police (headquarters), said, “The volume of traffic was low since morning and despite checking and barricading, no congestion was reported from any of the borders. Our teams had checked over 200 vehicles throughout the day. Commuters faced no inconvenience on any stretch, including all 13 borders,” she said.Special teams formed by the district administration and police were deployed from 7am to keep a check on supply points. “We had deployed force at vegetable and fruit mandis to ensure shops are not forced to shut,” she said.The police, however, detained 120 people, including opposition leaders and Rajya Sabha MP, KK Ragesh, of CPI(M), for protesting at Bilaspur Chowk, 20 kilometres from Kherki Daula toll plaza, under the Preventive Detention Act. They were released in the evening, the police said.Around 350 people from opposition parties, anganwadi workers, accredited social health activists (ASHA workers) and farmers from Punjab had gathered on the expressway and started raising slogans. The police said they had started marching towards the Bilaspur toll, due to which traffic movement was disrupted but was immediately resolved by the teams.Satvir Singh, the vice-president of Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) Haryana, said that they were detained by the police and released on Tuesday evening, due to which they could not join the protest in Delhi. “We are supporting the farmers and had gathered at Bilaspur Chowk. Farmers from Punjab and leaders from CPI(M) had joined us on Tuesday morning and we had planned to march towards Delhi. We were expecting more people to join us, but the police caught hold of us, took us to a school and held hostage,” he said.Nikita Gehlot, the deputy commissioner of police (Manesar), said that around 100 police personnel were deployed in the Bilaspur area, where the protestors had started gathering. “We did not let anyone cross the border and they were detained before they reached the border. The leaders were delivering speeches even during detention at a government school near Bilaspur Chowk. The situation was under control and commuters did not face any inconvenience,” she said.On Tuesday, all major markets, such as Sadar Bazar, Galleria Market, Vyapar Kendra and Arcadia, operated as usual, with shopkeepers and associations distancing themselves from the farmers’ protests. In addition, operations at wholesale vegetable and fruit markets also remained normal.Bablu Gupta, the president, Sadar Bazar market association, said that the market was open as no farmers of this belt were taking part in the ongoing protests. “The shopkeepers have already suffered huge losses during the lockdown and every day is important for all of us. Footfall was less as compared to other days, but people visited the market and did their shopping,” he said.Regular vehicular movement continued on major arterial roads. Local transport and cab services were uninterrupted throughout the day. Commuters travelling in the city said that traffic volume was lower than usual and compared the situation on roads to those during the initial stages of the coronavirus outbreak.“I had to drop my mother at New Delhi Railway station. The (ticket) booking was made last month so I did not cancel the travel plan. There was hardly any traffic on the stretch and I reached station within 25 minutes after crossing the border,” said Sandeep Singh, a resident of Sohna Road.Further, personnel in 50 police control room vans and 150 bikes were stationed at strategic points of the National Highway 48, between Panchgaon and Sirhaul toll, to ensure smooth traffic flow and check gatherings on the main carriageway.“Even though Gurugram district does not have a sizeable farmer’s presence, we realised that a possibility of protesters passing through the city to the national capital remained high and, as such, there could be situations of unrest. Hence, directions were issued in advance to all government bodies concerned, to stay on alert and undertake requisite measures to keep the situation under control. By taking necessary advance measures and executing strategic deployment, the situation of law and order in Gurugram largely remained as usual,” said Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner.Thousands of farmers have gathered at Delhi’s borders to protest against the three farm laws that were enacted in September and had given a call for a nationwide bandh on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-largely-unaffected-by-bharat-bandh/story-hKwHVHRHQJkt9SQ9VLjSmL.html
08-12-2020||Gurugram||Daily commuters take advance measures to avoid roads||Although the effect of the Bharat Bandh in the city was minimal on Tuesday, commuters had made preparations in advance to ensure they were not caught off guard.Residents of other NCR cities who work in Gurugram said that they opted to stay at their friends’ or family’s residences on Monday night to avoid intercity travel.“Last year in December, I was stuck on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway for more than four hours due to a protest being held in Delhi. I did not want a repeat of a similar incident and stayed back at my friend’s house in DLF-5 after finishing work on Monday evening,” said Uday Shankar, a resident of GK-1 in Delhi.A few city residents also opted to use the Delhi Metro for the first time since the coronavirus outbreak, instead of their private vehicles, to avoid any snarls or roadblocks.“Fearing that there would be roadblocks and traffic snarls due to the protest, I opted to use the Delhi Metro instead of my private vehicle. I wanted to avoid getting stuck on roads and figured using the metro would be the best possible option,” said Abhishek Dayal, a resident of Nirvana Country, who works at Lajpat Nagar in New Delhi.Professionals, who have resumed working from offices, were also allowed by their companies to work from home, in view of the Bharat Bandh.“Our company sent an email to all the employees leaving the option of working from home upon their discretion. I did not want to get caught in any untoward incident and as a safer option, opted to work from home. I also directed all my employees at the office, barring those living within a two-kilometre radius, to also work from home while for the latter, it was left optional,” said Saurabh Kumar, who works with a housing insurance company on Mall Mile.Deepak Maini, the general secretary, Federation of Indian Industry, Haryana chapter, said that almost all factories were open on Tuesday and barring a few supply issues, their functioning was largely unaffected.“Almost all factories remained opened in the city and business was as usual. We had anticipated issues in regards to the supply of goods due to the nationwide protest. However, barring one or two factories, which faced minor difficulties in this regard, factories and industries operated at their optimum capacity,” said Maini.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/daily-commuters-take-advance-measures-to-avoid-roads/story-rBPez1yhufd6AZTGdvahMJ.html
08-12-2020||Jaipur||Congress misleading farmers with ‘Bharat Bandh’: Rajasthan BJP chief||Rajasthan BJP president Satish Poonia on Tuesday accused the Congress of misleading farmers in the name of ‘Bharat Bandh’ in protest against the Centre’s farm laws. Poonia tweeted that the Congress is misleading farmers pointing out that the party will never succeed on this front. According to Poonia, the Centre has increased the minimum support price (MSP) by 1.5 times as compared to the UPA regime, whereas the Congress is spreading confusion about it. He said the central government has increased the support price of 24 crops by 1.5 times and is making the farmers self-sufficient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/congress-misleading-farmers-with-bharat-bandh-rajasthan-bjp-chief/story-BFrdMnBmrEhJPqZ65ICDnI.html
08-12-2020||City||576 fresh cases, 8 deaths in Pune district||PUNE The state health department, on Tuesday, reported over 576 fresh Covid-19 cases and eight deaths in 24 hours in Pune district. The district final Covid tally stands at 3.58 lakh cases, of which 3.35 lakh have recovered, 7,617 is the death toll and 15,344 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation. Pune rural reported 164 new cases taking its final count to 85,789. One death on Tuesday put the death toll at 1,986, according to the state health department. Pune city reported 285 fresh cases taking the total count to 1,83,007. Six deaths on Tuesday took the death toll to 4,330. The PCMC reported 127 fresh cases taking its final count to 90,149. One death on Tuesday put the death toll at 1,266. The state health department reported 6,365 patients discharged on Tuesday. The recovery rate in the state is 93.42%. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.57%. Currently, 5,48,961 people are in home quarantine and 5,617 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/576-fresh-cases-8-deaths-in-pune-district/story-VtEamaP65XJ0YVkwZgnM2O.html
08-12-2020||Pune||54-yr-old Yemini national with hemifacial spasm treated successfully at city hospital||Doctors from a city-based hospital treated a 54-year-old Yemini national with a rare brain nerve adhesion. The condition, hemifacial spasm, resulted in a twisted face and involuntary twitching since the past 17 years. While treating her, doctors feared that a surgery around the brainstem was risky as any damage could have caused paralysis. However, the surgery was a success giving the patient a new hope at life. Speaking about the patient, Dr Pravin Survashe, consultant neurosurgeon with Columbia Asia Hospital, where the patient was treated, said that the patient was suffering from facial spasm. “The facial muscles became stiff over time and so, the patient had a twisted face. For the last two years, the patient had been visiting London to take Botox treatment which did not give her any result even after three to four sessions,” said Dr Survashe. Dr Bhushan Joshi, the neurologist who diagnosed the patient said that the MRI scan showed a swollen blood vessel on her face which was attached to the artery which was the reason for her condition.“We took a chance on the basis of clinical judgement and decided to operate. A three-cm size hole was drilled in the skull to perform the surgery which was very high-risk as it takes place around the brainstem and any damage can lead to paralysis or other complications. During the surgery, Dr Survashe separated the nerve from the blood vessel and put a small piece of sponge like material in between so that the blood vessel did not irritate the nerve. This drastically improved her condition. The patient still needs medication, but her condition has improved,” said Dr Joshi.Dr Survashe added that as a part of the diagnosis, an MRI of her brain was done. Earlier brain MRIs were done, but none showed a loop of blood vessels.“There was a blood vessel adhesion to the facial nerve in the brain which stimulates the nerve with every pulsation. Medically, such phenomena are known as arachnoid adhesions. That led to sudden twisting of the face. We performed a five-hour-long minimally invasive surgery on her to free the adhesion between the artery and facial nerve. By evening same day, she was able to smile normally,” said Dr Survashe.Dr Sandeep Borse, neurophysician from Pimple Saudagar said that the surgery is a major one and requires a highly trained surgeon. “The overall complication for this surgery is similar to other neurosurgeries. The frequency of such cases is around nine persons per 1,00,000 population. Such cases are difficult to diagnose by regular doctors however, neurologists may get such patients frequently,” said Dr Borse.What is Hemifacial spasm?*Hemifacial spasm is a condition in which one side of the face gets twisted and has involuntary twitching. *It is a rare nervous system disorder that affects nine people per 1,00,000 in India.*The treatment is considered difficult as the surgical intervention involves opening the skull.Though it affects both men and women, hemifacial spasm is more common in women over the age of 40.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/54-yr-old-yemini-national-with-hemifacial-spasm-treated-successfully-at-city-hospital/story-1F23DrBJD2EcUrgl4MfL0L.html
08-12-2020||Delhi||NDMC Budget: No new taxes, transfer duty hike by 1%||The cash-strapped North Delhi Municipal Corporation has not proposed any new taxes in its annual budget presented on Tuesday, which also said there is a proposal to increase transfer duty by 1% for change in name of properties worth over Rs 25 lakh.Additional Commissioner in the NDMC, Swati Sharma presented the revised budget estimates for 2020-21 and budget estimates for 2021-22 on behalf of Municipal Commissioner Gyanesh Bharati at the Civic Center here.The civic body in a statement said no new taxes have been proposed in the budget.The proposal to increase transfer duty by one per cent for change in the name of properties worth over Rs 25 lakh has been sent to the Delhi government, it said.The budget also said that Hindu Rao Hospital served as a dedicated Covid-19 Hospital from mid-June June to October 13; and 5,236 tests have been done till date, out of which 1,291 cases were found positive, the statement said.“All maternity and child welfare units have been designated as call centres for Covid-19 and 60,592 calls were received. Twenty lakh households surveyed as a part of the pandemic survey; two lakh rapid antigen tests have been done and 15,000 RT-PCR tests till date in health institutions of the NDMC,” it added.The NDMC is also bringing a proposal to set-up e-charging and battery swap stations for e-vehicles on the roads in its jurisdiction. In the beginning, sites would be identified out of its 127 parking lots, which could be increased later, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ndmc-budget-no-new-taxes-transfer-duty-hike-by-1/story-hBJTBVZhSgcGnTHcPJP7yK.html
08-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police head constable suspended on extortion charges||Probing into a liquor contractor’s allegations of extortion by two cops posted in its crime branch, the Chandigarh Police on Tuesday suspended one of the two head constables. Pawan was suspended after a preliminary investigation report termed his behaviour “suspicious”. He has been sent to the police lines, while the probe continues and will be summoned for questioning.The action came nine days after a liquor contractor submitted a video clip, accusing two cops of extorting Rs 96,000 per month for the past few months for the eight liquor vends he operated in the city. Following his complaint, a case under Section 383 (extortion) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 13 (1) the Prevention of Corruption Act was registered at the Sector 39 police station against unidentified persons on November 29. Later, the clip helped the police identify the police personnel as head constables Pawan and Anil. However, it did not show any money being exchanged. “Pawan was suspended after we received a communication from the investigation officer that his behaviour appeared suspicious. His role is being probed further,” said superintendent of police (SP) Manoj Kumar Meena. SIT formedMeanwhile, police have constituted a special investigation team, comprising two station house officers and two sub-inspectors, who will be working under the supervision of assistant superintendent of police (ASP, South) Shruti Arora. “So far, the role of head constable Pawan has emerged with regards to the complaint and further investigation is on to establish Anil’s involvement,” said ASP Arora.Apart from this case, police say four more liquor contractors had also approached them alleging extortion. However, they had not provided any evidence and their complaints were being verified. One December 2, a ghee supplier from Haryana’s Barwala had alleged extortion by crime branch cops. He had accused the police of taking Rs 18,000 from his pocket and asking for another Rs 3.7 lakh to get his ghee samples passed. Before this, on November 26, inspector Ranjit Singh, of the operations wing of Chandigarh Police, was transferred to police lines after an inquiry began against him into a complaint by a liquor contractor of Rs 2.5-lakh extortion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-police-head-constable-suspended-on-extortion-charges/story-duSIvtslXGhpMdPYvsV9AO.html
08-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi reports 3,188 new coronavirus cases, 57 deaths||India continues to witness high number of coronavirus (Covid-19) cases with the national capital on Tuesday reporting 3,188 fresh virus cases and 57 deaths, according to the health bulletin. The city has so far recorded 5,97,112 Covid-19 infections and currently has 22,310 active cases.According to Delhi health bulletin, a total number of 75,409 coronavirus tests have been conducted in the city in last 24 hours. The positivity rate in the national capital currently stands at 4.23 per cent. As per the data obtained in last 10 days, the death rate stands at 2.16 per cent. As many as 9,763 people have died in the national capital due to coronavirus, while a total number of 5,65,039 people have recovered from Covid-19 so far. Union health ministry on Tuesday said that three Covid-19 vaccines candidates, developed by Bharat Biotech, Serum Institute of India and Pfizer, are under consideration of drug regulator for granting early license for all or any of them. The Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech have applied for emergency use approval (EAU) of their respective vaccine candidates against coronavirus in India, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare secretary Rajesh Bhushan said during a press briefing earlier today. “Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech have applied to Emergency Use Approval. PM Modi has interacted with all vaccine manufactures and scientists. 6 vaccine candidates in clinical trial stage in India,” the health ministry said. Astra Zeneca and Pfizer have already applied for EAU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-reports-3-188-new-coronavirus-cases-57-deaths/story-nqcLrCnXtWsqJ5z5zCV7kK.html
08-12-2020||Pune||Mohammadwadi residents demand public amenity plots converted into garden and public library||Pune: The residents of Mohammadwadi, NIBM (National Institute of Bank Management) and Undri are seeking the open spaces in the neighbourhood to be converted into public park and public library. Citizens living at the neighbourhood of an underutilised one acre plot are requesting the administration to convert the open space into a public garden. Another plot located in the area and turned into a garbage dump, residents seek it to be converted into a library. At least 2,000 residents led by Ganga Kingston Society in Mohammadwadi have petitioned prime minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray seeking direct intervention of their office into sanctioning of playground, public garden and community library for the area.The citizen group has demanded setting up of a playground-cum-garden at survey number 39 plot located near the society’s building. Also, setting up of a public library at survey number 36 located in front of Gemini Housing Society. The petition states “the amenity spaces are to be utilised for playground, garden, park, yoga meditation parks, forest gardens and community libraries. The citizens require amenities like urban forests, groundwater recharge parks, dug wells, animal shelters, community agri produce gardens, sports academies. The non-availability of amenity space for the above stated objectives means those essential services, amenities do not get rendered effectively to the public as quite evident in the case”. Ganga Kingston Society secretary Daljeet Goraya said, “We demand immediate scrapping of plans to either lease or sell the public amenity plots. Currently, Mohammadwadi is reeling under sever water crisis due to destruction of environment by land mafia and other criminal syndicates. We have been pursuing our case with the PMC since 2018. PMC had denied us even our legally sanctioned road for which we fought for ten years and won our right through legal cases against the civic body and seeking help from PMO. This time too, we are keeping all our legal options open if our legitimate demands are not met with ,” he said.PMC mayor Muralidhar Mohol said, “We will recommend the requests made by civic groups to the PMC and ensure that their requests are dealt with positively.” Another resident Rutuja Pawar said, “PMC must not go against the wishes of the people and immediately issue orders for playground-cum- garden and community library in our area. Citizens expect things which will increase their standard of living and PMC must come up to the aspirations of the people,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/mohammadwadi-residents-demand-public-amenity-plots-converted-into-garden-and-public-library/story-z7GkfP7sFzTdJCd3TpLUnI.html
08-12-2020||Pune||Three arrested for planning dacoity at a petrol pump in Kothrud||PUNE: Three men were arrested on Monday while their three accomplices escaped after their dacoity attempt at a petrol pump in Kothrud was foiled by the police. The arrested were identified as Sameer Ankush Pasalkar (23) of Kelewadi in Kothrud, Pramod Baliram Sathe (29) of Balgudi in Mulshi and Hrushikesh Rajendra Thakur (21) of Matarwadi in Mulshi, according to the police. “The six men were found by policemen of Kothrud police station around 10:15pm on Sunday on two motorbikes parked at an empty space near a petrol pump. On being apprehended by the police, the arrested trio who carried weapons confessed to have been planning a dacoity at a nearby Shell petrol pump. There three accomplices managed to flee taking advantage of the night,” said sub-inspector Santosh Patil of Kothrud police station who is investigating the case.A case under Sections 399 (making preparation to commit dacoity), 402 (assembling for purpose of committing dacoity), 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 142, 37(1)(3)(135 of Maharashtra Police Act; Section 4(25) of Arms Act, and Section 7(1) of Criminal Law Amendment Act was registered at Kothrud police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/three-arrested-for-planning-dacoity-at-a-petrol-pump-in-kothrud/story-PZeMLT3igsynZCttHt67HO.html
08-12-2020||Pune||Non-payment of food bills: 4 held in two separate incidents for attacking owner, staff||PUNE: In two separate incidents, four men were arrested for attacking shopkeepers and staff who refused on credit alcohol in one case and chicken dish in another on Sunday night. In the first case, four men who consumed beer at a wine shop SK Beer Shopee at Kalepadal in Hadapsar around 6pm on Sunday refused to pay the full amount. When the shopkeeper refused to provide credit and asked for payment upfront, he was attacked by the accused, according to a complaint lodged in the matter. The complaint was lodged by the owner of a medical shop located adjacent to the alcohol shop. On Monday, the city police arrested one of the four, identified as Pratik alias Nanya Navnath Shende (18) of Kalepadal area. Three others are on the run. According to the complaint, the four accused used bamboos to damage the glass counter of the liquor shop and the complainant’s shop. One of the four attacked the complainant in the stomach with the blunt end of a sickle blade and snatched Rs 3,800 from the broken counter. The four then damaged the glass counters of three more shops. A case under Sections 394, 395, 427, 504, 506, 34 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with Section 37(1) with 135 of Maharashtra Police Act; Section 4(25) of Arms Act and Section 7(1) of Criminal Law Amendment Act was registered at Wanowrie police station. Hours after this incident, at 9:50pm, three men attacked the owner of a restaurant in Bhawani peth. The arrested trio has been identified as Baban alias Arbaz Iqbal Shaikh (22) of Bhawani peth, Athar Muzaffar Sayyed (23) of Gurunanaknagar and Saklain Yunus Qureshi (20) of Kondhwa, according to the police. According to the complaint, one of accused asked for a chicken tandoori dish to be served on credit. However, a worker at the restaurant insisted on payment and it led to a scuffle between them. The worker’s uncle, who is also a staff at the restaurant, intervened and was assaulted on his head and back by wooden rods that was picked by the trio from a nearby construction site. A case under Sections 307 (attempted murder), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation), 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 7(1) of Criminal Law Amendment Act was registered at Samarth police station against the three.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/non-payment-of-food-bills-4-held-in-two-separate-incidents-for-attacking-owner-staff/story-zlpxifzOLJGgg1TunmfD4I.html
08-12-2020||Chandigarh||Eight dead in Mohali, Chandigarh, 251 found positive for Covid-19||As many as five people succumbed to Covid-19 in Mohali and three people died in Chandigarh on Tuesday, while Panchkula reported no casualty.The tricity also reported 251 fresh Covid cases. Chandigarh led the daily case tally with 126 cases, followed by Mohali with 69 and Panchkula 56.Chandigarh’s Covid toll rose to 296 with the death of a 66-year-old woman from Sector 50 and two men, aged 86 and 75, from Sector 37 and Sector 38, respectively The city’s Covid count stands at 18,239, of which 921 patients are still infected and 16,981 have been discharged. In Mohali, the total deaths reached 299 and the case tally 16,542.Out of the 69 new cases, 59 were from Mohali city, five from Lalru, four from Dera Bassi and one from Dhakoli. As many as 113 patients recovered from the virus on Tuesday, bringing down the number of active patients to 2,228. Till now, 14,015 patients have been cured. Civil surgeon Dr GB Singh said all five deceased had comorbidities and were admitted at different hospitals. They were cremated as per safety protocols, he added. With 56 people testing positive, Panchkula’s case tally reached 9,236.Among these, 531 cases are active, while 8,570 patients have recovered and 135 have died. Most of Tuesday’s cases were from the city and 12 were reported from Amravati Enclave, Barwala, Bhaina Tibba, Fatehpur, Khatoli, Madanpur and Maheshpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/eight-dead-in-mohali-chandigarh-251-found-positive-for-covid-19/story-Fs3KIfVIii233g8WsX0ruI.html
08-12-2020||City||Truck collides with bike; rider’s leg fractured||PUNE: A 64-year-old restaurant owner was left with a fractured leg after a truck rammed into his two-wheeler as he was crossing a junction in Khed on Saturday.The injured man was identified as Ramesh Vithoba Gore a resident of Chakan.The driver fled the spo,t however, the injured man was rushed to a hospital by onlookers.“The case was registered only yesterday (Monday) night. We had called his children but they could not come in today. The container truck is suspected to be registered in Hingoli area of Maharashtra.“There is a chowk that brings traffic from three major roads to one place, where the accident happened. There is a signal but the traffic is also heavy. One road brings traffic from Pune, Shikrapur, Talegaon; the other brings traffic from Ambethan, and one connects Chakan to highway. And a little ahead of the accident spot, a flyover begins. It’s an accident-prone chowk,” said Police Naik S Chaudhury of Chakan police station who is investigating the case.A case under Sections 279, 337, 338 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 184, 134, and 177 of Motor Vehicle Act has been registered at Chakan police station against the unidentified container driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/truck-collides-with-bike-rider-s-leg-fractured/story-tVElhTH7gZVrKBiYmWZPrN.html
08-12-2020||City||Pawar meets defence min to clear Purandar airport land acquisition||PUNE Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Sharad Pawar, on Tuesday, meet Union defence minister Rajnath Singh to discuss the proposed International airport at Purandar, outside Pune.As Pawar was meeting Rajnath Singh in New Delhi during the nation-wide farmers’ protest, eyebrows were raised in political circles, but Pawar himself clarified that he went to discuss the land acquisition issue at the proposed Purandar airport in Pune district.The airport site for Purandar is finalised and the administration had prepared various options for land acquisition. Recently, Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar instructed the district administration to speed up the process for land acquisition for the airport.Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao had earlier said, “We had prepared various options for land acquisition. Even two to three meetings had been happened for same issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pawar-meets-defence-min-to-clear-purandar-airport-land-acquisition/story-fWk9atE2AyQNB5KVkEtWPM.html
08-12-2020||Pune||Pune sees slight rise in temperature||Pune, on Tuesday, reported a rise in the day as well as night temperature providing a respite to citizens from the cooler winds. As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the day temperature in the city was at 31.4 degrees Celsius and night temperature was 11.8 degrees Celsius.Dr SD Sanap, Scientist C with the weather forecasting department of IMD, Pune, said that in the coming days, the temperature is expected to gradually increase.“The day and night temperature may witness a gradual increase making the day and night pleasant. As of now, the models do not forecast any immediate drop in temperature. The day temperature in the coming days may remain around 32 degrees Celsius,” said Dr Sanap.The day temperature reported in Pune was 2.6 degrees more than the normal and the night temperature was 0.4 degrees more than the normal temperature. The normal day temperature was expected to be 28.8 degrees Celsius and night temperature was expected to be 11.4 degrees Celsius.Speaking about why the day temperature has not seen any drastic fall over the last few days, Dr Sanap noted that there was a chill in the air because of the cooler north easterly winds. “However, the city had clear skies because of which the warmer radiations of the sun could penetrate better giving a warm day as compared to the night. The cooler winds from the north further aided the drop in night temperature,” said Dr Sanap.Many parts of the state continue to witness the chilling nights. On Tuesday, the lowest minimum temperature in the state was recorded at Parbhani, Marathwada, at 10.8 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-sees-slight-rise-in-temperature/story-XIxsDQgFvBvdbppjiHDaGP.html
08-12-2020||City||Dist admin brings in religious leaders to ensure smooth Covid vaccination drive||PUNE The district administration, as part of its district task force formulated for vaccine distribution and management, has also decided to include representatives of various religions who have a strong influence among followers in the city. The decision was taken following a reluctance of some citizens to previous vaccination drives. A senior officer who was part of the first meeting to constitute the task force said, “We had faced a resistance from people during the earlier polio vaccination drive. To fight the crises we had included some religious leaders to clear rumours and encourage people to get their kids vaccinated. It had helped last time. This time too we are planning to include influential people from various religions. Although they were not present at the first meeting, they were informed via email that we might need their cooperation in future.” The officer, who asked to remain anonymous, said, “During the beginning of the pandemic we saw many rumours floating around which led to panic and fear mongering among people, which is possible during the vaccination drive too.” District collector Rajesh Deshmukh said, “They were not part of the meeting, but this would be a long and continuous vaccination drive and so we might include them in future if need be.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dist-admin-brings-in-religious-leaders-to-ensure-smooth-covid-vaccination-drive/story-DWD1KiAQnvHKqtvQK8MpEO.html
08-12-2020||Kolkata||BJP worker shot in Siliguri rally would’ve lived had he listened to wife||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker Ulen Roy, who died of gunshot injuries under mysterious circumstances during a pitched battle between his fellow workers and the police at Siliguri town in north Bengal on Monday, might have lived had he listened to his wife. As the BJP demanded a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and dismissed claims by the state police that Roy was shot by someone in the rally, his family said that he went to attend the event ignoring requests from his wife. A resident of Main Ghora village in the Bhaktinagar police station area of Jalpaiguri district, Roy left home early on Monday morning to participate in the BJP rally, the purpose of which was to march to Uttar Kanya, the state secretariat in north Bengal, in protest against policies of the government. Roy’s wife, Malati, wanted him to take their daughter to a local school in Jalpaiguri for admission in class 5. Roy, the only bread earner in the family, did not listen to her. As the family waited for his return, the news of his death arrived. The couple has two teenage sons as well. Also read: No midway, just ‘yes’ or ‘no’ from Amit Shah at today’s meeting, says farmers’ leader“I asked my husband not to go to the rally as it was more important to get Chintamani, our daughter, admitted in class 5 at Lalitabari High School. He said he would be back by 3 pm. Our life has been shattered,” said Malati Roy. “We are BJP supporters, like many more in this village” she added.Roy’s elder son Buddhadeb is in class 9 and the younger one, Sagar, is a student of class 6. Roy’s father, who is now 90, had once contested the local gram panchayat election for the Congress. The family lives in a wooden house in Baikantapur forest and elephants regularly raid the village. The family owns a small tea garden spread over three bighas of land. Ulen Roy used to work as a daily wage labourer as well to sustain the family.Atul Singha, a resident, said, “The BJP is rapidly expanding its base in this area. In the 2018 gram panchayat polls, the BJP candidate lost by a margin of only 11 votes.” On Monday, the BJP workers clashed with police when they were stopped on their way. As tear gas and water cannons were used to disperse the crowd, Roy collapsed. On Tuesday, four BJP Lok Sabha MPs visited the bereaved family and assured that they will bear the expense of the education of the three children. The MPs, Raju Bista from Darjeeling, Nisith Pramanik from Cooch Behar, Sukanta Majumdar from Jalpaiguri and Jayanta Kumar Roy from Jalpaiguri, also demanded a CBI probe into the death. Tapan Roy, a local BJP leader and member of local Sikharpur gram panchayat, alleged that two BJP supporters from the village were picked up by the police who asked them to sign on a piece of paper before the post-mortem examination was conducted. “The Police wanted to hand over the body to them at 2 am. They managed to flee,” said Roy.The BJP moved the local court demanding a second post mortem examination. The court granted permission on Tuesday evening. Dr Kausik Samajdar, superintendent of North Bengal Medical College and Hospital said, “The post mortem was conducted as per the district administration’s order. The body is kept at the morgue. The postmodern can be conducted for the second time once the magisterial order comes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bjp-worker-who-died-in-siliguri-rally-chaos-would-ve-lived-had-he-listened-to-wife/story-PtVMP2uljF7ztFh1jJUGVJ.html
08-12-2020||Dehradun||Director general of Uttarakhand health department tests positive for Covid-19||As Covid-19 cases continue to rise in Uttarakhand, Amita Upreti, director-general of Uttarakhand health department tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, officials informed. With Upreti testing positive, officials at the health department are now tracing contacts as the senior officer came in contact with many. JC Pandey, public relations officer of Uttarakhand health department said, “We have learnt that the DG health has tested positive for Covid-19. She is currently under home-isolation and all those whom she came in contact with in the past few days are being traced.” He further said that the health department office had not been closed for the sanitization process (till the filing of this copy) and the state control room for Covid-19 was functional. Meanwhile, district magistrate of Bageshwar, Vineet Kumar, and chief development officer of the district also tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Also read: No midway, just ‘yes’ or ‘no’ from Amit Shah at today’s meeting, says farmers’ leaderConfirming the development, Dr VK Saxena, acting chief medical officer (ACMO) said, “District magistrate Vineet Kumar and chief development officer DD Pant underwent a Covid-19 test on Monday. The test results came out to be positive the same day and they have been isolated. The health department is continuously monitoring their health.” On Monday, the district magistrate had chaired a meeting with officials from different departments. The district health department is now tracing all the officials who had participated in the meeting and they will further be tested. Uttarakhand’s Covid-19 cases on Monday crossed the 78,000-mark. The total tally now stands at 78,509. Out of 78,509 who have tested positive so far, a total of 71,105 have recovered successfully, taking the recovery rate in the state to 90.57 per cent. The positivity rate in the state now stands at 5.46 per cent. Dehradun district has so far reported the maximum (22,856) Covid-19 cases, followed by Haridwar (12,452), US Nagar (10,480) and Nainital (8,979). The state health department has so far tested 14.37 lakh people of which results of over 16,900 are pending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/director-general-of-uttarakhand-health-department-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-dc7Nj6BXDc5pELqc3AP9nM.html
08-12-2020||Bhopal||4 arrested for trying to shield rape-accused police constable in Ujjain||Police in Ujjain arrested a Class IV employee of the health department on Monday for allegedly shielding the accused in a rape case. According to the police, the health department employee allegedly gave the idea to the rape accused and three others, including two constables, of giving another person’s sample for DNA testing. All four accused were arrested for impersonation, fabricating false evidence and hatching criminal conspiracy to change the sample of sperm and blood of the main accused Ajay Astey for DNA test, said Satyendra Shukla, superintendent of police, Ujjain. Ajay was posted as a constable in Police Line. The accused include Class IV employee Jagdish Kumar, two constables - Tabrez Khan, posted at Women police station, and Ghanshyam, posted at Neelganga police station - and the main accused’s cousin Balram Suryawanshi. Also read: No midway, just ‘yes’ or ‘no’ from Amit Shah at today’s meeting, says farmers’ leader“After Neelganga police arrested Ajay Astey on December 5, Jagdish Kumar contacted him and made the plan of impersonation. Jagdish asked him to arrange a person who can impersonate as Astey in the hospital while giving the sample. Astey, with the help of constable Ghanshyam, contacted his cousin Balram Suryawanshi and his friend constable Tabrez,” said the SP. The SP added, “A sub-inspector Hemlata and constable Ghanshyam took Astey to district hospital on Sunday for DNA test. Tabrez and Balram also reached the hospital. When on-duty doctor H Diwakar called Astey for the sample, Jagdish facilitated the entry of Balram with constable Ghanshyam into the room to give his sample for DNA test.” When the doctors asked for details, Balram got nervous. When the police interrogated Balram, he confessed his crime and took the names of Tabrez, Ghanshyam and Jagdish. All four were produced before the court and were subsequently sent on judicial remand on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/4-arrested-for-trying-to-shield-rape-accused-police-constable-in-ujjain/story-RK5pqpQpRUZfO7dShDVT2O.html
08-12-2020||Lucknow||Bharat Bandh invokes mixed response in UP, SP workers protest||The Bharat Bandh called by farmer unions, protesting the three Central agri laws, drew a mixed response in Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday with shops and offices remaining largely open, while the Samajwadi Party held protests in a number of districts and even holding up a train in Allahabad.Samajwadi Party leaders sat on a silent protest near the statue of former prime minister Chaudhary Charan Singh at the Vidhan Bhavan in Lucknow in support of the bandh. SP MLCs Rajpal Kashyap, Sunil Singh Sajan, Anand Bhadauria and Ashu Malik were part of it.However, life in state capital remained mostly unaffected with District Magistrate Abhishek Prakash saying that attendances in offices were absolutely normal.“The impact (of the Bharat Bandh) was zero in Lucknow as all the markets were open. The mandis were also open,” he said.Ashish Tripathi, a lawyer, said it was a normal day for him and his colleagues, and it took them almost the same time their office as on any other day.“Banking activity in the state was also by and large normal and there was no impact of Bharat Bandh,” Dilip Chauhan, the UP General Secretary of All India Bank Officers’ Confederation told PTI on Tuesday.Regional Manager of UPSRTC PK Bose said, “Passenger flow was less on Tuesday as compared to other days. However, operation-wise it was a normal day for us.” Samajwadi Party workers came out on the streets of Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday, raising slogans in support of the ‘Bharat Bandh’, leading to clashes with police at many places. They stopped the Bundelkhand Express at Prayagraj station, and raised slogans while sitting on the railway track.Allahabad Superintendent of Police (city) Dinesh Kumar Singh said, “Those who tried to hold up the Bundelkhand Express were taken into custody and the train later departed. Our teams are patrolling railway and bus stations and important places. So far, there has been no blockade of traffic and all markets are open.” Abhilash Basak, who runs a tour and travel agency in Allahabad, said, “Almost all the shops in the Civil Lines area are open and it is a normal day for us. Heavy police force has been deployed in the area.” Around 14 Samajwadi Party leaders in Banda were put under house arrest, while in Chitrakoot district, some SP workers who tried to stage a protest were arrested, police said. Some SP leaders in Mahoba were under house arrest from Monday itself. The call for bandh did not evoke any response in Amethi and Kaushambi as shops were open and business activities were normal. Shops remained open in Hamirpur, Jalaun and Lalitpur as well. In Bundelkhand the response to the call for bandh was partial and in Mau shops remained closed.In Mainpuri, lawyers abstained from work and the business at the wholesale grain market was affected, while for other establishments in the district it was a normal day.In Aligarh, hundreds of farmers squatted on a road leading to the Yamuna Expressway and blocked traffic for several hours. Samajwadi Party leader and former Lok Sabha MP from Aligarh Brijendra Singh and a group of party workers were arrested when they squatted a the crossing on the Exhibition Road in solidarity with the protesting farmers, police said.Despite some protests by SP and Congress workers in Gorakhpur, shops were open and traffic was as usual, while there was normal attendance in private and government offices. Police said that some political leaders and workers were detained for maintaining law and order.City Magistrate Abhinav Ranjan Srivastav said, “All markets were open and police and administrative officials were vigilant. Some people who violated section 144 of CrPC (which prevents assembly of five or more people at one spot), were detained to maintain law and order.” SP leader and former minister Arvind Singh Gope told PTI that he has been put under house arrest in Barabanki. Senior Congress leader Pradeep Mathur also claimed that he has been arrested along with many party workers in Mathura.There were also reports of Congress leaders and workers being put under house arrest or getting arrested in Gorakhpur, Azamgarh, Ghazipur, Chitrakoot, Saharanpur and Kanpur. A senior state government official, however, asserted that the situation was peaceful in the state.Rashtriya Kisan Manch president Shekhar Dixit alleged that instead of resolving problems faced by the farmers, attempts were being made to blame them.“This will prove costly,” he warned.Dixit alleged that the minimum support price (MSP) announced by the government never reached the farmers of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh.“The government has to revamp its style of working, otherwise the issue of doubling the income of the farmers will only remain a day dream,” he said.Agitating farmer unions have given a call for a nationwide strike on Tuesday to press for the repeal of the Centre’s agri laws with almost all opposition parties and several trade unions backing the it and many announcing parallel protests in support of the farmers.The three farm laws enacted in September have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The Centre has repeatedly asserted that these mechanisms will remain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/bharat-bandh-invokes-mixed-response-in-up-sp-workers-protest/story-btBK7Nsdp4yOuC70IMFxmI.html
08-12-2020||Pune||Devp rules allow construction on plots up to 1,500 sqft without permission||PUNE The state government published notification for unified development control rules (DCR), which now permits plot holders below 1,500 square feet to erect the construction without submitting the plan to local bodies.The administration claims that this move would help boost redevelopment in the city for small plot holders.Yuvraj Deshmukh, said, “Though the state has published the unified DCR, each city has the right to make necessary changes in the same.”“One plus point is that the small plot holders will not have to take permission for their plan. The plot holders below 1,500 square feet can erect the construction without submitting the plan to local bodies. They will have to pay the development fees and maps to the municipal corporation,” he said.According to the new rules citizens will now also be able to enjoy the benefit of various amenities like gardens, gyms, clubhouse and swimming pool on any floor of a residential building as the Maharashtra government had approved the Singapore model for erecting amenities which will not be part of the floor space index (FSI).Earlier all amenities were allowed only on the ground floor.Ujwal Keskar, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader, said, “There are few small plot holders in the city. We object to the unified DC rules which are against the basic thumb rule of the constitution. It is the interference of the state government in the municipal corporation.”“Three main things of the Pune city are not mentioned in the development rules. There is no mention of the transit-oriented zone, hill top and hill slope and cluster policy,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/devp-rules-allow-construction-on-plots-up-to-1-500-sqft-without-permission/story-xO6TUnODwD9zc5u6eqncPP.html
08-12-2020||Pune||PMC instructs MIT to stop work on hill slope road, remove debris||PUNE In a meeting held with the Maharashtra Institute of Technology (MIT), on Monday, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) issued strict instructions to MIT officials to excavate the ‘internal road,’ as well as clear the debris collected nearby housing societies.This was followed after a week-long tussle between MIT, resident groups and PMC when residents brought to notice that the institute is developing a road along the hill slope of Vetal Tekdi.Following the campaign by residents which within 48 hours managed to get more than 30,000 signatures for a petition for saving the Vetal Tekdi, which is also marked by PMC as a draft heritage site, MIT officials had called for a meeting with PMC’s city engineer on Monday.“We have asked MIT to stop using the road and also move the debris near housing societies. They have given an application, but PMC will not be giving any permission for any kind of work on a hill slope or hill top following environment norms,” said Prashant Waghmare, city engineer, PMC.A stop-work notice was issued to MIT citing unauthorised work on the hill slope at survey number 123 in Kothrud, and on Friday the PMC had dug up the road being constructed and ordered the institute to clear the debris within two days.The residents, meanwhile, have also written to the municipal commissioner stating that “MIT has illegally started construction for a road without any permission from the Building Department. This section of Vetal tekdi, though under MIT ownership is an hill-top-hill-slopes (HTHS) zone and as per PMC’s DC rules, very limited construction activity is allowed, and Vetal tekdi is on the list of heritage sites identified in the Maharashtra Govt notice dated 27th September 2000, which has 46 sites listed under Natural Heritage.”“Any construction activity on this hill will cause tremendous ecological damage to one of the few remaining natural green spaces in the heart of the city. It will bring unwanted traffic to the top of the hill which is an ecologically sensitive Reserved Forest and will eventually lead to encroachments in the form of hawkers, food stalls, hutments and others. Most importantly, it will disrupt one of the largest aquifer systems in Pune and affect groundwater recharge capacity,” stated the letter further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-instructs-mit-to-stop-work-on-hill-slope-road-remove-debris/story-dgOsH9zAJ4LgQv74LfdLtJ.html
08-12-2020||Pune||18-member task force formed for vaccination programme in Pune district||PUNE In the first meeting to formulate a strategy to conduct the first of its kind massive Covid-19 vaccination programme, the district administration has begun by forming a district task force. An 18-member team has been formed to look into this massive vaccination programme.The team will be headed by district collector and representatives from Indian Medical Association (IMA), among others.Although the Covid-19 vaccine is not finalised yet, there would be two doses of 0.5 ml which would be given in an interval of 28 days, said civic officials.All the healthcare workers who were earlier asked to be registered under the vaccine beneficiary programme would be prioritised, reiterated district collector. The number of such healthcare workers is also huge and so the task force would strategise the vaccination drive which would also include help from police forces.Healthcare workers from 98,38 health facilities would be registered under the central government out of which all the government hospital staff has been registered, however, staff from about 1,720 private hospitals in the PMC area have not yet shared the required data, said, officials.Rajesh Deshmukh, district collector, said, “We are still filling in the database for the healthcare workers who would be finalised for the first dose of the vaccine. This would include MBBS doctors and also the nursing staff who will later vaccinate the general public.”“Today (on Monday) we had representatives from all the three cantonment boards, police, education officers, WHO and also the district health officers present for the meeting. We do not know which vaccine would be finalised but this meeting was to form the task force and finalise the tasks for all of the members who would ensure that this massive vaccination drive is completed smoothly,” he said.Another health official on condition of anonymity said, “We would prioritise vaccination for healthcare workers as decided earlier. We have the existing facilities from our polio or measles-rubella vaccination including the required ice boxes, ice lined refrigerator, deep freezer, cold boxes and also vaccine carriers.”“We have schools where the vaccination can be carried out. We would need three rooms one for pre-vaccination isolation, the vaccination room and then the post-vaccination room wherein those administered the vaccine would be examined for 30-45 minutes,” he said.“We would need the help of private hospitals too since this would be a mammoth task to vaccinate the entire district. We do not know the exact number of doses that the city would get and whether or not all residents will be eligible for it, but the number of those to be vaccinated would be in lakhs which needs to be done in the shortest possible time and so we are roping in all possible agencies to ensure that the task is completed smoothly. Even the police are in the loop to avoid overcrowding at the vaccination centres,” said the official.The front line workers who would be prioritised include nursing staff, MBBS doctors, allopathy doctors, medical college and research centre staff, sanitisation workers, ambulance drivers and clerical staff from both government and private hospital. Those health staff who will later vaccinate general public will also undergo training for the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/18-member-task-force-formed-for-vaccination-programme-in-pune-district/story-BmeDjIcnwnIGtfCz2pIcaN.html
08-12-2020||Pune||PMC to draft dedicated health policy for Pune city||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is in the process of drafting a dedicated health policy for the city which is likely to be the first in the country. The policy will be based on the guidelines set by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the central health policy.The city’s recent past with epidemics and the lacking health infrastructure has prompted the civic body to come up with a dedicated policy. Dr Pralhad Patil, senior health medical officer, PMC, who is also the coordinator for the committee formed to draft the policy, said, “This was just the first meeting and so we had representatives from three private hospitals too to share their suggestions. The policy would collaborate the existing health schemes too like the PMC urban poor scheme.”“We have also discussed on trauma care centres for each zones, however, this is not yet confirmed but will be discussed over the coming meetings,” he said.“The new policy would also prioritize the population which needs first health attention and also manpower and building up new healthcare facilities. This would also make Pune the first city to have a dedicated health policy if the policy is set in place,” he said. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, chairman, Maharashtra Communicable Diseases Prevention and Control Technical Committee, who would also be the consultant for the policy, said, “It is in the preliminary stage right now but the policy would also streamline the expenditure of PMC’s health budget.”“The ultimate aim of the policy would be to achieve zero maternal mortality, lower infant mortality and based on universal health care. The policy would integrate the work of other related departments including solid waste management, sewage management and also water sanitization. It would also include the partnership of private hospitals. Eventually, the quality of life of the city will improve,” he said.Dr Dhananjay Kelkar, medical director, Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital, said, “This was the first meeting. The PMC first needs to finalize what it wants through this policy after which we would be able to give our suggestions. It is a good step indeed.”“Pune is a non-capital metro and so it does not get the required limelight when it comes to healthcare facilities. There have to be more hospitals and medical colleges in the city given its history with epidemic diseases and also the population,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-to-draft-dedicated-health-policy-for-pune-city/story-dEgeyGNiGNCbQ3HDmPSArI.html
08-12-2020||Pune||Yulu plans long-term rental scheme in Pune||Yulu, the Bengaluru-based bicycle service provider is the sole bicycle provider currently operational in Pune Before Covid-19 struck, Yulu had 2,000 bicycles in the city, but now, post the lockdown, Yulu has 500 bicycles operational in Kalyani nagar, Viman nagar, and Magarpatta. “We pulled out of Aundh, Baner, and Balewadi as we did not get the support we wanted in terms of footpaths and bicycle lanes,” said Vinit Patil, city head, Yulu Bikes.Yulu has a new concept in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) under the Smart City programme, offering long-term rentals of bicycles, 15 days and more. “We were looking at Hinjewadi and D Y Patil college premises as our main areas for shared rentals but with offices and colleges closed, the rentals were at loss. Hence, we started long-term rentals. The long-term rental bicycle costs Rs 29 per day,” added Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/yulu-plans-long-term-rental-scheme-in-pune/story-LBSZ3d0bgDRPvVR86BYwWI.html
08-12-2020||Delhi||Sisodia says public not being allowed to meet CM, police refute allegation||Hours after the Delhi Police issued a clarification on the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)’s allegation that party head and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal was under house arrest, it said that entry to his residence will be allowed to all after consultation with the CM. The “regular” deployment outside CM Kejriwal’s residence was for his safety, police added. “The deployment which is being seen outside the residence of CM Kejriwal is the regular deployment for the security of the Hon’ CM. We’re coordinating with the CM’s residence. Anyone whom they say they want to allow inside, we will allow,” said Anto Alphonse, DCP North, Delhi Police.Also Read: ‘This is not LoC,’ AAP tweets after Delhi Police clarify Kejriwal not under ‘house arrest’Meanwhile, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said the public was not being allowed to meet the CM.“CM denied permission to convert stadiums into temporary jails for protesting farmers. Now, public is not being allowed to meet him. Does this mean he is under house arrest? Why are all these security personnel posted here?,” Sisodia said.Earlier in the day, AAP had claimed chief minister Arvind Kejriwal was put under house arrest after his visit to the farmers protesting the three central farm laws at the national capital’s Singhu border.“BJP’s Delhi Police has put Hon’ble CM Shri @ArvindKejriwal under house arrest ever since he visited farmers at Singhu Border yesterday. No one has been permitted to leave or enter his residence,” the party tweeted.Delhi Police had refuted the claim and said, “This claim of CM Delhi being put on house arrest is incorrect. He exercises his right to free movement within the law of the land. A picture of the house entrance says it all.” This claim of CM Delhi being put on house arrest is incorrect. He exercises his right to free movement within the law of the land. A picture of the house entrance says it all.@DelhiPolice @LtGovDelhi pic.twitter.com/NCWBB9phDSFollowing the police’s clarification, the party again tweeted, this time with pictures of heavy deployment outside the CM’s residence. “No! This is not LOC. This is CM’s residence. Does the Chief Minister of India’s capital deserve this treatment? His crime? He supported India’s farmers,” the party wrote on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sisodia-says-public-not-being-allowed-to-meet-cm-police-refutes-allegation/story-RMCtKFYJ43NGvSF7fWvSZO.html
08-12-2020||Ranchi||Bharat Bandh: Inter-state traffic, private businesses affected in Jharkhand||The nationwide shutdown over the Centre’s new farm laws evoked a mixed response in Jharkhand on Tuesday with government offices functioning as usual, private institutions and shops closed in some areas, while local traffic was near normal but long-distance vehicles remained off the roads.Protests and demonstrations were held in Ranchi, Dhanbad, Hazaribagh, Jamshedpur, Palamu, Dumka, Bokaro, Sahibganj and Pakur but no untoward incident was reported from anywhere, officials said.Director-General of Police MV Rao said that the situation in all the districts was peaceful.All the central government and state government offices were functioning normally in Ranchi, but the ‘Bharat Bandh’ had an impact on private offices and business establishments.Some private establishments were shut, while more than half were open.Left supporters along with workers of the ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha, Congress and Rashtriya Janata Dal held demonstrations and protests in several cities and towns across the state.There was no significant impact of the shutdown on local traffic in all districts, while inter-state bus services and movement of long-distance vehicles came to a standstill.In Pattabari in Dumka, JMM supporters blocked the road, stopping vehicular movement for some time.In Palamu’s Medininagar, Kisan Sabha state executive president KD Singh led a demonstration along with dozens of activists, protesting against the farm laws.Protesting farmers blocked the Kolkata-Delhi national highway at Kishan Chowk in Dhanbad in the morning for an hour, disrupting traffic.Besides, supporters of the Congress, JMM and CPI(M) blocked the National Highway-32 at Randhir Verma Chowk. They burnt tyres to block the traffic but police removed them swiftly.However, operations were normal in the coalfields in the state. Though the trade unions supported the shutdown, Bharat Coming Coal Limited (BCCL) officials said coal mining and dispatch remained unaffected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/bharat-bandh-inter-state-traffic-private-businesses-affected-in-jharkhand/story-zBdiFLQ7l2A1hPMupoYJtJ.html
08-12-2020||Mumbai||Humanity most important: Bombay high court on Gautam Navlakha being denied spectacles in Taloja jail||It’s high time that workshops are conducted for jail officials, the Bombay high court said on Tuesday while reacting to Taloja jail officials’ refusal to accept new spectacles sent by the family of 70-year-old Gautam Navlakha, a civil liberties and human rights activist arrested in the Bhima Koregaon case and in judicial custody. Navlakha has been in Taloja jail since his arrest on October 1, 2018. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has alleged that till August 2018, he was a member of the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist). On Monday, Navlakha’s partner Sahba Hussain had said, “He is allowed to speak to me only once a week. On November 30, he told me that his spectacles were stolen and that he was under stress. My question is how can spectacles be stolen inside the jail? Particularly, because he removes them only when he goes to sleep.” In a media release, Sahba said that Navlakha’s spectacles were stolen on November 27 and that “It was an emergency, for he is close to being blind without his glasses. Yet, he was not permitted to call home for a replacement until three days later, but even that call proved futile.” A senior jail official, requesting anonymity, said, “When Navlakha informed us about his spectacles being stolen, we told him that he has to look after his belongings. But we told him to give us his prescription...and we also asked him to inform his family to deliver it. We did not receive any response from him after that. Later, we received a courier which we do not accept because of security reasons.” “We gather from news reports that Navlakha has lost his spectacles in jail and when his family took him a new pair, the jail authorities refused to accept them,” said the bench of justices SS Shinde and MS Karnik. “Can this (spectacles) be denied,” the bench asked. “These are human considerations. Humanity is most important, everything else will follow subsequently,” the judges added. The court was hearing separate petitions filed by Ramesh Gaichor and Sagar Gorkhe, both arrested in Bhima Koregaon case, questioning their arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/humanity-most-important-bombay-high-court-on-gautam-navlakha-being-denied-spectacles-in-taloja-jail/story-XRdQXgysFF3szdUM4ZonFO.html
08-12-2020||Delhi||Landfill fires: Delhi assembly panel summons commissioners of East, North Delhi Municipal Corporations||The commissioners of the East and North Delhi Municipal Corporations have been summoned before the Delhi assembly’s environment committee regarding frequent fire incidents at the Ghazipur and Bhalaswa landfill sites in the city. As per the sitting notice issued to the two commissioners on December 7, they have been asked to appear before the committee on December 9. Senior AAP leader and committee chairperson Atishi on Tuesday said the two landfill sites have been major contributors to air pollution in Delhi. “The two commissioners have been summoned to ensure that such fire incidents do not occur in the future,” Atishi said in a statement. She added that the meeting has been called to know the reason behind poor waste management of the municipal corporations, which is leading to frequent incidents of garbage burning and a considerable increase in the height of the landfill sites in Delhi. On November 25, a fire at the Ghazipur landfill that raged for over 12 hours had led to a spike in the pollution levels in Delhi with the air quality reaching the severe zone. Three days later, another fire was reported from the Bhalaswa landfill site. “These fire incidents are making all the efforts of the Delhi government redundant and strict action must be taken against the authorities responsible for the fires,” said Atishi. HT has reached out to the commissioners of the North and East corporations for comment. The report will be updated with their responses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/landfill-fires-delhi-assembly-panel-summons-commissioners-of-east-north-delhi-municipal-corporations/story-VkbsWbLBLHMSMiOL65YUsM.html
08-12-2020||City||Covid-19: MMR’s contribution to Maharashtra’s daily fresh cases increases||The number of daily Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra has dipped, but the contribution of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), which comprises Mumbai and surrounding areas, has increased. The MMR also continues to be the worst affected region in Maharashtra.Of the total 3,075 cases on December 7, as many as 1,050 were reported from the MMR (34.14% of the day’s tally). It is also highest in the first week of December as in the past six days (December 1-6), MMR’s contribution to the daily infections was 27.50%, 30.30%, 33.61%, 31.97%, 33.31% and 31.28%.MMR comprises nine municipal corporations, including Mumbai and the rural areas of Thane, Palghar and Raigad districts. The region has also reported 641,055 cases, the maximum count among all regions till December 7.Pune follows MMR in terms of daily case count. On December 7, it recorded 688 cases, the second-highest contribution to cases in the state. It is also the second most-affected area after MMR with 462,805 cases, as of December 7.It comprises three municipal corporations — Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Solapur and rural areas of Pune, Solapur and Satara districts.“There were concerns that the cases will rise post Diwali, which is not happening as of now and comparatively, the state is getting fewer cases. But the contribution of MMR in the daily caseload has increased as it continues to report over 1,000 cases. It also continues to contribute the maximum number of cases as compared to the rest of the regions,” said a health official, wishing not to be named.The state recorded 3,075 cases and 40 casualties on December 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-mmr-s-contribution-to-maharashtra-s-daily-fresh-cases-increases/story-58YN2QmV6Puj5F6CtCzwGK.html
08-12-2020||Delhi||Unmasked in Delhi? Everyone has a reason to escape challan||As much as a mask is an absolute necessity in the Covid-19 times, it is advised by one and all to not to flout the safety protocols, no matter what! But, quite often, and still Delhi-NCR residents are being caught not wearing a mask. To top it, the bahanas (excuses) that thus follow are hard to ignore for the imagination at play here is stupendous! Here are all the reasons that denizens have been enlisting, when caught without a mask. Read, and laugh out, but don’t follow suit.‘Paani pene ke liye utara tha’A Gurugram-based young professional says, “I was alone with absolutely no one in the car. And I had pulled my mask down to hand around my neck for only a few minutes. Just then a cop approached me and said, ‘Fine nikalo!’. I got flustered and said, ‘Sir maine to sirf pani peene ke liye utara tha bas pehenne hi laga tha’. Yet I was challaned ₹500.”‘Hard to breathe when masked’“I have tried to make an excuse and escape being challaned, but it didn’t work. Cops just don’t listen! I told them I have breathing issues, and that the mask makes it hard for me to breathe. It isn’t exactly a lie though, but yeah I know it’s important to wear it all the time,” says a college student who wishes to stay anonymous. ‘Had to throw the gum’Delhi-based Chim Sharma, an engineering student, shares an interesting incident. “I was at Lajpat Nagar at around 2 one afternoon. While standing by the roadside with my friend, I was casually chewing gum and talking. The moment I pulled down my mask to get some fresh air, a Police jeep appeared out of nowhere, halted next to me, and asked me to pay the fine. To save myself the trouble, I said ‘I was about to throw the chewing gum away and was looking for a bin so that I don’t spit in public, and hence took the mask down. I tried to con them into believing me, but alas, no use! I had to pay the fine.”‘Fine only one of the twins, please’“My twin brother and I were in car and had come out to pick up something from the grocery store nearby. In the hurry to leave, we forgot to wear our masks and just a short distance from our house a policeman caught us without it. When he asked to pay challan, we told him our situation and convinced him to fine only one of us instead of both since we’re twins,” says a resident of Greater Kailash II. ‘Just going nearby’A Gurugram-based college student says, “I’m mostly careful all the time, but this once I missed wearing a mask while stepping out, and my God... the cops caught me! My go-to excuse was that I forgot to wear it; which was also a fact. I insisted that I’m going nearby, it will just take five minutes to come back, and even apologised to them for this miss. I told them that I won’t repeat it ever again. I think they saw my genuineness, and that’s why I got saved from shelling out money for the fine.”Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/unmasked-in-delhi-everyone-has-a-reason-to-escape-challan/story-J8ghA2o0aoowDxvFoxwQgP.html
08-12-2020||Mumbai||Weight of paper can’t be counted while quantifying LSD, says Bombay high court||The weight of the paper used to carry LSD drops cannot be counted while determining the quantity of the contraband material -- if it is small, intermediate or commercial as contemplated under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985, the Bombay high court said on Monday while granting bail to a Thane resident who was allegedly found in possession of LSD doses and charas.Justice Sandeep Shinde said the paper, which releases the drug on swallowing, only carries the drug and facilitates its consumption. “The paper with LSD drops, as a whole, is neither “preparation” nor a “mixture” within the meaning of the NDPS Act,” said the judge.The court said that Thane sessions court refused bail to the accused, Hitesh Malhotra, by wrongly including weight of the papers used to carry the LSD drops in total quantity of the contraband material.Malhotra was arrested by Vartaknagar police in Thane on June 8, 2019, after he was allegedly found in possession of 10 pieces of papers laced with LSD drops. His house search purportedly yielded 13 more pieces of LSD-laced papers and 970 gm charas.He moved high court for bail after Thane sessions court refused him bail on the ground that the quantity of the contraband material recovered from him was commercial. Commercial quantity in case of LSD is 0.1 gm and 1kg in case of charas.His counsel, advocate Suhas Oak, pointed out that total weight of the 10 pieces recovered from Malhotra was 140 milligram, but the weight of the other 13 papers was mentioned nowhere. However, on the basis of chemical analyser’s report, he claimed that the actual quantity of LSD recovered from the 39-year-old was 0.4128 milligram, much smaller than the commercial quantity (0.1 gm).Oak added that the recovered charas too was below the commercial quantity and therefore, there was no legal impediment in releasing the accused on bail.Malhotra was granted bail on furnishing personal bond of Rs1 lakh with one or two sureties in the same amount.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/weight-of-paper-can-t-be-counted-while-quantifying-lsd-says-bombay-high-court/story-XBRQsWYQHjztqasyNgSsSK.html
08-12-2020||Delhi||Bharat Bandh: Delhi Police call AAP’s allegation of Kejriwal’s house arrest ‘baseless, unfounded’||Hours after the Aam Aadmi Party alleged on Tuesday that chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had been put under house arrest, Delhi Police clarified that there is no restriction on the movement of the CM.At a press briefing, special commissioner of police Satish Golcha said, “I would like to clarify that these claims are totally baseless and unfounded. There’s absolutely no restriction. The CM has been making usual engagements and he has been moving out of his residence for any engagement whatsoever.” Earlier in the day, AAP leader Saurabh Bhardwaj had said that no one is being allowed to leave or enter the CM’s official residence since yesterday. The CM had to cancel all his scheduled meetings on Tuesday, he said.Catch LIVE Updates of Bharat Bandh hereBhardwaj also alleged that the Delhi Police beat up some of the AAP MLAs who wanted to enter the CM’s residence for a meeting on Monday, and denied them entry.In his statement, Golcha further said, the situation in Delhi-NCR is peaceful and under control. “The markets are open and there is normal movement of public on the roads and traffic is as usual on all major routes,” he said.The officer also said that there is adequate security to maintain peace and to prevent any untoward incident. “Delhi Police will intervene in case there is any apprehension of breach of peace or if any effort is made to block the movement of any political leader or any person,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bharat-bandh-delhi-police-call-aap-s-allegation-of-kejriwal-s-house-arrest-baseless-unfounded/story-FkrmiOeOcTtVU4gIqVjE1M.html
08-12-2020||City||Bharat Bandh: Lukewarm response, normal life unaffected in Goa||Bharat Bandh evoked lukewarm response in Goa with normal life remaining unaffected and public transport, shops and business establishments opening as normal. The bandh has been supported by Opposition parties in Goa, including the Congress, the Goa Forward Party, the Aam Aadmi Party who are organising a protest march through the capital city mid-morning, but have stopped short of asking people to stay at home or attempting to disrupt traffic movement. Catch LIVE Updates of Bharat Bandh here“The BJP government refuses to listen to the people and farmers were not consulted before the black laws were made. Their arrogance is destroying India and people are suffering immensely. The farmers have taken the lead to make our voices heard and we must all support them,” the Congress said in a statement. “While we stand with our #farmers and support the #BharatBandh, we must continue to keep the #voices of #Goa’s #youth front and center. Let us through our #collective call #SaveGoaNow from a government insensitive to its #people,” Goa Forward Party president Vijai Sardesai tweeted while extending his support to the bandh. There have been sporadic protests against the farm bills passed by Parliament but no massive gatherings because there is no mandi system in Goa and state’s farmers sell their produce via various cooperative societies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bharat-bandh-lukewarm-response-normal-life-unaffected-in-goa/story-vVdWhQ8eoyrDayhv362eVM.html
08-12-2020||Delhi||200 more trucks of farmers to arrive at Singhu border. How police are prepping||As the four-hour Bharat Bandh or the nationwide strike on Tuesday called by farmers protesting against three farm laws is taking shape, the crowd at Delhi’s borders is swelling by the minute as more farmers have joined the demonstration since Monday night and many more are yet to arrive. Security at the borders where the farmer groups are camping has been stepped up in view of the strike.At the Singhu border, police personnel have taken positions along the barricades and at several other points. They have also made a makeshift arrangement with ropes to prevent people from taking one of the two walkable routes along the borderline. The Delhi Police had said on Monday they will take strict legal action against persons who try to disrupt the movement of traffic or people or forcefully close shops during the bandh.Follow latest updates on bharat bandh here A much larger gathering could be seen at the Singhu border than previous days, with the protesting farmers saying more of them have arrived since Monday night. “About 200 trucks laden with farmers are set to arrive at the Singhu border by today afternoon. Many have already reached, hence the increase in the rush,” Anavjeet Singh, a farmer from Balauli village of Ropar district, said.Kamal Singh, sarpanch of Katli village in Ropar district, said that the farmers’ protest has received support from people across the country as well as the international diaspora.Unlike the past 12 days when eateries and small shops at the Singhu intersection would remain open -- though without much business -- on Tuesday almost all those shops were shut.Protesting farmers completely blocked Delhi-Meerut expressway at Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border that connects Delhi and Ghaziabad. Until Monday night, only one carriageway of the highway was blocked along with the service road of National Highway 24 at the UP Gate border that is closed for the past 10 days.The highway, that was forced shut by the protesting farmers around 10am on Tuesday, saw traffic snarls, prompting the Delhi Police to ensure additional deployment of security personnel as well as the traffic police. The farmers, however, kept a passage open for emergency service vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/200-more-trucks-of-farmers-to-arrive-at-singhu-border-how-police-are-prepping/story-t1uyp1yHcCf1oEd66WRxxM.html
08-12-2020||City||Bharat Bandh: Thane wears deserted look; protest remains peaceful||The nationwide bandh in support of the protest against farm laws by farmers in Delhi saw its impact in Mumbra as it was completely shut since morning. In Kalyan, another city in Maharashtra’s Thane district, 40-50 Congress workers were detained as they tried to carry out a bike rally. “We wanted to reach out to more people and had planned to do a bike rally with 150 bikes. However, the police did not allow and detained around 40-50 of our party workers on the spot. We did not have any intention of violence. It was just a step to give maximum support to the farmers,”said Sachin Pote, president, Kalyan, Congress. Shopkeepers and auto drivers in Mumbra joined the agitation on Tuesday to show solidarity with the protesting farmers in Delhi. Police bandobast was seen outside Thane station where members of the Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi protested by raising slogans. Catch LIVE Updates of Bharat Bandh hereHowever, Mumbra wore a deserted look. “All autos were off the road and shops will remain shut till 5pm; this is to express our support with the farmers against the farm laws. We will also have a protest outside the party office in Mumbra at noon,” said Shamim Khan, a party worker of Nationalist Congress Party. NCP members gathered outside the Thane district collector office to protest. In the early hours, the bandh did not have much impact in Kalyan Dombivli, Ulhasnagar, Ambernath and Badlapur cities as autorickshaws and private vehicles were seen plying. Shops also remained open in the morning hours. Later in the day, Shiv Sena and communist party workers thronged the streets at Kalyan, Vitthalwadi premises and demanded that shops be shut. The APMC market in Kalyan was closed in support of the bandh. Although the autorickshaw unions, Konkan VIbhag Rickshaw Taxi Mahasangh in Kalyan and Lal bauta rickshaw union in Dombivli decided to support the bandh, several autos were found plying on the streets for commuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bharat-bandh-thane-wears-deserted-look-protest-remains-peaceful/story-1y2gfGZXCrHoTtQfhD87oO.html
08-12-2020||City||Bharat Bandh: Farmers’ union tries to blocks railway tracks in Maharashtra’s Buldhana district||Fifty protesters belonging to Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatan, a farmers’ union based in Kolhapur in Maharashtra organised rail roko agitation on Tuesday morning at Malkapur railway station in Buldhana district. They were expressing solidarity with farmers’ call for Bharat Bandh. One outstation train, Navjeevan Express, operating between Chennai and Ahmedabad, had halted at Malkapur railway station. The protesters blocked the railway tracks but were removed by the Railway Protection Force, Government Railway Police, and local police.Catch LIVE Updates of Bharat Bandh hereThe incident occurred at 6.50am and the protesters were moved withint minutes. “The protesters from the Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatna were immediately removed from the railway tracks. Navjeevan Express left on time and there was no delay in train services.” said a senior Central Railway official. No outstation train was delayed or held due to the rail roko.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bharat-bandh-farmers-union-tries-to-blocks-railway-tracks-in-maharashtra-s-buldhana-district/story-7bfHFcxY2Li4yFkSkmgbLI.html
08-12-2020||City||NH-9 completely choked as protesters block Delhi-Ghaziabad carriageway at UP Gate||Amid their Bharat Bandh call, protesting farmers at Ghaziabad’s UP-Gate border blocked the Delhi-Ghaziabad carriageway even as heavy deployment of police and other personnel looked on. The protesters, last week on Thursday, had shut down the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway and with Tuesday’s development, National Highway-9 is now completely blocked. Hundreds of protesters who had been staging protest at the blocked Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway on Tuesday morning proceeded to the Delhi-Ghaziabad carriageway as soon as the bandh started from 11am. “The traffic is blocked by protesters on the other side as well and they said that it will be for a few hours. The Delhi Police has stopped traffic from their side and have made diversions,” said Kalanidhi Naithani, superintendent of police, Ghaziabad. Ghaziabad district administration and police had made elaborate arrangements for the bandh but were unable to prevent protesters from blocking the other side of the highway even though it was imminent. They had said they were fully prepared and will not allow blockade of the second carriageway of the highway. Catch LIVE Updates of Bharat Bandh here“We were prepared but did not take any stern action. The protesters have told us that they will remain on Delhi-Ghaziabad carriageway till 3pm when their bandh ends. In the meanwhile, the Delhi Police have also diverted traffic on their side and no vehicle is coming to UP-Gate from Delhi. The other side is already closed,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. The UP-Gate border is part of Delhi-Meerut Expressway project and caters to estimated 120,000 passenger car units on a daily basis. It caters to commuters from Ghaziabad, Noida and Delhi and also to the long-distance commuters who travel to Moradabad, Bareilly and Lucknow among other cities in the state. As both carriageways at the UP-Gate remained blocked on Tuesday morning, commuters used the nearby Kaushambi-Anand Vihar border (Maharajpur border) to move between Delhi and Ghaziabad. Ramanand Kushwaha, superintendent of police (traffic), said there was no disruption at other borders with Delhi. “The traffic is plying normally between Delhi and Ghaziabad at other borders except on NH-9 where it is completely blocked at UP-Gate. However, the volume of traffic at other borders is low considering the Bharat Bandh call,” he added. VK Mittal, president of Kushambi Apartments resident welfare association, said that ever since the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway was blocked, majority of commuters were using the Kaushambi border to move to Delhi. “The movement of commuters continued even on Tuesday but there were fewer vehicles though they continued to move to Delhi through the inner lanes of our locality as well,” Mittal, added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bharat-bandh-nh-9-completely-blocked-as-protesters-block-delhi-ghaziabad-carriageway-at-up-gate/story-3VjGL0DthA4TkMEGuuu1FL.html
08-12-2020||Lifestyle||Delhi-NCR choirs to usher in Christmas with e-concerts, rehearse carols online||If December is here then Yuletide spirit can’t be far. But, this year, the Grinch has come in the avatar of Covid-19, which is proving to be an obstacle to be choir groups in Delhi-NCR, not letting them congregate in large numbers for Christmas carol rehearsals. That, however, doesn’t mean that this could take away the Xmas cheer! Musicians and choirs have decided to share season’s greetings virtually. So, put on your winter finery and log in to watch and revel in these online Xmas delights. Virtual video practice replaces live sessionsCommunity music groups from across the city are prepping to deliver a digital Christmas, and have been preparing for the same both online and offline. Figuring out the intricacies of conducting a live virtual concert, Mukul Singh from choir group of Youth For Christ, says, “We have been meeting in small groups, and practice on video calls as well. The musicians receive their notations via email. For Christmas, we are hoping to incorporate both new and old carols and even a skit, in the video session we’ve planned. We’ve prepared a few songs, in both Hindi and English, which we will soon release on our social media handles.”Keeping tradition alive with safety in mind For 26 years, the choir group The Capital City Minstrels (CCM) has been enthralling people with their performances. Reem Khokhar, a group member, tells us how virtual collaboration is a deviation from their tradition of meeting every Wednesday to practice. “We have been doing that for many years now. But this year, since we have people of all ages in the choir, who need to be safe amid rising cases in the Capital, we haven’t met since March,” she says. The choir members are however keeping alive the tradition of celebrating Christmas season, and training under their conductor Amy Camp. “We are currently rehearsing popular Christmas songs like ‘Christmas is coming’, ‘Need a little Christmas’ and ‘Silent Night’ among others,” adds Khokhar.E-carolling all the way to Christmas!“The biggest challenge is not knowing when we will be able to perform in front of a live audience again, but we’re trying to move forward,” says Aubrey Aloysius, from Gurugram-based Lorraine Music Academy, which used to perform flash mobs across Delhi-NCR in pre-Covid Christmas seasons. “In the pandemic, we have tried to keep students engaged with music, to help them cope with changing circumstances, and we have decided to organise a concert in our virtual auditorium that will glitter and vibrate with the Yuletide spirit and song,” adds Aloysius. As part of this e-concert, more than a 100 youngsters from across the country will sing carols such as Joy To The World, We Wish You A Merry Christmas, Carol of the Bells, O Holy Night, and Jingle Bell Rock, in both traditional and modern styles. “Christmas isn’t complete without engaging with the community, and with e-carolling, we will ensure that the spirit of Christmas stays alive, even as we fight the pandemic, and hope for better days,” he adds. Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/celebrations/delhi-ncr-choirs-to-usher-in-christmas-with-e-concerts-rehearse-carols-online/story-0fo8cmCAU1lFzwUmohy7cN.html
08-12-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers block highways in Hisar, Jind and Rohtak in Haryana||Farmers blocked national highways passing through the state on Tuesday morning in response to the Bharat Bandh called by farmer organisations to protest the Centre’s new farm laws even as Haryana Police issued a travel advisory on traffic disruptions.The farmers blocked the Hisar-Chandigarh, Rohtak-Chandigarh, Hisar-Sirsa, Jind-Patiala, Jind- Rohtak, Bhiwani-Rohtak and Delhi-Rohtak highways.Haryana Roadways has suspended services on two routes from Jind to Sonepat and Jind to Hisar after the farmers blocked the roads in support of the bandh call.Also read: Punjab farmers block highway to ChandigarhAdditional director general of police (ADGP), law and order, Navdeep Singh Virk said: “Almost all towns in the state except Nuh and Narnaul are likely to be impacted by big or small road jams.” He said elaborate arrangements have been made to maintain the supply of essential items and to facilitate the functioning of the public transport system besides preventing violence. “The instructions in force due to the Covid-19 pandemic have also been kept in mind,” Virk said.Vikram Kaswan, a farmer on dharna on the Hisar-Rajgarh highway near Muklan village, said the protesters made way for students going to appear in the Delhi Police written exam besides ambulances and those headed for weddings. “ We are fighting for our rights. If the Narendra Modi government fails to address our issues, we are ready for a long protest,” he said.Shops, malls and business activities remained suspended in Rohtak and other towns. Haryana Roadways employees closed gates at Dadri depot in support of the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmers-block-highways-in-hisar-jind-and-rohtak-in-haryana/story-LI0IznLBYXxldGE9Mzo4TJ.html
08-12-2020||Delhi||Bharat Bandh: AAP alleges Arvind Kejriwal under house arrest; Delhi Police deny claim||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday alleged that the Delhi Police, on the directions of the Central government, “has almost“ put chief minister Arvind Kejriwal under house arrest ever since he returned from Singhu border after meeting the protesting farmers. The Delhi Police, however, categorically denied the allegations and said it is “general deployment” and that the CM’s movement has not been barred in any way.Addressing a press conference, AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj on Tuesday morning said no one, not even domestic helper, is being allowed to leave or enter the CM’s official residence since Monday. The CM had to cancel all his scheduled meetings on Tuesday, he said.“On a day when the entire country is supporting the farmers in the Bharat Bandh, the Central government’s home ministry has asked the Delhi Police to not allow Kejriwal to leave his residence. Yesterday, when Kejriwal, along with all his Cabinet colleagues, went to Singhu border to meet the protesting farmers as a sewadar, the BJP-led Central government got scared. It is the same way as they got upset when Kejriwal did not allow the Delhi Police to convert nine stadiums into temporary jails for the farmers,” he said.Watch l ‘Kejriwal under house arrest; orders from MHA’: AAP MLA slams Centre Catch LIVE Updates of Bharat Bandh hereThe AAP leader said the “so-called” protest of the BJP mayors and other BJP leaders in front of the CM’s residence since Tuesday morning is “a ploy“ to keep Kejriwal under house arrest.By afternoon, more than hundred AAP workers including several party MLAs and other leaders like MP Bhagwant Mann congregated near the cordoned off area outside Kejriwal’s residence at 6, Flagstaff Road, Civil Lines. They continue to sit on dharna on the road and are demanding removal of the barricades from the area. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia also arrived at the spot at around 3.30pm and attempted to enter the CM’s residence. “Everyday I visit the CM’s home at least thrice for different meetings. But, today, the police did not allow me as well. The police said they will decide who can go inside and who can’t. If this is not house arrest then what is? CM Kejriwal denied stadiums to be turned into jails for farmers, that is why the Central government now has turned his house into a jail,” said Sisodia from outside the Chief Minister’s residence which has now turned into a dharna site. After talking to reporters, the deputy CM joined the sit-in being staged by Bhagwant Mann and other AAP leaders on the road leading to Kejriwal’s residence. Meanwhile, the Delhi Police said the AAP’s claim of the chief minister being put under house arrest is “incorrect”. “He (Kejriwal) exercises his right to free movement within the law of the land. A picture of the house entrance says it all,” Anto Alphonse, DCP, North Delhi, said in a tweet which also included a picture from outside Kejriwal’s residence.Later, Alphonse added that it is a general deployment to avoid any clash between AAP and any other party.State home minister Satyendar Jain also took to Twitter and said the actions of the BJP government reminded him of the Emergency in the country. He, along with AAP social media cell, soon started tweeting multiple posts with the hashtag #BJPHouseArrestsKejriwal.AAP leader Raghav Chadha said that it is “absolutely shocking” that the Delhi CM has been put under house arrest upon his return from Singhu Border. “Brute power of the state used to prevent Delhi CM from lending support to the farmers’ andolan and #BharatBandh, apart from violating his right to free movement,” Chadha said in a tweet.Bhardwaj also alleged that the Delhi Police beat up some of the AAP MLAs who wanted to enter the CM’s residence for a meeting on Monday, and denied them entry. Refuting AAP’s allegation, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said, “The mayors and councillors are peacefully protesting outside the CM’s residence. The CM attended three events yesterday and today also, he is free to go wherever he wants to. We just want the government to clear the dues as the corporations are unable to pay salaries to its employees. We will continue our protest till we get the funds.”On Tuesday morning, Gupta along with West Delhi MP Parvesh Verma joined the councillors in their protest outside Delhi CM’s residence. The three mayors had sat on a protest outside the CM’s residence in November. BJP leaders say that last month the government had assured the dues will be cleared. Verma said, “The least the CM can do is call all of them inside and talk to them. The government should clear the dues. But no one from the CM’s office or the government has met the mayors who have been sitting outside since yesterday.” Other BJP MPs are likely to join the protest. (With inputs from Risha Chitlangia)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bharat-bandh-aap-alleges-arvind-kejriwal-under-house-arrest-delhi-police-deny/story-LbjXD4WmuKTtcFJNoDjJiK.html
08-12-2020||Chandigarh||Total bandh in Congress-ruled Punjab in solidarity with farmers’ protesting against three farm laws||The Bharat Bandh called by farmer organisations in protest against the BJP-led Centre’s three new farm laws evoked a total response in Congress-ruled Punjab on Tuesday. Police said the situation was peaceful and tight security was in place to ensure law and order. Though the bandh was called from 11am to 3pm, shops and business establishments, barring banks and medical stores, remained shut in all major towns of the border state since morning. Also read: Punjab farmers protesting farm laws in Mohali, block Chandigarh highwaySome liquor vends were open in Amritsar in the morning, but farmers taking out marches in the city got them closed as well. The farmers asked petrol pump managers to allow the filling of fuel in vehicles only case of an emergency. The farmers resorted to a chakka jam from 11am to 3pm, blocking roads for the duration. Farmer unions blocked the Bhai Ghanaiya Chowk in Bathinda, disrupting traffic on the Bathinda-Fazilka-Sri Ganganagar and Bathinda-Amritsar highways. Jalandhar, Bathinda, Faridkot, Moga, Patiala, Sangrur and Barnala districts also observed a complete shutdown. In Ludhiana, farm union leader Swarn Singh Akulpuri said that the farmers were blocking the Ladhowal Toll Plaza on the Ludhiana-Jalandhar national highway-44 till 3pm. “Punjab Roadways has decided to stop services across the state in the absence of any passenger,” deputy director, operations, Parneet Minhas said. Government schools in Patiala district put off the monthly exams for senior students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/total-bandh-in-congress-ruled-punjab-in-solidarity-with-farmers-protesting-against-three-farm-laws/story-NFi4Lh4BHHf0ElLualuU0O.html
08-12-2020||Delhi||Bharat Bandh: Farmers block Delhi-Meerut expressway, allow emergency vehicles to pass||Protesting farmers on Tuesday completely blocked Delhi-Meerut expressway at Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border that connects Delhi and Ghaziabad amid their call for Bharat Bandh. Until Monday night, only one carriageway of the highway was blocked along with the service road of NH-24 at the UP gate border that is closed for the past 10 days.The highway, that was forced shut by the protesting farmers around 10am on Tuesday, saw traffic snarls, prompting the Delhi Police to ensure additional deployment of security personnel as well as the traffic police. The farmers, however, kept a passage open for emergency service vehicles. A video also surfaced of farmer groups at Ghazipur border making way for a hearse van and its accompanying vehicles. Apart from the Delhi-Meerut expressway, seven other borders that have remained completely closed due to the farmers’ protest are Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Jharoda, Piao Maniyari, and Mangesh in outer and south-western parts of the city and Chilla border, connecting Delhi and Noida, in east Delhi.Catch LIVE Updates of Bharat Bandh hereAs many as 4,000 traffic police personnel have been deployed strategically to ensure smooth traffic. Additional force has also been stationed at marketplaces and residential areas to maintain the law and order. Delhi Police spokesperson Eish Singhal said they have sufficient force on ground to ensure the traffic remains smooth. “The situation is being closely watched at the border areas. Diversions have been made wherever required to ensure minimum inconvenience to the general public,” he said. Police have also arranged for drones to monitor traffic and the borders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bharat-bandh-farmers-block-delhi-meerut-expressway/story-FsVrnKx0vPaPDpFy6dUcxI.html
08-12-2020||Chandigarh||Shops, commercial establishments closed in Punjab in view of ‘Bharat Bandh’ call by farmers||Shops and commercial establishments remained shut at many places in Punjab on Tuesday morning in view of a ‘Bharat Bandh’ called by agitating farmer unions to protest the Centre’s three agri laws.Petroleum dealers in the state closed filling stations to back the call for the nationwide strike. There are over 3,400 fuel pumps in Punjab.In neighbouring BJP-JJP ruled Haryana, opposition parties Congress and Indian National Lok Dal have extended their support to the ‘Bharat Bandh’.Farmers started assembling on highways and other key roads in both states from the morning.“We will hold a protest peacefully,” a farmer said in Mohali. In Ludhiana, a group of protesters squatted on a road to express solidarity with the protesting farmers.Farmer leaders have said they will block key roads and occupy toll plazas during their ‘chakka jam’ protest from 11 am to 3 pm.Police personnel have been deployed in adequate strength in both the states to maintain law and order, officials said.The Haryana Police had issued a travel advisory stating that people might face traffic blockades on various roads and highways of the state.In Punjab, farmer leaders on Monday morning appealed to shopkeepers and traders to keep their shutters down.“We are appealing to people to support farmers’ cause, and we are sure of getting support from all sections of the society,” a leader of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee said in Amritsar.Several unions representing government employees, arthiyas (commission agents) and transporters have extended their support to the farmers’ protest.Besides, all major political parties in Punjab — the ruling Congress, Aam Aadmi Party and the Shiromani Akali Dal have also extended their support.Over 50,000 government employees in Punjab have taken mass casual leave in support of farmers, said Punjab Civil Secretariat Staff Association president Sukhchain Khaira.The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee, an apex gurdwara body, has also announced to keep its offices and institutions shut to express solidarity with the farmers.Haryana BKU chief Gurnam Singh Charuni has appealed to all sections of the society to observe complete shutdown to support the farmers.“Everyone should hold a peaceful protest,” he said in a video message.Meanwhile, the Haryana Police traffic advisory issued on Monday had said “the main national highways, Delhi-Ambala (NH-44), Delhi-Hisar (NH-9), Delhi-Palwal (NH-19) and Delhi to Rewari (NH-48), may also see some traffic disruptions for a short time. The peak time of impact is expected to be between 12 pm to 3 pm”.Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and other areas have stayed put at various Delhi border points, protesting against the new farm laws, which they fear will dismantle the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporates.The government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/shops-commercial-establishments-closed-in-punjab-in-view-of-bharat-bandh-call-by-farmers/story-NvvEjHlH7D4vOJBvjMkTmI.html
08-12-2020||Delhi||AAP says Arvind Kejriwal under house arrest, Delhi Police refutes claim||Minutes after the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) claimed chief minister Arvind Kejriwal was put under house arrest after his visit to the farmers protesting the three central farm laws at the national capital’s Singhu border on Monday, Delhi Police refuted the charges on Tuesday.“BJP’s Delhi Police has put Hon’ble CM Shri @ArvindKejriwal under house arrest ever since he visited farmers at Singhu Border yesterday. No one has been permitted to leave or enter his residence,” the ruling party wrote on Twitter.Follow latest updates on Bharat Bandh here The police also took to Twitter to say that Kejriwal exercises his right to free movement within the law of the land and shared a photograph of the entrance of the chief minister’s house.This claim of CM Delhi being put on house arrest is incorrect. He exercises his right to free movement within the law of the land. A picture of the house entrance says it all.@DelhiPolice @LtGovDelhi pic.twitter.com/NCWBB9phDS“The CM met farmers at Singhu border yesterday. He had said that we will serve them like sevadars (those who serve others)and support them. After he returned, Delhi Police barricaded his residence from all sides, putting him in a house-arrest like situation, at the behest of the home ministry,” AAP leader Saurabh Bharadwaj said in a brief media address.Also Read: Farmers block Delhi-Meerut expressway, allow emergency vehicles to passSoon after the party’s tweet, ministers in Kejriwal’s cabinet also took to the social media site to criticise the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government at the Centre. “Delhi chief minister @ArvindKejriwal’s house arrest means that the BJP government wants to stop every voice that is in support of farmers,” health minister Satyendar Jain tweeted in Hindi with the hashtag #BJPHouseArrestsKejriwal. In another tweet in Hindi, the AAP’s Sanjay Singh said, “Soon after Arvind Kejriwal returned home after meeting protesting farmers at the Singhu border, he was put under house arrest on orders of Union home minister Amit Shah so that he cannot come out of his house to back the bandh call.”The AAP also referred to Kejriwal’s refusal to turn the city’s nine stadiums into detention centres for farmers last month when the protests began. “The Kejriwal that stopped the stadium from becoming jails, today the BJP has made the same Kejriwal’s house a prison,” the AAP tweeted in Hindi.The Twitter attack by the Delhi’s ruling party comes a day after the chief minister and national AAP convenor interacted with some of the protesting farmers and also inspected the arrangements made by the city administration for them at the Singhu border.“I have not come here as the chief minister. I have come here as a sevadar. We support all demands of the farmers. Their issue and demands are valid. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and I have stood in support of the farmers right from the start,” Kejriwal told reporters during his visit.Thousands of farmers, who have been protesting at Delhi borders since November 26 against three farm legislation enacted by the government during the monsoon session of Parliament, have called for a four-hour symbolic nationwide strike and the AAP is among several other opposition parties, including the Congress, Trinamool Congress, Shiv Sena and NCP, supporting the Bharat Bandh call.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/arvind-kejriwal-put-under-house-arrest-after-visit-to-farmers-tweets-aap/story-lxy22Dc0eiaLpsWu52yhpN.html
08-12-2020||City||Bharat Bandh: Anna Hazare sits on day-long fast in support of farmers||Anti-corruption crusader Anna Hazare sat on a day-long fast on Tuesday in solidarity with protesting farmers who have called for Bharat Bandh. In his recorded message, he said his hunger strike at his native place of Ralegan Siddhi village “is to extend my support to the agitating farmers”. “I appeal to the citizens of this country that the farmers’ agitation at Delhi borders should spread across the country. The government needs to be pressured and for that to happen, farmers need to hit the streets. But no one should resort to violence,” said Hazare, who began his fast in Ahmednagar district of Maharashtra. Catch LIVE Updates of Bharat Bandh hereThe 83-year-old social activist, who was the face of 2011 Lokpal bill agitation in Delhi, said this was the “right time” for farmers to come out on the streets to get their issues resolved. “I have backed this cause earlier also, and will continue to do so,” he said in his latest message. He also expressed the need to grant autonomy to the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP) and to implement the recommendations of the MS Swaminathan Commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bharat-bandh-anna-hazare-sits-on-day-long-fast-in-support-of-farmers/story-z1a7i9c4yGwf81foFcsdZJ.html
08-12-2020||Mumbai||Bharat Bandh: Train, buses, taxi services unaffected in Mumbai||Amid the Bharat Bandh call given by farmers’ unions against the three farm laws recently passed by the Centre, traffic in Mumbai was hardly affected with trains, BEST buses, and taxis plying as usual. In Maharashtra, the bandh has been symbolically supported by about 48 trade unions, labour organisations, and social organisations under a joint action task force of Jan Andolanachi Sangharsha Samiti. While the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) market at Navi Mumbai will remain closed, movement and sale at local level of essential items such as milk, vegetables, continues throughout the city. Bank employees’ unions are supporting the bandh but all nationalised and private banks will also remain open. Sanjay Pansare, chairperson of fruits and vegetables traders’ association, said, “APMC is supporting the bandh 100% and so, the market is closed. But this will not affect fruits and vegetables supplies to the city as local sellers are working.”Catch LIVE Updates of Bharat Bandh hereVishwas Utagi, co-convener of Jan Andolanachi Sangharsha Samiti, said, “All labour and trade unions are supporting the bandh. However, no call for a strike has been given by us. We will not inconvenience the common man in Mumbai and across the state. It will be a peaceful bandh.” All retail shops across Mumbai and the state will remain open. Viren Shah of Federation of Retail Traders Welfare Association said on Monday, “We support the farmers’ protest, but will not shut our shops on Tuesday for Bharat Bandh. We urge the Central government to open dialogue with the protesting farmers and resolve their demands.” The All India Kisan Sabha will organise peaceful protests in various parts of the state. The protests will take place between 8am and 3pm. The Joint Action Task Force will from Tuesday organise indefinite sit-in protests at thee places in Maharashtra, along the lines of those in Shaheen Bagh in New Delhi. These are to be called Kisan Mazdur Bagh, and will be organised at Pune, Nashik and Sangli. Utagi said, “Until the Central government repeals the three farms laws and the labour laws, and the state government makes pro-farmer and pro-labour laws, the sit-in protests will continue indefinitely. This is to generate massive support in Maharashtra.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bharat-bandh-train-buses-taxi-services-unaffected-in-mumbai/story-75aPmUNEogOxI3R2lmVd1L.html
08-12-2020||Delhi||Bharat Bandh: Delhi’s mandi associations join protest; fruit, vegetable trade likely to be hit||Trade of fruits and vegetables in Delhi is likely to be hit on Tuesday as several associations in the city’s mandis have decided to join the Bharat Bandh call given by farmers protesting against the Centre’s farm laws.On Tuesday morning, the Azadpur Mandi and Ghazipur Mandi wore a deserted look with only a few traders setting up their stalls to trade fruits and vegetables. The Ghazipur Mandi is also affected because of its proximity to the NH-24, Delhi’s border with UP’s Ghaziabad, which is completely shut because of the protesting farmers. Adil Ahmed Khan, chairman of Delhi’s Azadpur Mandi which trades fruits and vegetables in wholesale, said several traders’ associations of the market along with those in Ghazipur and Okhla have decided not to operate on Tuesday. Catch LIVE Updates of Bharat Bandh Here“Almost all associations within Azadpur Mandi have said they will not engage in any trade of fruit and vegetables on Tuesday in support of the farmers’ protest. Traders have even put banners at all gates of Azadpur Mandi in solidarity with the one-day strike. This is a historic decision because if there are no farmers, there will be no traders in our mandis. But, there is nothing to panic. Delhi won’t face any crisis due to shortage of supplies,” said Khan.However, not all traders appeared to agree with Khan as they said it would be business as usual for them. “It is preposterous to say that mandis like those in Azadpur, Ghazipur, Okhla or Narela will be completely shut on Tuesday. All these markets will remain open and many of us will also engage in usual business. Trucks with the daily supply of fruits and vegetables have already started coming from Monday evening, an indication that it is business as usual. It is only a section of traders who may opt join the strike and keep their shops shut,” said Anil Malhotra, a wholesale trader and member of the Azadpur Agriculture Produce Marketing Company (APMC). Several traders from three prominent APMCs in Delhi – Azadpur, Ghazipur and Okhla – said supplies in the national Capital have already been hit because of the road closures along the borders as the farmers continued their protest for the eleventh consecutive day. “A large number of traders have stopped sending fruits and vegetables to other states temporarily and are focusing only on local supplies to keep prices stable in Delhi. Arrival of fruits and vegetables in Azadpur has dropped significantly from around 11,500 trucks per day on an average for this time of the year to around 6,000 trucks a day,” said Khan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bharat-bandh-delhi-s-mandi-associations-join-protest-fruit-vegetable-trade-likely-to-be-hit/story-vjCVfP2HTyUvZO7ZP6EtnL.html
08-12-2020||Delhi||Bharat Bandh: Security beefed up at Delhi borders; police patrol marketplaces||Delhi Police started patrolling market areas and other public places early morning on Tuesday to ensure law and order in view of the Bharat Bandh call given by farmers protesting at different borders of the national Capital against the three new farm laws. Security at the borders where the farmer groups are camping was also sufficiently stepped up in the wake of the bandh. However, nothing untoward was reported early morning. Deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) and Delhi Police spokesperson, Eish Singhal, said farmers have called for bandh from 11am. “We have our men deployed in the city as well as at the borders. Traffic situation is also being closely monitored. We are conducting regular patrolling to keep a watch in residential as well as market areas,” he said.Apart from the borders, adequate police deployment was seen on Tuesday morning in markets like Karol Bagh, Chawri Bazar, Chandni Chowk and Sarojini Nagar. Police also ensured sufficient presence at the railway stations and inter-state bus terminals in the wake of the declared bandh.Bharat Bandh Today Live Updates: Ensuring people don’t face inconvenience, says senior police official in Gautam Buddh NagarOn Monday, farmer groups had said they have appealed to their supporters to observe the bandh between 11am and 3pm in order to avoid inconvenience to the general public.However, they said ambulances and other emergency services and those travelling to attend weddings will be allowed to ply during the strike.Reacting to this, the Delhi Police had, on Monday, said they will take strict legal action against persons who try to disrupt movement of traffic or people or forcefully close shops during the bandh. Senior officers said around 4,000 traffic personnel and thousands of security personnel will be deployed at the borders and the city roads to regulate the traffic and avoid any untoward incidents.Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava also said that Section 144 of the Code of Criminal procedure (CrPC), prohibiting gathering of people, is already in place in the entire city.“Our maximum strength will be on roads and an elaborate traffic and security arrangement has been put in place for the nationwide strike. Nobody will be allowed to take the law in his or her hands,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bharat-bandh-security-beefed-up-at-delhi-borders-police-patrol-marketplaces/story-vdfxbaw5ARpOkxzvBGa17I.html
08-12-2020||City||Bharat Bandh: UP CM Yogi tells officials not to compromise with law, order||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed all administrative and police officials to make adequate arrangements to ensure that common people do not suffer on account of the Bharat Bandh on Tuesday. Holding a videoconference in Lucknow on Monday, the chief minister said maintaining law and order was government’s top priority and asked officials to deal with protesters accordingly while ensuring that the common man does not suffer. “Make no compromise with law and order and peace under any circumstances,” the CM told the officials with emphasis. Appealing to farmers not to be misled, the CM said the Central and the state governments were constantly working for their welfare. He said officials should contact farmer organisations and their representatives to brief them on the provisions of the new farm laws and dispel their doubts, if any.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bharat-bandh-up-cm-yogi-tells-officials-not-to-compromise-with-law-order/story-xcUUPUQmm3LqotOziUy77O.html
08-12-2020||City||Bharat Bandh: BJP calls for 12-hr strike in north Bengal; train services hit in south||The Bharat Bandh call given by farmers’ organisations against the new farm laws, coupled with the 12-hour north Bengal bandh called by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in protest against the death of a worker on Monday, hit movements of buses, trains and other vehicles in north Bengal districts. In south Bengal, Left and Congress workers blocked train tracks in North 24 Parganas, South 24 Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and other districts. This disrupted movement of suburban trains. Railway Protection Force personnel chased away Left workers at Howrah station but they were regrouping again. The state police however were not seen removing blockades anywhere till 8.30am The ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) has supported the bandh. All parties, especially the Left, were preparing to hit the streets in full strength around 9am. “Our government does not support strikes but the TMC fully supports it. I stand by the farmers in this struggle,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said a rally in Midnapore on Monday while launching her campaign for the assembly polls due in about five months. Also read | Police warn strict action against disruptors, to use drones to keep an eye on protestersBJP workers started sit-in agitation at buses terminuses in Malda, Cooch Behar and other districts of north Bengal. The party is protesting the death of a BJP worker in Siliguri a day ago when senior national and state leaders were leading a rally. Several BJP workers were also injured. The sit-in affected the movement of buses. The effect of the farmers’ strike on roads and national highways was partial till 8.30am in south Bengal. Workers of the Communist party of India (Marxist) and its youth wing, the Democratic Youth Federation of India, staged demonstration at Kolkata’s main inter-state bus terminus located at Esplanade. They also requested auto-rickshaw drivers in Jadavpur and other parts of south Kolkata not to operate. Left workers burnt an effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Esplanade in the heart of the city. The TMC, too, planned agitation in support of the bandh during the day. The CPI(M)’s students’ front, the Students Federation of India (SFI), and 34 students’ organisations from across the nation have united under the banner of All India Forum to Save Public Education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bharat-bandh-bjp-calls-for-12-hr-strike-in-north-bengal-train-services-hit-in-south/story-z73YwQaYj8BE18SHAfOfPJ.html
08-12-2020||City||Bharat Bandh: Life partially hit in Assam; AIKS calls for 12-hr strike||Normal life in several parts of Assam was affected partially on Tuesday morning due to the Bharat Bandh call by farmers’ organisations against the Centre’s alleged anti-farmer policies. While the strike has been called from 11am to 3pm across the country, the state unit of All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) has appealed for a 12-hour strike, from 5am to 5pm. There was much less traffic on the streets of Guwahati, the state’s biggest city, on Tuesday morning. Students who have examinations have been exempted from the strike and so have services like drinking water, milk supply and medical emergencies. Fourteen Opposition parties in the state, including Congress, All India United Democratic Front, Left parties and the newly formed Raijor Dal and Assam Jatiya Parishad, have extended support to the strike. “If the agriculture sector goes into the hands of corporates, it can endanger the food security programme of the government. Farmers have not got their due for their produce,” the parties said in a joint statement issued on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bharat-bandh-life-partially-hit-in-assam-aiks-calls-for-12-hr-strike/story-NKyr3Sc490sNEwR6gmipLP.html
08-12-2020||Mumbai||Buses, essential item transport in Maharashtra to ply during ‘Bharat Bandh’||Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) buses will ply as scheduled during Tuesday’s ‘Bharat bandh’ called by various outfits to protest against the Centre’s farm laws, a senior official of the state-run undertaking said.MSRTC managing director Shekhar Channe told PTI the buses will ply unless there are law and order problems due to the shutdown.Meanwhile, the All India Motor Transport Congress, an apex body of trucker outfits, said it would “join the Bharat bandh and suspend their operations on December 8”.“Transportation of essential commodities like milk, vegetables and fruits have been excluded from the bandh,” said Daya Natkar, secretary of Maharashtra Rajya Truck Tempo Tankers Vahatuk Sangh.Veteran taxi union leader AL Qaudros said taxis would ply in the metropolis as the coronavirus outbreak and the lockdown had already hit the sector severely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/buses-essential-item-transport-in-maharashtra-to-ply-during-bharat-bandh/story-tfBhrAPo0vWWtzTC9bw0hO.html
08-12-2020||Kolkata||Rally turns violent, BJP worker killed in Bengal||A Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker died and several other people were injured in pitched battles between political workers and policemen during a planned rally in Siliguri town in north Bengal on Monday.The police lobbed tear gas shells and used water cannons to stop BJP workers and leaders from moving towards Uttar Kanya, the state secretariat in north Bengal, violating prohibitory orders under section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). The police also used a pink dye in the water to mark the agitators. In response, workers from the BJP and its young wing physically clashed with police and pelted stones at them in at least four places in north Bengal’s largest city. The rally was part of the BJP’s ongoing protests against the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government in the run-up to assembly polls early next year.The BJP alleged that a party worker identified as Ulen Rai from Gajoldoba in Jalpaiguri district was beaten to death by the police during lathi charge. However, police claimed there was no lathicharge and the cause of death was being ascertained.“Today in Siliguri, serious acts of violence were committed by the supporters of a political party during their protest program. They resorted to arson, brick-batting, firing and vandalism of govt property. Police showed restraint and didn’t do lathi charge or used firearms. Only water cannons and tear gas were used to disperse the violent crowd. However, death of a person has been reported. Body is being sent for PM (postmortem examination),” the West Bengal Police tweeted in the evening. To mark its protest, the BJP will observe a 12-hour bandh on Tuesday in north Bengal districts where it won seven of eight Lok Sabha seats in the 2019 general elections. BJP workers held agitations in Nadia, East Burdwan, Howrah, Kolkata and other districts on Monday evening. “In no state will you see the government crushing a peaceful democratic movement in this manner. Constitutional experts need to take a note of this,” Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) president Tejasvi Surya said. BJP’s national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, national secretary Arvind Menon, state president Dilip Ghosh and several Lok Sabha members took part in the rally. The party said 40 workers, including six women, were injured. Senior party leaders met governor Jagdeep Dhankhar in Kolkata and demanded a judicial probe into the death of Rai, 50. He died at a private hospital shortly after sustaining an injury in the chest. In the evening, Dhankhar reacted sharply to the state police’s response. “Am stunned and shocked at this judgmental stance @WBPolice. With such a finding recorded and disseminated in public domain there can be no semblance of fair investigation @MamataOfficial!” the governor tweeted. The clashes took place in at least four places, including Tinbatti More and Phoolbari Bazar. Several women in the processions fell ill after inhaling the tear gas. BJP and BYJM workers, who were leading two processions from opposite directions, were spotted pelting stones at the police when they were stopped from moving towards Uttar Kanya.The ruling Trinamool Congress condemned the BJP . “The incident was a public display of the violence the BJP believes in. Its workers provoked the police to open fire. I thank the police for handling the situation. The BJP will fail to create disturbance in the state,” said Saugata Roy, TMC Lok Sabha member and party spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/rally-turns-violent-bjp-worker-killed-in-bengal/story-dvHmn6CMURl4gYQSuniBIJ.html
08-12-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers’ agitation: Parkash Singh Badal seeks PM Modi’s intervention||Attributing the ongoing farmers’ campaign against the three agricultural laws to the abandonment of a federal approach, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) stalwart Parkash Singh Badal on Monday sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s personal intervention to break the stalemate by repealing the contentious laws. “The ongoing crisis needs your immediate and undivided attention. I strongly urge you to show magnanimity,” the former Union minister and five-time Punjab chief minister wrote in a letter to Modi on the eve of the Bharat Bandh called by farmers to protest against the laws. “As a first step, the three Acts in question that have pushed the country into deep turmoil must be withdrawn without making the farmers and their families endure any more suffering in this biting cold,” said Badal. This is the first time that the Akali supremo, who turns 93 on Tuesday, has written to Modi since the SAD walked out of the NDA and ended its 24-year association with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the farm laws that have pitched farmers’ bodies against the Centre. The issue, Badal said, does not concern farmers alone but affects the entire economic fabric of the country because traders, businessmen, shopkeepers and workers are directly affected by it. In a scathing critique of the Modi government, Badal said the roots of the ongoing crisis lie in the abdication of a commitment to the federal approach. “The farmers’ crisis is not the only instance where this inclusive approach to nation building has been ignored or abandoned.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmers-agitation-parkash-singh-badal-seeks-pm-modi-s-intervention/story-POsHXaAomWQWSnxx5hhxbN.html
08-12-2020||Lucknow||SP chief Akhilesh Yadav detained outside Lucknow residence||The Uttar Pradesh police detained Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Monday after he led a brief sit-in protest in Lucknow even as the administration sealed the road leading to his residence ahead of his rally against the new farm laws.Earlier in the day, Yadav, accompanied by party workers, broke through police barricades placed near his residence in Lucknow. As police resisted, the leader squatted in the middle of the road as SP workers raised slogans against the government. Yadav was later detained, triggering protests by supporters.The SP chief was scheduled to go to Kannauj to lead a farmers’ protest after the party gave a call for a statewide “kisan yatra’’ against the laws on Monday, but he was not allowed to leave his residence.Joint commissioner of police, Lucknow, Naveen Arora said, “The police were deployed to prevent any law and order trouble. The Kannauj district magistrate had sent a notice to SP chief Akhilesh Yadav not to visit Kannauj as protests, demonstrations are prohibited in the district. The same message was conveyed to the Lucknow police following which we have acted.”Soon after his detention, Akhilesh wrote a letter to Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla. “I am a Lok Sabha MP and national president of the Samajwadi Party... This undemocratic behaviour of the state government is not only an infringement of my rights as a citizen but also of special privileges as a Lok Sabha member. Kindly intervene, so that my right to my democratic duties is restored,” he wrote.Lucknow police have registered a case under the Epidemic Act and few other sections against Akhilesh Yadav and 28 others over the party’s Kisan Yatra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/sp-chief-akhilesh-yadav-detained-outside-lucknow-residence/story-DRzN40nmhJu4KKuI8uZoLK.html
08-12-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Living a life without fear||Nathu Ram hasn’t been in touch with relatives and friends for a long time. He wonders if his parents are still alive.Even so, “I feel no anxiety,” he says.This morning Nathu Ram is walking through a central Delhi bazaar. The shops are still shuttered. The market arcades are empty except for stray dogs sleeping around here and there. Which is fine: Nathu Ram says he is detached from the world.Indeed, he’s partly dressed in the attire of a mystic—he has a saffron turban. He spends his day wandering around city lanes, singing devotionals and playing music in his ektara (which he’s holding in his hand, but not playing for the moment); and receiving tributes of money and sometimes fruit from people who appreciate his rendition of popular bhajans. Not wishing to disclose where he sleeps at night, Nathu Ram admits that he isn’t completely cut off from “duniyadari (worldliness). “I depend on people to give me money and food... I still have one moh (attraction) left in the world, my ektara.”A native of Alwar, Nathu Ram acquired the stringed instrument “many, many years ago” in a Rajasthan town whose name he can’t remember. The instrument is patched up with cello tape at various places. The street musician refuses to share his age but says “I left my home to be a baba when I was very young.” Never feeling the urge to meet his family again, Nathu Ram says that “when a man becomes a baba, he grow apart from his parents, his brothers, his sisters, his wife if he has any.” Indeed, during the course of his wanderings Nathu Ram has passed through Alwar many times but he never thought of “taking up the street that goes to my home.”As the talk veers towards the ongoing coronavirus pandemic—Nathu Ram himself is wearing a mask—he says that “for me the world itself has been a mahamari (pandemic) but I don’t try to run from it.” He explains—“I have no hope, so no fear... I’m in no hurry to die or to live... I look after my health but not worried for the day when I’ll be ill.”He now walks away, still not playing his ektara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-living-a-life-without-fear/story-HAfffFbfbuow0ELpaBc06N.html
08-12-2020||Chandigarh||PU’s female security guard files sexual harassment complaint||A female security guard at Panjab University has filed a sexual harassment complaint against a senior colleague to Panjab University Committee against Sexual Harassment (PUCASH).The complainant requested action on her previous complaint against a male employee of the varsity’s security wing that she had filed in 2014. She claimed while they had reached a compromise in 2014, which she alleged she was forced into, the security officer concerned was threatening her again after she sought a copy of the compromise.Following her fresh complaint, PUCASH is investigating the matter and has held several meetings already. A PUCASH member, requesting anonymity, said, “The matter was settled between them in 2014 and no fresh incident, which can amount to sexual harassment, has taken place.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-s-female-security-guard-files-sexual-harassment-complaint/story-vfgzqVwL8sZdmyp6odQ7mN.html
08-12-2020||City||Bharat bandh: All trade, arhtiya unions in Punjab announce to keep commercial establishments shut||Nearly all trade unions in Punjab have announced to shut their commercial establishments on Tuesday to extend their support to the Bharat bandh call given by the farmers who have been protesting at the Delhi border for the last 11 days against the Centre’s three agriculture laws. The trade unions have been helping the farmer organisations garner support for the complete shutdown. The Punjab Arhtiya Association has also directed its members across the state to shut down their businesses for a day. Also, truck unions, petrol pump associations and labour unions extended their support to the call. Besides, all major political parties in the state — the ruling Congress, opposition Shiromani Akali Dal (AAP) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) — have asked their workers to make the bandh a success. Punjab Pradesh Vyapar Mandal state president Seth Pyare Lal said it is the moral responsibility of the traders to stand with the farmers in such a crisis. “Though the traders will face financial losses due to a shutdown but since the whole economy of cities and towns is based on farmers, we are with the fraternity. The association has directed its district units to support the farmers,” he said. The Centre must resolve the issue at the earliest as the protests are affecting businesses on the whole, he added. Jaswinder Singh Rana, general secretary of the Punjab Arhtiya Association, said they are also asking the commission agents to visit Delhi before December 9 to stage dharnas with farmers against the laws. “These laws are not only anti-farmer but also against the arhatiyas. Our livelihood is completely dependent upon the farmers. If they lose their land, how will we survive? These laws will gradually make the minimum support price (MSP) redundant and thus decimate Punjab agriculture economy” he asked. Rakesh Gupta, an office-bearer of the Punjab Beopar Mandal, said they coordinated with sister associations and then decided to support the farmers. “The farmers are our backbone as our trade and commerce completely depends on the rural economy. Earlier, it was demonetisation and GST and now these farm laws. Our businesses are going to suffer a lot as nobody from rural areas will come to markets if the farmers are not paid assured amount for their produce,” he said.Patiala-based trader Abhishek Gupta said there has been a sharp drop in the number of customers from rural areas since the farmers’ agitation started. Satnam Singh Bheru, president of the Consortium of Indian Farmers’ Association, said they are receiving a huge response from the traders. “It is a do-and-die battle for the farmers. We are not going to relent and will take this fight to its logical conclusion,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bharat-bandh-all-trade-arhtiya-unions-in-punjab-announce-to-keep-commercial-establishments-shut/story-ZDmcHvIgSmnmfIFGJT6VtM.html
08-12-2020||City||Shaurya Chakra awardee killing: Delhi cops link 2 arrested shooters with ISI module, Punjab Police rule out terror angle||The Punjab Police on Monday ruled out any terror or radical angle in the high-profile killing of Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh Sandhu even as their Delhi counterparts linked Sandhu’s two alleged shooters with a terror module allegedly operated by Pakistan’s intelligence agency ISI after the duo’s arrest in the national capital. Sandhu, who was conferred with the bravery award for fighting terrorism in Punjab, was gunned down by two motorcycle-borne assailants at his house in Bhikhiwind village of Tarn Taran district on October 16. The alleged shooters — Gurjeet Singh, alias Bha and Sukhdeep Singh of Gurdaspur district — were arrested on Monday along with Kashmir residents Shabbir Ahmed, Ayub Pathan and Riyaz from Shakarpur area of the national capital, the Delhi Police claimed. Gurjeet and Sukhdeep killed Sandhu at the behest of notorious gangster Sukhmeet Singh, alias Sukh Bhikhariwal, who is also accused of killing an aide of a Hindu leader in Gurdaspur, the Punjab Police had said. The Delhi cops on Monday said Pakistan is using Punjab-based gangsters for targeted killings as many are inclined towards the Khalistan movement. A senior Punjab Police official investigating Sandhu’s killing, said, “We have thoroughly investigated the case. So far, we have not found any evidence to prove that it was a case of terrorism. We believe that there is no terror or radical angle to it.”“Our probe so far has not found any Kashmir link in the case. We don’t know about the theory of Delhi Police. We have checked all the activities of the pro-Khalistani elements but nothing was found. Gurjeet is a drug addict. It is also possible that he had gone to the Kashmiri men for getting drugs. But, everything will become clear once we get details from the Delhi police,” he added.The Tarn Taran police had last month claimed to have solved the killing with the arrest of 11 persons, including jailed gangsters Ravinder Singh, alias Gian and Sukhdeep Singh, alias Sukh. The police had said Gian and Sukh hatched the conspiracy to kill Sandhu from the Patiala and Ferozepur jails. Gian and Sukh are close associates of Bhikariwal, who had given them the task, according to the police. Gian is a prime conspirator of the Nabha jailbreak episode.Tarn Taran senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale said they were establishing contact with the Delhi Police for the further investigation into Sandhu’s murder. Gurjeet and Sukhdeep will be brought on production warrant soon, he said.Another senior police official said they have traced Bhikariwal’s location to Dubai. Their teams were working to bring him back to India, he said. The Delhi cops claimed on Monday that the gangster has links with the ISI.All-India Anti-Terrorist Front chairman Maninderjeet Bitta, said, “Had the police not withdrawn Sandhu’s security cover, his life could have been saved. A case of murder should be registered against those officers who ordered to withdraw his security. The Delhi’s special cell has made it clear that it was an act of terrorism.” The hearing of the petition filed by Sandhu’s family in the Punjab and Haryana High court seeking CBI probe in the case is schedule on Tuesday. Sandhu’s wife Jagdish Kaur, also a Shaurya Chakra awardee, has also sought a security cover of paramilitary force for her family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shaurya-chakra-awardee-killing-delhi-cops-link-2-arrested-shooters-with-isi-module-punjab-police-rule-out-terror-angle/story-rGH2H1t2a31AuFw3dF89uL.html
08-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn rolls out ambitious parking policy to decongest city||After years of debate and multiple drafts, the UT administration has finally notified the parking policy with the aim to decongest Chandigarh, a city with the highest density of privately owned vehicles in the country. Retaining some of the controversial proposals, such as imposition of congestion chares and linking availability of parking space with vehicle registration, the policy’s key focus is on maximising utilisation of existing parking spaces through community parking.At the same time, it pushes for creation of new parking avenues by allowing multi-level parking lots, even those under ground.Formulated by the urban planning department, the policy doesn’t have any mandatory clauses, with the onus of its implementation being on various government agencies – particularly, the municipal corporation and the UT transport department. The policy recommends community parking in each sector by using neighbourhood commercial and institutional parking lots on rental basis. These parking lots are to be run by the registered Residents’ Welfare Associations (RWAs). It also proposes using the parking of educational institutions post their operational hours. The policy categorically states against converting green belts into parking areas, though it allows for construction beneath the parks. For creating more parking space in houses, it allows for two main gates in the front boundary. It also permits stilt parking on the ground floor of the house. In the group housing societies, commercial and institutional buildings it allows for three-level basement parking. CONGESTION CHARGES Even though earlier drafts of parking policy proposing congestion fee during peak hours came under severe criticism from different stakeholders, including councillors and business associations, the notified policy recommends that MC impose these charges to restrict vehicular volume. The policy, drafted on the lines of the Chandigarh Master Plan 2031, has also recommended that the Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA) register new vehicles only if te applicant has parking available for the new vehicle.SEGREGATED OFFICE TIMINGS, BUS SERVICE FOR STAFFThe guidelines propose mandatory plying of staff buses by various institutions, such as hospitals, public offices, industrial units and IT firms, to discourage use of personal vehicles.“Differential timings for schools/offices among Punjab/Haryana/UT, especially those of Chandigarh administration, will be adopted to reduce the demand for parking,” the policy states. Improving the public transport system with first- and last-point connectivity has been recommended for reducing use of private vehicles. ADOPTING TECHNOLOGYThe policy recommends introduction of mobile apps, which will provide citizens travel advice on non-motorised transport and public transport, which will be integrated with public bike sharing. Use of technology will also allow them to assess parking demand and availability of parking lots in a particular area.Smart parking systems, like parking fee payment through e-wallet and other digital modes, has also been proposed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-rolls-out-ambitious-parking-policy-to-decongest-city/story-5yXlZs4nImFrruPAS07YEL.html
08-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Junior colleges await education department nod for online classes for new students||Following the second merit list for first-year junior college (FYJC) released on Saturday, colleges in the city are gearing up to start online classes for students in the coming weeks. As per admission norms set by the education department, colleges can start their classes after allotting 75% of their total seats. While most colleges reopen after meeting this requirement every year, this time they are awaiting a nod from the education department as the admission process has been delayed due to the pandemic and classes will take place only online. Admissions under the second round will complete on December 9. “We are prepared to start classes as and when the department gives us a green signal. This year, due to the Covid-19 situation and the resultant lockdown, there has already been a delay of about four months in the admissions. We hope that online classes begin soon,” said Satram Verhani, vice-principal of CHM College, Ulhasnagar. After the first two lists, most prominent colleges in the city have been able to fill more than 80% of their total seats. Principals said the earlier the department gives them the nod, the better they can plan their teaching plans for FYJC. “The department also needs to clarify as to what the academic calendar for these students should look like. It is not possible to squeeze in all the exams and the syllabus within the months that are left. Colleges so far have zero clarity in the issue,” said the principal of a suburban college. A senior official from the state education department said, “Colleges can start their classes once they complete the required number of admissions.” From November 2, the department began online classes for FYJC students after a delay in starting colleges owing to the interim stay on the Maratha quota in jobs and education. So far, the department’s YouTube channel has got over 1.42 lakh subscribers from across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-junior-colleges-await-education-department-nod-for-online-classes-for-new-students/story-pYzEINVj9AKrluT82rSF8H.html
08-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s public transport, bank services won’t be hit by Bharat Bandh; APMCs in state to be shut||Several farmers’ organisations, agricultural markets across Maharashtra and in Mumbai will be shut on Tuesday for the one-day Bharat Bandh. However, the daily life of people will not be disrupted as public transport — including autos and taxis — banking services will remain unaffected. Shops, malls and petrol pumps, too, will remain open.Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) in Vashi, Nashik, Solapur, Lasalgaon, Dhule, Sakri, and Pimpalner will stay shut. “All operations at the APMC in Vashi, including supplies of perishable commodities, will remain closed in support of the Bharat Bandh,” said, Rajendra Shelke, director, Navi Mumbai APMC.Sanjay Pansare, the chairperson of fruits and vegetables traders’ association, said, “Operations will be shut tomorrow. Most traders are also farmers so they understand the cause. The market committee association has asked all APMCs to remain shut. All the markets in Nashik district are going to extend support and remain shut. Pune APMC will remain operational because they had a bandh earlier.” Nashik APMC and Vashi APMC provide a substantial quantity of fruits and vegetables for retailers in Mumbai. However, Pansare said the stock and supply will not be affected in a one-day bandh. The Mathadi workers body led by Narendra Patil has extended support to the bandh.Meanwhile, autorickshaw and taxi unions in the city have not called for a bandh and they will continue to ply. Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) undertaking has readied its fleet with grills to protect the window and windscreen, as a precautionary measure, and will continue to provide services on Tuesday. Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) may suspend bus services on a few “sensitive” routes.Banking is also expected to remain unaffected as nationalised and private banks and ATM services will remain open. Devidas Tuljapurkar, general secretary of Maharashtra State Bank Employees Federation said, “We will stage protests but banking operations remain open on Tuesday.”The ruling coalition in Maharashtra —Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congres Party (NCP) and Congress — have backed the farmer’s call for bandh. However, Sena said that people can voluntarily participate in the bandh .“This is not a political bandh called to get some demands met, but supporting thousands of farmers at the Delhi border for the past 12 days is the duty of all citizens of the country. Therefore, Shiv Sena has appealed to all that people should voluntarily participate in this bandh,” said Sanjay Raut, Sena leader and chief spokespersonMeanwhile, opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis took on NCP chief Sharad Pawar over the former union agricultural minister’s stance on the “monopoly” of APMC markets. Fadnavis said the Congress-NCP had earlier backed provisions similar to ones in the Centre’s farm laws and accused them of being “two-faced” by opposing the Acts now.Congress minister Ashok Chavan said the three agri-marketing laws by the Centre must be repealed as it will destroy the farmers and only benefit corporates. “The Congress has opposed this black law in the Parliament and outside. Rahul Gandhi has carried out a tractor yatra in Haryana. The bandh on December 8 is essential to wake up the Central government,” he said in a statement||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/banks-public-transport-will-function-in-city/story-nppuTVZKCRVmbb7sNXkpjK.html
08-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Mercury fluctuates from season’s lowest 17.8° to 35.5°C within 9 hrs||The city witnessed cool and pleasant weather during early hours of Monday as Mumbai recorded its lowest minimum temperature so far this season. However, as the day progressed, warm conditions prevailed indicating a large variation in minimum and maximum temperature.The temperature variation has been continuing since last week with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) stating that it could affect the health of citizens.At 8.30am, Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded a minimum temperature of 17.8 degrees Celsius, a degree Celsius below normal, which was the lowest minimum temperature so far this season. At 5.30pm, the maximum temperature was recorded at 35.5 degrees Celsius, almost 3 degrees Celsius above normal. The lowest minimum temperature prior to Monday was recorded on Saturday at 18.4 degrees Celsius.Doctors said there are two kinds of diseases that can get exaggerated due to large temperature fluctuations. “The first is for people who have asthma or underlying asthma, as asthma flare-ups can happen. Second and most important is that immune system can get weakened when there is such temperature variation. The risks of catching viral infection also increases,” said Dr Sundeep Salvi, director, Chest Research Foundation, Pune.Similarly, Colaba weather observatory, representative of south Mumbai, recorded minimum temperature at 22.4 degrees Celsius, 1.1 degree Celsius above normal while the maximum was recorded at 34.8 degrees Celsius, 2.1 degree Celsius above normal.“The change in weather pattern through the day is allowing variation in temperature. During the day there is cool northeasterly winds, but through the day the pattern changes to low-level easterly winds and a clear sky that allows temperature to rise,” said an IMD official.KS Hosalikar, deputy director general (western region), IMD, said, “The large diurnal variation between maximum and minimum temperatures was predicted by us and has been continuing since last week. This temperature fluctuation could affect health.”Meanwhile, the air quality index (AQI) fell under moderate category at 149 for PM2.5 pollutant. Bandra-Kurla Complex (280), Malad (215), and Mazagaon (204) had poor air quality while Bhandup (63) and Worli (66) had satisfactory air. An AQI of 139 (moderate) has been predicted for Tuesday, the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/at-17-8-c-temperature-at-season-s-lowest-in-mumbai/story-3xsy1qablHe1YXfHEt8DUP.html
08-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees fewer than 5,000 Covid-19 cases for third straight day||Maharashtra on Monday recorded 3,075 Covid-19 cases, pushing the state’s tally to 1,855,341, as active cases further reduced to 75,767(4.08% of the total). The toll reached 47,774 as 40 fatalities were reported in the past 24 hours, officials said.Maharashtra has been reporting fewer than 5,000 Covid-19 cases for the past three consecutive days, which is being seen as a positive sign as the state was wary of a surge in infections after Diwali. However, officials believe that they cannot be complacent as the concern of a surge still persists. The state had already directed local authorities to be vigilant and prepared for a possible second wave outbreak.“The situation in the state has largely remained the same since last month, except for the last week of November, when there was a slight rise in fresh infections. In the first week of this month, the state is again getting comparatively fewer cases. Still there is no scope to be negligent as the danger has not passed yet. We will have to wait for another month to see if there is any change in the scenario before reaching any conclusion,” said a senior official from the state health department.A comparison of cases over two weeks showed that the state has recorded 33,695 cases in the first week of this month (December 1-7), whereas in the last week of November, the cases reported were 39,535.The average per day cases in the first week of both the months — November and December — are also close at 4,860 and 4,813, respectively. Meanwhile, Mumbai continued to record the highest daily caseload with 544 cases reported on Monday, taking the count to 286,597, of which active cases are 12,477. There were 11 deaths reported and the toll in the city has reached 10,907.Nagpur city contributed the second-highest infections in the daily caseload as it has recorded 219 cases, taking their tally to 89,398.Pune city recorded 186 cases, third-highest number of infections, pushing its count to 182,722State’s case fatality rate (CFR) has also started declining gradually. On Monday, it was recorded at 2.57%, but it is still at second position after Punjab in the country, where CFR was 3.15% (with 4,916 deaths) on Sunday, according to information shared by the state medical education departmentThe fewer cases can be attributed to fewer tests as 45,016 tests were conducted on Monday. The total number of tests conducted in the state till date are 113,18,721. The positivity rate for the day was recorded at 6.83%, against the overall positivity rate of the state that stood at 16.39%.The number of recovered patients reached 1,730,715 with 7,345 recoveries recorded in the past 24 hours. The state’s recovery rate was recorded at 93.28%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-wrap/story-vtR0qOO0neodbcS91vLHLJ.html
08-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government in wait-and-watch mode over Centre’s farm laws||The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is yet to take a decision on the Centre’s farm laws, although the state’s three ruling parties – the Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress – have supported the call for Bharat Bandh on Tuesday. The MVA government, two months ago, decided to form a cabinet sub-committee to deliberate clauses of the farm laws and look into concerns raised by farmer groups, but it is yet to decide whether to make changes in the existing laws or bring in a fresh legislation along the lines of Punjab. The cabinet sub-committee has held just one meeting so far. Congress minister Sunil Kedar, a member of the sub-committee, said they are working on draft legislation. “We held a meeting of the cabinet sub-committee recently. The marketing department is in the process of drafting a law, which will come before us for deliberations. We want to resolve the issue and don’t want to create another controversy and thus we are taking all aspects into consideration before going ahead,” said Kedar, who holds the state’s animal husbandry, dairy and fisheries portfolio.State cooperation and marketing minister Balasaheb Patil, from the NCP, too, said “they are working on the issue”. “We have taken views of all farmers’ bodies by bringing them for a meeting and are now working on it... There are two opinions in the government, one is to make changes in the existing laws and another is to bring a new law. The committee needs some time to submit its recommendations to the chief minister [Uddhav Thackeray],” Patil said.The three farm laws passed by the Centre have turned contentious as several farmers’ organisations and political parties, including state’s ruling allies — the Congress and NCP — have opposed their implementation. The MVA government, on September 30, stayed its notification (issued on August 10) for implementation of the laws. A 10-member cabinet sub-committee headed by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar was formed on November 4 to deliberate upon the drawbacks and shortcomings of the laws, which were described as “anti-farmer”. The committee was supposed to look into the contentious issues and suggest changes in the existing laws, but little progress has happened.State government officials, who did not wish to be named, said it would be premature to take any decision now as the situation is unclear owing to the stalemate between the farmers’ organisations and Centre. “We don’t know what stand the Centre will take on the issue. It will make no sense to decide now as the Central Act will prevail if there is any contradiction between the state’s and Centre’s legislations,” said one of the officials.The same officials quoted above admit the laws, in their present form, are “a bit harmful for the agrarian community as they don’t protect farmers’ interests in fullest”, but also said they may not take a decision as there is uncertainty with the Centre itself indicating changes in the laws after agitation by farmers. “We don’t know if we will have to make changes in the existing laws or will have to bring in a fresh legislation. Earlier, we were working on the changes to be made in the current legislations, but there is also a demand to bring in new law,” said a senior official from the state marketing department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-vikas-aghadi-government-in-wait-and-watch-mode-over-centre-s-farm-laws/story-3iSedGDxoC3XGdXmC4ZRDK.html
08-12-2020||Chandigarh||SAD not to mark 100th anniversary over farmers’ ongoing stir||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has cancelled a three-day programme proposed for the party’s 100the anniversary celebrations to ensure that the ongoing farmers’ agitation does not suffer.A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting of the party’s core committee held on Sunday night which was presided over by party president Sukhbir Singh Badal.SAD spokesman Daljit Singh Cheema said that a large number of party workers were participating in the ongoing protest near the Delhi border.“It was felt that the ongoing kisan agitation may suffer if the proposed three-day event was held at Anandpur Sahib. So the event was cancelled altogether and instead a commemorative Akhand Path will be held at Akal Takht from December 12 to 14. It will be attended by the top party leadership including the SAD president,” said Cheema.The core panel also gave its support to the Bharat Bandh call given by farmer organisations on December 8. It appealed to Punjabis as well as people across the country to show solidarity with the farmers on the occasion.The party’s top decision-making body also announced that the central government should repeal the three agricultural marketing laws and guarantee assured government procurement at minimum support price (MSP) as a statutory right.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sad-not-to-mark-100th-anniversary-over-farmers-ongoing-stir/story-Z5ZA1YqYJgjmtKDUwgoWNN.html
08-12-2020||City||Bhima Koregaon case accused Gautam Navlakha denied specs sent via courier, say kin; Navi Mumbai jail authorities cite security concerns||Civil liberties and human rights activist Gautam Navlakha, 70, who is in judicial custody at Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case probe, has alleged that the jail authorities have refused to provide him with the new pair of spectacles sent by his family via courier, after his spectacles were stolen by an unidentified person in the prison. His partner Sahba Hussain said, “Navlakha is allowed to speak to me only once a week. On November 30, he told me that his spectacles were stolen and that he was under stress. My question is how can spectacles be stolen within the jail, particularly because he removes it only when he goes to sleep?” In a media release, Hussain said that on November 27, Navlakha’s spectacles were stolen and that. “It was an emergency, for he is close to being blind without his glasses. Yet, he was not permitted to call home for a replacement until three days later. But even that call proved futile. Navlakha is in acute distress, is unable to see things around him and his blood pressure has shot up consequently,” read the release. After Navlakha’s call, Hussain sent a new pair of spectacles to the jail on December 3. “I was tracking the package, and I received a message stating that it was returned. Previously, I had couriered a pair of slippers and cloths. That parcel too, was returned. Those were things which a person can manage without having, but spectacles are basic necessity. How can that be denied?” questioned Hussain. A senior prison officer, who did not wish to be named, said they had offered to arrange a new pair of spectacles for the activist. “When Navlakha informed us about the theft, we told him that he has to look after his belongings. We also asked him to give his prescription for the glasses so that we could arrange for a new pair. And we informed him to tell his family members to personally deliver the spectacles. We did not receive any response from him after that. Later, we received a courier which we do not accept because of security reasons,” said the officer. However, Hussain denied the claims. “We were never informed that a parcel will not be accepted,” said Hussain. Navlakha has been lodged in Taloja jail since his arrest on October 1, 2018. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has alleged that till August 2018, he was a member of the banned outfit Communist Party of India (Maoist).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhima-koregaon-case-accused-gautam-navlakha-denied-specs-sent-via-courier-say-kin-navi-mumbai-jail-authorities-cite-security-concerns/story-x2jtJnmNjw9AKv5EmwpScM.html
08-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra consumer redressal panel seeks five-day extension from Bombay high court to start physical hearings||The State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (SCDRC) on Monday sought a five-day extension from the Bombay high court (HC) to resume physical hearings, as most of its members were senior citizens and special arrangements for their safety were yet to be put in place. SCDRC’s request was prompted after the HC had directed the commission to start physical hearings from Wednesday. However, the state consumer affairs department informed the court that as there were fears of a second Covid-19 wave, it was of the opinion that the hybrid system of hearing consumer disputes through physical as well as videoconferencing mode should coexist, and sought time to work out the modalities to implement them. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by the Consumer Courts Advocates Association (CCAA), was informed that while the HC itself and various trial and magistrate courts had started physical hearings, the consumer courts were yet to start functioning after hearings were stopped owing to the lockdown. CCAA also complained that while virtual hearings were arranged in some courts, nothing on those lines had been done for consumer courts and their functioning had come to a complete standstill. In an earlier hearing on December 1, the court had sought a road map from the Maharashtra government and the registrar of the commission on resuming the functioning of consumer courts and had directed immediate reopening from December 9 of such courts that were in non-containment zones. In its response to the HC court’s directions, the commission, through its registrar, filed an affidavit in which it stated, “Judicial and non-judicial members of the state consumer dispute redressal commission (six) and presidents and members of district commissions (25) are senior citizens ….To start physical hearing before the state commission, its benches and district commissions, we, on December 3, have requested the state government for allocation of funds for making safety arrangements in the premises of commissions. Making safety measures require an additional five -day time from December 9 to start physical hearing of matters before SCDRC and its benches, except those which are in containment zones.” It also sought an 11-day extension from December 9 for starting physical hearing before district commissions. The state consumer protection department, in its affidavit filed through the joint secretary, also stated that the process for filling-up vacant posts in the consumer commissions was being initiated and it would take into consideration the concerns raised by the petitioner. The affidavit stated, “The Maharashtra government would like to introduce e-hearings alongside physical filing, keeping in mind the interest of consumers. There is a talk or perception about the second wave of the pandemic. Vaccination programme is going to take substantial time. Therefore, the state government feels that the hybrid system of both physical hearing and virtual or e-hearing should co-exist for which modalities will be worked out as early as possible.” After CCAA sought time to respond to the affidavits, the court posted further hearing to Friday, December 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-consumer-redressal-panel-seeks-five-day-extension-from-bombay-high-court-to-start-physical-hearings/story-ZGXot57ifwJ00XWqB3lA9I.html
08-12-2020||Chandigarh||Eyeing new political front, SAD starts touching base with regional parties||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has started touching base with all the regional parties other than Congress and the Bharatiya Janata party (BJP), which is running the show at the Centre, with the idea to forge a political alliance by forming a possible third front.A three-member committee of the party comprising Rajya Sabha MP Balwinder Singh Bhundar, former Lok Sabha MP Prem Singh Chandumajra and former minister Sikandar Singh Maluka would be meeting leaders of all the parties in this regard.The theme of the get-together is the ongoing deadlock between farmers and the Centre over the three farm laws passed in the Parliament in September.“We are meeting Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Sharad Pawar on December 9 in New Delhi and hope of a positive outcome by joining hands for the common cause of farmers,” said Chandumajra adding that there is confirmation from the leader for the meeting.The same day, as Chandumajra said, he may meet Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav from whom a confirmation is awaited.On Sunday, he met Maharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray over various issues related to “Centre’s interference into states’ rights”. Besides discussing the Centre-state relations, the two parties also decided to support the ongoing farmers’ protests together.After having severed ties with its decades-old ally, the BJP, in September this year as a mark of protest against the new farm laws, the SAD has got stuck in political wilderness and to come out of that it has decided to meet all small parties who have a strong hold in their respective states.According to Chandumajra, who is also the vice-president of the Akali party, leaders from all the key parties in the opposition are expected to meet in Delhi in the next couple of weeks to discuss the further action course. “All regional parties have shown enthusiasm and they want a political front to coordinate, for which the Akali Dal has come forward,” said Chandumajra.“We have already held meetings with a few regional parties and are meeting leaders from DMK, TRS, TMC with the common intention of opposing the Centre’s intervention in the states’ rights,” the senior leader added.“The Centre has been suppressing the rights of the states over subjects including law and order, agriculture and finances. Federalism has taken a severe hit under the BJP regime,” said party’s spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema, adding that the fiscal condition of states has been bad after the GST was implemented and now the farm laws framed by the Centre are a direct interference into farmers’ rights.Badal senior to intervene if solution not out by Dec 9 The SAD has also decided to bring party’s stalwart Parkash Singh Badal to a political centre-stage if the Union government fails to reach a solution for the protesting farmers by December 9. Their protests at the borders of the national capital entered its 12th day on Monday.A meeting between farm bodies and the Centre is fixed on Wednesday (December 9).As farmer union have raised their stocks and have demanded to scrap off all three laws, the Centre has offered amendments. “We have decided to bring all regional parties on board for a joint meeting to be chaired by Badal Saab (Parkash Singh Badal) in case the deadlock between farmers and the Centre is not resolved. We will discuss farmers’ issues and other matters with these parties so as to find a way and take the matter forward. This will mount pressure on the Centre,” said Bhundar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/eyeing-new-political-front-sad-starts-touching-base-with-regional-parties/story-xLu7GaDPCK8yfEyrMhNMCI.html
08-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body proposes to waive ₹9 crore payable by Hotel Taj Mahal Palace||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has proposed to waive over ₹9 crore payable by Hotel Taj Mahal Palace to the civic body for using the public road outside the hotel and barricading parts of the footpath outside the luxury hotel citing security requirement.Hotel Taj Mahal Palace near Gateway of India in Colaba has barricaded a certain portion of the road and footpath outside its premises citing security reasons after the 26/11 terrorist attacks in 2008. The Mumbai Police has acknowledged the security requirement for which the road and footpath are required to be barricaded.According to BMC’s proposal for waiver that is set to be tabled in the upcoming standing committee on Wednesday, Hotel Taj Mahal Palace has occupied around 800 square metres (sqm) of public road and over 1,100 sqm of footpath for which over ₹10.18 crore is payable.Of the ₹10.18 crore, BMC has proposed to waive around ₹8.85 crore for occupation of footpath in complete as requested by Hotel Taj Mahal Palace citing that the exercise was being undertaken for security reasons and not for commercial purposes. For the remaining ₹1.33 crore, BMC has proposed to give 50% waiver to Taj Mahal Palace.But the Congress, which is in the Opposition, opposed the proposal. Congress corporator and Opposition leader Ravi Raja said, “BMC does not give any relief to the common man, and it should not give waiver to the five-star hotel. In the past, BMC denied giving concession or waiver to Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) for using bollards and blocking access on advice of security agencies. I will oppose it.”HT sent an email and tried calling the hotel’s spokesperson for a comment, but there was no response till the time of going to print.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-proposes-to-waive-9-crore-payable-by-hotel-taj-mahal-palace/story-9oOOZqRYLZSJiC4YkS8GxO.html
08-12-2020||City||Explore DD as means to teach students with disabilities amid Covid-19 pandemic: Bombay HC to Maharashtra govt||The Bombay high court (HC) has asked the Maharashtra government to explore the possibility of using Doordarshan as one of the means to impart virtual education to the differently-abled students across the state amid the Covid-19 pandemic by telecasting special educational programmes on the channel. The suggestions were made while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by a non-governmental organisation (NGO) which had complained that while schools for other children had started classes through the online mode, the differently-abled students were left in the lurch owing to various reasons and are denied their right to education. The petition had sought directions to the state and Centre to make arrangements for providing virtual education to differently-abled students. On Monday when the PIL came up for hearing before the division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, advocate Uday Warunjikar for the petitioner NGO Anamprem informed the bench that owing to problems such as non-availability of staff or mobile phones, students with disabilities are unable to pursue their education amid the pandemic. Warunjikar had suggested that the local television and radio channels owned by the government could be used to impart education to such students. After hearing the submissions, the bench observed that the government could assign a slot of one or two hours on Doordarshan and telecast special educational programmes. The bench also said that it was the government’s duty to provide online education for differently-abled students. The court then directed the petitioner to give suggestions to the government to address the issue and asked the government to study them and consider what measures could be undertaken to provide special education. The state government has also been directed to submit its report by January 18. In the earlier hearings, the central government, which was asked to respond to the concerns raised in the NGO’s petition, had submitted that it was in the process of creating a system to provide education to differently-abled students during the pandemic, but it would take some time to ready the format.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/explore-dd-as-means-to-teach-students-with-disabilities-amid-covid-19-pandemic-bombay-hc-to-maharashtra-govt/story-bReNhKE41PSHPmpmU6IL7N.html
08-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi CM Kejriwal reviews arrangements at Singhu, calls himself sewadar||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal visited Singhu border on Monday where he briefly interacted with some of the protesting farmers and also inspected the arrangements made by the city administration.Even though Kejriwal did not visit the main protest site, he was surrounded by scores of agitating farmers as he reached Guru Teg Bahadur Memorial near Singhu border (Delhi-Haryana border).“I have not come here as a chief minister. I have come here as a sewadar (one who does service). We support all demands of the farmers. Their issue and demands are valid. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and I have stood in support of the farmers right from the start,” Kejriwal told reporters during his visit.The chief minister reiterated that the Central government was “very upset” with him for not allowing the Delhi Police to convert nine stadiums in the city into jails to detain the protesting farmers. He said that he was pressured into giving the approval, but he still did not.Also Read: AAP and Congress to hold protests in support of Bharat Bandh“Our MLA Jarnail Singh spent the whole night here yesterday in support of the farmers. Our party, MLAs and leaders have been serving farmers as sewadars ever since. Farmers are in trouble today, we should stand with them. AAP supports December 8 Bharat Bandh. Our party workers will participate in it across the nation,” he said.Talking about the arrangements made by the Delhi government, Kejriwal, who is the national convener of AAP, said at least 300 mobile toilets and 350 water tankers have been deployed at Singhu border.“I surveyed the arrangements here. The toilets are clean. But, water is not reaching all points so a motor and a pipeline will be placed soon. During my interaction with the farmers, they said they are satisfied with the arrangements. We will be in touch with them,” the chief minister said before leaving.Delhi govt on MSPDelhi agriculture minister Gopal Rai on Monday attended a meeting with ministers of state for agriculture Purushottam Rupala and Kailash Choudhary along with his counterparts from Punjab and Haryana to discuss ways to increase the income of farmers. “On behalf of the Delhi government, I presented three important suggestions in this meeting for the farmers. Firstly, the central government should implement the recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission on the minimum support price (MSP). The current MSP causes loss for the farmers. At some states, the MSP is Rs 1,800 but the farmers are forced to sell their crops in Rs 800, 900 or 1,000,” Rai said, addressing a press conference after the meeting. Also Read: Farmers say they will block roads, seek supportThe protests by farmers against the farm laws along Delhi’s borders have entered the 12th day and the minister urged the Centre to arrive at a decision favourable to the farmers in a day or two. “Thirdly, I also presented the outcomes of the bio decomposer technique of Pusa Institute to avoid stubble burning. I have requested the central government to look into this matter very carefully and to implement this across the country,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-cm-reviews-arrangements-at-singhu-calls-himself-sewadar/story-tNaK17fkkkiQ3chIaDNORI.html
08-12-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai sees rise in Covid-19 antibodies: Survey||Ten months after the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic in the city, the number of people with presence of antibodies against Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes the disease, has risen to 46.8% in November from 27.9% in June, according to data from a Mumbai-based private laboratory, Suburban Diagnostics. The laboratory conducted blood tests on 37,646 people over six months to detect the presence of Immunoglobulins-G (IgM) antibodies that are produced by the body’s immune system on being exposed to a foreign particle such as a virus. It helps identify individuals who were previously infected with the Sars-Cov-2 virus and have recovered. Of the 37,646 blood samples tested since June, 14,080 were found to have antibodies. Most individuals who undertook the tests at the laboratory comprised office-goers, business persons, hotel staffers, and health workers, including doctors. The cumulative antibody positivity rate was 37.40%. From 27.9% in June (190 total blood tests), the antibody positivity rate dropped to 21.8% (6,204) in July, but gradually increased to 30.6% (6,234), 36.7% (10,535) and 48% (9,238) in August, September and October, respectively. In November, the Covid-19 antibody positivity rate stood at 46.8% (5,245 blood tests). “A total of 63% of those who underwent the antibody tests were from working groups, including doctors,” said Dr Anupa Dixit, laboratory director, Suburban Diagnostics. A large number of recovered symptomatic patients also opted for the test to donate their blood plasma for treatment of other Covid-19 patients, said the laboratory. Medical experts, however, said the city is still far from attaining herd immunity – when a sufficient percentage of a population develops immunity against an infection either through vaccination or previous infections. “It is a good sign if antibodies are increasing among people, but we need more research to say that we are reaching herd immunity,” said Dr Sujata Baveja, head of microbiology at the Lokmanya Tilak General or Sion hospital. To check the presence of antibodies to fight Covid-19 infection, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in collaboration with NITI-Aayog and Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) had conducted two serological surveys in June and August. Blood samples were collected from residents of slum and non-slum areas through random selection. As per the second report, 45% slum and 18% non-slum residents surveyed across three wards in the city were exposed to Sars-CoV-2 and had recovered due to the presence of antibodies. Suburban Diagnostics has only analysed blood samples collected from individuals who approached them to undergo antibody testing. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (health), BMC, said, “I won’t be able to comment on the findings of the private laboratory. But in fact, in our sero survey, we have seen a similar trend where the presence of antibodies among the general population is increasing gradually. The presence of antibodies is more in slums due to the higher population density.” 90% had antibodies even after six months As per the laboratory’s research on 83 patients with a known history of Covid-19, the maximum antibodies are produced between 60 and 90 days of getting exposed to the virus. Of the 83 patients, 64% (53 patients) were symptomatic. A subsequent follow-up showed that 88% recorded a rise in antibody percentage at 60-90 days, while 4% showed a dip and 8% were still non-reactive. At 90-120 days, 55% showed rising antibody values, 35% a dip in these values, while 2% showed a plateau in antibody values and 8% were still non-reactive. Even after 120-150 days of getting exposed to the virus, 92% had antibodies, while 8% were still non-reactive. “No patient got re-infected with the virus during the follow-up period. However, a longer study will be required for any firm conclusion,” said Dr Amar Dasgupta, director, medical services, Suburban Diagnostics. Covid positivity rate dipsThe positivity rate of the tests conducted by the civic body has dropped from 16% in September to 14.5% in December. Similarly, private labs are also witnessing a plunge in positivity rate. Data shared by Suburban Diagnostics shows that the lab in May witnessed a 29.3% positivity rate which dropped to 11.3% in November. “It is a sign of recovery that the cumulative positivity rate among people is decreasing, while the presence of antibodies against the virus is increasing. However, this percentage differs area-wise,” said Sushant Kinra, chief operating officer (COO) of the lab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-rise-in-covid-19-antibodies-survey/story-b2nAjx5GjIZMpVFTGG2TlN.html
08-12-2020||City||Illicit relationship ‘destroys whole family’, says Delhi court while sentencing wife, brother-in-law for killing husband||New Delhi: “Illicit relationship is the biggest weapon of cheating that destroys the whole family. An illicit relationship is a perfect mix for disaster. Most times, it turns the family system into hell”, a Delhi court has said while convicting a woman and her brother-in-law for entering into a conspiracy and thereby murdering her own husband in order to save their illicit relationship in 2015 in Brahmapuri.Additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav convicted Shanti Sharma and her brother-in-law Satender Sharma under sections 302 (murder), 201 (disappearance of evidence), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).According to the police, Dilip Sharma was found dead in his house on May 25, 2015 at Brahmpuri. The police had found him near the staircase, and had noticed injury marks and blood stains on his face and neck. The case has been filed on a complaint by Dilip’s brother and both the convicts had been arrested during the course of the investigation.The court has put up the matter for arguments on sentencing for December 10.“I am of the considered opinion that the deceased (Dilip) was found dead within the secured precincts of his house, which raises an irresistible inference that the deceased was murdered by the accused persons in a pre-planned conspiracy,” the judge said in his order passed on December 2.Further, during the course of the investigation, it came to the fore that his wife Shanti had an illicit relationship with her brother-in-law (husband of a sister), Satender, who at the relevant time was putting up at the first floor of the house belonging to the deceased.Satender was arrested on May 27, 2015 and made a disclosure that Shanti had killed her husband. Accordingly, she was arrested and a charge sheeted was filed for offences of murder, criminal conspiracy, destruction of evidence and common intention.The court, while convicting the duo, said that the most important circumstance which has the capacity to nail the issue in the matter was that the deceased was found dead within the precincts of his secured house.“Admittedly the deceased was found dead within the secured boundary walls of his house. There was no evidence of theft or house-breaking in the said house, even no such defence has been pleaded by the accused persons. The suicide theory is also ruled out on account of the nature of injury marks found on the dead body of deceased...,” the court said.It further said that the testimony of the deceased’s sister-in-law Rekha Sharma made it clear that “illicit relations” existed between both the convicts.“It is clearly evident from the record that just prior to his unnatural, untimely and unexpected death, the deceased had been residing within the secured boundary walls of his house (at the ground floor) along with his wife (Shanti) and their three children.“...it is quite clear that Satender had been carrying out his business of manufacturing ‘plastic dibbi’ from the first floor residence of the deceased,” the court said.During the trial, Shanti and Satender claimed they had been falsely implicated in the matter and were innocent. They had claimed that Dilip had died by slipping and falling on the staircase of the house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/illicit-relationship-destroys-whole-family-says-delhi-court-while-sentencing-wife-brother-in-law-for-killing-husband/story-F3lykYk3T0Z1sBFY1LWupJ.html
08-12-2020||Mumbai||Complete first-year exams by January 9, 2021: University of Mumbai to colleges||The University of Mumbai (MU) on Monday released a circular clarifying that all affiliated colleges should complete examinations for their first-year batches by January 9, 2021. This decision surpasses the varsity’s previous decision asking colleges to conduct all exams by December 2020. The decision comes days after the Bombay University and College Teachers’ Union (BUCTU) approached MU’s vice-chancellor seeking postponement of first-year degree college exams. Teachers highlighted that due to delay in admissions to first-year courses, most colleges have not managed to teach the mandatory 90 days before exams, making it impossible to hold exams in December. As per MU’s November 18 circular, affiliated colleges are supposed to hold online exams for the current batches of undergraduate courses by December while postgraduate exams should be conducted in January next year. “This is to inform all affiliated colleges to ensure that exams for the first-year batch of 2020-21 (winter session) should be completed by January 9, 2021,” states the MU circular dated December 7.Teacher groups, however, are not happy with this move by the varsity. BUCTU has decided to approach the vice-chancellor once again based on the latest circular.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/complete-first-year-exams-by-january-9-2021-university-of-mumbai-to-colleges/story-Jgzi6hvnhemi1POvkhMy2K.html
08-12-2020||Delhi||Mayors sit on dharna outside Delhi CM’s house||Mayors of the three Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led municipal corporations on Monday sat on an indefinite dharna outside Delhi chief minister (CM) Arvind Kejriwal’s residence, demanding the release of the civic bodies’ pending dues.North corporation mayor Jai Prakash, along with his counterparts from the East corporation Nirmal Jain and South corporation Anamika Mithilesh, as well as several councillors sat outside the CM’s house at 6, Flagstaff Road, Civil Lines, from 10am, demanding the release of outstanding dues to the tune of ₹13,000 crore to the three civic bodies. “We have been sitting here since the morning but the CM has not granted us an audience even till 9pm. This is not a symbolic protest and we plan to stay here until the CM addresses our concerns. It is a serious matter that the civic bodies are in extreme financial crunch while the Delhi government, which has to release funds totalling ₹13,000 crore to the three corporations (as approved under the state finance commission) is not willing to give us our due,” said Prakash. South Corporation mayor Anamika Mithilesh said, “If the government releases our due funds, it will help us pay off the employees and improve our work efficiency.”Meanwhile, to counter the BJP’s protest, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councilors also sat outside the CM’s house during the day. The AAP councilors sat on dharna raising counter slogans till late evening.The AAP, in a statement, said that it is “unfortunate” that the home ministry is using BJP to pressure Delhi Police to target the elected government in Delhi.“It is unfortunate that the MHA is initiating a rebellion in Delhi through the medium of Delhi Police. The MLAs who came to meet Delhi CM during the day were beaten up and sent away, as the BJP protest was going on. All the CM’s appointments were cancelled, nobody was allowed to meet him.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/mayors-sit-on-dharna-outside-delhi-cm-s-house/story-B4q0oyDfiy2Y2LfWIac8yN.html
08-12-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: MVA considers census, new schemes for OBC||The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is considering sops for Other Backward Classes (OBC) community, which is politically influential after Marathas in Maharashtra. Separate census, funds for development and new welfare schemes for the community are some of the sops under consideration.The move comes at a time when Maratha community outfits are angry with the MVA government, holding it responsible for the stay on the Maratha reservation ordered by the Supreme Court. A cabinet sub-committee on OBC community headed by state minister Chhagan Bhujbal submitted its report to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday seeking a separate census for OBC community. The committee also sought more funds for its institutions, OBC development corporation, as well as additional schemes for the community. So far, the government has not taken a decision on it, but is considering the demands.The community has been demanding a separate census for some time now. Community leaders said it is to ascertain their population and what they get in “return”.The demand for a separate census is viewed as a counter to the demand by Maratha outfits to provide quota within the OBC category, which sparked a clash between the two communities. However, Congress minister Vijay Wadettiwar, who was present in the meeting, denied it saying the demand for the separate census is an old one.“There is no connection between the demand for a separate census for OBC and Maratha reservation. What they [some Maratha outfit] said about getting reservation from OBC is not connected to this demand. We need to know what the population is and what benefits they are getting as per their size. [Chhatrapati] Sambhaji Raje himself has declared that the community does not seek share from OBC quota, then that debate ends. There is no need to create a divide between the two communities,” Wadettiwar told TV channels.Elaborating on the demand, the minister said. “When the reservation was given to OBC community in the Constitution, it was on the basis that the OBC population is 54%. But there were several claims made by other communities and OBCs over the population. Therefore, there is a need for a separate counting of the OBC community.”Sachin Rajurkar, convenor of the OBC Kriti Samiti, welcomed the committee’s recommendation and said, “We are happy that the committee has recommended census for the community. If we consider the Mandal Commission report, OBC constituted 52% of the population, which will now increase to 60% easily. There is a need to quantify our strength and what [benefits] are we getting”.The committee has also sought ₹150 crore funds for Mahajyoti training institute, ₹200 crore for OBC development corporation, and ₹400 crore for various schemes for the community. It also sought an increase in the yearly foreign scholarship given to students from 10 to 50. Additionally, the committee has also sought ₹100 crore for housing projects for the community.Wadettiwar confirmed the demands. “There was a demand for funds for Mahajyoti which is a huge institution. Bara Balutedar community should be given more funds and a separate company for an institute under OBC development corporation should be created for them,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-mva-considers-census-new-schemes-for-obc/story-1yvtIPIua885vPxINr9maJ.html
08-12-2020||Delhi||Cabin crew member, catering company employee held for smuggling gold on flight from London||Customs at the Delhi airport on Sunday arrested a crew member of an Air India London to Delhi flight and the employee of a catering company for allegedly trying to smuggle gold worth over ₹70 lakh. The two men have also smuggled gold in the past worth over ₹1 .3 crore, officials said.Officials said they received information based on which a team of customs sleuths raided a flight, which had arrived at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport from London and intercepted a member of the cabin crew.During a thorough search, gold in the form of bangles, was recovered from the overhead luggage cabin. “Further probe revealed the involvement of a catering company employee who was also arrested. The recovered gold weighs around 1.6kg and is valued ₹72.47 lakh,” said a customs officer who wished not to be named. Further enquiry revealed that the two men had previously been involved in two cases of gold smuggling wherein they smuggled 3.1kg gold worth ₹1.3 crore. “The duo is being questioned to find out if they’re associated with any smuggling cartel. The origin of the gold is also being looked into and it is being probed to whom it was to be delivered,” the officer said.Jayant Sahay, additional commissioner, customs, Delhi airport, said the two men were arrested and the recovered gold was seized.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cabin-crew-member-catering-company-employee-held-for-smuggling-gold-on-flight-from-london/story-XFtXD3sjYBZyMjrkJZ1lIM.html
08-12-2020||Delhi||SDMC proposes to hike property tax, but councillors oppose move||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Monday proposed to hike property tax while planning to change the categories as per which the levy is charged. Presenting the budget proposals for 2021-22, SDMC additional commissioner Ramesh Verma said property tax rates have not been raised in the last 10 years. “Residential, commercial and business plots of up to 150 square metres are divided into three categories in the city. Since, there had been no hike in property tax in the last 10 years, I propose that in the financial year 2021-22, the number of categories should be reduced to two and 14% tax shall be levied on residential properties of A&B category and 12% on those falling in C-H category,” Verma said, who tabled the proposals on behalf of SDMC commissioner Gyanesh Bharti -- currently recovering from Covid-19. In the national capital, properties are divided into three categories – A&B, which attracts 12% tax; C,D,E, which attracts 11% tax, and F,G, H, which attracts 7% tax.According to new tax proposal, these properties will be divided into two categories A & B and C to H. Residents of A & B category colonies will have to pay annual tax of 14% instead of 12% and those residing in areas falling under C-H category will be paying 12% tax instead of 11% and 7%. A senior SDMC official said that A&B category colonies include upscale neighbourhoods such as Vasant Kunj, Safdarjung Enclave, Defence Colony while C-H category include middle class neighbourhoods such as Bhogal, Amar Colony, Gautam Nagar etc and unauthorised colonies such as Madanpur Khadar, Sangam Vihar, Badarpur among others.However, the budget proposals are subject to approval from the House, which had previously shot down suggestions to introduce new taxes and hikes.Civic officials said the executive wing of the civic body had been proposing hike in property tax for last three to four years but these proposals were declined by the deliberative wing (elected representatives) of the corporation.“Property tax revision is necessary to make the the civic body financially secure, so such moves are required. Under these proposals, those living in posh colonies (A&B category) will have to pay 2% more property tax while the property tax increment for middle class neighbourhoods will be only 1%.Those living in F,G,H category colonies majority of which are unauthorised colonies will have to pay 5% extra tax. “However, the SDMC hardly gets any property tax from those residing in unauthorised colonies,” a senior SDMC official said.The SDMC also proposed to levy 1% education cess on annual property tax and also proposed to hike transfer duty tax by 1% to meet the revenue targets. The proposal of increasing transfer duty by 1% was already passed by the civic body in August this year and is now awaiting Delhi government nod.The budget proposals also demanded to increase tax on commercial properties such as guest houses, lodges, inns, paying guest houses and restaurants without bar to 20% from 15%.However, the impact of coronavirus pandemic was visible on the budget proposals as no new project was announced by the SDMC in its budget.SDMC officials said that the revenue collection target for the SDMC from property tax is Rs 1400 crore for 2021-22 financial year. “Due to coronavirus pandemic our property tax collection has gone down this year. We could collect only Rs 670 crore from property tax against our revised target of Rs 1,240 crore. To increase our revenue we must cut our rebates and increase property tax,” the official said.The budget proposals also recommended to cut down rebate on one-time payment of property tax before June 30 every year to 10% from existing 15%. The proposal also recommended to do away with the 20% rebate given to group housing societies on timely submission of taxes.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which rules the three civic bodies in the city, said it would ensure that the public do not suffer due to the budget proposals.Anamika Mithilesh, SDMC mayor, said these are the budget proposals presented by the commissioner and it is not final. “These proposals will now be discussed in the standing committee and the House meetings of the SDMC. We will amend these proposals regarding tax hike so that there is no burden on the public. We will ensure that the people do not suffer,” she said.The Opposition, however, objected to the proposals to increase the levy amid the ongoing Covid-19 crisis.Prem Kumar, leader of opposition in SDMC, said that it was an “anti-people” budget and that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) was against the move. “Instead of increasing their revenue targets from parking and advertisement heads, the civic body is planning to tax the people more. We will not let this pass in the House,” Kumar said.Abhishek Dutt, leader of the Congress in the SDMC, said, “Due to political issues between the BJP and the AAP, funds which are earmarked for the MCD are not being released properly. This is resulting in additional tax burden on the public. There should be no hike in property tax especially amid such a global pandemic. We will strongly oppose this move in the House.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sdmc-proposes-to-hike-property-tax-but-councillors-oppose-move/story-3WqVXvUKNn2EHsBwjlDW8K.html
08-12-2020||Delhi||Traders, shopkeepers at protest sites worried over mounting losses, say govt should intervene to resolve impasse||As thousands of farmers continued to camp on Delhi’s borders demanding withdrawal of the Centre’s new farm laws, several traders and shopkeepers around the protest sites expressed concern over the mounting losses and said the government should intervene to resolve the impasse at the earliest.Rampal, a motor mechanic whose workshop is located right next to the protest site at the Singhu border, said he has been working on machines he got before the protests began and his new customers are only the farmers. “I have decided not to take any money from them. In fact, I leave my shop open through the night and go home so that if any farmer needs to use the tools, they don’t have to return disappointed,” he said.Ajeet, who sells snacks and soft drinks at the Singhu border, said his daily business has shrunk to Rs 2,000-3,000 from Rs 10-15,000. “If this continues for long, how will we pay the rent this month? The farmers are protesting for their cause and we should not bear the brunt. The government should immediately break this deadlock,” he said.Most businesses around Rampal’s workshop and Ajeet’s shop have remained closed for the last six days. These include banks, alcohol shops, offices of property dealers, restaurants and outlets that do not cater to the farmers.Shyam Singh, the chief caretaker of Cost To Cost -- an outlet selling branded clothes and electronic goods -- said that most employees have been sent on leave. The outlet has placed a large hoarding outside its gates to ensure outsiders do not get a view of the premises. “We live in the constant fear of the protests turning violent, but fortunately nothing has happened after the first day,” he said. Among businesses that have remained open are primarily small eateries and those catering to farmers’ needs.The scene is quite similar at the Tikri border. There are six fuel stations around the protest site and though they have remained open, there is hardly any sales. Neeraj Verma, an employee at a petrol pump in Tikri, said the only customers he receives are farmers themselves or local motorcyclists managing to find their way to the station.A Nexa outlet -- a showroom of Maruti Suzuki -- has remained closed since day one of the protests. “Cars have been promised to customers but they are not able to take delivery,” said Bhupender Negi, a cashier at the store. Along the Tikri protest site is the busy Hira Market. Shops on one row are in Delhi and those on the opposite row are in Haryana. Businesses on both sides have suffered. Tarun Gupta, who is into wholesale trade of grocery items, said he had just begun recovering from the losses incurred during the lockdown when his business was jolted again. “We hear that farmers intend to stay here for months. We’ll be destroyed. My business is just 10% of what it was before the protests,” said Gupta. Right across his shop, however, a garments store is getting customers -- mostly farmers. “Earlier we would get customers travelling on the main highway. Now, only those on motorcycles or on foot are able to access our shop. People are worried about venturing into this market,” said Rahul Mishra, an employee at a garment store.“When we fell short of essential items, these shopkeepers stood for us. We wished our protest didn’t harm these businesses, but the government won’t agree to our demands otherwise,” said Hardeep Singh, a farmer. He said he would take back some clothes home as “mementoes”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/traders-shopkeepers-at-protest-sites-worried-over-mounting-losses-say-govt-should-intervene-to-resolve-impasse/story-fiwiJB2eBx0uVPPruMaIzK.html
08-12-2020||Delhi||Govt must ‘scrupulously follow’ CPCB guidelines for handling and disposal of Covid-19 waste: Delhi HC||The Delhi high court on Monday asked the government to “scrupulously follow” the guidelines issued by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) for the handling and disposal of waste generated during diagnosis and treatment of Covid-19 patients.A bench comprising chief justice DN Patel and justice Prateek Jalan said that it expects the Delhi government to follow rules while hearing a plea by a lawyer alleging the improper disposal of used swabs from rapid antigen tests for Covid-19 at the office of the southeast Delhi district magistrate at Lajpat Nagar.It disposed of the plea by Pankaj Mehta, who had alleged that used swabs were being “thrown out in public” and “tests were being carried out over a pile of used swabs for Covid-19” at the district magistrate’s office.“Upon complaining about the risk of widespread infection and the irregularity behind disposing of the swabs in this manner, the doctor concerned at the counter said the swabs are of negative patients and thus it is safe to stand over them and get yourself tested,” the plea read.During the last hearing, the court had sought to know from the Delhi government as to what norms were in place for disposal of the waste. On Monday, advocate Sanjoy Ghose, the additional standing counsel of the government, told the court that there are several protocols in place for the handling and disposal of Covid-19 test kits and swabs and action would be taken against those not following the same.He also placed on record the “Guidelines for Handling, Treatment, and Disposal of Waste Generated during Treatment/Diagnosis/Quarantine of Covid-19 Patients” issued by the CPCB in July.Following this, the court said, “We expect the respondents (Delhi government) that the guidelines and protocols shall be scrupulously followed by them”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/govt-must-scrupulously-follow-cpcb-guidelines-for-handling-and-disposal-of-covid-19-waste-delhi-hc/story-pVBnF2umrYHO4IB3de0FaN.html
08-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Tailor killed by adopted daughter’s friend for refusing to consent to their wedding||A 50-year-old tailor was stabbed to death with multiple kitchen knives and his head smashed with a pressure cooker for refusing to let his adopted daughter get married to her friend because of the difference in their castes, the Delhi Police said on Monday. The murder took place in northeast Delhi’s Sonia Vihar on Saturday morning and the alleged killer—the friend of the victim’s adopted daughter—was arrested from north Delhi on Sunday. The victim, Vijender Singh, lived with his wife and a 24-year-old woman he had adopted from his brother when she was a child.“Sometime last year, the daughter entered into a relationship with a local man, Suraj Kumar,” said Ved Prakash Surya, deputy commissioner of police (north-east). Kumar worked in the housekeeping department of the Delhi Metro at Palam Metro station, the DCP said. “The couple wanted to get married, but her adoptive parents were strongly against it, due to the difference in caste,” the officer said. Since the daughter insisted on getting married to Kumar, her adoptive parents sent her away to live with her biological parents in Moradabad in Uttar Pradesh. “Kumar’s parents then visited the woman’s biological parents for their consent to the wedding, but Singh intervened and objected again,” the DCP said. The police said this angered Kumar and he held Singh responsible, the officer said. “For several days, he planned different ways to kill Singh, but failed to execute them,” said the officer. On the morning of November 28, while heading to office, he noticed Singh’s wife walking to a temple near her house. “For the next few days, he loitered around to observe her schedule. He got to know that she visited the temple every Saturday morning. He held a grudge only against Singh and not his wife, so he decided to strike when she wasn’t at home. He though that would also ensure he wasn’t identified as the killer,” said the DCP.On November 5, he reached the house around 8.30am and waited for Singh’s wife to leave for the temple. “As soon as she was gone, he entered Singh’s house and locked the door. He knew he had 20 minutes to carry out his plan,” said the DCP. Inside, Kumar allegedly first thrashed Singh with his bare fists. Then, he allegedly picked up three knives from the kitchen and stabbed Singh repeatedly. “Finally, he picked up a pressure cooker and smashed Singh’s head repeatedly with it,” said the DCP.By the end, Kumar’s clothes were soaked in the victim’s blood. “He removed his clothes, wore Singh’s fresh clothes and started to leave the crime scene,” said the DCP. But as he emerged from the house, Singh’s wife arrived and he got into a brief confrontation with her, but managed to escape.The personnel who registered a case at Khajuri Khas police station arrested Kumar from Civil Lines on Sunday. They said they have seized three kitchen knives, a wooden log and a pressure cooker which were allegedly used in the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-tailor-killed-by-adopted-daughter-s-friend-for-refusing-to-consent-to-their-wedding/story-nEh9eI6QOdSD1xdsyn3EyI.html
08-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Two cops suspended after carcasses of cows found in Dwarka drain||The police suspended two constables and are in the process of registering a first information report (FIR) after the carcasses of a few cows were found in and around a drain in Pichanpur village near Dwarka on Monday afternoon. Santosh Meena, the deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka), said that the carcasses of a few cows were discovered in a drain by local residents after which the police were alerted. “We are in the process of registering an FIR and have suspended two constables for negligence,” said the DCP. The officer said that they are awaiting doctors’ report to conclude whether these was fresh or old carcasses. He said it was difficult to say at this stage how many cows had been killed. “There could be five or even ten carcasse, we can’t say right now. But it could possibly be a case of slaughter,” said Meena. The discovery also drew Parvesh Sahib Singh Verma, the member of Parliament from West Delhi constituency, to the spot. “The carcasses were found at an isolated stretch near a drain and it appears the slaughtering had been going on for a while. On Monday, a cow was found with its neck slit, which aroused the suspicion of the local residents. They searched the spot to find the carcasses of several cows,” said Verma. He said that the police are checking CCTV camera footage for clues about the suspects and have promised quick arrests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-two-cops-suspended-after-carcasses-of-cows-found-in-dwarka-drain/story-NPTyziRzg3y3K7cuWOWhdN.html
08-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi Jal Board urges Haryana, UP to curb Yamuna pollution||A day after the country’s apex pollution watchdog raised concerns over frothing in the Yamuna river, Delhi Jal Board (DJB) vice-chairperson Raghav Chadha on Monday urged neighbouring Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Haryana to take steps to ensure untreated sewage is not discharged into the drains, curbing pollution in the river. “While it appears that the governments of UP and Haryana are not bothered about releasing untreated wastewater into Yamuna, I’d like to put on record that the DJB has been constantly working to upgrade and augment the capacity of its sewage treatment plants (STPs) so that untreated effluents are not released into the Yamuna,” said Chadha in a statement.He added that the Okhla Barrage is under the jurisdiction of the UP irrigation department, and because of its “lackadaisical attitude, water hyacinths grow in abundance. When these hyacinths decompose, they release surfactants like phosphates. When this water falls into Kalindi Kunj from a height, it produces foam, which gradually accumulates and floats on the surface of the water,” said Chadha.Apart from this, he said, the paper and sugar industries operating in Meerut, Muzaffarnagar, Shamli and Saharanpur in UP also release untreated wastewater containing surfactants, which is then released into Yamuna through the Hindon Canal at Okhla Barrage. This causes foam to form and accumulate in the Yamuna.He further said that UP’s untreated waste water reaches Delhi through the Shahdara drain while that of Haryana’s is discharged into the Najafgarh drain. “Both the drains meet the Yamuna via the Okhla Barrage thereby polluting it. We have been working on treating sewage through state-of-the-art sewage treatment plants (STPs) as well as by upgrading the existing plants. However, it’s not Delhi’s problem alone, and we will need cooperation from UP and Haryana to keep the Yamuna clean.”Both UP and Haryana together release around 150 MGD (million gallons per day) of untreated wastewater into Yamuna, according to government data. The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), on Sunday, had raised concerns on the pollution in the river and issued directions to the DJB to submit a timebound action plan to ensure compliance of norms by STPs and that no untreated sewage is discharged into these drains. Similar directions were also issued to the state pollution control boards of Haryana and UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-jal-board-urges-haryana-up-to-curb-yamuna-pollution/story-FVoUmBZdcLRUDSCv6Ej35O.html
08-12-2020||City||Farmers’ protest: Political parties, trade, transport unions in Haryana support Bharat Bandh call||Political parties, trade, transport and employees’ unions in Haryana have extended their support to the farmers’ call for Tuesday’s Bharat Bandh against the Centre’s three agriculture laws.On Monday, farmer union activists knocked the doors of shopkeepers and held meetings with trade union leaders in Haryana to seek support for the nationwide shutdown.Among the political parties, the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) and the Congress are supporting the farmers’ call.At least 17 farmer unions of Haryana, the left leaning employees’ unions, ahritiya association, Akhil Bhartiya Vyapar Mandal, Petroleum Dealer Welfare Association, Bar Associations, Janwadi Mahila Samiti are among the host of pressure groups supporting the farmers.While the Petroleum Dealers’ Welfare Association has decided to shut all 3,468 fuel stations in Haryana, Rajesh Goyat, president of Jind district bar association, said all members of the bar have decided to suspend work on Tuesday. In Fatehabad, private schools association has decided to suspend online classes during the Bandh. Haryana’s BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni said people associated with different organisations in the country have extended their support to the Bandh. He also urged truck unions, shopkeepers and labourers to extend their support. As per the reports, farmers have decided to block Hisar-Rohtak national highway near Mayar toll plaza and Bahu Akbarpur village in Rohtak, Rohtak- Chandigarh highway at Bali Brahaman village, Rohtak- Bhiwani, Hisar- Sirsa, Jind-Patiala , Jhajjar-Rohtak and various other roads. According to Ratan Mann, state president of BKU (Tikait), the farmers have approached all unions and associations for their support. Local leaders of the farmer unions met shopkeepers and trade unions across Haryana. In Panipat, the farmer leaders met members of the business communities and urged them to keep their shops closed. Sunil Arora, president of Syunkat Vyopar Mandal, Panipat, said shopkeepers have agreed to keep their shops closed. Charkhi Dadri Sabzi mandi association, Association of Arhitiya Anaj Mandi in Jind, District Bar Association, Jind , Phogat Khap, Sangwan Khap, Sheoran khap have decided to support the Bharat Bandh call. Bijender Sheoran, head of Sheoran Khap, said they have conducted a joint meeting of Sangwan, Sheoran and Phogat khaps at Dadri and unanimously decided to support the shutdown. “ We will ensure all shops and business activities remain closed tomorrow (Tuesday). We are farmers’ first then the head of our khaps. We will block all roads,” he added. Meanwhile, chief secretary Vijay Vardhan held a virtual meeting with deputy commissioners and superintendents of police of all districts. Vardhan has asked the officers to ensure that people, especially commuters at the national and state highways do not face any problem. Directions have been issued to make plans for the diversion of traffic on the link roads if the farmers block highways. He also asked the deputy commissioners to urge trade unions, farmer organisations and transporters of their respective districts to ensure smooth supply of essential commodities.Police issues travel advisoryAlmost all the districts of Haryana—barring Nuh and Narnaul—are likely to be impacted by big or small road jams during the Bharat Bandh, police said while issuing a travel advisory. Additional director general of police (ADGP-law and order) Navdeep Singh Virk said public may have to face traffic blockades on various roads and highways of the state on December 8. He assured that elaborate arrangements have been made by the administration as per directions of the state government. The primary objective of these arrangements, he said, is to maintain public peace and order, prevent any kind of violence, maintain supply of essential items and to facilitate the functioning of traffic and public transport system. The instructions in force due to Covid-19 pandemic have also been kept in mind, he added. The ADGP said according to reports, it is expected that agitating groups may sit on dharna on various roads and highways within Haryana and block them for some time. There may also be disruptions on various toll plazas in the state. The main national highways Delhi-Ambala (NH-44), Delhi-Hisar (NH-9), Delhi-Palwal (NH-19) and Delhi to Rewari (NH-48) may also see some traffic disruptions for a short time. The peak time of impact is expected to be between 12:00pm to 3:00pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-protest-political-parties-trade-transport-unions-in-haryana-support-bharat-bandh-call/story-v3ZIMDpmHo34BSWJHaFy6O.html
08-12-2020||City||Covid claims 3 more lives in Ludhiana||Three patients died while 75 others tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, taking the cumulative count to 23,527 and toll to 918. The district now has 887 active cases. The deceased include an 81-year-old woman from Baddewal village, another 74-year-old woman from Kidwai Nagar and a 70-year-old man of Haibowal Kalan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-claims-3-more-lives-in-ludhiana/story-PPmYd6cEPfxcBVVy1MILdP.html
08-12-2020||Noida||Four Amity University faculty members get place in top 2% of global research||NOIDA: As many as four faculty members from Amity University in Noida have secured a place in the top 2% of global researchers from India, in a list compiled by Stanford University, USA. The scientists are Dr Ajit Varma (ranked 916 in plant biology research stream), and Dr Dattatray Late, Dr Ajay Gupta, and Dr DK Awasthi, who have been ranked 1,135, 4,000 and 1,105, respectively, for their work in applied physics. Varma said that his area of research is Soil Sustainability. “I have discovered a novel biofertiliser which is named Serendipita indica. This web of fungi can shape the future of forest and agriculture and promote soil health,” he said.Varma further said that the fungus was discovered from desert soil of Rajasthan and works for crop improvement from Rajasthan to Laddakh. “Working in a temperature range of -30 degrees to 50 degrees, it benefits mostly crops, cereals, legumes and vegetables,” he said.After assessing scientists from across the world for their contributions in terms of citations and other indicators, the PLOS biology journal, a monthly peer-reviewed scientific journal, ranked the scientists and published their research papers. Congratulating the scientists, Ashok K Chauhan, the president of the Amity education group, said their success is the result of their hard work, dedication and commitment. “These scientists worked to the cause of science, which has brought appreciation not only for them, but also to the university and the country,” he said. Echoing similar views, W Selvamurthy, the president of Amity Science Technology and Innovation Foundation, said this prestigious recognition is one of the great achievements in the lives of these scientists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/four-amity-university-faculty-members-get-place-in-top-2-of-global-research/story-Hn5dDLUseUXx5bSOmTFJCO.html
08-12-2020||Noida||Tally of symptomatic Covid-19 patients in Noida goes down over two weeks||NOIDA: If the ratio of coronavirus (Covid-19) disease patients on home isolation versus those in medical facilities is any indication, the number of critically symptomatic patients in Gautam Budh Nagar district has gone down significantly in the last two weeks.Out of 990 active cases in the district as of Monday, 513 asymptomatic patients are in home isolation and the remaining 477 patients are being treated in different Covid-dedicated facilities in the district. This is lower than two weeks ago, on November 23, when there were 740 patients in Covid facilities in the districts, while 562 asymptomatic patients in home isolation, out of a total of 1,302 active cases in the district, as per the records of state bulletin and the district health department.District additional chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Lalit Kumar, who is also the in-charge of home isolation of Covid-19 patients in the district, said that so far 4,123 asymptomatic positive patients – who have been permitted for their treatment in home isolation – have been cured since July 25 this year – when the state government allowed for the home isolation facility. “While 51 patients were discharged, 64 patients were allowed home isolation on Monday. Till date, none of the home isolated patients have lost their lives due to Covid-19,” he said. Even the number of critical patients has been reduced at different Covid-19 facilities. Dr Renu Agarwal, the chief medical superintendent of the district Covid hospital in Sector 39, said that the number of ICU patients at the facility on Monday was half of what it was nearly two weeks ago. “Two weeks ago, the number of ICU patients in our hospital was 24, which has now gone down to 10. This clearly indicates that the severity of the virus is on a receding trend,” she said. Echoing similar views, Dr Ajit Kumar, the joint registrar of Sharda Medical College, said that the number of ICU patients in the hospital is now 20 from 60 two weeks ago. “It is no more a panic situation for us now compared to earlier times, when we were foxed to make adequate arrangements of beds in our ICUs,” he said. District magistrate Suhas LY said that keeping the number of cases close to the arch of 1,000 is the result of our ‘track, test and treat’ method. “Our health workers are doing a commendable job in testing and surveillance. Our case fatality rate (CFR) of 0.36%, too, is much better than the state’s CFR of 1.42%. The health workers have been asked to intensify surveillance and testing in those areas which have been identified as critical hotspots,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/tally-of-symptomatic-covid-19-patients-in-noida-goes-down-over-two-weeks/story-ZuARnt9BcZLJUarrTWatgM.html
08-12-2020||Noida||Noida: Farmer unions extend support to Bharat bandh call; police conduct flag march||Noida: The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu) and the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Lok Shakti) protesting at the Chilla border and Rashtriya Dalit Prerna Sthal, respectively, for the past seven days against the Centre’s new farm bills have said that they will ensure “Chakka Jam” from 12 noon to 5pm during the Tuesday’s Bharat bandh in the city. To maintain law and order situation in Gautam Budh Nagar, the district police have beefed up security in sensitive areas. On Monday evening, the police conducted a flag march in urban and rural areas and asked people to maintain peace. On Sunday, the police enforced Section 144 of CrPC which will be in force till January 2, officials said. Yogesh Pratap Singh, UP president of BKU (Bhanu), said that his organisation extends support to the nationwide bandh on Tuesday. “We have called upon all our members and workers to participate in the protest and ensure Chakka Jam on Tuesday. We will protest with all our might and demand the government to withdraw the farm laws. We will ensure that emergency services and ambulance services are not disturbed in the strike,” he said. The farmers have also planned to march from Chilla border to Delhi at 5pm. The farmers said they will also try to halt traffic at DND Flyway and Kalindi Kunj. At present, the Chilla border remains locked on both sides with barricades, and Noida police and Delhi police personnel are deployed on both sides to stop the farmers’ march. The farmers said they have planned to organise a mahapanchayat at Chilla border on December 9 to deliberate on their move if the demands are not met. Dr SK Giri, general secretary and spokesperson of BKU (Lok Shakti) said that his organisation will ensure the protest is peaceful. “We will make this a historic protest. This is a farmers’ protest and the issue should not be politicised,” he said. Meanwhile, GB Nagar police commissioner Alok Singh held a meeting with senior police officials to take stock of the law and order situation. On Monday, a group of 43 Samajwadi Party workers organised a protest march from FNG Road in Sector 63 to Bahlolpur village in support of farmers’ demands. However, they were arrested and later released by the police.Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Zone 1, said that due to enforcement of Section 144 of CrPC, any protest or gathering is not allowed. “These protesting members were arrested and booked under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of IPC. They were taken to Surajpur police line and later released on personal bond,” he said. Raghvendra Dubey, a Samajwadi Party worker, said, “The police tried to stop our march but we continued to move forward. Then they arrested us and brought to Surajpur police line. We had a peaceful protest. Is it a crime to support farmers?” Dubey said.The DCP said that the police are ready to deal with the situation on Tuesday. “We will ensure all establishments and organisations function normally. We will not let protesters block DND Flyway and Kalindi Kunj road,” Rajesh said. Love Kumar, additional commissioner of police, GB Nagar, said that the police teams and PAC constabulary have been deployed at all strategic points. “The police teams are alert to ensure peaceful protest. The police also conducted a flag march in the area. We have appealed to the farmers and the common people to cooperate in maintaining peace,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-farmer-unions-extend-support-to-bharat-bandh-call-police-conduct-flag-march/story-HVprvgJ7oBFlSiXEMiKTNM.html
08-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Car hits scooter at Janpath, one killed||A 53-year-old man was killed after an allegedly speeding car hit the scooter he was riding on Janpath Road near Connaught Place in central Delhi on Sunday night.The car was being driven by a 30-year-old man pursuing a Chartered Accountant (CA) course. He was arrested and later bailed out, as the sections of Indian Penal Code under which he was booked were bailable, the police said.Senior police officers said that the errant driver, identified as Ankit Gupta, did not flee the spot but rushed the injured man to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital in another vehicle. However, the man identified as Vinod Kumar was declared dead on arrival at the hospital. Kumar was a resident of Yusuf Sarai in south Delhi and was unemployed. He had just visited his wife, a cancer patient undergoing treatment at Safdarjung Hospital, they said.According to a police officer, the accident took place around 10.30pm at the Tolstoy Road-Janpath Road crossing. Eyewitnesses told the police that Kumar was riding his scooter from Tolstoy Marg while the car was coming from the direction of Connaught Place, the officer said.“Prima facie, it appears that either the car driver or the scooter rider jumped the traffic signal. The car hit the scooter and its rider was flung into the air; he landed on the windshield of the car. The scooter rider’s body then hit another vehicle on the opposite carriageway. The accident took place at the Tolstoy Road-Janpath Road intersection,” said the officer requesting anonymity.Deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Eish Singhal said that the Connaught Place police station received a call about the accident at 10.31pm. A police team reached the spot and found the car and the scooter in damaged condition.Kumar had been taken to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital by Gupta, a resident of Vasant Vihar. He was declared dead at the hospital,” said DCP Singhal.A case of rash and negligent driving causing death was registered under sections 279 and 304 A of Indian Penal Code against Gupta. Both the vehicles were impounded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/car-hits-scooter-at-janpath-one-killed/story-N7pE4eq0FZPJKkRNeshy7H.html
08-12-2020||Delhi||Five with suspected terror links arrested from east Delhi||Five men, allegedly involved in anti-national activities and targeted killings, including that of Shaurya Chakra recipient Balwinder Singh Sandhu at his home in Punjab in October, were arrested after a shootout in east Delhi on Monday morning, the Delhi Police said. The police recovered two kilograms of heroin, three pistols, two cars and ₹1 lakh from the arrested persons. The men and sleuths from the special cell exchanged 13 rounds of fire, but nobody was hurt in the shootout, they said.The police added that the men belong to Punjab and Kashmir.Deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Pramod Singh Kushwah said that with the arrest and interrogation of the five men they have exposed the nexus of Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), Pakistan, pro-Khalistan radicals, and narco-terrorists who were working together to revive militancy in Punjab and planning a slew of killings, mostly of right-wing leaders in Punjab and Delhi. Narco-terrorism was being used to fund the revival of the militancy, he said. Of the three Kashmiri men, one Ayub Pathan is directly associated with terrorist organisation Hizbul Muzahideen, while the other two, identified as Shabir Ahmad Gojree and Riyaz Rather, are also linked to the outfit. All three of them are “over-ground workers (OGW)” of Hizbul Mujahideen, the DCP said. The two Punjab men, Gurjit Singh alias Bhaa and Sukhdeep Singh aka Bhura, are hitmen of gangster Sukhmeet Pal Singh alias Sukh Bikhariwal, who lives in a Gulf nation and has been instrumental in executing the targeted killings on the instructions of ISI and Pakistan-based Khalistan radicals, said DCP Kushwah.“On October 16, Gurjit and Sukhdeep murdered Shaurya Chakra recipient Balwinder Singh Sandhu on Bikhariwal’s instructions. Bikhariwal was also given the task to kill Honey Mahajan, a leader of a Hindu outfit. A near-fatal attack on Mahajan was executed by Bikhariwal’s hitmen on February 11 in Punjab. While Mahajan survived despite being seriously injured, another person was killed in that attack,” said Kushwah.According to the DCP, the special cell had been receiving inputs since January that ISI, through its K2 (Kashmir-Khalistan) desk, has been funding the targeted killings of right-wing leaders and opponents of terrorism through the spoils of drug trafficking. ISI operatives had been pushing narcotic drugs through the OGWs of Hizbul Mujahideen based in Kashmir and supplying them to their Khalistani counterparts in Punjab for further distribution, he said.“Our teams learnt that on ISI’s instructions, three men from Kashmir had come to Delhi to provide funds obtained through drug trafficking to the hitmen on Bikhariwal. The task was assigned to them by a Pakistan-based operative code-named Sadakat,” said Kushwah.On Monday, the teams laid a trap in the Shakarpur area following inputs that the suspects would meet there. Around 6.45am, two cars were spotted and the occupants were asked to surrender. The suspects fired at the police party in a bid to flee. The police fired in self-defence and caught all five of them, the DCP said.After killing Sandhu at his home in October, Gurjit and Sukhdeep had been lying low at hideouts arranged by Bikhariwal. Recently, the two were asked to execute the killing of an important person in Delhi. The two, however, were not given the name of their target. Bikhariwal had asked them to receive money from their Kashmir associates for arranging logistics, he said.“The ISI is trying to emulate the model of 2016-17 in Punjab wherein they executed eight murders of right-wing leaders through a similar modus operandi,” added Kushwah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/five-with-suspected-terror-links-arrested-from-east-delhi/story-ZXijW38Dx6hWA07mZCR8CL.html
08-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi enveloped in season’s first fog, visibility affected||The national capital was enveloped in a thick layer of fog on Monday morning, with the visibility reducing to zero at the Palam weather station. This was the season’s first heavy fog, said officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD). It also contributed to the deterioration in Delhi’s air quality, which almost touched the “severe” mark.According to IMD officials, ‘there was “very dense fog” at Palam, disrupting flight operations and road traffic during the early hours of Monday.RK Jenamani, head of the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport’s MeT department said, “For around three hours—between 6.30am and 9am—the visibility was zero. It was only after 9am that it improved to 50 metres here. When visibility is zero, flight operations have to be suspended. The runway visibility was 75-125 metres. There was a sudden change in atmospheric conditions because of easterly winds that resulted in a thick fog cover. We expect ‘dense’ to ‘very dense’ fog on Tuesday as well; however, the intensity will be on the lower side.”At the Safdarjung Observatory, representative of Delhi’s weather, “moderate” fog was observed with the visibility reduced to 300 metres at 8.30am. “The season of fog has started. Easterly winds that were blowing over Delhi till Sunday noon brought moisture. High moisture content combined with low wind speed resulted in heavy fog. On Tuesday, we are expecting ‘dense’ fog at Safdarjung while ‘very dense fog’ at Palam,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.Also Read: Morning fog causes delays at Delhi airportHe added that at Safdarjung, the visibility may reduce to less than 200 metres on Tuesday morning. Also, air quality is likely to remain in the higher end of “very poor” because of the impact of fog, which makes the air heavier allowing higher concentration of pollutants. “Though moisture content will start reducing from Tuesday, its impact will be felt only later in the day. Also, wind speed will pick up to 10-12kmph, which may result in an improvement in air quality on December 9-10,” said Srivastava.Also, Delhi may see “very light rain” or drizzle on December 11 on account of a western disturbance that will affect the whole of northwest India, including Delhi. “Till at least December 12, there will be no significant change in the morning and night temperatures. Only after the passing of the WD, there could be a drop in temperature,” he said.On Monday, the minimum temperature was 12 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal. The maximum settled at 26.3 degrees Celsius, two notches above normal.As per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the average air quality index (AQI) reading was 400, in the “very poor” zone, just one notch away from “severe” (401). It was 389 on Sunday. On Saturday, Delhi’s air quality was in the “severe” zone with an AQI reading of 404.At least 12 of the 35 monitoring stations, including those in major hot spots, already recording air quality which breached the “severe” category. On a scale of 0-500, an AQI value between 301-400 is considered “very poor” while 401-500 is “severe”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-enveloped-in-season-s-first-fog-visibility-affected/story-tz5qmjcsPNqB07k4z3y6eM.html
08-12-2020||City||Ludhiana man crushes woman under his tractor after tiff over ₹5,000||A farmer in Gorsiyan Khan Mohammad village of Sidhwan Bet allegedly ran over a 28-year-old woman with his tractor-trolley on Sunday evening, allegedly over a dispute over ₹5,000.The accused has been identified as Paramjit Singh alias Pamma. His accomplice Gurdev Singh has also been booked.The case has been registered on the statement of Sardool Singh, the brother of the victim, Raj Kaur, 28.Sardool said that Paramjit had borrowed ₹7,000 from his sister some time ago. Though he had paid back ₹2,000, he was reluctant to return the rest of the money. On Monday evening when Sardool and his sister were returning from the fields after fetching fodder for cattle, they spotted Paramjit and Gurdev going somewhere on a tractor-trolley.Raj Kaur stopped them and asked Paramjit to return the money. When he refused, she climbed on to the tractor-trolley. It is then that the accused deliberately sped up the vehicle with an intention to dislodge her. The complainant said that his sister fell down on road and got crushed under the wheels of the tractor trolley, dying on the spot. The two accused immediately fled the spot after the incident. The victim’s brother further said the accused had got into a scuffle with them earlier too but villagers had intervened to resolve the matter. He had even promised to return the money but didn’t keep his word. Sidhwan Bet station house officer, inspector Rajesh Thakur said the woman was unwell and in dire need of money for treatment. The accused have been booked under Sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-man-crushes-woman-under-his-tractor-after-tiff-over-5-000/story-rz9GxeEhcuimdqLMKy2RzI.html
08-12-2020||Delhi||Morning fog causes delays at Delhi airport||Several flights were delayed at the Indira Gandhi International Airport on Monday due to the season’s first fog. Airport officials said as many as 50-60 departures were delayed while arrivals continued normally. However, one international flight from Doha had to be diverted. At the airport, adequate arrangements were made to minimise inconvenience to the passengers, officials said.On Monday morning, fog caused visibility at the airport to drop drastically, forcing the airport operator to shut one of the three runways for close to three hours. Officials said this affected departures, while arrivals continued normally. “Around 50-60 departures were delayed as runway 29 had to be closed between 7.05am and 9.56am due to low visibility. But because the other two runways were functional throughout, fewer flights were affected. The number also remained low as air traffic movement is yet to recover to its full strength post the Covid-19-induced lockdown. As arrivals can take place even in low visibility, there were not many diversions,” said an official from the Delhi airport, who wished not to be named. The official said the dense fog did not last long on Monday and did not cause a lot of inconvenience to the passengers. “Also because international flights are not operating on all sectors due to the ongoing Covid-19 restrictions, the number of affected flights remained low,” he added.Also Read: Delhi enveloped in season’s first fog, visibility affectedAnother airport official said they have made special arrangements to minimise inconvenience to passengers stranded due to the delays. “We have enhanced the seating capacity in waiting areas inside terminals, marshals have been deployed to manage traffic, additional counters have been set up at immigration, real-time flight updates are being made available inside terminals and airlines have been told to deploy sufficient staff to deal with passengers,” the officer said.Some airlines also took to social media to update their passengers about the delays. SpiceJet tweeted, “Due to bad weather (Poor Visibility) in Jalandhar (AIP) and Delhi (DEL), all departures/arrivals and their consequential flights might get affected. Passengers are requested to keep a check on their flight status.”IndiGo also said in a tweet, “Due to bad weather in #Delhi, flight departures and arrivals are impacted. Please keep a track of your flight status.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/morning-fog-causes-delays-at-delhi-airport/story-7Svn88FTXkvzMx6Ltzw3VJ.html
08-12-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Covid positivity rate recorded around 5% six days in a row||Delhi’s positivity rate—the proportion of samples that test positive—has remained at 5% or less for six days in a row, with the city testing over 74,000 samples for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on average every day.The positivity rate dropped to 3.10% on Monday as per the health bulletin released by the government. The city reported 1,647 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday when a lower than average 53,207 samples were tested.There were 63 deaths due to the viral infection, taking the total toll of the city so far to 9,706. The number of deaths has remained below 100 a day for seven days now, yet the seven-day average case fatality ratio (CFR)—the proportion of deaths among those who test positive—continues to climb as fewer cases are reported.The seven-day average CFR in Delhi was 2.35% on Monday as compared to 1.93% a week ago, when 108 deaths and 3,726 cases were reported in a day.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“In a month positivity declined to 3.15% today from 15.26% on 7th Nov. During the same period RTPCR positivity reduced to 6.68% from 30.20%. Lowest positivity in last 6 months. Steadily corona cases and positivity coming down. Hope this will continue. Please observe all precautions,” Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain tweeted.Experts believe that the spread of the infection is under control when the positivity rate is 5% or less for two weeks.The data breakup of RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests shared by the minister on Twitter showed that on average, from November to December 6, RT-PCR tests detected 2.5 times the number of cases that rapid antigen tests detected, even though RT-PCR tests accounted for less than 40% of the total administered.“It is very encouraging to see that the positivity rate in Delhi has remained below 5% for almost a week, especially since the government has increased the number of the more accurate RT-PCR tests. However, this does not mean that the government can scale down the number of tests. If the current number of tests is maintained and the positivity rate continues to remain low, it will instil confidence in people that the number of infections has gone down,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology and infectious diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research.Also Read: Bharat Biotech seeks emergency use authorization for Covid-19 vaccineThe RT-PCR tests constituted over 45% of the tests administered over the last fortnight as compared to around 37% the fortnight before.Molecular tests such as RT-PCR amplify the genetic material of the virus to detect its presence in a patient sample, making them more accurate than rapid antigen tests. Rapid antigen tests are cheaper, easy to deploy outside of labs and take only 15 minutes to give results, but they are known to throw up false negatives for nearly half the patients who might have the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-covid-positivity-rate-recorded-around-5-six-days-in-a-row/story-9yIeZYulbNRnwM13fEQhOM.html
08-12-2020||Delhi||Bharat Bandh: Police warn strict action against disruptors, to use drones to keep an eye on protesters||The Delhi Police on Monday said that they will take strict legal action against persons who would try to disrupt movement of traffic or people or forcefully close shops during the Tuesday’s Bharat Bandh, as nearly 4,000 traffic personnel and thousands of security personnel will be deployed on the borders and the city roads to regulate the traffic and avoid any untoward incidents.Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava said Section 144 of the Code of Criminal procedure (CrPC), prohibiting gathering of people, is already in place in the entire city.“Our maximum strength will be on roads and an elaborate traffic and security arrangement has been put in place for the nationwide strike. Nobody will be allowed to take the law in his or her hands,” said Shrivastava.Thousands of farmers have gathered on Delhi’s borders to protest against the three farm laws enacted in September and have given a call for a nationwide bandh on Tuesday. In a statement issued on Monday, the city police have appealed to everyone not to disrupt the life of common citizens and residents of Delhi during the strike. Also Read| Bharat bandh: Major impact likely to be felt in PunjabAs the city police have been receiving inputs that the farmers protesting at various borders in outer and east Delhi may attempt to block more borders or would try to cross over into Delhi, a “contingency plan” has been prepared to avoid traffic chaos and inconvenience to commuters. Of the 4,000 traffic personnel, a majority of them will be deployed on the borders that are either closed or affected due to the farmers’ protest.On Monday evening, senior police officers held a briefing of all the traffic personnel who will be on duty Tuesday and explained the contingency plans. All the traffic circle inspectors were informed about their place of deployment and given a list of the alternative borders and routes through which the movement of vehicles between Delhi-Haryana and Delhi-Uttar Pradesh will be passed if the main borders are blocked by the protesting farmers of workers of the political parties and various unions that have extended support to the nationwide strike, said a senior traffic police officer.“Our traffic personnel will guide the motorists as per the situation. There will be alternative routes to regulate the movement of vehicles. As maximum traffic congestion is likely to be in the areas bordering Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, our deployment will mostly be in such areas. We will be regularly posting updates regarding the traffic situation on social media,” said special commissioner of police (traffic) Taj Hassan.Seven borders that are completely closed due to the farmers’ protest are Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Jharoda, Piao Maniyari, and Mangesh in outer and south-western parts of the city and Chilla border, connecting Delhi and Noida, in east Delhi. Apart from these points, the Delhi-Meerut expressway at Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border is closed for vehicles coming to Delhi from Ghaziabad side, while the opposite carriageway through which vehicles move towards Ghaziabad is open. The service road of NH-24 at the UP gate border is also closed as the protesting farmers have occupied it for the past 10 days.Traffic police officials said that due to the closure of the seven borders, the movement of vehicles between Delhi and Haryana is being managed through Lampur, Safiabad, Saboli, Dhansa, Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan, Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera.Also Read| Farmers’ protest: Political parties, trade, transport unions in Haryana support Bharat Bandh call“Similarly, motorists travelling between Delhi and UP are advised to take Apsara, Bhopra, Anand Vihar, Kalindi Kunj, DND, New Ashok Nagar, Kondli and Dallupra to avoid traffic chaos. In case, some of these open borders are also disrupted, there are many other points through which the vehicles can move from one city to another,” said another traffic police officer.Senior police officers said all patrol vehicles will be pressed into service. In New Delhi district, security has been beefed up at the residence of senior ministers, including the agriculture minister, and at important buildings such as Krishi Bhawan, Vigyan Bhawan and the Parliament.Senior officials said drone cameras will be used to keep surveillance on the protesting farmers and those who will be participating in the strike. The offices of the various political parties that are supporting the strike are also being monitored.“We are having talks with the representatives of the political parties and various unions and telling them that no gathering or people or protest is allowed in the city as per the Covid-19 guidelines. We are also holding meetings with RWAs and market associations,” said an officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-warn-strict-action-against-disruptors-to-use-drones-to-keep-an-eye-on-protesters/story-rAECZ9oOkPaD01et2yAqNL.html
08-12-2020||Delhi||Farmers say they will block roads, seek support||The farmers protesting at different borders of the national capital against the three new farm laws on Monday said they have appealed to their supporters to observe ‘bharat bandh’, scheduled on Tuesday, only between 11 am to 3 pm in order to avoid any “inconvenience” to the general public. The farmers said that ambulances and other emergency services and those travelling to attend weddings will be allowed to ply during the chakka jam, which will be observed on the borders and highways during the same duration. The farmers have given a call for bandh as a part of their ongoing protest demanding revocation of three new farm laws. Kulwant Singh Sandhu, 65, general secretary of Jamhuri Kisan Sabha, said, “We do not want to cause any inconvenience to the general public and that’s why we have appealed our supporters to observe bharat bandh till 3pm. People will resume their businesses and work after it. The call for the Bharat Bandh has been given to prove the government wrong who thinks that only a handful of farmers are opposing the new farm laws.”Singh said the farmers have got support from several trade and transport unions and almost all the opposition parties. “Even the petrol pump associations of several states have extended the support and will remain closed till 3 pm,” he said.Balwinder Singh Raju, president of Majha Kisan Sangarsh Committee, Punjab, said their supporters will also block roads, highways and borders as a part of the Bharat Bandh. “It will also be observed till 3 pm. It won’t cause any inconvenience since vehicles will not be plying on the roads in that duration. All the major transport associations have already decided to support us,” he said.Also Read: AAP and Congress to hold protests in support of Bharat BandhFarmers at several protest sites were also seen discussing and planning for the bandh. The farmers were also seen appealing nearby shopkeepers and traders to support them.At Delhi-Uttar Pradesh (UP) border in Ghazipur, farmers are planning to block all the four lanes of the national highway 24. Currently, the agitating farmers are currently sitting in only one lane. Rakesh Tikait, spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU)’s Tikait faction in UP, said, “The highway will naturally remain shut because no vehicles will be on the roads till 3pm. But our supporters will make ways for ambulances, weddings and other emergency services. We have appealed to everyone to observe the strike peacefully.”At Chilla border, connecting Delhi to Noida in UP, several farmers returned to their villages in Meerut, Agra, Etah and Firozabad to mobilise people in their hometowns for the bandh. Prem Singh Bhati, BKU coordinator in Gautam Budhh Nagar, said, “Some of us will sit here and block the border on Tuesday while others have returned to their villages to ensure proper implementation of bandh. They will return on Wednesday.”Farmers protesting at Singhu border said that several more farmers from Punjab and Haryana will join their ongoing blockade at the border on Tuesday. Sukhwinder Singh, joint secretary of Kisan Mazdoor Sangathan committee (Punjab), said, “They will be blocking the roads on their way to Singhu border to mark the bandh. But they have been asked to allow weddings and ambulances to pass through. We will continue our sit-in here as it is.”Also Read: Police warn strict action against disruptors, to use drones to keep an eye on protestersMeanwhile, several student groups, artists and academicians also extended their support to the bandh call. A statement, signed by 42 academicians and artists, including JNU professor emerita Zoya Hasan and historian Irfan Habib in support of farmers, stated, “We the undersigned members of the artists community and academicians stand firmly in solidarity with the country’s farmers, lakhs of whom are protesting across different states and gathering in strength at the borders of the national capital to express their rejection of the three Farm Acts and the Electricity Amendment Act 2020....We strongly support the demand of the farmers that the three Farm Acts and the Electricity Amendment Act 2020 must be immediately repealed. We support the call for all citizens to observe ‘Bharat Bandh’ on 8th December 2020.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bharat-bandh-farmers-say-they-will-block-roads-seek-support/story-1XjPUUo9hrzmM8ZmSZYyaN.html
08-12-2020||Delhi||Fruit and vegetable supplies in Delhi may be hit due to Bharat Bandh||The trade of fruits and vegetables in Delhi is likely to be hit on Tuesday as several associations in the city’s mandis have decided to join the one-day strike to support farmers who are protesting against the Centre’s farm laws.Adil Ahmed Khan, the chairman of Delhi’s Azadpur Mandi which trades fruits and vegetables in wholesale, said several traders’ associations of the market including those in Ghazipur and Okhla among others have decided not to operate on Tuesday. “Almost all associations within Azadpur Mandi have said they will not engage in any trade of fruit and vegetables on Tuesday in support of the farmers protest. Traders have even put up banners at all gates of Azadpur Mandi in solidarity with the one-day strike. This is a historic decision because if there are no farmers then there will be no traders in our mandis. But, there is nothing to panic. Delhi won’t face any crisis due to shortage of supplies,” said Khan.However, not all traders appeared to agree with Khan as they said it would be business as usual for them.“It is preposterous to say that mandis like those in Azadpur, Ghazipur, Okhla or Narela will be completely shut on Tuesday. All these markets will remain open and many of us will also engage in usual business. Trucks with the daily supply of fruits and vegetables have already started coming from Monday evening, an indication that it is business as usual. It is only a section of traders who may opt join the strike and keep their shops shut,” said Anil Malhotra, a wholesale trader and member of the Azadpur agriculture produce marketing company (APMC).Several traders from three prominent APMCs in Delhi—Azadpur, Ghazipur and Okhla—said supplies in the national Capital have already been hit because of the road closures along the borders as the farmers continued their protest for the twelfth consecutive day. “A large number of traders have stopped sending fruits and vegetables to other states temporarily and are focusing only on local supplies to keep prices stable in Delhi. The arrival of fruits and vegetables in Azadpur has dropped significantly from around 11,500 trucks per day on an average for this time of the year to around 6,000 trucks a day,” said Khan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bharat-bandh-fruit-and-vegetable-supplies-in-delhi-may-be-hit/story-Ffl6fLxWO5AQifxHvKdjfM.html
08-12-2020||City||Bharat Bandh: Fewer autos, taxis but markets to stay open today||New Delhi:People dependent on public transport options such as taxis, autos and last-mile connectivity vehicles may face difficulty in commuting on Tuesday in view of Bharat Bandh, even as DTC buses and Metro will run as usual in the city. Several unions of taxi and auto-rickshaw operators have joined the strike call given by the farmers protesting against the three farm laws enacted in September that seek to open farm trade. However, almost all markets including Connaught Place, Lajpat Nagar, Sadar Bazar and Khan Market shall remain open, the concerned associations said on Monday.While there will not be a complete blackout of autos and cabs in the city on Tuesday, unions said their availability will be “considerably lower than usual”. The Delhi Metro said it will run operations as usual unless there are specific directions from the Delhi Police on Tuesday. Similarly, state-run DTC and cluster buses will also ply as usual. But, last mile connectivity is expected to be hit. Also Read: Police warn strict action against disruptors, to use drones to keep an eye on protestersThose who travel on app-based cabs might have to face longer waiting time and pay higher than usual as aggregators are likely to impose surge pricing due to the projected low turnout of driver partners, said a senior transport official. Kamaljeet Gill, president of Sarvodaya Driver Association of Delhi, comprising mainly drivers working with cab aggregators, said drivers will not run their cabs associated with Ola, Uber and other app-based aggregators on Tuesday. Sanjay Samrat, president of Delhi Taxi Tourist Transporters’ Association, said several unions including Delhi State Taxi Cooperative Society and Kaumi Ekta Welfare Association will join the strike. Cab aggregators Ola and Uber refused to comment on the matter.Apart from cabs and autos, Shyam Lal Gola, general secretary of STA Operators Ekta Manch, said around 8,000 other public service vehicles will also not operate on Tuesday. These include Gramin Sewas, RTVs, phat phat Sewa, eco-friendly cabs and maxi cabs. However, many other auto and taxi unions have decided to continue normal services despite their support to demands raised by the agitating farmers. The Aam Aadmi Party-affiliated auto-rickshaw union has decided to run all its autos during the strike, said Santosh Pandey, president of Aapka Apna Auto Taxi Union. Rajender Soni, general secretary of Delhi Auto Rickshaw Sangh, and Delhi Pradesh Taxi Union and Chandu Chaurasia, vice-president of Capital Driver Welfare Association, said the demands of farmers need to be met by the government, but it should not be achieved by causing inconvenience to ordinary people.MARKETS TO REMAIN OPENAfter several rounds of meetings with shopkeepers and other traders, associations of popular markets such as Connaught Place, Khan Market, Lajpat Nagar, Sarojini Nagar, Sadar Bazar, Chandni Chowk, Rajouri Garden, etc have decided to stay open for business on Tuesday. Traders of these markets have requested the Delhi police to provide adequate security to avoid any untoward incident.“Our business has already suffered a lot due to Covid-19. We will keep the market open as we can’t afford any further loss. Now that customers have started coming back to the market, closing the shops will hurt the customers’ confidence,” said Atul Bhargava, president of New Delhi Traders’ Association in Connaught Place.Also Read| Bharat bandh: Major impact likely to be felt in PunjabIn Sarojini Nagar, shop shopkeepers have decided to wear black badges as a mark of solidarity with the farmers, even as their shops will remain open. Ashok Randhawa, president of Sarojini Nagar mini market, said, “We understand the problem farmers are facing today. We stand with them, but a majority of traders are not in favour of keeping the market closed. We will wear black badges to support their cause.”Traders say that business has already suffered in the past few days due farmers sitting at the borders. “Our goods from other states are stuck. Due to the protest, the business has suffered. How will we survive, if we close our shops? If this protest continues, we will suffer huge losses,” said Devraj Baweja, president of Sadar Bazaar traders association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bharat-bandh-fewer-autos-taxis-but-markets-to-stay-open-today/story-Xwhs2JsKPyrsZXsCEmMP3K.html
08-12-2020||Delhi||AAP and Congress to hold protests in support of Bharat Bandh||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)on Monday said it will hold a peaceful demonstration at the busy ITO intersection on Tuesday morning in support of the Bharat Bandh called by farmers against the Centre’s farm laws. The Congress also said it will organise sit-in protests in each of the capital’s 70 assembly consistencies in solidarity with the national strike, adding that their protests will also begin from the ITO intersection. Delhi’s AAP convenor and Cabinet minister Gopal Rai, on Monday, said, “Today, the farmers of our country are in distress. I want to appeal to all the citizens of India to support their demands and to extend their support to the Bharat Bandh called by the farmers tomorrow [Tuesday].”The AAP leader later tweeted, “AAP to hold a peaceful demonstration on December 8 in support of the Bharat Bandh called by the farmers at 11 AM at the ITO crossing of Delhi.”The Congress’ workers will hold up placards to appeal to the public to demand a rollback of the farm laws and participate in the bandh in large numbers. They said they plan to gherao the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) headquarters. Also Read| Bharat bandh: Major impact likely to be felt in PunjabDelhi Congress chief Anil Chaudhary said, “We have been supporting the farmers’ cause, as they are our ‘annadata’ (someone who provides food). We have urged people to participate in the Bharat Bandh either by staying home or by helping them in any way they can. Party workers will be present at major traffic junctions across the city’s 70 assembly constituencies urging people to create pressure on the Centre to roll back farm laws. I will reach ITO at 9.30am to support their cause.” He added that party functionaries have been visiting the various border points where kitchens have been set up to provide daily meals to the agitating farmers.BJP MLA Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, leader of the opposition in the Delhi Assembly, said, “The central government is holding discussions with them, then what’s the point of this bandh? The Prime Minister has assured them that minimum support prices (MSP) will stay. This protest is being used by political parties for their own advantage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aap-and-congress-to-hold-protests-in-support-of-bharat-bandh/story-99GEaMQKT1hYtXF4Yuqo8I.html
08-12-2020||Delhi||Drink of champions that is attracting onlookers, queues||The long and laborious ritualistic process of preparing the ‘Shaheedi Degh’ (a sacrament drink of the Sikhs) that involves grinding a host of dry items by using a mortar and an unusually long and heavy wooden pestle has been drawing curious onlookers and long queues at the farmers’ protest site in Singhu.While the making of this drink is traditionally done by the Nihang Sikhs (warrior Sikhs) twice a day -- and they are doing it ritualistically at the Singhu Border -- half-a-dozen other Sikhs too have been involved in its preparation throughout the day at the farmers’ protest camp on the Delhi side of the police barricades here. “This drink contains all necessary ingredients to keep the body strong. Every farmer here has this drink at least once everyday. This is what is keeping the Coronavirus away from the farmers’ protest,” said Sukwinder Singh, a resident of Sabhra village in Tarn Taran and joint secretary of Kisan Mazdoor Sangathan Committee (Punjab). There is no scientific evidence to prove that the drink provides protection from the coronavirus. Also, farmers are not undergoing any Covid-19 tests to establish if anyone at the protest site has been infected or not. Also Read: Farmers say they will block roads, seek supportThe grinding process, which has been drawing curious onlookers, goes on for anywhere between 30 minutes to an hour, depending on the quantity of the ingredients.Two men join hands to go about grounding a dozen ingredients such as almonds, cardamom, melon seeds, black pepper and sugar in a medium-sized mortar made of stone, called sunara. A four-five feet tall wooden log made of either sandalwood or a neem tree trunk, weighing as much as 20 kilos, serves as the pestle which they call “salottar”. “It requires men with strong muscle strength to go about the grinding work. One chants the hymns (vaani) while the other grinds. When one gets tired, they exchange roles. Our belief is that the vaani adds spiritual strength to the drink,” said Das Gurmeet Singh, a Nihang Sikh from Nanded district in Maharashtra. The juice of the paste is finally squeezed using a white cloth and offered to the people in the queues after prayers.What also drew the attention of the onlookers was a ritualistic practice in which the left overs are rolled into small balls after which a Nihang Sikh hurls them in the air after a short run up. On Monday, one such ball landed right next to a family of rag pickers collecting plastic waste near a camp. “We believe that this process clears our hurdles in whatever we do. Right now, it is the farm law that is our hurdle,” said Satnam Singh, a Nihang Sikh from Chamkaur Sahib town of Rupnagar in Punjab.Apart from making this drink, a group of Nihang Sikhs accompanied by horses and a baaz (Northern goshawk) are guarding the farmers at this border since Friday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/the-drink-of-champions-that-is-keeping-farmer-protesters-going/story-X8txVYQI3MA1y3KEv033oJ.html
08-12-2020||Mumbai||In a first, Indian bison spotted at Maharashtra’s Dnyanganga Wildlife Sanctuary||The Maharashtra forest department has documented the presence of the gaur or Indian bison for the first time at the Dnyanganga Wildlife Sanctuary (DWS) in Buldhana district in Vidarbha region.No occurrence of this species was reported or documented from this sanctuary, prior to the animal being photographed by forest guards on Sunday. “While this animal is regularly spotted across other sanctuaries in Vidarbha, including Tadoba and Melghat, this is the first time we have a record of the gaur from Dnyanganga. It may have come from Melghat and found this area suitable as it seems to have settled here,” said MS Reddy, additional principal chief conservator of forest, and field director, Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR) in Amravati. DWS is a part of MTR located near the Dnyanganga river, a tributary of the Tapti.Gaurs are the world’s largest and tallest wild bovines, with 85% of their current population in India. Male gaurs weigh 1,000-1,500kg while females weigh 700g-1,000kg. Their height ranges from 165-220cm (5-7ft). They are listed as Schedule I species under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 and are tagged as “vulnerable” in the International Union for Conservation of Nature’s (IUCN) Red List.The 205-sqkm DWS was notified as a sanctuary in 1997. It is known to have the highest number of sloth bears among sanctuaries in Vidarbha. Last year, a three-year-old male tiger (T1C1) walked a 3,020-km journey over 13 months from Tipeshwar Wildlife Sanctuary (tracked using his radio-collar), and established his new territory at DWS, making it the longest ever recorded movement of a tiger in India. “A proposal is being considered by the chief wildlife warden’s office about releasing a mate for T1C1 to increase tiger population at DWS,” said Reddy, adding that his arrival has boosted tourism. “By developing around 100 waterholes and stopping grazing, the habitat for wildlife has been improved significantly. From just 10 guides, we now have 30, making it one of the most visited small sanctuaries in Maharashtra,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/in-a-first-indian-bison-spotted-at-maharashtra-s-dnyanganga-wildlife-sanctuary/story-FbPANC1bnLMrU5kNKRFZhK.html
08-12-2020||Noida||Three arrested for illegally ferrying two camels in Greater Noida||Noida: The police on Sunday night arrested three persons allegedly transporting two camels in a small pickup truck in Gautam Budh Nagar, under the Animal Cruelty Act. According to a volunteer of an NGO, People For Animals (PFA) who informed the police and currently has temporary custody of the animals, the two young male camels were allegedly being taken for entertainment purposes in wedding ceremonies. Later, the police stopped the vehicle carrying the animals along the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway and took them to the police station. “We have arrested the three under Section 2/11 of Animal Cruelty Act, as the camels were stuffed in a small pickup truck which was not meant for that. The people transporting them also did not have any permission or ownership documents of the animals. We have sent the three, who are residents of Delhi, Gautam Budh Nagar and Bulandshahr, to jail and are investigating the matter,” said A K Pandey, SHO, Dankaur, Greater Noida. According to the complainant, the animals were allegedly being carried without permission. “We saw the pickup truck stuffed with two camels near Galgotias University while returning from work. I immediately informed a PCR and they came and stopped the vehicle. Later, the police handed over the custody to us and they will remain with us temporarily,” said Pragati Khanna, volunteer, PFA, Gautam Budh Nagar. The animals were later sent to the shelter run by Smart Sanctuary in Greater Noida. According to the PFA, the alleged transportation of the camels without permission was also in violation of The Rajasthan Camel (Prohibition of Slaughter and Regulation of Temporary Migration or Export) Act 2015. “Camels under the act are state property of Rajasthan and cannot be transported even for grazing purposes without permission out of the state. It had become a common practice of using them for show in wedding functions and the owners often charge anything from Rs 25,000 or more,” said Kaveri Rana, president PFA Gautam Budh Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/three-arrested-for-illegally-ferrying-two-camels-in-greater-noida/story-zZBs0vyHtmKy3gX6wYKPQL.html
08-12-2020||Noida||Injured Nilgai fawn rescued in Greater Noida||Noida: A Nilgai fawn was rescued on Monday morning by the divisional forest department and an animal welfare NGO in Greater Noida. The scared and distressed fawn, recognised as a six-month-old female, was likely hit by a speeding small vehicle in early morning hours, said officials. The rescue team from animal welfare NGO Smart Sanctuary and People for Animal (PFA) said that they received a call from locals near Omicron-3, Greater Noida after finding a wounded fawn squealing with pain at a service lane. Due to the Nilgai being classified as a wild animal, the NGO apprised the forest department, upon which officials reached the spot. “We received distressed calls from some morning walkers and a few NGOs from Delhi about the injured fawn. A team rushed there along with forest officials and the fawn was taken to the veterinary hospital. The fawn was highly distressed and scared and only hours later it was stabilised and shifted to a facility of Smart Sanctuary in Greater Noida,” said Kaveri Rana, president, PFA, Gautam Budh Nagar and head, Smart Sanctuary. According to officials, there is a good population of free ranging Nilgai or blue bull – an antelope species – in the district and it seemed that the fawn was separated from its herd.“The fawn had received multiple flesh wounds and a bone injury in one of the forelegs. It is now out of danger and kept under the care of Smart Sanctuary. There are several herds of Nilgai that move around the green patches, urban forests and agriculture fields of the city. It seems that this fawn was lost and later hit by a smaller vehicle; had it been a heavy vehicle the fawn would not have survived,” said Ram Avtar, range forest officer and head, Surajpur Wetland. According to the forest department’s 2019 census, there are a total of 1,094 Nilgais in Noida while in 2011, their numbers were 1,939. The largest antelopes in Asia, the Nilgais are protected under Schedule-3 of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. “Once recovered, we have decided to rehabilitate the fawn in Surajpur wetland,” said Rana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/injured-nilgai-fawn-rescued-in-greater-noida/story-fDRR5tzapdKyQbJxOF8y8O.html
08-12-2020||Noida||Street vendors to be honoured for cleanliness in Noida||NOIDA: In a first of its kind initiative, the Noida authority will honour street vendors who maintain proper cleanliness near their vends and do their bit to help keep the city clean.The authority has started this initiative to encourage street vendors to keep their surroundings neat and clean, in order to better score in the Swachhta Survey 2021. The Swachhta survey process is likely to begin in the first week of January 2021 and it will close by the end of the same month next year. The authority has roped in all city-based residents’ welfare associations, apartment owners’ associations, industrial bodies and factory owners, including other social groups, in the campaign to perform better in this survey. In 2020, Noida was ranked 25th in the country in a 10 lakh population category and first in Uttar Pradesh. Since street vendors are also a crucial part in keeping the city clean and improving the image of the city, the authority has started this initiative for them. “The authority will honour 100 best street vendors with an appreciation letter and the winners will be finalised the end of December,” said SC Mishra, senior project engineer of the Noida authority.There are at least 3,000 licensed street vendors across the city. The first condition for participants is that a street vendor should be a licensed one. They should have two dustbins – one green and one blue – to store the garbage at the place from where they operate. Whosoever wants to participate can send their entry along with licence number at the mobile number – 9717080605.The authority will organise an event along with residents during which the 100 chosen street vendors will be felicitated.“The winner will be named a Swachh street vendor. The objective is that street vendors keep the roads clean and contribute in Swachhta survey. There is a need that all stakeholders work towards making the city a better place,” said Mishra..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/street-vendors-to-be-honoured-for-cleanliness-in-noida/story-JFR1eX7p2OrrlD0g1h3acK.html
08-12-2020||City||Bharat Bandh today: Ludhiana to witness a complete shutdown today||The city is expected to see a complete shutdown on Tuesday as market associations, industry bodies and those in the hospitality sector have decided to suspend work for the day, in solidarity with farmers protesting against the new Central farm laws. Though the farmers have given a call for Bharat Bandh from 11am to 3pm on Tuesday, markets, factories, hotels and restaurants are expected to remain closed throughout the day. However, events for which bookings have already been done at hotels and marriage palaces will go on as per schedule.The representatives of these sectors said that though their businesses have been affected by the ongoing agitation, they have still decided to join in the protest as any jolt to the farming sector will ultimately result in losses for other sectors too. Markets associations in the city that have announced to keep their shops shut include, Model Town, Ghumar Mandi, AC market, Pink Plaza in Chaura Bazar, Sarabha Nagar main market and Jawahar Nagar camp among others. The presidents of these associations said that they will stand by the farmers as they are fighting against the injustice meted out by the Centre. Among the industry bodies that have decided to join in the Bandh are Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO), Janta Nagar Small Scale Manufacturers Association (JNSSMA) and others.FICO president Gurmeet Singh Kular said, “The industry will be hit due to the bandh but we will still support the farmers for the greater good.”Punjab hotel and restaurant association president Amarvir Singh said, “All hotels and restaurants, except those that have prior bookings, will remain closed throughout the day.” Strike at main vegetable marketThe Bharat Bandh call might also hit the supply of vegetables and fruits in the city as ahrtiyas in the main vegetable market near Jalandhar bypass have announced to keep the market closed. President of the Ludhiana Sabzi Mandi Arhtiya Association Gurkamal Singh said, “The retail vendors in the vegetable market might work but arhtiyas have decided to keep the counters closed for the day.”Trucks, tempo to remain off road:With All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) extending support to the farmers, truckers in Punjab, Chandigarh and Himachal Pradesh announced that the transport vehicles, including trucks, tempo etc will remain off roads on Tuesday. A meeting of All India Motor Transport Congress was held on Monday wherein members decided that there will be a complete shutdown of activities from 10 am to 5pm. AIMTC chairman Charan Singh Lohara said, “If the union government fails to fulfill the demands of farmers in the meeting on December 9, we might also announce a shutdown for an indefinite period.”MC offices to remain closedThe Municipal Employees Sangharsh committee also announced that no work will be done in MC offices on Tuesday. Only the sweepers and garbage collectors will work in the field from 6am to 9am. Chairman of the committee, Ashwani Sahota said, “No work will be done on Tuesday as the union has decided to stand with the farmers. Only sweepers will work in the field from 6am to 9am”Opposition parties extend supportAll the opposition parties, including Congress, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), have extended support to the ‘Bharat Bandh’ call against the BJP-led Union government’s new farm laws. The leaders of these parties say they will participate in farmer protests in different parts of the state.PSEB-affiliated schools in Ludhiana to remain Around 520 schools in the district affiliated to the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) will remain closed on Tuesday to support the farmers’ ‘Bharat Bandh’ call. At least 10 members of the joint action front, associated schools, Punjab, will also be joining the protesting farmers at the Delhi border. Apart from that 350 PSEB-affiliated private schools have also decided to not take any classes as a precautionary measure. Rajinder Sharma, president of PSEB affiliated schools, Punjab, said, “Some students of Classes 9 to 12 were attending classes physically. But due to the Bharat Bandh, we have decided to keep schools closed.” Principal of AVM Senior Secondary School, Anand Singh, said, “We took this decision to support farmers as a mark of gratitude. The safety of students and faculty members is also a priority.”Govt schools put off December exams The December examination of Class 9 and 11 in government schools scheduled to be held on December 8 have also been postponed. SCERT director Jagtar Kulria issued a letter late in evening, informing of the change. The NTSE scholastic aptitude test schedule to be held on Tuesday will be now conducted on December 9 at the same time. PTU postpones intermediate semester exam In view of Bandh, the intermediate semester examination at IK Gujral Punjab Technical University, scheduled for December 8 has been postponed. The new date of examination will be informed soon. CA Foundation exam now on December 13 The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India have rescheduled of the Chartered Accountants’ foundation exam- Paper 1 from December 8 to December 13. The paper will be conducted at the same venue and same time, on the new date.2, 500 police personnel to keep vigil In view of the Bharat Bandh call, security has been beefed up in the city to maintain the law and order situation. Joint commissioner of police (JCP, headquarters) J Elanchazhian said around 2,500 police personnel will be on the road along with all gazetted officers. Though the agitating union members have assured that the protests will be peaceful, the JCP said that special checkpoints will be installed at all major markets and roads to monitor the situation. He added that no one will be allowed to force shopkeepers, traders and businessmen to bring the shutters down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bharat-bandh-today-ludhiana-to-witness-a-complete-shutdown-today/story-rZoutxarbFGKCdD71xeGnJ.html
08-12-2020||City||Mumbai: Man, mother say not treated in time; Kalwa hospital denies all claims||A video of a 22-year-old man and his mother complaining of lack of proper service and care at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital in Kalwa went viral on Monday. Both, the mother and son, were allegedly assaulted by the father. They allege that despite having bruises the man was not treated immediately by the hospital staff and had to wait for hours. Although the hospital confirmed the incident, they also denied any lax on their part.Sumit Santosh went to Kalwa hospital on Sunday night after his father allegedly assaulted him and his mother after an argument. Santosh has bite marks on his fingers and back, while both mother and son have bruises. They claimed that for over three hours there was no hospital staff to attend them. “There was only one nurse present at the casualty ward. We were given dressing after an hour-long wait and were told that there are no tetanus injections were available at the hospital. We kept waiting for the injections,” said Santosh in the video that went viral on Monday.“Son had bruises and bite marks in different parts of his body, while the mother’s genital areas were injured. There could have been a slight delay as we have many patients in the casualty ward. However, it is not possible that the patient was kept waiting for hours. I checked with those on duty, our staff had attended the patient and suggested some tests. They had to wait to get the tests done and this is when they started showing disinterest. They were keen to leave the hospital soon,” said Bhimrao Jadhav, dean, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital, Kalwa.“Moreover, their claims that the hospital does not have enough supplies of injections is false. Our staff examined and provided basic medication. They were asked to wait for the injection, but they were in a hurry to leave,” added Jadhav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-man-mother-say-not-treated-in-time-kalwa-hospital-denies-all-claims/story-HxRusHiadcQb4EqiDSLVdN.html
08-12-2020||Education||Delhi University may set up its third campus in east Delhi||The Delhi University (DU) is planning to set-up a new campus in the east district of the national capital, officials said, adding it will not only help reduce administrative burden on the north and south campuses but also spur higher education opportunities in the region. Delhi University has two campuses -- North and South, besides several affiliated colleges spread across the city. DU pro-vice-chancellor (VC) PC Joshi, who is also the acting vice-chancellor, told HT that the new campus will come up in Surajmal Vihar area of east Delhi. “We have land in east Delhi and we are trying to develop that into a campus, just like we have a North and a South campus. We want to have a campus in east Delhi also. The university’s high-powered committee has recently inspected the site and we are holding a meeting on Wednesday to discuss this. We will then take the matter to other statutory bodies of the university for their approval,” he said. The DU had tweeted that Joshi, along with other senior officials, had visited the site on December 5.The identified land is located near the Karkardooma district courts complex and is accessible by both Blue and Red lines of Delhi Metro. Joshi said the administration was planning to set up a law centre and departments for liberal arts courses at the new campus. “We have already made a plan but it’s still in a very preliminary stage. The project will cost around Rs 600 crore so we will also have to make provisions for the funds. These things take time but we have started moving in that direction,” he said.In DU, while colleges offer undergraduate courses, the departments and faculties for postgraduate courses are situated on the campuses. Both North and South campuses also divide the administrative work of the colleges falling in their vicinity. Whereas, the off-campus colleges, those located in east and west Delhi, have to do their daily administrative work in coordination with the North campus. Explaining the reason behind setting up a new campus, DU dean of College Balaram Pani said that it will not only provide more opportunities for higher education but also help manage the administrative work well. “Currently, the South campus is taking care of the administrative work of 24 colleges and the North campus is looking after the remaining 40-plus colleges. It would become easier for colleges located in east and north-east Delhi to work efficiently, if they will have their own campus.”Some principals of DU colleges located in east Delhi echoed the sentiment. Payal Mago, principal of Shaheed Rajguru College in Vasundhara Enclave, said, “We have to send someone to the North campus for some administrative work almost daily. Our students also have to travel all the way to the North campus for any grievance. It becomes even more difficult for us to coordinate during examination or admissions. Things will become really easier for us if we get a campus in Surajmal Vihar.”Several students said that the university should also deliberate over starting new colleges. Dinesh Kumar, member of Krantikari Yuva Sangathan (KYS) -- a students’ group active in DU -- said, “If the university is planning to have a new campus, they should also start new colleges in order to increase undergraduate seats. Every year, so many students, particularly from the marginalised sections, are forced to take admission in distance learning courses due to limited seats in DU colleges.”Deepak Pental, former vice-chancellor of DU, said the third campus should rather be utilised for new courses or for the School of Open Learning (SoL). “The university doesn’t need to have another campus repeating the same postgraduate courses it is already offering in the other two. The new campus should either offer very different courses or it should be dedicated to the SoL which is already battling poor infrastructure. Besides, the university can set-up as many administrative offices there,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/du-may-set-up-its-third-campus-in-east-delhi/story-HIjVqVv1KIjztuHXPXPmAI.html
08-12-2020||Noida||Noida authority approves plot merger scheme; over to state for final nod||NOIDA: Bringing much cheer to residents, the Noida authority has approved a scheme which allows the merger of two residential plots. Earlier, two adjoining residential plots couldn’t be merged in the absence of a policy. The proposal will now be sent to the state government for a final nod.Earlier, the authority, on February 2, 2007 in its 142nd board meeting, had approved a proposal for the same but the same could not get approvals from the state government. Later on December 21, 2016, the authority had again approved a proposal in this regard without getting a success at the state level. On Friday, the authority again approved this proposal with the hope that it will get requisite approvals from the Uttar Pradesh government.If approved, plot owners will now have to deposit ₹10,000 as processing fee to merge two plots.“Earlier there was no policy to merge two plots, which are adjoining in any sector across the city. The board approved this proposal in the interest of the general public, particularly those whose plots are adjoining and they want to merge the same,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer of the Noida authority.If it is approved, then those who have two adjoining plots in any residential sector can merge them, said officials. The authority does not have data on the exact number of pending cases related to the merger of plots.“There are many residents who have two adjoining plots in the city but cannot merge them in the absence of a policy on this. But now, they can merge two plots and use them, if the policy is approved,” said Prempal Singh, a resident of Sector 135.As per rules, merger will be allowed only with certain riders, such as two plots will be merged only if both plots are owned by the same person; after merger, the ground coverage, floor area ratio and set back norms will be as per the applicable building bylaws-2010; after merger, the two plots will be considered as one plot and these will be sold in the future only as one plot; the plot owner will not be able to de-amalgamate these two plots in the future; if the plots are mortgaged then the owner will have to obtain a no-objection certificate from the bank or financial agency that has mortgaged the plots.“The Noida authority has taken a much-needed decision in the interest of residents who own two plots and are willing to merge them. It was a long-pending demand of residents and it will be in the interest of the real estate sector as well,” said Anchal Bohra, a real estate expert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-authority-approves-plot-merger-scheme-over-to-state-for-final-nod/story-3SYr2PaJTzewnZBKqOKfhI.html
08-12-2020||Mumbai||2008 Malegaon blast case: Forensic lab fails to return evidence sent for examination||The Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL), Kalina has failed to return articles seized from one of the accused in the 2008 Malegaon blast case, since 2016. The special court on Monday asked the prosecution to submit a report regarding the piece of evidence in the next hearing. Around 9.30pm on September 29, 2008, a bomb planted on a motorcycle exploded at Malegaon, killing six people and injuring 101. In April 2011, the investigation was transferred to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) from the Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad (ATS). Four years after the investigation, NIA had, on May 13, 2016, filed a charge sheet in the case. On Monday, NIA was scheduled to examine a material witness in front whom a compact disc containing a voice sample of one of the accused, Ramesh Upadhyay, was seized. The disc had been sent to FSL at Kalina for examination. The examination report was submitted by the lab, however, the disc remained with them. Further, the same witness was present for the process of personal search of another accused, Sudhakar Chaturvedi. The articles seized from him were also sent to Kalina for forensic examination but were not returned to NIA. The witness was required to identify these articles before the court but was unable to do so since FSL had not returned them. In the absence of the articles, the court had to return the witness and directed the prosecution to bring him when the items were recovered. The court asked the prosecution to follow up with the lab and report on why the evidence was not returned sooner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2008-malegaon-blast-case-forensic-lab-fails-to-return-evidence-sent-for-examination/story-t77psMRnVq0MMdmOBaZv0L.html
08-12-2020||Gurugram||Red-breasted merganser duck sighted in NCR for first time||Birders in Haryana made a rare sighting, of a female red-breasted merganser duck, at a wetland in Mandothi village of Jhajjar district, located about 40 kilometres from Gurugram, on Sunday and Monday. The red-breasted merganser is a resident of Europe and North America that migrates to parts of the UK, China and Pakistan during winter. This marks the first-ever appearance of the avian species in Haryana and Delhi-NCR. A previous sighting of the bird in India, in December 2016, at a Mumbai wetland, had sent ripples among country’s birding community .It was first spotted in Mandothi on the afternoon of December 6 by birder Sonu Dalal, a resident of the area, who initially mistook it for a common merganser duck, which is a resident of India’s hilly tracts and sometimes ventures to the Indo-Gangetic plain during winter. However, Dighal-based birder Rakesh Ahlawat on Monday visited the site and confirmed that the bird was, in fact, a red-breasted merganser. “The bird is a vagrant which may have found its way to India while migrating. This species usually resides around freshwater lakes in Europe and North America and then winters in parts of the UK, China, and some coasts in south Pakistan. They travel in huge flocks, but this one was found on its own,” said Ahlawat. The red-breasted merganser spotted in Jhajjar is a female specimen and was seen wading amid a group of waterfowl, including common teals and shovellers. Birders were able to identify her from her thin bill and slighter build, as compared to the more hefty common merganser. Red-breasted merganser ducks are among the fastest ducks in flight, clocking speeds above 150 kilometres per hour. “It’s hard to say where exactly this bird’s migratory path has originated as their breeding range is very large,” said Sonu Dalal, who first spotted the duck on Sunday. The first photographic record of the red-breasted merganser in India dates back to December 21, 2016, when it was spotted at a wetland in Maharashtra’s Vasai taluka, in Rajavalli village. At the time, birders from across the Mumbai region flocked to Vasai to catch a glimpse of the bird. Coincidentally, the species was also spotted around the same time at the Gajoldoba wetland near Siliguri in West Bengal. “I remember the Mumbai sighting created quite a flutter. Even I had gone to Vasai to try and see the bird in January 2017, but wasn’t lucky enough,” said Pankaj Gupta of the Delhi Bird Foundation. “I suspect people will want to have a look at this specimen since it is the first sighting in Haryana and NCR. Common merganser ducks are sometimes seen in parts of Uttar Pradesh and Kashmir, but this one is not a resident of India. It is clearly a vagrant that has deviated from its migratory path,” Gupta said.Two earlier recordings of the red-breasted merganser also exist from West Bengal, in 1889 and 1961. However, these claims are not supported by photographic evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/red-breasted-merganser-duck-sighted-in-ncr-for-first-time/story-3Fd92sVaMVewcmmY4K24DI.html
08-12-2020||Chandigarh||Commercial building collapses in Zirakpur after digging starts in adjacent plot||By 11am on Monday, cracks had developed on the walls of a commercial building in Balaji Enclave on the Zirakpur-Patiala Road, as land in an adjacent plot being dug by an excavator machine started sinking. By 4pm, much after fire brigade, disaster management and municipal corporation (MC) teams reached the spot, the structure collapsed. No casualties were reported as the building had been evacuated, even as the owner of the neighbouring plot was booked for not getting permissions to dig the land to build a basement. The building that collapsed had a chemist’s shop, lawyers’ offices and a second floor with no occupancy. Vineet Kamboj, owner of the chemist shop said medicines worth lakhs had been destroyed. “Digging started five days ago and on Monday morning it was dug to a depth of 10 feet beyond permissible limits, exposing the foundation of the building. The land started sinking and the walls started developing cracks,” said Gurpreet Singh, the owner of the collapsed building.The plot owner, Jyoti Sadana, was booked under Sections 288 (negligent conduct with respect to pulling down or repairing buildings) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of Rs 50) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 21 of the Mining Act for digging without permission. Report sought: DayalanMohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said a complete report had been sought on the incident. “We came to know on time that the earth had been dug up beyond permissible limits, endangering the adjoining building, which was evacuated on time, saving many lives. Legal action will be taken.” According to MC records, the owner of the plot had got the building plan for a residential unit sanctioned, but permissions had not been given for digging the land for a basement.In February this year, a commercial building collapsed on the Kharar-Landran road and a man operating an excavator machine was killed while digging the basement area.An inquiry is pending in the case with the sub-divisional magistrate, Kharar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/commercial-building-collapses-in-zirakpur-after-digging-starts-in-adjacent-plot/story-J2GaMd1dF9nN9DWPN7AhqL.html
08-12-2020||City||MC elections: Ambala city SDM is now returning officer||Three days after district election officer and deputy commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma had appointed municipal corporation (MC) commissioner Parth Gupta as the returning officer (RO) for the elections, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Sachin Gupta has now been given the charge in fresh orders issued on Monday. The orders also stated that Gupta’s charge of the nodal officer for the polls will now be given to city magistrate Ashok Kumar.The reason behind this immediate change, however, couldn’t be cleared as the DC remained incommunicado despite several attempts. On this, Gupta said, “I can’t clear out the reason, but I’ve been given the charge. I’ve also appointed duty magistrates and sector officers for all 20 wards to keep a check on the election process. The officers have to be on duty otherwise disciplinary action will be taken.”Gupta has given two wards each to the duty magistrates and one ward each to the sector officers.Meanwhile, major parties like BJP and Congress have accelerated their candidate selection process. The saffron party is set to launch its new party office in the city on Wednesday that is expected to be a show of strength before the candidates are declared. Congress is still busy receiving the applications at the party office in the city.Regional parties like former state minister Nirmal Singh’s Haryana Democratic Front will soon present its party manifesto. Former Union minister Venod Sharma’s Haryana Janchetna Party is yet to declare it’s candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mc-elections-ambala-city-sdm-is-now-returning-officer/story-RsdfF2QFQfXKB9JnNCCmDP.html
08-12-2020||Pune||Chemist among 6 people arrested in MD drug bust; total arrested now 20||A post-graduate degree holder, who taught a group of criminals the procedure of making mephedrone narcotic, was among the six men who were arrested by Pimpri-Chinchwad police.The man has been identified as Arvindkumar Prakashchand Lohare (39), a resident of Oshiwara in Mumbai and a native of Mazaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh. Lohare was referred to as the “doctor” in their circle and was mentioned as such during the police custody of people arrested earlier in the case.“He was the one who trained everyone on how to make the drug. The teaching was done at three locations and 132kg MD was produced at a company in Ranjangaon MIDC. He took Rs 35 lakh for teaching the procedure. He has a history of another case against him,” said Krishna Prakash, commissioner of Pimpri-Chinchwad police.The five others arrested have been identified as Manoj Eknath Palande (40), a resident of Ganeshnagar Varse in Raigad; Afzal Hussain Abbas Sunsara (52), a resident of Jogeshwari West in Mumbai; Parshuram Bhalchandra Jogal (44), Wagle Estate in Thane and a native of Devgad in Sindhudurg; Mandar Baliram Bhosale (49), also a resident of Wagle Estate and Ram Manoharlal Gurbani (43), a resident of Mulund West in Mumbai, according to the police.Of the six people arrested recently, Jogal was arrested on November 24 from Thane, Bhosale and Gurbani were arrested on November 25, and the three others, including the chemist.According to the police, small quantities were made during the two-day teaching session at three locations - Bhosale’s Alkemi Industry and Palande’s Nimbus Pharma in Mahad MIDC, Raigad and a farmhouse owned by advocate M Joshi, where two kingpins, arrested earlier in the case, conducted trials. They have been identified as Tushar Kale and Rakesh alias Rocky Khaniwadekar.HOW 132kg of MD WAS PRODUCEDA team of workers led by Kale and Rocky produced 132kg of MD within 15 days before the lockdown and distributed it among people who sold it further. The workers had no idea what was being made in the factory, said senior police inspector Balkrushna Sawant.“During the training and trial period, they made some 4-5kg at three locations. However, at Ranjangaon MIDC, they produced 132kg. Generally, 400 grammes of pure substance can be extracted from 1kg of raw material. But Kale roped in a man named Hrushikesh Mishra (25) who is a gold medallist in chemistry from a university in Maharashtra. He helped them extract 800gm per kg of raw material,” said assistant police inspector Prerna Katte of the Pimpri-Chinchwad police crime branch.While Rocky and Kale produced the drug in batches, the three others are believed to have provided space, raw material, distribution channels and logistical support, according to the police.So far, it does not seem like there were any storage spaces involved as the drugs are believed to have been sent out as and when the batches were prepared and sold throughout the lockdown period, according to senior police inspector Shriram Paul.CASE, AS KNOWN, SO FARAlong with these six, the total number of arrests in the case have now reached 20. Among the 20 arrests, two men were found with cash that was collectively found to be worth Rs 85,00,000.The case first landed on the Pimpri-Chinchwad police radar when a truck carrying 20kg MD was seized in Chakan by senior PI Paul’s team on October 7.“This was the excess product that was kept under wraps by one of the players. They had first procured material to make 112kg of drugs. But their productivity increased (due to Mishra) and extra 20kg was produced. This truck was passing through Chakan when it was intercepted,” said senior PI Sawant.HISTORY OF CASES AGAINST ARRESTED PEOPLELohare, known as the “doctor” in his circle, has a previous case under NDPS registered against him in 2018 in Nashik. He was found with 12kg of produced MD in Igatpuri area of Nashik.Tushar Kale, suspected aide of underworld don Rajendra Nikalje aka Chhota Rajan and has at least five known cases against him. Of the five cases, one case is of murder, another of extortion, one for preparation of dacoity, one of possession of arms, including 700 rounds of ammunition, and theft.Mandar Bhosale has a history of four previous cases and has been booked under Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (Mcoca) by Thane police.The current case is registered under Sections 8(c), 21(c), 22(c) and 29 of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/chemist-among-6-people-arrested-in-md-drug-bust-total-arrested-now-20/story-Hn8M9cDeCMbp8AkIUX0WbI.html
08-12-2020||Pune||SPPU to calculate average marks for students contesting TY results||PUNE In a bid to resolve the problems and technical issues related to the results of final year students of the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) and its affiliated colleges, the university has decided to give average marks for a subject in which a student has some issues. At least 5,000 students have registered complaints with the SPPU as regardes the results, and currently, 3,000 students are still demanding their results be rechecked. “We got a total of 5,064 complaints through various mediums from students about issues with their results, of which 2,000 have been resolved. Still there are 3,000 students who have demanded a recheck and re-evaluation of papers where most have either got zero marks. For all these students we have decided to give average marks from the total of all the other subjects s/he appeared for,” said Mahesh Kakade, director of the board of examination and evaluation. From October 12, SPPU started its final year exams in 3,300 subjects, for which 2.5 lakh students enrolled. For the offline exams, 113 centres were identified where physical exams were conducted in Pune, Nashik and Ahmednagar districts. These exams are of 50 marks each with multiple choice questions (MCQ) over a duration of one hour. “Today we have issued a circular in which an email id is given for students to register their complaints related to results – osd.exam@unipune.ac.in. We are taking note of each and every complaint registered and try to resolve it as early as possible. We will try to announce the revised results by December 15,” added Kakde. Meanwhile, on Monday, a protest was held by the Yuvak Kranti Dal at the SPPU main building against the mismanagement of the SPPU administration. Later, the students held a meeting with SPPU vice-chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar. Kamlakar Shete, Pune city vice-president of the Yuvak Kranti Dal said, “Thousands of students are facing problems to get their incorrect results revised by the examination department. Students want to take admission for further studies but due to wrong results they cannot do anything. We will fight till each and every student gets justice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sppu-to-calculate-average-marks-for-students-contesting-ty-results/story-F3XdJ8TjizPZBd0FDZJsYM.html
08-12-2020||Pune||PMC’s cycle sharing scheme left orphaned under road dept||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) launched its public bicycle sharing scheme in 2007. Three years later the bicycle sharing scheme is all but defunct, with neither bicycles on the road, nor the civic body’s department overseeing the scheme functional. Initially, when the scheme received an enthusiastic response, PMC started a special bicycle department to execute, plan and coordinate between the four bicycle providers in the city. In 2018, the PMC assigned superintended engineer Narendra Salunke to oversee the bicycle scheme. Salunke retired in January 2020, and no official has been named as his replacement. In 2017, PMC prepared its comprehensive bicycle plan and launched its bicycle sharing programme in the city. Pune Smart City Development Company Limited (PSCDCL) started a cycle-share scheme in the University of Pune on December 5, 2017. After that, the PMC launched several schemes in different parts of the city. According to statistics provided by PMC officials, MOBIKE, Zooomcar and Yulu, all Bengaluru-based companies, provided a total of 5,800 bicycles on rentals for the share scheme. The firms later pulled out and Yulu is the only firm to have continued in major residential areas like Magarpatta. Srinwas Bonala, additional city engineer, Traffic planning department, said, “Right now, China based MOBIKE has withdrawn from the scheme. Zoomcar is not operational and Yulu is providing rental service in big societies like Magarpatta. They conveyed to the PMC about their withdrawal. Now, the department has handed the scheme over to the Road department.” V G Kulkarni, chief superintendent of the Road department, said, “There is no officer who has been given charge of the bicycle sharing scheme. Earlier, the scheme was handled by the traffic planning department.” Ranjit Gadgil of Parisar, an NGO and a member of the Bicycle Advisory committee of PMC’s comprehensive bicycle plan and non-motorised transport, said, “At present, only Yulu is providing rental cycle service in closed areas like big societies. He further added, “PMC should start a bicycle scheme as there is considerable awareness among the public. We should rectify the problems. The Central government is ready to provide funds. But, there is a lack of enthusiasm in PMC. There is no dedicated department for this scheme. Therefore, the scheme is not working at present.” Cycling infrastructure scenario According to The Energy and Resource Institute’s (Teri) report, “Pedaling towards a Greener India”, - a report on promoting cycling in the country, few cities in the country have constructed/planned cycle tracks. Only Pune and Chandigarh have a wider city-level network of cycle tracks. These networks, however, have problems related to bad design, maintenance, encroachment, lighting, and enforcement. Public Bicycle Sharing scheme (PBS) Cyclists can use a mobile application to unlock and ride the cycles from different locations in the city. The user checks out a bicycle from one location, rides to his or her destination and parks it at a nearby destination. The operator coordinates the redistribution of bicycles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-s-cycle-sharing-scheme-left-orphaned-under-road-dept/story-ncz8EmXAv3QS6YxDr163kL.html
08-12-2020||Chandigarh||Study abroad consultants pin hopes on next year’s student intake||Even as students’ plans to study abroad fell flat this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, education consultants are pinning hopes on next year’s student intake.Despite Covid-19 cases spiralling, application processes to foreign universities for the 2021 academic session have begun. At the forefront are youngsters from north India who make up a large chunk of international students in countries like Canada, the UK and Australia. With businesses hit by the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown, consultants in the region are hopeful of getting a good number of applications for the May and September intake next year.‘Students anxious about studies’Navneet Singh, an immigration consultant and a representative of the Association of Overseas Education Consultants here confirmed that a large number of applications were coming in. “We are getting an overwhelming response from students for next year. I think they are also anxious about studies after a year of disruptions. Admissions for next year are in full swing now.“Students have also started to travel to Canada and the UK. Australia is also hinting at allowing students to travel,” he said.Admissions for May and September intakes have started in Canada. The UK and Australia are accepting applications for the January, March and July intakes.Immigration experts say over 1 lakh youngsters from Punjab and Chandigarh fly to Australia, Canada, the UK and other destinations for studies every year. Where safety measures are concerned, many educational institutes in Canada have prepared quarantine plans for students on the basis of which they are allowed to travel, experts say. Number of applicants falls“Canada has now started issuing visas to travel. We are receiving applications from students for next year but the number is comparatively lower, which is likely to increase in the coming months,” says Jatin Wadhwa, director of a Chandigarh based international education consultancy.Rakeshwar Walia, who runs an immigration and education consultancy based in Khanna, adds, “things are slowly coming back on track and we are hoping to get good response from students for the May and September intakes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/study-abroad-consultants-pin-hopes-on-next-year-s-student-intake/story-pVvk67yXBaOymGpCqiPMwK.html
08-12-2020||Delhi||City’s F&B industry on better grounds in the third wave of the pandemic. Here’s how||The year is coming to an end and with endings come new beginnings. This is evident in the NCR’s dine-in and food delivery scene, an industry which is rebuilding itself with renewed hope. A late evening stroll in Khan Market unfurls facts about how some restaurants are planning to host guests. At Townhall, we were stopped briefly for a thermal scan and were told that only 50% of the original capacity is allowed. Inside, tables are demarcated, but even that 50% is to its max capacity. Navneet Kalra, owner, says, “Footfall is still the same, and in fact, has gone up by 15% since October-November. After the pandemic, our delivery orders have gone up by 50%.”At Public Affair, after a quick thermal scan, we are lead upstairs where both the storeys are operational, but with tables marked. The staff is wearing gloves, masks and hair nets. The tables that are kept available have bottles of sanitisers. Chatterhouse, which earlier used to have dining open on both storeys, has now limited it to first floor. The second floor is only functional as a smoking area. Staff is equipped with face shield, masks and gloves. Read: The Taste With Vir: Nothing beats the restaurant experience even after the delivery boom amid Covid-19Umang Tewari founder of Local says that business that was already affected was further dented. “The third wave of pandemic has actually brought business down by 30 percent which was anyway on lower side. We are in wait-and-watch situation currently as there is surge in cases. However, with continuous decline in last week in cases, we are hopeful that we will cover up this 30 percent decline by the end of this month.”“The footfall does not match our pre-lockdown numbers especially our indoor mall outlets. The business is badly affected there unlike our outdoor outlets at Cyber Hub and Khan Market where the numbers are similar to before. Even though our revenues are down 40% from October, the number of people dining in has been reassuring for us and we have seen an increase in takeaway orders as well. Seating capacity remains at 50%, our safety measures are as strong as before from the option of disposable cutlery, abundant sanitisers to extremely strict hygiene and safety protocols for our staff and an open kitchen concept. We have gone the extra mile to make our guests feel safe about dining in, says Varun Tuli, MD, Yum Yum Cha.The third phase has coincided with the festive season, offering some respite. Vikrant Batra founder Café Delhi Heights says, “There was a promising rise in the business, but also occasional dips, so it’s been a journey of ups and downs.”Elaborating on how the dine-in and delivery systems are supporting each other in keeping overall sales intact, Amit Bagga, co-founder Daryaganj, says,“Our sales have remained the same — the only difference being that the contribution of home deliveries has gone up. The sales have remained the same. If earlier we had 80% from dine-in and 20% from deliveries, now its 65-35%.” Read: For star chefs, pandemic pared away unnecessary flabSeeing an upward graph in sales and the number of people willing to venture out, Akshay Anand, co-founder, Ophelia, says, “Business in the third wave is definitely better than business in the first phase. Approximately 45-50% of the revenue is back and is likely to go higher in month of December. Almost 50% of the population has experienced Covid directly or indirectly and have realised that the recovery rate is really high. Our restaurants are following complete SOPs given by the government and are really safe for the diners.”Interact with Etti Bali @TheBalinianFollow @htlifeandstyle for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/city-s-f-b-industry-on-better-grounds-in-the-third-wave-of-the-pandemic-here-s-how/story-RwjVgPjWDgIiQrKyOZlDZP.html
08-12-2020||World||‘Quite frankly shocking’: US virus deaths hit record levels||Deaths from Covid-19 in the US have soared to more than 2,200 a day on average, matching the frightening peak reached last April, and cases per day have eclipsed 200,000 on average for the first time on record, with the crisis all but certain to get worse because of the fallout from Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Year’s.Virtually every state is reporting surges just as a vaccine appears days away from getting the go-ahead in the US.“The epidemic in the US is punishing. It’s widespread. It’s quite frankly shocking to see one to two persons a minute die in the US — a country with a wonderful, strong health system, amazing technological capacities,” said Dr. Michael Ryan, the World Health Organization’s chief of emergencies.The virus is blamed for more than 280,000 deaths and almost 15 million confirmed infections in the United States.On Thursday, a Food and Drug Administration advisory panel is widely expected to authorize emergency use of Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine, and shots could begin almost immediately after that. Britain on Tuesday started dispensing the Pfizer vaccine, becoming the first country in the West to begin mass vaccinations.Still, any vaccination campaign will take many months, US health experts are warning of a surge in the coming weeks, in part because of Americans’ disregard of warnings not to travel over Thanksgiving. Dr. Anthony Fauci, the nation’s top infectious-disease expert, said the upcoming holiday season could compound the crisis even more than Thanksgiving did.“It’s a very critical time in this country right now,” he told CNN on Monday.The WHO’s Ryan said that the US is accounting for one-third of all world cases over the last several weeks and that the “brutal reality” is that holiday hugs are ill-advised.In Georgia, the number of confirmed and suspected coronavirus infections has soared more than 70% in the past week, and hospitals are sounding alarms about their ability to absorb new Covid-19 patients.The stage is averaging more than 5,000 confirmed and suspected cases per day. Even then, Georgia ranks only 44th among the states for the most new cases per capita in the past 14 days because infections are spreading so rapidly everywhere else.Georgia is likely to record its 10,000th confirmed or suspected death from Covid-19 sometime this week. The state topped 500,000 confirmed or suspected infections overall on Sunday.More than 2,500 Covid-19 patients were hospitalized Monday statewide. That’s below the summer peak of 3,200 but more than double the most recent low point in mid-October.“We are effectively reversing the gains we made after the summer surge,” said Amber Schmidtke, an epidemiologist who does a daily analysis of Georgia’s Covid-19 numbers.Health experts warn that well after the vaccine arrives in the US, masks and social distancing will remain vital to bringing the coronavirus under control.In Pennsylvania, overwhelmed hospitals may have to begin rationing care and turning away patients, Gov. Tom Wolf warned Monday, calling it a “dangerous, disturbing scenario.”“If the worst happens, hospitals will not be able to treat all sick Pennsylvanians,” he said. “They’ll be forced to turn away people who need treatment, and that means more Pennsylvanians will die.”Even with that stark warning, Wolf, a Democrat, all but ruled out a return to the kinds of statewide restrictions he imposed last spring, when schools were closed, thousands of businesses deemed nonessential were shut down, and all 12.8 million Pennsylvanians were under a stay-at-home order.In Nevada, the number of people hospitalized with Covid-19 has more than tripled over the last month, as did the number of patients needing ventilators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/quite-frankly-shocking-us-virus-deaths-hit-record-levels/story-jWlyEzh1qzDJYI5PHowMIJ.html
08-12-2020||World||US hits Iran’s envoy to Yemen, Chinese firms with sanctions||The Trump administration on Tuesday escalated steps to rein in Iran’s activities in the Middle East and North Korea’s efforts to evade international sanctions with new penalties against both nations and proxies.As it winds down its term, the administration announced that it had imposed sanctions on Iran’s envoy to Yemen’s Houthi rebels, Hasan Irlu, and Al-Mustafa International University for recruiting fighters for the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps to foment instability in Yemen and in Syria.In a separate statement, the Treasury Department said it also was imposing sanctions on six Chinese and Vietnamese companies and four ships for selling and transporting North Korean coal in violation of U.N. sanctions.The moves come as the administration seeks to step up pressure on governments it opposes in various parts of the world before President-elect Joe Biden takes office in January.The penalties freeze any assets the targets may already have in or that enter U.S. jurisdictions and bar Americans from doing business with them. Several of those identified for the North Korean violations are already subject to U.S. sanctions. The measures may also subject third country companies and individuals to U.S. sanctions if they are found to be engaging in transactions with them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-hits-iran-s-envoy-to-yemen-chinese-firms-with-sanctions/story-niyieVpHXSqUkXvaaE3hdJ.html
08-12-2020||World||France to build new nuclear-powered aircraft carrier, says Macron||France will build a new, nuclear-powered aircraft carrier to replace its Charles de Gaulle carrier by 2038, French President Emmanuel Macron announced Tuesday.Macron framed the decision to use nuclear reactors to propel the future warship as part of France’s climate strategy, stressing its lower emissions compared to diesel fuel.Speaking at a nuclear facility in the Burgundy town of Le Creusot, he called France’s nuclear weapons and atomic energy industry “the cornerstone of our strategic autonomy,” and said the nuclear sector plays a role in France’s “status as a great power.”One of his advisers noted that having an aircraft carrier also helps France project its global influence. Only a few countries in the world maintain the huge, costly vessels.The new French aircraft carrier will be about 70,000 tons and 300 meters long, roughly 1.5 times the size of the Charles de Gaulle, which has been deployed for international military operations in Iraq and Syria in recent years, according to French presidential advisers.Its catapults will be electro-magnetic, and American-made, and the ship will be designed to accommodate next-generation warplanes and serve until around 2080, the advisers said.They didn’t provide a price tag but French media estimate it will cost around 7 billion euros ($8.5 billion).Macron also pledged 500 million euros in investment in the nuclear industry and a separate fund to modernize it, and promised “progress” on the persistent problem of how to permanently get rid of nuclear waste. Nuclear reactors provide the majority of France’s electricity, but many reactors are aging and delays have dogged new-generation reactors.Macron, who is co-hosting a global video summit on Saturday to mark the fifth anniversary of the Paris climate accord, said France also must do more to develop wind, solar, hydrogen and other renewable energies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/france-to-build-new-nuclear-powered-aircraft-carrier-says-macron/story-ZpvJekXrt8UPLQnb2soxzN.html
08-12-2020||World||Key milestone reached in ExoMars mission: All you need to know about joint endeavour to Red Planet||The joint European and Russian mission to Mars, scheduled for launch in 2022, reached a key milestone in its preparation as the Rosalind Franklin rover was mated to the Kazachok platform that will land it on the Red Planet. The rover was attached to the Kazachok surface platform for the first time and the fit-check was conducted at the factory of Thales Alenia Space in Cannes, France.The platform and the rover together form the ‘landing module’, which will be integrated inside the descent module for mass balancing checks. The factory will conduct several tests, including electrical, power and data transfer checks between the two elements, before the rover returns to the TAS cleanrooms in Turin, Italy, for further functional testing. It will be then shipped to the launch site in Baikonur Cosmodrome, an area of southern Kazakhstan leased to Russia.Also Read | China launches first independent Mars probe, calls it ‘Questions to Heaven’Here’s all you need to know about the ExoMars Mission 2022:The ExoMars programme is a joint mission between the European Space Agency (ESA) and the Russian State Space Corporation, Roscosmos. The mission will deliver a European rover and a Russian surface platform to the surface of Mars.The joint endeavour was supposed to leave Earth in July/August this year but the difficulties in preparing the hardware, in part due to the limitations triggered by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), caused the delay. The space agencies are now targeting a September 2022 launch window and landing on Mars in June 2023. Proton rocket will be used to launch the mission and the Rosalind Franklin rover will travel across the Martian surface to search for signs of life. During launch and cruise phase, a carrier module will transport the surface platform and the rover within a single aeroshell. A descent module will separate from the carrier shortly before reaching the atmosphere of the Red Planet. After landing, the rover will collect samples with a drill and analyse them with next-generation instruments. According to ESA, the mission’s goal is to determine the geological history of the landing site at Oxia Planum, once thought to host an ocean, and to determine whether life could ever have existed on the planet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/key-milestone-reached-in-exomars-mission-all-you-need-to-know-about-joint-endeavour-to-red-planet/story-V3hW2iDYNBNNoHdpF9BBRN.html
08-12-2020||World||‘Go for it,’ says 90-year-old who got world’s first Pfizer Covid vaccine in UK||The 90-year-old woman who became the first person in the world to receive the Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine outside of a trial in Britain on Tuesday, told others to “go for it” to beat the devastating disease.Margaret Keenan received the Pfizer-BioNTech shot at her local hospital in Coventry, central England, at 0631 GMT, a week before she turns 91, according to Reuters.She received the shot in her left arm from nurse May Parsons, who has worked in Britain’s National Health Service (NHS) for 24 years, the agency reported.“I say go for it, go for it because it’s free and it’s the best thing that has ever happened,” Keenan said. “If I can do it, well, so can you,” she added. This is the moment that 90-year-old grandmother Margaret Keenan returned to the ward at her local hospital in Coventry, after she became the first person in the world to receive the clinically-approved #COVIDVaccine this morning 👏🏾👏🏼👏🏽 pic.twitter.com/80yRjJLRhMKeenan is seen being wheeled out of the ward into a corridor, lined with nursing staff, to applaud and cheer. The vaccine administered to Keenan, called BNT162b2, uses messenger RNA (mRNA) technology, which makes use of a chemical messenger to instruct cells to make proteins that mimic the outer surface of the novel coronavirus, thereby rendering immunity against it. Britain, the first Western country to start immunising its population, is also the worst-hit country in Europe with over 61,000 deaths. The country has ordered 40 million doses of the Pfizer/BioNTech shot. Each person requires two doses, and 40 million doses are enough to vaccinate 20 million people in the country of 67 million.About 800,000 doses are expected to be available within the first week, with care home residents and carers, the elderly and health service workers the top priority to get them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/go-for-it-says-90-year-old-who-got-world-s-first-pfizer-covid-vaccine-in-uk/story-jzRLDYKKX8BxOaLknVbOxL.html
08-12-2020||World||Melania Trump leaves mark on White House with new tennis pavilion||First the Rose Garden, now the South Lawn. Melania Trump made a further lasting mark on the White House grounds with a new tennis pavilion that “will function as both a place of leisure and gathering for future First Families,” the First Lady said in a statement issued on Monday. The project refurbished the existing White House Tennis Court and Grandchildren’s Garden and erected a new 1,200-square-foot building on the South Lawn. Construction of the pavilion began in October and drew inspiration from existing architecture—that is the neoclassical Federal style favored by President Donald Trump—according to a proposal submitted by the National Park Service, which operates the 18-acre grounds of the White House. The latest fixture on the White House lawn is 18 feet high. Clad in limestone and boasting a copper roof, it features such architectural elements unique to the White House as a colonnade and fanlight windows. The pavilion also has locker rooms and is meant to be a “unifying” part of the grounds, connecting the Children’s Garden and the tennis court. According to the statement, the tennis pavilion was funded by private donations. The south grounds of the White House have traditionally served as recreational space for first families since the early 20th century, with each president leaving a personal touch. Jimmy Carter had a treehouse built for his daughter, and Bill Clinton had a seven-seat hot tub installed. Tennis courts were first installed under Theodore Roosevelt; in 2009, Barack Obama had basketball court lines painted and added removable baskets so he could play full-court basketball. The grounds have also served as a canvas for first ladies to leave symbols of their legacies. The Children’s Garden was constructed in 1969 as envisioned by former first lady and ardent environmentalist, Lady Bird Johnson. In 2009, then-First Lady Michelle Obama planted the 2,800-square-foot Kitchen Garden as part of her work to promote healthy eating. Melania Trump’s project, approved in June by the Commission of Fine Arts and the National Planning Commission, drew criticism in March when the first lady posted an update on Twitter as coronavirus cases were spiking in the U.S. Critics lambasted the timing of the post; one called it “real Marie Antionette” energy.The pavilion is one of several design endeavors that the first lady has undertaken this year. She overhauled the White House Rose Garden in August, working with landscape architecture firms Perry Guillot Inc. and Oehme, van Sweden & Associates for the makeover, which involved digging up trees, replacing bright yellow and red floral beds with white and pastel roses, and installing limestone-paved walkways.  The revamp was completed before a rally for the Republican National Convention was held on the White House lawn. According to the original proposal, the tennis pavilion will not impact historic resources or prominent vistas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/melania-trump-leaves-mark-on-white-house-with-new-tennis-pavilion/story-lU4bYKyjwXu9mHSk1MFRtL.html
08-12-2020||World||Oxford University-AstraZeneca first to publish final-stage Covid-19 vaccine trial results||Oxford University and AstraZeneca became the first Covid-19 vaccine makers to publish final-stage clinical trial results in a scientific journal Tuesday, clearing a key hurdle in the global race to produce safe and effective drugs for the new coronavirus.The study, published in the respected Lancet medical journal, confirmed that the vaccine works in an average of 70 percent of cases.It comes during a flurry of positive developments that have raised hopes the roll-out of vaccines can help begin to restrain a pandemic that has killed more than 1.5 million people and stricken societies worldwide. Britain on Tuesday became the first country in the Western world to start immunisations, using a rival vaccine developed by Pfizer-BioNTech after approving it for general use last week. Andrew Pollard, the director of the Oxford Vaccine Group, said publication in the Lancet showed developers were “transparently sharing the data”. He said a range of vaccines would be needed to bring the pandemic to heel, “otherwise we’ll still be in this position in six months time”. “This really can’t be a competition between developers, this has to be in competition against the virus,” he told a press briefing. The study showed the vaccine had an efficacy of 62 percent for those given two full doses, and of 90 percent in those given a half then a full dose.AstraZeneca and Oxford faced questions last month about their analysis -- which looks at data from a total of 23,000 people in separate trials with differing protocols -- after releasing an overview of the results. These centred on the smaller group who were given an initial half dose because of a mistake.Tuesday’s study confirmed that this group of 1,367 participants did not include adults over the age of 55 years.The authors said they provided extra analysis to Lancet peer reviewers that suggested improved results for the half-dose group was not down to other factors like age.But they said more research would be needed. AstraZeneca said it would be up to regulators to decide based on the data whether people would receive two full doses or a half dose followed by a full dose.“I think it is fair to say it needs more looking into to explain the intriguing result,” Pollard said. He confirmed that the use of a lower initial dose was “unplanned” and the result of a measurement discrepancy, but once researchers realised, it was incorporated into the trial with the agreement of regulators. - ‘Dilemma’ -The results are likely to present a “dilemma” for regulators, said Simon Clarke, Associate Professor in Cellular Microbiology at the University of Reading.He said while the half-dose regime showed better protection against disease and also in reducing asymptomatic transmission, the group was “relatively small”.“Moreover it did not contain any older participants (age 55 or over) and it remains possible that if the regulators allowed the vaccine to be used in this manner, the most at risk group may not be protected.” Overall, authors analysed data from phase 3 -- final stage -- clinical trials in Britain and Brazil, involving 11,636 people, alongside safety data from a total of 23,745 participants in trials in Britain, Brazil and South Africa. There were 131 cases of symptomatic COVID-19 disease more than 14 days after the second vaccine dose in these 11,636 people -- 30 of those were among the group that received a vaccine of either dosage and 101 were in the control group.The study said there had been no hospitalisations or severe disease reported in the Covid-19 vaccine group so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/oxford-and-astrazeneca-first-to-publish-final-stage-covid-19-vaccine-trial-results/story-XQJCnxDuEzAktn3oUNkPjP.html
08-12-2020||World||Donald Trump thought courts were key to winning. Judges disagreed||President Donald Trump and his allies say their lawsuits aimed at subverting the 2020 election and reversing his loss to Joe Biden would be substantiated, if only judges were allowed to hear the cases.There is a central flaw in the argument. Judges have heard the cases and have been among the harshest critics of the legal arguments put forth by Trump’s legal team, often dismissing them with scathing language of repudiation.This has been true whether the judge has been appointed by a Democrat or a Republican, including those named by Trump himself.The judicial rulings that have rejected Trump’s unfounded claims of widespread voter fraud have underscored not only the futility of the lame-duck president’s brazen attempt to sabotage the people’s will but also the role of the courts in checking his unprecedented efforts to stay in power.The rebukes have not stopped the litigation. On Tuesday, Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton sued the states of Georgia, Michigan, Wisconsin, and Pennsylvania, alleging that they violated the Constitution based on a litany of already-dismissed complaints. Paxton asked the U.S. Supreme Court to invalidate their 62 Electoral College votes for Biden — a move that would swing the election to Trump and would be unprecedented in American history.On Monday, U.S. District Judge Linda Parker threw out a lawsuit challenging Michigan’s election results that had been filed two days after the state certified the results for Biden. Parker, appointed by President Barack Obama, said the case embodied the phrase “This ship has sailed.”“This lawsuit seems to be less about achieving the relief plaintiffs seek ... and more about the impact of their allegations on people’s faith in the democratic process and their trust in our government.”The lawsuit filed on behalf of a group of voters claimed Biden benefited from fraud, alleging, as in much of the other litigation, a massive Democrat-run conspiracy to shift the results. It sought to reverse the certification and impound all voting machines for inspection — “relief that is stunning in its scope and breathtaking in its reach,” the judge said.“Plaintiffs ask this court to ignore the orderly statutory scheme established to challenge elections and to ignore the will of millions of voters. This, the court cannot, and will not, do,” she said.“The people have spoken.”Her ruling stands alongside others in Pennsylvania, Georgia, Arizona and Nevada that have a common thread: They all rejected Trump’s claims.Even in the face of these losses in court, Trump has contended that, in fact, he won the election. And he’s moved out of the courts to directly appeal to lawmakers as his losses mount. He brought Michigan lawmakers to the White House in a failed bid to set aside the vote tally, and phoned Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp, asking him to order a special legislative session to overturn the states results. Kemp refused. Trump also called Pennsylvania Republican House Speaker Bryan Cutler, who said state law did not give the legislature the power to overturn the will of voters.And Trump tweeted in all caps, “I WON THE ELECTION, BIG.”While that is not the case, what is true is that Trump is rapidly running out of legal runway. Out of roughly 50 lawsuits filed, more than 35 have been dropped or dismissed. The U.S. Supreme Court was expected to weigh in later this week in a case from Pennsylvania. A great deal of the lawsuits highlight a lack of understanding of how elections actually work.In Georgia, U.S. District Judge Timothy Batten, appointed by President George W. Bush, dismissed a lawsuit filed by attorney Sidney Powell, who was dropped from the Trump legal team a few weeks ago but has still continued to spread faulty election claims.The lawsuit claimed widespread fraud meant to illegally manipulate the vote count in favor of Biden. The suit said the scheme was carried out in different ways, including ballot stuffing, votes flipped by the election system from Trump to Biden and problems with absentee ballots. The judge summarily rejected those claims.Batten said the lawsuit sought “perhaps the most extraordinary relief ever sought in any federal court in connection with an election.”He said the lawsuit sought to ignore the will of voters in Georgia, which certified the state for Biden again Monday after three vote counts.“They want this court to substitute its judgment for that of two-and-a-half million Georgia voters who voted for Joe Biden and this I am unwilling to do,” Batten said.Trump has appointed more than 150 federal court judges who have been confirmed by the Senate and pushed through three Supreme Court justices.Much like Trump, his lawyers try to blame the political leanings of the judge after their legal arguments are flayed.When a federal appeals panel in Philadelphia rejected Trump’s election challenge just five days after it reached the court, Trump legal advisor Jenna Ellis called their work a product of “the activist judicial machinery in Pennsylvania.”But Trump appointed the judge who wrote the Nov. 27 opinion.“Voters, not lawyers, choose the president. Ballots, not briefs, decide elections,” Judge Stephanos Bibas wrote as the 3rd U.S. Circuit panel refused to stop the state from certifying its results for Democrat Joe Biden, a demand he called “breathtaking.”All three of the panel members were appointed by Republican presidents.And they were upholding the decision of a fourth Republican, U.S. District Judge Matthew Brann, a conservative jurist and Federalist Society member. Brann had called the campaign’s legal case, which was argued in court by Rudy Giuliani, a “haphazard” jumble that resembled “Frankenstein’s monster.”In state courts, too, the lawsuits have failed. In Arizona on Friday, Judge Randall Warner, an independent appointed in 2007 by Democratic former Gov. Janet Napolitano, threw out a bid to undo Biden’s victory.Arizona Republican Party Chairwoman Kelli Ward challenged of ballots in metro Phoenix that were duplicated because voters’ earlier ballots were damaged or could not be run through tabulators.Warner wrote: “There is no evidence that the inaccuracies were intentional or part of a fraudulent scheme. They were mistakes. And given both the small number of duplicate ballots and the low error rate, the evidence does not show any impact on the outcome.”In Nevada on Friday, Judge James Todd Russell in Carson City ruled that attorneys for Republican electors failed to provide clear or convincing evidence of fraud or illegality.Nevada judges are nonpartisan. But Russell’s father was a Republican governor of the state from 1951-59.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-thought-courts-were-key-to-winning-judges-disagreed/story-lzNz0079VaRPyALekPmH0I.html
08-12-2020||World||Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine’s effect on transmission still unknown, FDA says||Pfizer Inc.’s Covid-19 vaccine prevents symptomatic cases of the virus, but it’s not clear if the shot keeps the disease from being transmitted, U.S. Food and Drug Administration staff found in a report issued Tuesday.The conclusion highlights a major unknown about vaccine candidates that persists ahead of an ambitious U.S. rollout of millions of shots: How effective they’ll be in stemming the spread of coronavirus at a population level.The answer to that question carries important implications for the continued use of public-health measures including masks and social distancing, even among those who have been immunized.Because the shots from Pfizer and its German partner BioNTech SE avert symptomatic cases of Covid-19, their wide use could prevent virus transmission, the FDA staff report said. But if the vaccine doesn’t work as well in infections that lack symptoms, those cases “in combination with reduced mask-wearing and social distancing could result in significant continued transmission,” according to the staff report.The FDA report was issued ahead of a Thursday meeting of outside advisers to the agency, whose deliberations will inform whether the vaccine is cleared for U.S. use.Pfizer expects to report data on whether or not its vaccine stops virus transmission in the first quarter of 2021, Chief Executive Officer Albert Bourla said on Tuesday at a press briefing held by the International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & Associations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pfizer-covid-19-vaccine-s-effect-on-transmission-still-unknown-fda-says/story-TqHeRPsdXnLa3p42kAKhGJ.html
08-12-2020||World||US provides anti-bomb, sniper’s equipment to Philippines||The U.S. defense chief announced Tuesday the delivery of nearly $30 million worth of weapons to the Philippines, which faces threats from Islamic State group-linked militants.Acting U.S. Defense Secretary Christopher Miller made the announcement during a brief visit to Manila, where he met with his Philippine counterpart and the foreign secretary. The weapons, including equipment for snipers and anti-bomb squads, were delivered ahead of Miller’s visit, officials said.“The new equipment will strengthen the Armed Forces of the Philippines’ joint precision strike, sniper, riverine and counter-improvised explosive device capabilities,” the U.S. Embassy said in a statement, without elaborating.The Department of Defense in Manila said Miller told Defense Secretary Delfin Lorenzana that the U.S. will also deliver a Lockheed C-130 transport aircraft to the Philippine military later this month. No other details were given. Lorenzana thanked the U.S. for helping the Philippines strengthen its defense capabilities.Miller said his talks with Lorenzana and Foreign Secretary Teodoro Locsin Jr. centered on “deepening our alliance and supporting a free and open South China Sea and Indo-Pacific region.”Miller is the latest senior U.S. security official to visit Manila and announce defense assistance to America’s oldest treaty ally in Asia. The visits project normalcy in Washington’s foreign relations as President Donald Trump continues to challenge the results of the Nov. 3 presidential election.U.S. National Security Adviser Robert O’Brien visited Manila three weeks ago and announced the delivery of precision-guided missiles and other weapons to help the Philippines battle Muslim militants. He also renewed a pledge to defend the Philippines if it comes under attack in the disputed South China Sea.O’Brien repeated U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo’s statement early this year that “any armed attack on Philippine forces, aircraft or public vessels in the South China Sea will trigger our mutual defense obligations.”O’Brien expressed hope for the continuance of a security agreement that allows American forces to train in large-scale combat exercises in the Philippines.President Rodrigo Duterte moved to abrogate the Visiting Forces Agreement with the U.S. early this year but later delayed the date the decision would take effect to next year, a move welcomed by O’Brien.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-provides-anti-bomb-sniper-s-equipment-to-philippines/story-T8Sx8ChghTD3mg818nxF5I.html
08-12-2020||World||Apple could block apps that don’t comply with new privacy feature||Apple threatened on Tuesday to remove apps from its widely-used App Store if they don’t comply with an upcoming private feature allowing users to block advertisers from tracking them across different applications. The new feature, dubbed App Tracking Transparency, was initially planned to debut this year, but was delayed to give developers more time to make changes to their apps and address privacy issues.Some tech companies and advertisers, such as Facebook, have criticised the planned change, saying it could hurt smaller developers such as gaming companies disproportionately.But Craig Federighi, senior vice president of software engineering at Apple, said users should know when they are being tracked across different apps and websites. “Early next year, we’ll begin requiring all apps that want to do that to obtain their users’ explicit permission, and developers who fail to meet that standard can have their apps taken down from the App Store,” he said at the European Data Protection and Privacy Conference.The new feature will require a pop-up notification saying the app “would like permission to track you across apps and websites owned by other companies.” Digital advertising firms expect most users will decline to grant that permission.“When invasive tracking is your business model, you tend not to welcome transparency and customer choice,” Federighi said, rejecting criticism of the new feature.“We need the world to see those arguments for what they are: a brazen attempt to maintain the privacy-invasive status quo.”Facebook and Google are the largest among thousands of companies that track online consumers to pick up on their habits and interests and serve them relevant ads.Apple itself was under fire last month when a Austrian privacy group, led by campaigner Max Schrems, filed complaints with data protection watchdogs in Germany and Spain, alleging an online tracking tool used in its devices breached European law. Apple rebutted the charge, calling it “factually inaccurate”.Federighi said the industry would adapt to provide effective advertising without invasive tracking.“Getting this right will take time, collaboration, listening — and true partnership across the entire technology ecosystem. But we believe the result will be transformative.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/apple-could-block-apps-that-don-t-comply-with-new-privacy-feature/story-JpfJVdfFaJrrAvMF5xx4vJ.html
08-12-2020||World||Morocco to use Chinese vaccine to kick off mass Covid-19 vaccinations||Morocco is gearing up for an ambitious Covid-19 vaccination program, aiming to vaccinate 80% of its adults in an operation starting this month that’s relying initially on a Chinese vaccine that has not yet completed advanced trials to prove it is safe and effective.The first injections could come within days, a Health Ministry official told The Associated Press. Facing a public skeptical about the vaccines’ safety and effectiveness, medical experts and health officials have appeared on television in recent weeks to promote the Covid-19 vaccines and encourage Moroccans to get immunized.While Britain began its vaccination program Tuesday with the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine and the U.S. and European Union are racing to approve a series of Western-made vaccines, other governments are looking to use vaccines from China and Russia.The World Health Organization has said new vaccines should first be tested in tens of thousands of people to prove they work and don’t cause worrisome side effects before being rolled out broadly. But the U.N. health agency also says it’s is up to individual countries to decide whether there is an urgent domestic need to use a vaccine shot, even without such data.Morocco is battling a resurgence in virus infections, with the number of recorded deaths from the virus surpassing 6,000. The North African kingdom is pinning its hopes on two vaccine candidates, one developed by China’s Sinopharm and the other by Britain’s Oxford University and AstraZeneca.The Sinopharm vaccine has been approved for emergency use in a few countries and the company is still conducting late-stage clinical trials in 10 countries. The AstraZeneca vaccine is still in advanced trials in countries including Britain and the U.S. and hasn’t been approved yet.Morocco’s government seeks to vaccinate 80% of its adults, or 25 million people, as soon as the vaccines are approved by domestic regulators. Priority will go to medical staff and other front-line workers, as well as the elderly.It will start with the Sinopharm vaccine, which was tested on 600 Moroccans as part of clinical trials this autumn. Morocco has ordered 10 million doses of the vaccine.The initial deliveries will come from China, but Morocco also plans to produce the vaccine locally, Abdelhakim Yahyan, a senior official at the Ministry of Health, told the state-owned news agency MAP.Health Minister Khalid Ait Taleb said Morocco is seeking vaccines from several sources because Covid vaccines are a scarce commodity and a single manufacturer’s production capacity is too limited to meet the needs of the whole world.In the Moroccan trial of the Sinopharm vaccine, carried out in Casablanca and the capital Rabat from August through November, healthy volunteers received two separate doses of the vaccine. In the advanced trial, volunteers either received the vaccine or a placebo. According to the health minister, early results have proven the vaccine to be “safe and effective” with no severe side effects reported.However, some Moroccans have taken to social media to question the safety of the vaccine, with some noting that China was the original epicenter of the pandemic or questioning how effective it will be.Sinopharm’s shot relies on a tested technology, using a killed virus to deliver the vaccine, similar to how polio immunizations are made. Leading Western competitors, like the vaccine made by Oxford and AstraZeneca, use newer, less-proven technology to target the coronavirus’ spike protein.In China, the state-owned Sinopharm subsidiary CNBG has given the vaccine to 350,000 people outside its clinical trials, a top CNBG executive has said.Critics in Morocco have also expressed concerns that citizens might be forced to take the vaccine, but the health minister insisted that Covid-19 vaccinations will not be mandatory and will be free.Prime Minister Saad-Eddine El Othmani has sought to reassure the vaccine-hesitant about the robustness of the country’s regulatory process for vaccine approval, saying that no corners have been cut in making sure the Chinese vaccine is safe to administer.Morocco’s mass immunization operation will include 2,888 vaccination stations and the deployment of mobile units to vaccinate people at factories, offices, campuses and prisons. The health ministry said it would mobilize over 12,000 health professionals as well as the military to ensure rapid distribution.The vaccine will be available in a first phase to those at highest risk of contracting the virus: health professionals, security personnel, essential workers at vital sectors and people suffering from chronic diseases.No exact date has been set for the rollout, but the health minister said “we are doing our best to get it started in mid-December.”Separately, Morocco is expected to be among 92 low- and middle-income countries supported by Covax, an international effort to ensure that vaccine supplies reach developing countries, if the group meets its funding targets, according to the World Health Organization.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/morocco-to-use-chinese-vaccine-to-kick-off-mass-vaccinations/story-l3vRrgJzq1QOB17FpD0KRK.html
08-12-2020||World||UK’s House of Lords vote to bar trade deals with genocidal countries||Britain’s House of Lords has voted to back proposals aimed at preventing the UK from making trade deals with any country deemed by the British High Court to be committing genocide.Members voted late Monday for two proposals to amend the government’s post-Brexit trade bill to bar trade deals with countries that commit serious human rights abuses. Under one of the plans, minorities alleging they have been the subject of genocide can for the first time apply to the High Court of England and ask for judges to determine if a country trading with the UK has perpetrated genocide.Bilateral trade agreements can then be revoked if the court makes a preliminary ruling against that country.The proposals were intended as a way around the lack of international action in addressing human rights abuses in countries such as China.Proponents argue that despite mounting evidence of atrocities targeting Uighurs in the western Chinese region of Xinjiang, the United Nations is highly unlikely to refer Beijing to the International Criminal Court because China, a permanent member of the Security Council, will veto the move.“Parliament has had enough of this unconscionable inertia. We owe it to Uighurs to find another way, and now we have,” said Conservative lawmaker Anthony Mangnall.Britain’s Conservative government opposes the measures, which will go to the lower house of Parliament next for debate.British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab has said he is considering further action to address the Chinese government’s alleged rights abuses against Uighur Muslims, including mass detentions and forced birth control. Beijing has repeatedly denied Western reports of rights abuses in Xinjiang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-s-house-of-lords-vote-to-bar-trade-deals-with-genocidal-countries/story-JA9vESBlytsb8NfBy7MwdI.html
08-12-2020||World||China cancels special stamp launch with India to mark 70 years of ties||China has cancelled the joint launch of a commemorative stamp with India amid the ongoing military standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh.China’s top postal bureau has decided to cancel its plan to jointly launch commemorative stamps with India, a state media report quoted a statement put out on its website on Tuesday.“The State Post Office has decided to cancel the planned joint issue of stamps between China and India in the 2020 special stamp-issue programme,” the one-line statement said.The statement was published in Mandarin under the headline: “Notice from the State Post Office on the cancellation of the joint issue of stamps between China and India.”No reason was given for the decision to cancel the launch of the commemorative stamp.The stamp was to be jointly launched as part of celebrations to mark the 70th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties between the two countries in 1950.The launch was agreed during the second informal summit meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Xi Jinping held in Chennai in October, 2019.On November 7, 2019, China’s State Post Office announced plans for issuing special stamps for the year 2020.As part of the list, the stamp to be jointly issued jointly with India, entitled “The 70th Anniversary of the Establishment of Diplomatic Relations between China and India,” was originally scheduled to be issued on April 1, 2020.The stamp was to be on the Mogao Caves, a renowned site in China’s Gansu province where the Buddhist grottoes reflect ancient Sino-Indian cultural links.However, possibly because of the Coronavirus pandemic, the event was postponed until further notice.Until Tuesday, when the cancellation of the stamp was announced.As many as 70 events were expected to be held through 2020 to mark the landmark year in bilateral ties between the two neighbours.Instead, New Delhi and Beijing are now dealing with the worst chill in ties in decades.Though the standoff began in May, diplomatic relations have been particularly tense since June, when at least 20 Indian soldiers were killed in Galwan Valley after being attacked by Chinese troops using rocks and clubs.Beijing hasn’t revealed the casualty figures of the People’s Liberation Army.Several rounds of talks including eight military-level dialogues – the last one held on November 8 – have yielded no result as the standoff continues in eastern Ladakh.Neither side has officially explained the month-long delay in holding the 9th round military talks – an indication that the situation on the ground is far from any resolution.The Chinese foreign ministry on Tuesday gave no definitive answer when asked when the next rounds of talks between the two countries would be held or what was causing the delay.“China and India have been in communication through diplomatic and military channels on the border issue and we are working for further de-escalation of the border situation,” Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson, Hua Chunying said at the regular ministry press briefing on Tuesday.“Based on the implementation of the current consensus, we will have consultations to determine specific arrangements for further talks,” Hua said without giving any indications when future talks will be held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-cancels-special-stamp-launch-with-india-to-mark-70-years-of-ties/story-p0CgtUaff9fKIXTIpDe6uM.html
08-12-2020||World||World Economic Forum to be held next year in Singapore||Singapore will host the World Economic Forum’s (WEF) annual meeting next year in May, discussing the ongoing global issues. The meeting will be held from May 13 to 16 next year, before returning to Davos, Switzerland, in 2022, The Strait Times reported.“The event will be the global leadership event to address worldwide recovery from the Covid-19 situation,” The Straits Times quoted WEF as saying.Announcing its decision to shift the annual forum from Switzerland in view of the Covid-19 situation in Europe, the WEF said that the meeting in Singapore “will be the first global leadership event to address worldwide recovery from the pandemic”.“The WEF’s decision reflects its confidence in the country’s management of the Covid-19 pandemic and will also boost the Republic’s meetings and conferences sector,” The Straits Times quoted Singapore’s Ministry of Trade and Industry (MTI) as saying.“A global leadership summit is of crucial importance to address how we can recover together,” Klaus Schwab, WEF founder, and executive chairman said.“The Special Annual Meeting 2021 will be a place for leaders from business, government, and civil society to meet in person for the first time since the start of the global pandemic. Public-private cooperation is needed more than ever to rebuild trust and address the fault lines that emerged in 2020,” Schwab added.Hosting the WEF will give a boost to Singapore’s meetings, incentives, conferences and exhibitions (Mice) sector and other sectors like hospitality, Ministry said.“The annual forum will in a first include a virtual component to allow greater participation amid the Covid-19 pandemic,” Ministry added.The annual forum saw about 3,000 participants gather in Davos in January, The Strait Times reported.During the usual “Davos week” next year, the forum will hold a virtual event from Jan 25 to 29. It will also host a global technology governance summit in Tokyo in April, WEF said.“All international conferences held in Singapore will similarly adhere to strict public health and safety measures,” Ministry said.In a Facebook post, Chan Chun Sing, Trade and Industry Minister said that the WEF’s decision “speaks volumes of the international community’s trust and confidence in Singapore’s handling of the pandemic thus far”.Singapore looks forward to supporting the WEF in its efforts to effect positive change globally via dialogue and engagement, Sing added.“May we be a positive example of how to resume economic activities safely and sustainably,” Chan said adding “Successful execution of such high-level meetings will help re-establish ourselves as a premier global business hub.”This is the second time the World Economic Forum meeting will be held outside of Switzerland since it began in 1971, and the first time it will be held in Asia. The 2002 edition was held in New York, to show solidarity with the United States and the people of the city after the September 11 terror attacks the year before.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/world-economic-forum-to-be-held-next-year-in-singapore/story-TMWNBNBzIGu1TsAS60eJUM.html
08-12-2020||World||How Britain approved Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine before US and EU||The UK on Tuesday created history when Margaret Keenan, a 90-year-old grandmother from Britain, became the first person in the world to receive the Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine outside of a trial. The UK’s Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) gave Pfizer authorization for emergency use at a record speed, just three weeks after Pfizer published the first data from the final stage of its clinical trial. Hours after it gave authorization, both the European Union (EU) and the United States gave out statements saying more thorough work is needed before any kind of permission can be given. Dr Anthony Fauci, head of the US National Institute of Allergies and Infectious Diseases commented that the US regulator, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), was proceeding in “the correct way” and the UK “did not do it as carefully”How did Britain authorize a vaccine before the US and EU?The US and UK adopt different strategies in vetting vaccines. US regulator FDA does not accept the findings of vaccine makers as proof. They analyze raw data from vaccine trials and summon committees of experts for advice. It will hold these meetings on December 10 and December 17 — to discuss the findings for the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines, respectively. These findings are made public and put out in the public domain. The MHRA, on the other hand, relies on analysis and findings provided by the vaccine makers. They do not undertake data analysis unless there are doubts or anomalies. The European Medicines Agency (EMA), the agency in charge of approving medicinal products, unlike the MHRA, is in favour of granting “conditional marketing authorisation”, which is a long-term authorization that needs to be substantiated by more evidence than the kind supported by Pfizer for temporary approval. A temporary approval means MHRA will have to approve each batch of vaccine separately. A market authorization, on the other hand, lasts for four years. EMA is further constrained by the need for approval from all 27 EU member states. Even though the process has been accelerated, it still takes several days for all the countries to weigh in with their analysis and opinions. Did Brexit help UK expedite the process?Under EU law, the EMA has to authorize vaccines for use but countries can apply an emergency procedure that allows temporary distribution of vaccines in their domestic markets. Moreover, the UK is still subject to EU rules till the end of this year. UK health minister Matt Hancock and many other Conservative Party politicians claimed on December 2 that the MHRA could rapidly approve the vaccine because of UK’s departure from the EU, but the MHRA pointed out to the emergency provision in EU’s laws as a reason for the quick approval.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/how-britain-approved-pfizer-s-covid-19-vaccine-before-us-and-eu/story-RMfy8rGlz12wGPo6KOFwaO.html
08-12-2020||World||Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine ‘highly effective with no safety issues’: US regulator||The coronavirus vaccine made by Pfizer Inc. and its German partner BioNTech SE is highly effective in preventing Covid-19 and there are no safety concerns that would prevent it from being granted an emergency-use authorization, according to a report by staff of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.The report offers a first look at the U.S. review of the vaccine ahead of a public meeting Thursday of outside advisers to the agency. The FDA could clear the shot shortly after the meeting, with as many as 6.4 million doses immediately available to kick off a vast immunization effort designed to end a pandemic that has killed more than 283,000 Americans.The findings, posted on the agency’s website Tuesday, echoed previously disclosed data from the companies that showed the vaccine was 95% effective in preventing symptomatic Covid-19. It also said that two months of trial data revealed no significant safety issues.Pfizer requested an emergency authorization in the U.S. on Nov. 20. Regulators in the U.K. approved the vaccine earlier this month, and on Tuesday, the National Health Service there launched an ambitious vaccination campaign that will begin with tens of thousands of people over the age of 80 in the coming days. The shot is also under review in the European Union.The vaccine uses technology called messenger RNA that transforms the body’s cells to fight the virus. Moderna Inc. also makes an experimental Covid-19 vaccine based on messenger RNA, and FDA advisers will meet next week to consider whether it should receive emergency authorization.In their report, FDA staff wrote that analyses “showed similar efficacy point estimates across age groups, genders, racial and ethnic groups, and participants with medical comorbidities associated with high risk of severe Covid-19.” Common side effects included injection-site reactions, fatigue and headache.Pfizer has said the shot protected people of all ages and ethnicities, but there isn’t enough data on children younger than 16 to determine whether it will work in pediatric populations, FDA staff said. Data is also insufficient to make any determinations about pregnant, lactating or immunocompromised people.Among participants in the Pfizer clinical trial who didn’t show signs of Covid-19 infection during vaccination, there were eight virus cases among those who received the shot and 162 among those who got a placebo, according to the report.It’s unclear whether the vaccine is effective at preventing Covid-19’s spread, according to the report. It’s possible the vaccine didn’t work as well at preventing cases where people didn’t have virus symptoms as it did at preventing symptomatic cases, meaning there will likely be a continued need for basic public-health measures.“Asymptomatic cases in combination with reduced mask-wearing and social distancing could result in significant continued transmission,” FDA staff wrote.If Pfizer’s vaccine is cleared by the FDA, Trump administration officials have said it could begin to be distributed within 24 hours. Between Pfizer and Moderna’s vaccines, 40 million doses are expected to be available by the end of the year, enough for 20 million people to get the two-shot regimen.The Trump administration is confident that the U.S. will have enough supply to eventually vaccinate everyone, a senior administration official said Monday on a call with reporters, though only the shots made by Pfizer and Moderna are expected to be cleared by the FDA this month. The U.S. also has agreements to get shots from AstraZeneca Plc, Johnson & Johnson and others.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s immunization committee recommended health-care workers and long-term care residents be first in line, totaling roughly 23 million people. It will be up to the states to determine exactly how to distribute the vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pfizer-covid-19-vaccine-highly-effective-with-no-safety-issues-says-us-regulator/story-NRkcSxjN6j6UYEe9TM3UFO.html
08-12-2020||World||Facebook may block news content from being shared on its platforms in Australia. Here’s why||Australia is set to introduce a contentious bill into the parliament on Wednesday which could prompt Facebook to block news from being shared on its platforms Down Under. The government has come up with a new code after Australia’s competition regulator, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC), said in a report that tech giants like Google and Facebook are more than mere intermediaries in the supply of news. The competition watchdog had noted that the tech giants are increasingly performing similar functions as media businesses, like selecting, curating and ranking content. Australia’s leading news publishers demanded that Google and Facebook should pay at least 10 per cent of the news advertising revenue to local new organisations.The bill may force tech giants like Google and Facebook to share advertising revenue with local news companies and broadcasters. Ahead of the introduction of the bill, Treasurer Josh Frydenberg stressed that the Big Tech firms must negotiate with local publishers and broadcasters over the sharing of advertising revenues. Calling it “world-first” reforms, the treasurer said that the law will sustain Australia’s media landscape. “Our legislation will help ensure that the rules of the digital world mirror the rules of the physical world ... and ultimately sustain our media landscape,” Frydenberg told reporters in Canberra.Also Read | Australia to reveal laws to make Google and Facebook pay for newsWhy Facebook may block news content from being shared?Both tech companies have opposed the bill, saying it will impact users’ experience in the country. Facebook recently said in a blog post that the new regulation misunderstands the “dynamics of the internet”, warning that the law will damage the “very news organisations the government is trying to protect.” The social media giant threatened to block publishers and people in Australia from sharing local and international news on its platforms. “This is not our first choice – it is our last. But it is the only way to protect against an outcome that defies logic and will hurt, not help, the long-term vibrancy of Australia’s news and media sector,” wrote Will Easton, Managing Director, Facebook Australia and New Zealand.How Google may retaliate?Google Australia official had warned that the proposed code would force the company to provide Australian users with “dramatically worse” Google Search and YouTube. In an open letter, Mel Silva, Managing Director for Google Australia, said that the law could also lead to data being handed over to big news businesses.“We’ve always treated all website owners fairly when it comes to information we share about ranking. The proposed changes are not fair and they mean that Google Search results and YouTube will be worse for you,” the letter read.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-may-block-news-content-from-being-shared-on-its-platforms-in-australia-here-s-why/story-NdeC0t0054vl7VO9EkD7cL.html
08-12-2020||World||Japan unveils 708 billion dollars in fresh stimulus with eye on post-Covid growth||Japan announced a fresh $708 billion economic stimulus package on Tuesday to speed up the recovery from the country’s deep coronavirus-driven slump, while targeting investment in new growth areas such as green and digital innovation.The new package will include about 40 trillion yen ($384.54 billion) in direct fiscal spending and initiatives targeted at reducing carbon emissions and boosting adoption of digital technology, Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga said in a meeting with ruling party executives.Policymakers globally have unleashed a wall of monetary and fiscal stimulus to prevent a deep and prolonged recession as the coronavirus closed international borders and sent millions out of work. In the United States, a $908 billion coronavirus aid plan is currently under debate in Congress.In Japan, the pandemic has forced the government to put its fiscal reform agenda on the backburner, despite holding the industrial world’s heaviest public debt burden, which is twice the size of its gross domestic product.“We have compiled the new measures to maintain employment, sustain business and restore the economy and open a way to achieve new growth in green and digital areas, so as to protect people’s lives and livelihoods,” Suga said at the meeting.Suga’s cabinet is set to endorse the stimulus package later on Tuesday, which would bring the combined value of coronavirus-related stimulus to about $3 trillion.The government will compile a third extra budget for the current fiscal year worth around 20.1 trillion yen to fund the fresh economic stimulus, a government source told Reuters on Tuesday.Some investors expect the additional new bond issuance needed to fund the third extra budget to be around 15 trillion yen.“Japan needs to make a plan for fiscal reform and shift to reconstructing public finance at some point. But now is the time to help firms and households hit by the pandemic,” said Yuichi Kodama, chief economist at Meiji Yasuda Research Institute.“The government’s new bond issuance is expected to top 100 trillion yen for this fiscal year. But I don’t think the size of the package will roil the market.”Two previous packages this year worth a combined $2.2 trillion focused on dealing with the immediate strain on households and business from the pandemic.The new plan includes a 2-trillion yen fund to promote carbon neutrality by 2050, 1 trillion yen to accelerate digital transformation and 1.5 trillion yen in subsidies to support restaurants hurt by shortened trading hours due to Covid-19.Japan’s economy, the world’s third-largest, rebounded in July-September from its worst postwar contraction in the second quarter, though many analysts expect a third wave of Covid-19 infections to keep any recovery modest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-unveils-708-billion-dollars-in-fresh-stimulus-with-eye-on-post-covid-growth/story-l5MThgyuXcVFMo4KzCZJtM.html
08-12-2020||World||China removes TripAdvisor, 104 other apps from stores under ‘cleansing campaign’||China has removed 105 apps including that of US travel firm TripAdvisor Inc from app stores in the country, under a new campaign to cleanse stores of apps it deems spread content related to pornography, prostitution, gambling and violence.The Cyberspace Administration of China said in a statement on its website on Tuesday that the apps violated one or more of three cyber laws, without providing details for each app.Reuters’ calls to TripAdvisor’s Beijing office seeking comment went unanswered.The authority said it started the campaign on Nov. 5 in response to strong reaction from the general public to content deemed offensive. It said it would continue to regulate apps and remove those in violation of the law in a timely manner.China heavily regulates its cyberspace and punishments for transgressions are not uncommon, irrespective of whether the app is operated by a domestic or foreign company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-removes-tripadvisor-104-other-apps-from-stores-under-cleansing-campaign/story-zguY1HBRjjbdN8pU5WycZN.html
08-12-2020||World||China a ‘principal military, economic threat’ in Asia, says US Commerce Secretary||US Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross on Tuesday chided China for not complying with the international trade rules and called Beijing a principal military and economic threat in the Asian region.Ross made these remarks while speaking at the Milken Institute Asia Summit, CNBC reported.“China continues to be both the largest potential market and the principal military and economic threat in the region,” Ross said.The US Secretary of Commerce said that China makes up a good portion of the US entity list that restricts companies’ access to American suppliers for national security reasons, adding that Beijing accounts for 210 out of 539 anti-dumping and countervailing duty orders imposed by the US.Anti-dumping and countervailing duties are slapped on products suspected of being sold at an unfairly low price.Chinese firms that have been put on the entity list include telecommunications giant Huawei.Commenting on the recently signed Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership between China and 14 other Asia-Pacific Countries, Ross said that the pact will not tackle the “most sensitive issues” in trade. Those issues include subsidies to state-owned companies, protection of intellectual property and equal market access, he said.“It is essential that we continue to encourage freer and fairer trade everywhere while protecting our national security and our economic interest,” he said. “The US is actually the least protectionist major economy.”China and the US are at loggerheads since President Donald Trump took office over many issues including trade, Indo-Pacific, coronavirus and Uyghurs. The tensions between the two countries have escalated in recent times.Over the last two years, the two countries have imposed retaliatory tariffs on each others’ products triggering a trade war that threatened the global economy.The tariff fight came to a pause this year when both sides signed the “phase one” trade agreement, which Ross on Tuesday said “deals with some of our bilateral issues.” Among other things, the deal commits China to buy at least USD 200 billion more in US goods and services over two years -- in 2020 and 2021 -- on top of its purchases in 2017.Ross said China has since purchased over USD 23 billion of US agriculture products -- or around 70 percent of the agreed amount for this year. However, China has bought “lesser percentages” of other items under the deal, he added.“Now that China has announced its recovery from the pandemic, we hope they -- as a result -- will meet the phase one two-year target,” said Ross.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-a-principal-military-economic-threat-in-asia-says-us-commerce-secretary/story-DAU1VTYBDoBZhDUROFpizO.html
08-12-2020||World||Tone deaf? Prince William’s tour criticized amid pandemic||A national train tour by Prince William and his wife Kate has received a frosty welcome from leaders in Wales and Scotland, with one Welsh official saying he would rather “no one was having unnecessary visits” during the coronavirus pandemic.William and Kate arrived in the Welsh capital of Cardiff on Tuesday for the final day of their three-day royal train tour, meant to spread Christmas cheer and thank medical staff and other frontline employees for their hard, dangerous work during the pandemic.But Welsh Health Minister Vaughan Gething said he wasn’t “particularly bothered or interested” when asked on BBC radio if he thought the couple should travel to Wales when the region has been seeing high Covid-19 infections.Gething said Monday that Wales was the only part of the UK where infections were not falling at the end of November, and warned that further restrictions may be needed.Asked if it was the right moment for the royal couple to visit, Gething said Tuesday: “I’d rather that no one was having unnecessary visits. And people always have divisive views about the monarchy, but their visit isn’t an excuse for people to say that they are confused about what they are being asked to do.”On Monday, Scottish leader Nicola Sturgeon suggested that William and Kate travelled to the Scottish capital of Edinburgh despite their office being made aware of coronavirus restrictions for those wanting to cross the border.Royal officials have said the visits were planned in consultation with the Scottish and Welsh governments, and that William and Kate were allowed to travel across the border because they were working.Wales and Scotland have their own devolved governments and different sets of coronavirus restrictions from England even though they are all part of the UK Welsh and Scottish officials have discouraged people from the rest of the UK from travelling to their regions without a reasonable excuse in a bid to reduce the virus’s spread.Britain has Europe’s deadliest outbreak, at over 61,000 reported dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tone-deaf-prince-william-s-tour-criticized-amid-pandemic/story-55JyePGmNSb9NaHEEtLotJ.html
08-12-2020||World||Election officials face threats, intimidation as Trump pushes false fraud claims||Jocelyn Benson, Michigan’s top election official, had just finished hanging Christmas decorations with her young son on Saturday night when a crowd demanding November’s presidential election result be reversed gathered outside her home to denounce her as a “traitor” and a “criminal.”The demonstrators, some armed and holding up placards saying “Stop the Steal”, clustered on the sidewalk outside Benson’s Detroit home as security and police officers looked on, video broadcast live on Facebook by one of the participants showed.“Through threats of violence, intimidation, and bullying, the armed people outside my home and their political allies seek to undermine and silence the will and voices of every voter in this state,” Benson, Michigan’s Democratic Secretary of State, said in a statement on Sunday.The demonstration was the latest of what election authorities across the United States describe as a tide of intimidation, harassment and outright threats in the charged aftermath of the Nov. 3 election, which Republican President Donald Trump lost to Democrat Joe Biden.Trump has made unsubstantiated claims of widespread electoral fraud and is trying but failing to overturn Biden’s victory, challenging the outcome in court in multiple states while also pressing state officials, lawmakers and governors to throw the results out and simply declare Trump the winner.Courts have so far rejected those requests.Supporters of Trump in recent weeks have staked out election officials’ offices in Georgia, mounted armed protests in Arizona and left menacing telephone messages for election officials across the country, producing political turmoil unlike any other in modern US history.Michigan Attorney General Dana Nessel said that the baseless fraud claims and subsequent threats against election officials are “very damaging to our democracy. I hope it’s not the end of our democracy.”“We cannot allow our elected officials to live in fear at all times whenever someone doesn’t like how they believe they’ve perform their job duties,” Nessel told Reuters.Michigan, Arizona and Georgia were among a handful of hotly contested battleground states that Biden won, helping to secure his 306 to 232 advantage in the Electoral College that will officially select the next president on Dec. 14.But the threats have not been confined to places where the election was close. In Vermont -- a state no Republican presidential candidate has won since 1988 -- election officials said they received a voice message threatening them with “execution by firing squad.”“No public servant should ever have to feel threatened or concerned for their safety while they are doing their work,” Vermont Secretary of State Jim Condos, a Democrat, told Reuters.“The conspiracy theories and unfounded rhetoric that are being pushed by the president and his campaign team really could inspire some dangerous behavior somewhere in this country. It starts at the top and it really needs to stop.”Asked to comment, a spokesman for Trump’s campaign, Tim Murtaugh, said: “No one should engage in threats or violence, and if that has happened, we condemn that fully.”He added that the campaign’s lawyers had themselves been “inundated with threats from leftist Biden supporters” and their personal information posted online.TRUMP ATTACKS HIS OWNTrump and his political backers have blasted Republicans leaders and election officials in Georgia and Arizona for certifying Biden as the winner in their states.Trump himself has described Georgia’s Republican secretary of state as an “enemy of the people”, and one of his lawyers, Joe diGenova, said last week the administration’s former election cybersecurity chief should be “taken out at dawn and shot” for publicly defending the integrity of the election.Several election workers contacted by Reuters said they did not want to speak about the threats they had received for fear it would make things worse.Georgia officials were similarly reticent until last week, when threats online targeted a young contract worker for Dominion Voting Systems, whose voting machines were used in the state. One post on Twitter included a swinging noose.That day, Gabriel Sterling, the Republican in charge of the voting machines, walked to a podium visibly angry and demanded that Trump “stop inspiring people to commit potential acts of violence.”In an interview with Reuters, Sterling said that he personally had received a message calling him a him “traitor” that included his home address. Someone else wished him a happy birthday in a tweet saying it would be his last.After his local police chief suggested he notify his neighbors, he posted on a local Facebook page urging them to call authorities if they saw anything suspicious.“I shouldn’t have to do that,” he said.On Monday, Georgia again certified that Biden had won after counting ballots for a third time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/election-officials-face-threats-intimidation-as-trump-pushes-false-fraud-claims/story-ni2yFn04nnGXC9jcMPDaDI.html
08-12-2020||World||Biden to nominate retired general at Pentagon, introduce health team to battle Covid-19||President-elect Joe Biden will nominate retired General Lloyd Austin to be his defense secretary as soon as Tuesday, a person familiar with the decision said, and will publicly introduce the health team that will lead his administration’s fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.Austin, 67, a former head of US Central Command who oversaw forces in the Middle East under President Barack Obama, will be the first Black US secretary of defense if the US Senate confirms him.He was a surprise pick over Michele Flournoy, a former top Defense Department official who was considered the leading contender for the job. Flournoy would have been the first woman defense secretary.Austin, who retired in 2016, needs a waiver from Congress to take the post, as he has been out of the military less than the required seven years. President Donald Trump’s first Pentagon chief, retired Marine general James Mattis, also needed a waiver to serve.Known as a shrewd strategist with deep knowledge of the armed forces, he developed a working relationship with Biden during the Obama administration and has been advising the transition team on national security issues, the person familiar with the decision to name him said.The nomination could draw fire from some progressive groups given Austin’s role in retirement on the board of a number of companies, including weapons maker Raytheon Technologies Corp .But it will help answer complaints from advocacy groups about the need for more racial diversity in Biden’s Cabinet appointments, including complaints from the Congressional Hispanic Caucus about the number of Latinos and from civil rights groups about the lack of prominent Black nominees.After Biden introduces the leadership of his new health team on Tuesday he will have a virtual meeting with civil rights leaders who have been pressing him about the need for more Blacks in top administration posts.Biden has promised the most diverse Cabinet in US history, and he made a point in his victory speech last month of telling Black voters that he would remember them.The choice of Austin also will resonate among proponents for greater diversity in the leadership of the US armed forces, which is regularly criticized for failing to promote Black service members and whose top tier has been largely white.Biden, who takes office on Jan. 20, has been scrambling to put together the nominees who will lead on his top priorities since he defeated Trump in the Nov. 3 election.Biden has already named many of his national security and economic leaders, and his health team will guide the response to his first big challenge - containing a resurgent Covid-19 virus that has killed more than 283,000 Americans, and finding ways to jump-start an economy reeling from pandemic-fueled job losses.Biden will introduce California Attorney General Xavier Becerra, a Latino former congressman, for secretary of health and human services and Dr. Rochelle Walensky, chief of infectious diseases at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, to run the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, was named as Biden’s chief medical adviser on the virus.Biden picked Jeff Zients, an economic adviser known for his managerial skills, as coronavirus “czar” to oversee a response that will include an unprecedented operation to distribute hundreds of millions of doses of a new vaccine, coordinating efforts across multiple federal agencies.Biden’s choice of Becerra, 62, a Latino former congressman, adds a politician to a health effort that otherwise largely relies on government administrators and health experts.But Becerra also has a long record of supporting the Affordable Care Act, better known as Obamacare. He played a key role in passing the landmark law during his time in Congress, and in his current California role leads the coalition of 20 states defending the program, including in a case before the Supreme Court last month.A person familiar with Biden’s choice of Austin for the Pentagon said his experience with difficult logistical challenges such as leading the transition of USand Coalition forces out of Iraq could help the Pentagon as it plays a huge role in the vaccine rollout.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-to-nominate-retired-general-at-pentagon-introduce-health-team-to-battle-covid-19/story-JnC3J0rvHRJNrLRWfCSNJK.html
08-12-2020||World||German broadcast fee raise blocked after political standoff||A German state governor moved on Tuesday to block a small rise in the amount Germans pay to finance public broadcasters, attempting to defuse a dispute that revived broader questions about how far Chancellor Angela Merkel’s center-right party will stand firm on refusing to cooperate with the far right.The plan called for the amount every German household must pay to finance public television and radio broadcasters to be raised by 86 cents to 18.36 euros ($22.26) a month Jan. 1. It needed approval from all 16 of Germany’s state legislatures this month to take effect.Saxony-Anhalt, where a state election is due in June, was the only holdout. Local lawmakers from Merkel’s Christian Democrats objected to the raise with a variety of arguments, questioning the wisdom of raising the levy during the coronavirus crisis.Together with the far-right Alternative for Germany, which is strong in the region and fiercely critical of public broadcasters, the Christian Democrats would have had a majority in the state legislature to vote the deal down.Instead, the governor’s office in the eastern state said Tuesday governor Reiner Haseloff, a Christian Democrat, decided to withdraw the plan from being voted on in the state legislature later this month.That at least takes off the table the prospect of his party being seen voting with the far-right, a possibility that had turned the issue into a major political headache.Haseloff’s coalition partners in the state, the center-left Social Democrats and Greens, made clear that his party teaming up with the far-right would bring down the coalition.And if the Christian Democrats and Alternative for Germany voted together, that would again raise doubts over repeated insistences by Merkel’s party that it won’t cooperate in any way with the far right.Earlier this year, local Christian Democrats joined with the far right in electing a pro-business politician as governor of another eastern state, Thuringia.That convulsed the party. National leader Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer said she would step down after failing to rein in the local branch there. A replacement, who likely would run to succeed Merkel as chancellor in next year’s national election, hasn’t yet been chosen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/german-broadcast-fee-raise-blocked-after-political-standoff/story-xp3Us8GycTIdT87M8g8EfM.html
08-12-2020||World||Switzerland, Italy to halt all cross-border train service||Switzerland and Italy will halt all cross-border rail service from Thursday because train personnel do not have capacity to carry out Covid-19 safety checks ordered by the Italian government, the Swiss Federal Railways (SBB) said on Tuesday.The move, in place indefinitely, affects dozens of daily routes, including long-distance trains between Milan and Frankfurt, Germany, as well as regional trains that connect the two countries, where many workers travel daily across the border from northern Italy to Switzerland.Switzerland and neighbouring Italy, Germany and France had reduced train service in November, but rising cases during the second wave of infections that prompted the Italian government’s new requirements mean train service will be stopped much like it was during the pandemic’s first wave.Italy did not explicitly forbid train travel abroad, but its requirements -- including for passengers’ temperatures to be measured -- exceed the capacity of train personnel, an SBB spokeswoman told Reuters, leading to the decision to shutter the Swiss-Italian routes.“Swiss Federal Railways trains will travel only to the country’s border to Italy,” SBB said.Italy, France and Germany have also introduced new requirements meant to prevent skiers from travelling over the holidays to Switzerland and Austria, where resorts are due to be open for limited, locals-only skiing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/switzerland-italy-to-halt-all-cross-border-train-service/story-f2MPzAUQ5lFDj2XXQ5hQQK.html
08-12-2020||World||India donates $3 million to complete Palestine-India Techno Park||India on Tuesday donated the final tranche of $3 million to complete the construction of Palestine-India Techno Park, which will serve as a launching pad for Palestinian IT entrepreneurs connecting them to the local, regional and global markets.The latest of the four contributions completes India’s commitment to donate $12 million towards the establishment of the Techno Park in Ramallah, near Bir Zeit University, made in 2016 as part of the bilateral assistance project.The project is almost in its final stage and likely to be inaugurated in February or March of next year, officials told PTI.Representative of India (ROI) in Palestine, Sunil Kumar, handed over the cheque of $3 million to Dr. Majdi Al-Khaldi, Diplomatic Adviser to the President at a ceremony organised at the project site.The ceremony was also attended by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, Dr. Abdul Latif Abu Hijleh, and members of the administrative board.Dr. Al-Khaldi expressed sincere gratitude towards the government and people of India for this generous contribution and for the “partnership in sharing expertise and capacity building efforts”.“It is a gift from India that will serve various Palestinian sectors and will constitute Palestine’s launching pad to the IT markets in the region and the world,” he emphasised.Assuring India’s continued support and partnership with Palestine in its capacity building efforts in all fields, Kumar underlined the government and people of India’s “unwavering support to Palestine” and described the Palestine-India Techno Park “as another major icon of Indo-Palestinian partnership and friendship”.The ROI stated that the Techno Park aims to create “suitable environment for start-ups, research and development and innovation initiatives, in addition to establishing a solid infrastructure that supports technology clusters that operate successfully on local, regional and global levels”.The Techno Park will serve as an IT hub in Palestine with complete facilities offering a one-stop solution to all related service requirements - providing state-of-the-art technology, host IT companies and foreign companies benefiting local businesses, universities and other institutions, with a target to generate business and job opportunities for young Palestinian entrepreneurs.As part of the Indian government’s ongoing assistance programmes in Palestine to strengthen capacity-building efforts focused on institutions, services and training personnel, New Delhi is also providing 150 places for Palestinian professionals every year under the Indian Technical and Economic Cooperation (ITEC) programme, in addition to the 100 educational scholarships at the level of graduate, postgraduate and Ph.D. in the Indian Universities for Palestinian students.Under an India-Palestine development partnership, the Indian government is funding eight ongoing development projects worth $59 millions, including building a 215-bed Super Specialty Hospital in Bethlehem, Information Technology Park, National Printing Press, Turathi-Women Empowerment Project, Diplomatic Training Institute and three schools in various governorates in Palestinian Territories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-donates-3-million-to-complete-palestine-india-techno-park/story-7GPMHpJY3hWoanEBNKwWDI.html
08-12-2020||World||Kuwait emir reappoints Sheikh Sabah Al-Khalid as prime minister||Kuwait Emir Sheikh Nawaf Al-Ahmad Al-Sabah on Tuesday re-appointed Sheikh Sabah Al-Khalid Al-Sabah as prime minister.The move comes two days after Sheikh Sabah submitted his government’s resignation in a procedural step following parliamentary polls, Arab News reported.The country’s ruler accepted the premier’s resignation before reassigning him to form the upcoming government.Sheikh Nawaf who took over the leadership of the Gulf state in September after the death of his brother, also asked Sheikh Sabah to nominate members of a new cabinet.The new cabinet would have to be approved by the Emir, according to a decree carried on state media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kuwait-emir-reappoints-sheikh-sabah-al-khalid-as-prime-minister/story-fQl7IbDxB0Yx84ne7yQmJK.html
08-12-2020||World||New Zealand mosque shooter travelled to India before carrying out attack: Report||Brenton Tarrant, the Australian-born attacker who killed 51 Muslim worshippers at two mosques in Christchurch, travelled extensively around the world, including India where he spent nearly three months, before moving to New Zealand to carry out the country’s worst massacre in 2019, according to a detailed report into the shootings released on Tuesday. Five Indians were among those killed in the terror attack on March 15 last year that also left dozens of others wounded and had shaken New Zealand, regarded as one of the most peaceful countries in the world. The 792-page Royal Commission of Inquiry report notes that after leaving school, the 30-year-old attacker worked as a personal trainer at a local gym until 2012 when he suffered an injury. “He never again worked in paid employment. Instead, he lived off the money that he had received from his father and income from investments made with it… With the money from his father, the individual travelled extensively. First, in 2013, he explored New Zealand and Australia and then between 2014 and 2017 he travelled extensively around the world,” it said. Between April 15, 2014, and August 17, 2017, the individual travelled extensively and always alone, except for his travel to North Korea as part of a tour group. “The longest visit the individual made to any one country was to India where he stayed between November 21, 2015, and February 18, 2016. The countries that he visited for periods of about a month or more included China, Japan, Russia, South Korea among others,” said the report that took about 18 months to compile.The inquiry report did not provide details of what Tarrant was doing in India during his nearly three-month stay in India. However, The New Zealand Herald reported that there was no evidence that he met with extremist groups while oversees, investigated potential targets, or carried out any training, in a report. The inquiry did not believe that the travel fuelled his racist views to any great extent, rather concluding: “Put simply, he travelled widely because he could and had nothing better to do.” it said. But he did visit right-wing internet forums, subscribe to right-wing YouTube channels, and “read a great deal about immigration, far right political theories and historical struggles between Christianity and Islam”, it added. About the attacker’s upbringing in Australia, the Royal Commission of Inquiry report notes that it was marked by a number of stressors, including his parents’ separation and his mother’s subsequent relationship with an abusive partner. He expressed “racist ideas” from an early age and was also an avid internet user, it said. “In February 2017, he booked flights to New Zealand to arrive in Auckland on August 17, 2017, and then on to Dunedin on August 20, 2017. We see these activities as the first manifestations of his terrorist intent,” said the report that details the extensive world travels of Tarrant. “We are satisfied that by January 2017 the individual had a terrorist attack in mind. We are also satisfied that when the individual came to live in New Zealand on 17 August 2017, it was with a fully-developed terrorist ideology based on his adoption of the Great Replacement theory and his associated beliefs that immigration, particularly by Muslim migrants, into Western countries is an existential threat to Western society and that the appropriate response (at least for him) was violence,” it said. In a 74-page manifesto the attacker had posted online, he described himself as a white supremacist who was out to avenge attacks in Europe perpetrated by Muslims. Tarrant was sentenced in August to life in prison without the possibility of parole after pleading guilty to 92 counts of terrorism, murder and attempted murder. The report contains interviews with hundreds of people including security agencies, Muslim community leaders, international experts and officials in England, Norway and Australia, along with Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern, who was praised globally for her compassionate response to the attack. The prime minister swiftly banned the sale of the high-capacity semi-automatic weapons used in the attack at two mosques in the South Island city and launched a global movement against online extremism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-zealand-mosque-shooter-travelled-to-india-before-carrying-out-attacks-report/story-tPlBcCNMWRdatMJe7S4BHI.html
08-12-2020||World||Four lions at Spanish zoo test positive for Covid-19||Four lions at Barcelona Zoo have tested positive for Covid-19, veterinary authorities said on Tuesday, in only the second known case in which large felines have contracted coronavirus.Three females named Zala, Nima and Run Run and Kiumbe, a male, were tested after keepers noticed they showed slight symptoms of coronavirus.Two staff at the zoo also tested positive for coronavirus, the authorities said, after the outbreak was first detected last month.Authorities are investigating how the lions became infected.Keepers carried out PCR tests on the lions in the same way as humans are tested as the animals are acustomed to contact with the zoo staff.The Veterinary Service of Barcelona contacted colleagues at the Bronx Zoo in New York, where four tigers and three lions tested positive for Covid-19 in April. It is the only other zoo where large felines are known to have contracted coronavirus. All recovered.“The Zoo has contacted and collaborated with international experts such as the Veterinary Service of the Bronx Zoo, the only one that has documented cases of Sars-CoV-2 infection in felines,” the Barcelona zoo said in a statement.“The lions were given veterinary care for their mild clinical condition - similar to a very mild flu condition - through anti-inflammatory treatment and close monitoring, and the animals responded well.”The four-year-old male and the females, who are all 16 years old, have had no contact with other animals at the zoo, which is open to visitors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/four-lions-at-spanish-zoo-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-V7ZHZCVmDkq4TcSGShihlL.html
08-12-2020||World||90-year-old gets first Covid-19 vaccine in UK. What’s next for Pfizer?||American pharmaceutical giant Pfizer in collaboration with German biotechnology company BioNTech carried out the world’s first Covid-19 vaccination on a 90-year-old British individual, Margaret Keena, on Tuesday. The vaccine, called BNT162b2, is based on messenger RNA (mRNA) technology, which makes use of a chemical messenger to instruct cells into making proteins that mimic the outer surface of the novel coronavirus, thereby rendering immunity against it. Messenger RNA banks on synthetic genes that can be generated and manufactured rapidly in weeks, and produced at scales much faster than conventional vaccines. After the UK rolled out plans for emergency use of the Pfizer vaccine, the pharma giant applied for similar approvals elsewhere in the world. Mentioned below are the main details on the vaccine’s progress and current status in various nations.1. India is accelerating its review process for three vaccines produced by three pharmaceutical firms-- Pfizer, Serum Institute of India (SII), and Bharat Biotech. Pfizer was the first one to submit a request for approval to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), followed by SII and Bharat Biotech. A panel of experts is scheduled to review the findings and come out with the result as early as December 9. 2. Pfizer and BioNTech have sought clearance from the European Union for emergency use. The European Medical Agency (EMA) announced on December 1 that it has scheduled a meeting for assessment on December 29, after it’s done with its review process. If the EMA decides that the benefits of the vaccine outweighs its risks, then Pfizer will be given conditional approval for rolling out vaccines.3. Pfizer had also applied for emergency use clearance with the US government. The Food and Drug Administration(FDA) has scheduled a meeting of its Vaccines and Related Biological Products Advisory Committee on December 10 to review Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine. It had earlier in July granted ‘fast track’ status to the vaccine. 4. Pfizer has initiated procedures for emergency authorization in Canada. Canadian authorities were holding talks and on December 8 they announced plans for starting vaccination drives before the end of this month. Canada is all set to receive six-million doses of vaccine from Pfizer and Moderna by the end of March. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau announced in a press conference that vaccinations could start as early as next week, as some 249,000 doses of the Pfizer vaccine are expected to arrive in Canada in December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/90-year-old-gets-first-covid-19-vaccine-in-uk-what-s-next-for-pfizer/story-bns7KYbhm4n42w0oe6ujLJ.html
08-12-2020||World||Travel restrictions effective in countries with low number of Covid-19 cases: Lancet study||Travel restrictions are effective in countries with low numbers of Covid-19 cases, or that have strong travel links with nations experiencing high rates of the viral infection, according to a study published in The Lancet Public Health journal.The study also suggests that travel restrictions may have been most effective during the early stages of the pandemic, and the measures are unlikely to be effective when the virus is already spreading rapidly within a country.“We recognise that these measures carry a high economic and social cost, so it is important that governments use travel restrictions in a targeted way,” said Professor Mark Jit from the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, who led the study.“Before introducing restrictions, they should take into account local infection figures, epidemic growth rates, and the volume of travellers arriving from countries heavily-affected by the virus,” Jit explained.The researchers used detailed flight data to compare the number of expected Covid-19 cases arriving from international flights with the number of infections arising from transmission within individual countries.They produced estimates of international travellers in May and September 2020 based on two scenarios.One scenario used flight data for the same months in 2019, assuming no reduction in travel numbers, and the other scenario was based on the expected reduction in passenger numbers.Numbers of Covid-19 cases and infection rates were estimated using a mathematical model that adjusts recorded cases to take account of asymptomatic and unreported infections.Results were determined based on how imported Covid-19 cases would affect local epidemic growth rates, using country-specific reproduction number, or R number, estimates.Where imported cases accounted for more than 10 per cent of infections within individual countries, they were considered to have a major impact on growth of the epidemic, the study found.The work estimated that when imported cases accounted for less than 10 per cent, their impact on the growth of the epidemic is usually small, while those below 1 per cent would have an almost undetectable effect on epidemic size.The researchers noted that had there been no travel restrictions or reduction in travel volumes in May 2020, the imported Covid-19 cases would account for more than 10 per cent of infections in the majority of countries included in the analysis, the researchers said.Imported cases would account for no more than 10 per cent of infections in 34 out of 136 countries, and less than 1 per cent in four, they said.According to the estimates based on expected passenger numbers in May 2020, imported cases would have contributed to more than 10 per cent of total incidence in 74 countries, less than 10 per cent of total incidence in 62 countries, and to less than 1 per cent in eight countries.However, by September 2020, had there been no travel restrictions or reduction in travel volumes, imported cases would account for more than 10 per cent of infections in only a small number of countries.Imported cases account for less than 10 per cent of infections in 106 out of 162 countries, and less than 1 per cent in 21, the researchers said.According to the estimates based on expected passenger numbers in September 2020, travel restrictions would have contributed to more than 10 per cent of infections in only 37 countries, less than 10 per cent in 125 countries and less than 1 per cent in only 44 countries.The findings indicate that international travel restrictions were most effective at limiting local transmission of the virus during earlier stages of the pandemic, said the researchers, adding this is because imported cases led to outbreaks in countries with very few or no existing cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/travel-restrictions-effective-in-countries-with-low-number-of-covid-19-cases-lancet-study/story-xJL8hHHv2ZlEfVPLzJzOBO.html
08-12-2020||World||I just got a Covid-19 vaccine. Now what?||Britain will become the first country in the world on Tuesday to roll out the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Pfizer and BioNtech, initially making the shot available at 50 hospitals.The country’s National Health Service will give priority to vaccinating people over the age of 80, frontline healthcare workers and nursing home staff and residents.Here is what people getting the vaccine should expect.WHAT HAPPENS WHEN SOMEONE GETS THE VACCINE?The vaccine, developed with new messenger RNA technology using a manufactured fragment of the coronavirus’ genetic code, is injected into the arm. The immunization is given in two doses, three weeks apart, and has been shown in trials to protect up to 95% of recipients from contracting Covid-19.Also Read: Britain expects next batch of Pfizer vaccine next week, says health ministerPfizer has said side effects in trial volunteers were mostly mild to moderate, and cleared up quickly. The most severe side effects occurred after the second dose: fatigue in 3.8% of volunteers and headache in 2%. Older adults tended to report fewer and milder adverse events.WHAT KIND OF PROTECTION DOES IT GIVE?The vaccine prevented Covid-19 illness seven days after the second injection - which is about a month after the first shot. Clinical trials so far have not been designed to determine if an immunized person can still spread the coronavirus to someone else. Some vaccines, such as hepatitis A, do provide such protection - known as sterilizing immunity - but others do not. Covid-19 vaccine makers focused trials on determining whether the drug stopped people from getting ill. It will also be several more months before it becomes clear how long the vaccination will protect someone from coronavirus infection. Also Read: UK PM Boris Johnson thanks health workers after Covid-19 vaccine launch“Until then, it is better to avoid the pub, and other in-person gatherings with many people,” said Dr. Anita Shet, infectious disease specialist at Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health.DOES THE VACCINE MEAN BACK TO NORMAL LIFE?Since there is no evidence that the immunization prevents transmission of the virus - and no vaccine is 100% effective - scientists call for continued vigilance, including mask-wearing, hand-washing and social distancing.“As with all vaccines, it may work really great in certain patient subsets, but not as well in others ... Does that mean you are free to hop on a plane or have 30 people over at your house? Probably not,” said Dr. Michelle Barron, senior medical director for infection prevention at Colorado’s UCHealth.She said vaccination campaigns are unlikely to reach “a critical mass” until next spring or early summer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/i-just-got-a-covid-19-vaccine-now-what/story-pW1ZRWL5yYcTPwAcpQnclJ.html
08-12-2020||World||William Shakespeare among first to get Covid-19 vaccine in UK||Margaret Keenan, 90, became the first person to be vaccinated with the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine early on Tuesday, but the second person to get it also hit the headlines and tickled some funny bones – the reason: his name is William Shakespeare.Both received the vaccine in the University Hospital in Coventry in the Midlands, not far from Stratford-upon-Avon, the birthplace of the better-known Bard of Avon. The modern-day Shakespeare is 81, which makes him eligible to be in the first group to receive the vaccine.His name sparked much ado and creativity on the social media, evidence that there is lots in a name. The image of Shakespeare receiving the vaccine was widely shared, with remarks such as: ‘The Taming of Flu’ and ‘The Two Gentlemen of Corona’.One commentator wondered if Keenan were to be called Patient 1A, would Shakespeare be “Patient 2B or not 2B?” Another said he was “glad he (Shakespeare) wasn’t Bard from having it”, and some hoped that “In a world when people hardly ever remember who came second, the second person to get the Covid jab might stick in the memory”.Health secretary Matt Hancock also had a laugh on live television that the second person to receive the vaccine was named William Shakespeare, insisting the vaccine roll-out “makes you so proud to be British”.Among those lined up to first receive the vaccine are Hari Shukla, a retired teacher and race relations campaigner in north England, and his wife, Ranjan, 83, at the Royal Victoria Infirmary in Newcastle. They are among the over-80-year-olds prioritised to receive the first of the 800,000 doses in 50 hospitals across the UK. The vaccine is administered in two doses, 21 days apart.Awarded the royal honours of MBE, OBE and CBE for his work in race relations, the Uganda-born Shukla said: “I am delighted to be doing my bit by having the vaccine, I feel it is my duty to do so and do whatever I can to help. I feel very comfortable and happy to be the first one”.“As far as I’m concerned, I’m excited about it. We were waiting for this vaccine for a very long time. Having been in contact with the NHS staff, I know how hard they all work and I am grateful for everything they have done to keep us safe during the pandemic”.The UK has ordered 40 million doses of the vaccine and is expected to receive 4 million more by the end of this month. The UK regulator is also evaluating the clinical data of the University of Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccine candidates.Shukla, widely seen as a local hero, added: “We hope that everybody will participate in it and get back to next to normal. I have been following the news and our scientists have done a wonderful job. I have no doubt in my mind they are the best in the world.”Several individuals such as Shukla and Ranjan receiving the vaccine is being publicised widely by the UK’s health authorities to overcome anti-vaccine anxieties among some people, as well as content on social media.Queen Elizabeth, 94, and Prince Philip, 99, are also expected to be among the first to receive the vaccine.Prime Minister Boris Johnson said: “Today marks a huge step forward in the UK’s fight against coronavirus. As the programme ramps up in the weeks and months ahead, it is as important as ever to keep to the Covid winter plan - following the rules in your area and remember the basics of hands, face and space.”Simon Stevens, NHS England’s chief executive, called the start of the vaccine programme a “turning point”, and said: “The deployment of this vaccine marks a decisive turning point in the battle with the pandemic. NHS vaccination programmes which have successfully helped overcome tuberculosis, polio and smallpox now turn their focus to coronavirus.”As of Monday evening, 61,434 people have died in UK hospitals and care-homes, making it the worst affected country in Europe, including over 1,000 people of Indian origin. The number of cases has climbed to 17,37,960.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/william-shakespeare-among-first-to-get-covid-19-vaccine-in-uk/story-zFqxHhRal6QIPE2NR3oHXJ.html
08-12-2020||World||Here’s how you can spot space station with 2 SpaceX Dragon capsules fly overhead||A SpaceX Dragon resupply spacecraft on Monday docked itself to the International Space Station (ISS) to deliver 6,400 pounds of science investigations, a new airlock, and other cargo. The spacecraft was launched on a Falcon 9 rocket from NASA’s Kennedy Space Center in Florida and performed the first autonomous docking for SpaceX.“This 21st contracted resupply mission for SpaceX is the first flight of an upgraded Dragon design, similar to that of the Crew Dragon used to transport astronauts to and from the station,” NASA said in a statement.Last month, SpaceX Crew-1 mission arrived at the space station with four astronauts as the Dragon capsule completed the automated flight from NASA’s Kennedy Space Center. The spacecraft carried astronauts Michael Hopkins, Victor Glover, and Shannon Walker from NASA and Soichi Noguchi of the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA).The four astronauts joined a trio of space travellers who had reached the ISS in a record time of just over three hours on October 14 aboard Russia’s Soyuz MS-17 spacecraft. NASA astronaut Kate Rubins, and Sergey Ryzhikov and Sergey Kud-Sverchkov of Roscosmos entered their new orbital home for the six-month mission.Also Read | Double Dragons: SpaceX launches space station suppliesThe ISS is currently home to seven astronauts, and NASA said that people on Earth can watch the spaceship with two Dragon capsules aboard fly overhead, that too without using a telescope. The American space agency further added that people in the Washington, DC area can watch the space station zoom across the sky starting at 5:46pm ET on Tuesday. According to NASA, the ISS is the third brightest object in the sky following the Sun and the Moon. Here’s how you can check out when the space station is scheduled to fly over your hometown: Step 1: Visit https://spotthestation.nasa.gov/Step 2: Locate the search bar in ‘Explore and Find Sighting Opportunities’Step 3: Enter the name of your city or town in the search barStep 4: Click on the map pinpointStep 5: Click on ‘View sighting opportunities’Step 6: Check the list of date, time, visibility period, and direction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/here-s-how-you-can-spot-space-station-with-2-spacex-dragon-capsules-fly-overhead/story-P0PfX2eMfSSTwBsE0eSF6N.html
08-12-2020||World||Germany commissions report that will address police racism||After a lengthy political standoff, Germany’s top security official has commissioned a study into police work that will include examining the extent of racism in the force.The study is to be conducted over three years, the Interior Ministry said Tuesday, meaning it will fall to Germany’s next government to consider what to do with the results. Interior Minister Horst Seehofer, who plans to retire from politics after next year’s election, won’t be part of that government.In July, calls to study the use of racial profiling by police — a practice that human rights activists say is widespread in Germany — led to divisions in the governing coalition of conservatives and center-left Social Democrats.The conservative-run Interior Ministry, which oversees federal police, initially agreed to the idea but then backtracked.Seehofer insisted that there was “no structural problem,” but eventually agreed to a broader study that is billed as exploring the everyday working life of police officers and their motivation for going into the police force, as well as violence against police.The study will be conducted by the German Police University, the Interior Ministry said. It said that “zero tolerance” measures against anti-Semitism, right-wing extremism and racism will “be further developed if needed.”The university plans to compile the study using questionnaires, interviews and other observations.Debates about racial profiling and the broader issue of systemic racism in Germany were amplified this year by the worldwide protests that followed the death of George Floyd, a handcuffed Black man, in the United States. A white police officer pressed his knee against the 46-year-old Floyd’s neck for nearly eight minutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-commissions-report-that-will-address-police-racism/story-lj3CbY6T96dyIXcUmE9tVM.html
08-12-2020||World||Trump administration passed up chance to buy more Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine doses||President Donald Trump aims to take credit Tuesday for the speedy development of forthcoming coronavirus vaccines, even as his administration is coming under scrutiny for failing to lock in a chance to buy millions of additional doses of one of the leading contenders.That decision could delay the delivery of a second batch of doses until manufacturer Pfizer fulfills other international contracts.The revelation, confirmed Monday by people familiar with the matter, came on the eve of Trump’s plans to host a White House summit aimed at celebrating the expected approval of the first vaccine later this week. His administration is seeking to tamp down public skepticism over the vaccine and secure a key component of the Republican president’s legacy.The focus was to be on the administration’s plans to distribute and administer the vaccine, but officials from President-elect Joe Biden’s transition team, which will oversee the bulk of the largest vaccination program in the nation’s history once he takes office January 20, were not invited.Pfizer’s vaccine is expected to be endorsed by a panel of Food and Drug Administration(FDA) advisers as soon as this week, with delivery of 100 million doses — enough for 50 million Americans — expected in coming months.Under its contract with Pfizer, the Trump administration committed to buy an initial 100 million doses, with an option to purchase as many as five times more.This summer, the White House opted not to lock in an additional 100 million doses for delivery in the second quarter of 2021, according to people who spoke about the matter on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss it publicly.Days ahead of the vaccine’s expected approval, the administration is reversing course, but it is not clear that Pfizer, which has since made commitments to other countries, will be able to meet the latest request on the same timeline.The Pfizer vaccine is one of two on track for emergency FDA authorization this month, the other coming from drugmaker Moderna.The Trump administration insisted late Monday that between those two vaccines and others in the pipeline, the US will be able to accommodate any American who wants to be vaccinated by the end of the second quarter of 2021.The administration’s decision not to lock in additional Pfizer purchases last summer was first reported by The New York Times. Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar told NBC the administration is “continuing to work across manufacturers to expand the availability of releasable, of FDA-approved vaccine as quickly as possible. … We do still have that option for an additional 500 million doses.”The “Operation Warp Speed” summit will feature Trump, Vice President Mike Pence, and a host of government experts, state leaders and business executives, as the White House looks to explain that the vaccine is safe and lay out the administration’s plans to bring it to the American people.Senior administration officials provided details on the summit on Monday. An official with the Biden transition confirmed no invitation was extended.Officials from the pharmaceutical companies developing the vaccines also were not expected to attend, despite receiving invitations, according to people familiar with the matter. Some expressed concerns about the event contributing to the politicization of the vaccine development process and potentially further inhibiting public confidence in the drugs.Trump is set to kick off the event with remarks aiming to “celebrate” vaccine development, according to an official who previewed the event. Trump also will sign an executive order to prioritize Americans for coronavirus vaccines procured by the federal government. A second official said the order would restrict the US government from donating doses to other nations until there is excess supply to meet domestic demand. Both officials spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss plans for the summit.It was not immediately clear what, if any, impact the order would have on other nations’ abilities to access the vaccines. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau announced Monday he expects his country to receive about 250,000 doses of a vaccine from Pfizer by the end of the year.The Food and Drug Administration’s panel of outside vaccine experts is to meet Thursday to conduct a final review of the Pfizer drug, and it will meet later this month on a vaccine developed by Moderna. The FDA is not required to follow the panel’s advice, though it usually does. Agency decisions on the two drugs are expected within days of each meeting. Both have been determined to be 95% effective against the virus that causes Covid-19. Plans call for distributing and then administering about 40 million doses of the two companies’ vaccines by the end of the year — with the first doses shipping within hours of FDA clearance.Biden said Friday that “there’s no detailed plan that we’ve seen” for how to get the vaccines out of containers, into syringes and then into people’s arms.Trump administration officials insist that such plans have been developed, with the bulk of the work falling to states and municipal governments to ensure their most vulnerable populations are vaccinated first. The administration says it has leveraged partnerships with manufacturers, distributers and health care providers, so that outside of settings like veterans’ hospitals, “it is highly unlikely that a single federal employee will touch a dose of vaccine before it goes into your arm.”In all, about 50,000 vaccination sites are enrolled in the government’s distribution system, the officials said.Each of the forthcoming vaccines has unique logistical challenges related to distribution and administration. The Pfizer vaccine must be transported at super-cooled temperatures, and comes in batches of 975 doses. Each vial contains five doses, requiring careful planning. The administration has prepared detailed videos for providers on how to safely prepare and administer doses, to be posted after the FDA issues its emergency use authorization.One such plan is to be announced Tuesday: Pharmacy chains CVS and Walgreens have stood up a “mobile vaccination service” ready to vaccinate people in every nursing home and long-term care facility in the country. The roughly 3 million residents of those facilities are among the most vulnerable for Covid-19 and have been placed at the front of the line to access the vaccine, along with more than 20 million healthcare workers. So far 80-85% of the facilities have signed on to the service, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-administration-passed-up-chance-to-buy-more-pfizer-covid-19-vaccine-doses/story-Hv3ks92z4wmqbgAt1MGv9N.html
08-12-2020||World||UK PM Boris Johnson says brexit talks ‘very tricky’ but still hopeful||UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson gave a downbeat assessment of the state of trade talks with the European Union, saying the situation is “very tricky” but he still hopes to reach a deal.“It’s looking very, very difficult at the moment,” Johnson told reporters in his first public comments since announcing he will travel to Brussels in a bid to break the deadlock in negotiations.“Hope springs eternal, and I’ll do my best to sort it out if we can.”Johnson is due to meet European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen this week after eight months of negotiations to resolve three key disagreements between the two sides: what access EU boats will have to UK fishing waters, how any agreement will be governed, and the extent to which the UK will have to align its rules with the EU in future.“We’re willing to engage at any level political or otherwise, we’re willing to try anything,” Johnson said. “But there are just limits beyond which, obviously, no sensible independent government or country could go.”The UK will leave the European single market and customs union on Dec. 31 -- with or without an agreement. Both the European and UK parliaments need to ratify any accord, so one has to be reached before then to be implemented in time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-pm-boris-johnson-says-brexit-talks-very-tricky-but-still-hopeful/story-voDCMc2Zuke5wP6IX9ekdL.html
08-12-2020||World||It’s 8,848.86 metres: China, Nepal jointly announce new height for Mount Everest||Mount Everest, the world’s tallest peak, is 8,848.86 metres ( 2,9031.69 feet) tall, China and Nepal jointly announced on Tuesday, also marking a new peak in the two countries’ increasingly close ties.Nepal until now had recognised the height of the mountain as 8,848 metres as measured by the Survey of India in 1954. Chinese President Xi Jinping and his Nepalese counterpart Bidya Devi Bhandari announced the new height of the tallest mountain in the world through an exchange of letters, Chinese official media announced.Tuesday’s announcement marked the end of a debate between Beijing and Kathmandu - although it was hardly an issue in their close bilateral ties - over a “three-metre” height difference the two neighbours had on the mountain’s height.Mount Everest straddles the two countries. It is from the Nepalese side that climbers mostly make it to the peak.Previous calculations by Chinese researchers from a 2005 survey put the mountain’s height at 8,844 metres while Nepal had maintained it was a little taller. In his letter, Xi said that the two countries had reached a consensus to jointly announce the latest elevation of Mount Everest. Xi pointed out that Mount Everest was a symbol of friendship between the two countries for generations. “The two countries have established the world’s highest peak as the boundary peak between China and Nepal and the ‘China-Nepal Friendship Peak’”, the Chinese President said.The joint announcement fully reflects the high-level of sustained development of China-Nepal ties, Xi told Bhandari.With the joint efforts of both sides, the political mutual trust between the two countries has been increasing day by day, the joint construction of the “Belt and Road” is progressing steadily, and the trans-Himalayan three-dimensional interconnection network is changing from a vision to a reality, the Chinese President said.On her part, Bhandari was quoted by Chinese official media as saying the joint announcement was of “historical significance”.Nepal and China have always been good neighbours, good friends, and good partners, Bhandari said, adding that cooperation between the two countries in areas such as economic development, connectivity, and humanities is in the interests of both countries. According to the official news agency, Xinhua, Nepalese surveyors had reached the top of the mountain in May 2019 to measure it.A team of Chinese surveyors also climbed it in May, 2020.The Nepali government’s efforts to measure the height had come amid speculations from some scientists that the world’s tallest mountain has shrunk after Nepal’s devastating earthquake in 2015.It was the first time Nepal itself measured its height.“In 1975, Chinese surveyors measured Mt. Qomolangma as standing at 8,848.13 metres above sea level, which was recognised by the international community,” the Xinhua report said.In this survey, the Chinese team, for the first time in human history, erected a survey marker atop the summit, allowing six survey points at the foot of the mountain to simultaneously measure the height of the peak.“In 2005, China remeasured the elevation of Mt. Qomolangma, combining traditional geodetic (land survey) methods and satellite technologies. The task adjusted the height after measuring the depth of the snow cap atop the summit”.In 1999, the US National Geographic Society and Boston’s Museum of Science measured the height of the peak at 8,850 metres including snow, the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/it-s-8-848-86-metres-china-nepal-jointly-announce-new-height-for-mount-everest/story-JuF3vpRbYqtVh2EHDVXJQP.html
08-12-2020||World||UK-EU talks near collapse ahead of Johnson Brussels trip||Britain and the European Union warned Tuesday that talks on a post-Brexit free-trade deal are teetering on the brink of collapse, with just over three weeks until an economic rupture that will cause upheaval for businesses on both sides of the English Channel.Officials downplayed the chances of a breakthrough when Prime Minister Boris Johnson heads to Brussels for face-to-face talks with European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen in the next few days.With negotiators deadlocked on key issues after months of tense talks, German European Affairs Minister Michael Roth said the bloc’s confidence in Britain was hanging in the balance.“What we need is political will in London,” said Roth, whose country currently holds the EU’s rotating presidency. “Let me be very clear, our future relationship is based on trust and confidence. It’s precisely this confidence that is at stake in our negotiations right now.“We want to reach a deal, but not at any price,” Roth told reporters before chairing videoconference talks among his EU counterparts.Johnson’s Downing St. office said the situation was “very tricky” and collapse of the talks was a distinct possibility.Johnson and von der Leyen, head of the EU’s executive arm, spoke by phone Monday for the second time in 48 hours. They said afterwards that “significant differences” remained on three key issues — fishing rights, fair-competition rules and the governance of future disputes — and “the conditions for finalizing an agreement are not there.”The two leaders said in the joint statement that they planned to discuss the remaining differences “in a physical meeting in Brussels in the coming days.”Leaders of the EU’s 27 nations are holding a two-day summit in Brussels starting Thursday.The UK left the EU politically on January 31, but remains within the bloc’s tariff-free single market and customs union through Dec. 31. Reaching a trade deal by then would ensure there are no tariffs and trade quotas on goods exported or imported by the two sides, although there would still be new costs and red tape.Both sides would suffer economically from a failure to secure a trade deal, but most economists think the British economy would take a greater hit because the UK does almost half its trade with the bloc.While both Britain and the EU say they want a trade deal, trust and goodwill are strained after months of testy negotiations.The relationship has been further strained by British legislation that breaches the legally binding Brexit withdrawal agreement Johnson struck with the EU last year.Britain says the Internal Market Bill, which gives the government power to override parts of the withdrawal agreement relating to trade with Northern Ireland, is needed as an “insurance policy” to protect the flow of goods within the U.K. in the event of a no-deal Brexit. The EU sees it as an act of bad faith that could imperil Northern Ireland’s peace settlement.The House of Lords, Parliament’s unelected upper chamber, removed the law-breaking clauses from the legislation last month, but the elected House of Commons restored them on Monday night.As the parliamentary tussle continues, the British government has offered the bloc an olive branch on the issue, saying it will remove the lawbreaking clauses if a joint UK-EU committee on Northern Ireland finds solutions in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-eu-talks-near-collapse-ahead-of-johnson-brussels-trip/story-lvfDLOdYhapg3G8tkIkiIL.html
08-12-2020||World||China condemns new US Hong Kong sanctions, Taiwan arms sale||China on Tuesday lashed out at the US over new sanctions against Chinese officials and the sale of more military equipment to Taiwan.The US actions are part of what critics see as an effort by the Trump administration to put in place high-pressure tactics toward Beijing that could make it more difficult for President-elect Joe Biden to steady relations.The Cabinet’s office for Hong Kong affairs expressed “strong outrage and condemnation” over the sanctions levelled against 14 members of the standing committee of China’s legislature, which passed a sweeping Hong Kong National Security Law earlier this year.Foreign ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying, meanwhile, demanded the US cancel its latest arms sale to Taiwan and said China would make a “proper and necessary response.” The State Department on Monday said it added 14 members of the Chinese legislature’s standing committee to the list of officials banned from traveling to the US or having access to the US financial system over the crackdown on civil rights in Hong Kong.It also announced the approval of a $280 million sale of advanced military communications equipment to Taiwan.President Donald Trump’s administration has incensed Beijing with 11 separate arms sales and closer military and political ties with the self-governing island democracy that Beijing claims as its own territory, to be annexed by force if necessary.China has stepped up military flights near the island and pledged to punish US companies involved in the arms deals in response.Taiwan’s government welcomed the announcement, saying it showed Washington was honoring its commitment to help strengthen the island’s defenses.“Taiwan has been at the receiving end of such military threats on a daily basis,” President Tsai Ing-wen told reporters Tuesday. “Only through engagement and by working together can we tackle the threats and challenges that beset our region and the world.” The US earlier imposed sanctions against Chinese and Hong Kong officials over the passage of the National Security Law, which is seen as rolling back civil liberties in the territory, as well as over abuses against Muslim minority groups in the northwestern region of Xinjiang.This year it forced the closure of the Chinese consulate in Houston and last week cut the duration of US visas for members of the ruling Communist Party and their family members from 10 years to one month.The Trump administration appears to be using Taiwan, Hong Kong and other issues to heighten the level of confrontation in China-U.S. relations, said Su Hao, professor of international relations at China Foreign Affairs University.“Trump would like to see a formation of a solidified structure of China-US relations that will make it difficult for Biden to make changes,” Su said.Trump may view the increased toughness toward China as a legacy of his time in office, said Diao Daming, associate professor in the School of International Studies at Beijing’s Renmin University.“This is hurting bilateral relations, harming the interests of the countries and their citizens, and failing to meet the expectations of international society,” Diao said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-condemns-new-us-hong-kong-sanctions-taiwan-arms-sale/story-jylVtTyYOQ0N5rIXTa44cL.html
08-12-2020||World||Donald Trump adviser Peter Navarro violated Hatch Act by criticising Joe Biden, says watchdog||A federal watchdog agency on Monday reported that one of President Donald Trump’s economic advisers repeatedly violated the law during the campaign season with his criticisms of Joe Biden, now the president-elect.The Hatch Act prevents federal employees from engaging in political work while performing their official duties. The agency charged with enforcing the act said that Peter Navarro, director of the White House Office for Trade and Manufacturing Policy, used his position to influence the 2020 presidential election through his statements in television interviews and on social media.“His comments were directed at undermining Mr. Biden’s presidential candidacy and persuading voters not to support him in the 2020 election,” the Office of Special Counsel report stated.White House lawyers have asserted Navarro did not violate the Hatch Act because factual or policy statements do not constitute advocacy for or against a candidate, the report stated. They argued, for example, that Navarro’s statement about Biden “kowtowing to the Chinese” was acceptable for him to make in his official capacity.But the Office of Special Counsel found that argument lacking. It said federal employees violate the law when they make statements intended to encourage others to vote for or against a candidate for political office or when they promote or disparage a candidate’s campaign.“Dr. Navarro violated the Hatch Act because he engaged in that very activity,” the report said.The report said it’s up to the president to determine the “appropriate disciplinary action,” showing the limits of the law. The White House did not respond to a request for comment.Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, a private advocacy group, said that it submitted multiple complaints about Navarro to the Office of Special Counsel and that “the referral for action demonstrate the severity of Navarro’s misconduct.”“In an administration full of people illegally using their government positions to influence an election, Navarro has been one of the worst,” said the group’s executive director, Noah Bookbinder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-adviser-peter-navarro-violated-hatch-act-by-criticising-joe-biden-says-watchdog/story-fjDmfVABGItRA5yJC1SC8N.html
08-12-2020||World||Chuck Yeager, pilot who broke sound barrier, dies at 97||Retired Air Force Brig. Gen. Charles “Chuck” Yeager, the World War II fighter pilot ace and quintessential test pilot who showed he had the “right stuff” when in 1947 he became the first person to fly faster than sound, has died. He was 97.Yeager died Monday, his wife, Victoria Yeager, said on his Twitter account. “It is w/ profound sorrow, I must tell you that my life love General Chuck Yeager passed just before 9pm ET. An incredible life well lived, America’s greatest Pilot, & a legacy of strength, adventure, & patriotism will be remembered forever.”Yeager’s death is “a tremendous loss to our nation,” NASA Administrator Jim Bridenstine said in a statement.“Gen. Yeager’s pioneering and innovative spirit advanced America’s abilities in the sky and set our nation’s dreams soaring into the jet age and the space age. He said, ‘You don’t concentrate on risks. You concentrate on results. No risk is too great to prevent the necessary job from getting done,’” Bridenstine said.“In an age of media-made heroes, he is the real deal,” Edwards Air Force Base historian Jim Young said in August 2006 at the unveiling of a bronze statue of Yeager.He was “the most righteous of all those with the right stuff,” said Maj. Gen. Curtis Bedke, commander of the Air Force Flight Test Center at Edwards.Yeager, from a small town in the hills of West Virginia, flew for more than 60 years, including piloting an X-15 to near 1,000 mph (1,609 kph) at Edwards in October 2002 at age 79.“Living to a ripe old age is not an end in itself. The trick is to enjoy the years remaining,” he said in “Yeager: An Autobiography.”“I haven’t yet done everything, but by the time I’m finished, I won’t have missed much,” he wrote. “If I auger in (crash) tomorrow, it won’t be with a frown on my face. I’ve had a ball.”On Oct. 14, 1947, Yeager, then a 24-year-old captain, pushed an orange, bullet-shaped Bell X-1 rocket plane past 660 mph to break the sound barrier, at the time a daunting aviation milestone.“Sure, I was apprehensive,” he said in 1968. “When you’re fooling around with something you don’t know much about, there has to be apprehension. But you don’t let that affect your job.”The modest Yeager said in 1947 he could have gone even faster had the plane carried more fuel. He said the ride “was nice, just like riding fast in a car.”Yeager nicknamed the rocket plane, and all his other aircraft, “Glamorous Glennis” for his wife, who died in 1990.Yeager’s feat was kept top secret for about a year when the world thought the British had broken the sound barrier first.“It wasn’t a matter of not having airplanes that would fly at speeds like this. It was a matter of keeping them from falling apart,” Yeager said.Sixty-five years later to the minute, on Oct. 14, 2012, Yeager commemorated the feat, flying in the back seat of an F-15 Eagle as it broke the sound barrier at more than 30,000 feet (9,144 meters) above California’s Mojave Desert.His exploits were told in Tom Wolfe’s book “The Right Stuff,” and the 1983 film it inspired.Yeager was born Feb. 23, 1923, in Myra, a tiny community on the Mud River deep in an Appalachian hollow about 40 miles southwest of Charleston. The family later moved to Hamlin, the county seat. His father was an oil and gas driller and a farmer.“What really strikes me looking over all those years is how lucky I was, how lucky, for example, to have been born in 1923 and not 1963 so that I came of age just as aviation itself was entering the modern era,” Yeager said in a December 1985 speech at the Smithsonian Air and Space Museum.“I was just a lucky kid who caught the right ride,” he said.Yeager enlisted in the Army Air Corps after graduating from high school in 1941. He later regretted that his lack of a college education prevented him from becoming an astronaut.He started off as an aircraft mechanic and, despite becoming severely airsick during his first airplane ride, signed up for a program that allowed enlisted men to become pilots.Yeager shot down 13 German planes on 64 missions during World War II, including five on a single mission. He was once shot down over German-held France but escaped with the help of French partisans.After World War II, he became a test pilot beginning at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Dayton, Ohio.Among the flights he made after breaking the sound barrier was one on Dec. 12. 1953, when he flew an X-1A to a record of more than 1,600 mph. He said he had gotten up at dawn that day and went hunting, bagging a goose before his flight. That night, he said, his family ate the goose for dinner.He returned to combat during the Vietnam War, flying several missions a month in twin-engine B-57 Canberras making bombing and strafing runs over South Vietnam.Yeager also commanded Air Force fighter squadrons and wings, and the Aerospace Research Pilot School for military astronauts.“I’ve flown 341 types of military planes in every country in the world and logged about 18,000 hours,” he said in an interview in the January 2009 issue of Men’s Journal. “It might sound funny, but I’ve never owned an airplane in my life. If you’re willing to bleed, Uncle Sam will give you all the planes you want.”When Yeager left Hamlin, he was already known as a daredevil. On later visits, he often buzzed the town.“I live just down the street from his mother,” said Gene Brewer, retired publisher of the weekly Lincoln Journal. “One day I climbed up on my roof with my 8 mm camera when he flew overhead. I thought he was going to take me off the roof. You can see the treetops in the bottom of the pictures.”Yeager flew an F-80 under a Charleston bridge at 450 mph on Oct. 10, 1948, according to newspaper accounts. When he was asked to repeat the feat for photographers, Yeager replied: “You should never strafe the same place twice ’cause the gunners will be waiting for you.”Yeager never forgot his roots and West Virginia named bridges, schools and Charleston’s airport after him.“My beginnings back in West Virginia tell who I am to this day,” Yeager wrote. “My accomplishments as a test pilot tell more about luck, happenstance and a person’s destiny. But the guy who broke the sound barrier was the kid who swam the Mud River with a swiped watermelon or shot the head off a squirrel before going to school.”Yeager was awarded the Silver Star, the Distinguished Flying Cross, the Bronze Star, the Air Medal and the Purple Heart. President Harry S. Truman awarded him the Collier air trophy in December 1948 for his breaking the sound barrier. He also received the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1985.Yeager retired from the Air Force in 1975 and moved to a ranch in Cedar Ridge in Northern California where he continued working as a consultant to the Air Force and Northrop Corp. and became well known to younger generations as a television pitchman for automotive parts and heat pumps.He married Glennis Dickhouse of Oroville, California, on Feb. 26, 1945. She died of ovarian cancer in December 1990. They had four children: Donald, Michael, Sharon and Susan.Yeager married 45-year-old Victoria Scott D’Angelo in 2003.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chuck-yeager-pilot-who-broke-sound-barrier-dies-at-97/story-pR3HbWZuONN9EzGijuedBM.html
08-12-2020||World||Thailand uses drones for border surveillance as coronavirus risk grows||Thailand is stepping up border surveillance by deploying drones and ultraviolet cameras after dozens of new Covid-19 cases were found linked to a town in neighboring Myanmar.At least 16 people who illegally crossed the borders and avoided the mandatory 14-day quarantine have tested positive for coronavirus since late November with two local transmissions being traced back to the group that came from Myanmar, according to officials. Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-Ocha ordered officials on Monday to erect barricades along the porous border to stop illegal crossings and curb infection risks.The virus situation is “under control” and the latest bout of infections among those returning from Myanmar isn’t yet considered a second wave as they can be traced, Deputy Premier and Health Minister Anutin Charnvirakul said on Tuesday.Thailand-Myanmar border is one of the key challenges for authorities to curb infection risks as the 1,500-mile boundary runs through mostly mountainous forests and uninhabited areas, making it difficult for surveillance. Military, police and volunteers have now been deployed to enforce stricter control of border areas.Total cases in Thailand stood at 4,126 where authorities have managed to virtually eradicated the pathogen domestically, with the majority of recent cases found in quarantine among people arriving from other countries. Myanmar, on the other hand, has seen spikes in infections over the past several weeks, adding more than 1,000 each day.The Covid-19 surge has already hurt domestic tourism, with some travelers canceling their planned long weekend trips to the northern region, which borders Myanmar. Any shutdown of border crossings between the two countries could also hurt Thailand’s trade and the economic activities of border towns.Thailand received about 1,200 foreign tourists in October, the first set of visitors in six months after authorities unveiled a special long-stay tourist visa to revive the battered industry. A revival in tourism, which netted more than $60 billion in revenue from about 40 million visitors in 2019, is seen as key to returning the nation’s economy to the pre-pandemic levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thailand-uses-drones-for-border-surveillance-as-coronavirus-risk-grows/story-hHExO7nZxft5GXQaYv5U1O.html
08-12-2020||World||Britain expects next batch of Pfizer vaccine next week, says health minister||Britain is confident that the next batch of the Pfizer vaccine will be delivered next week, said its health minister Matt Hancock, after Margaret Keenan became the first Briton to be vaccinated on Tuesday.“We have a high degree of confidence in the delivery that will come next week,” Hancock told Sky News.He said he felt “quite emotional” seeing the pictures of the first vaccination taking place, adding that the programme was starting across 70 hospitals in the UK.Britain is due to receive several million more doses of the vaccination over the course of this month, he added. Britain began the mass-vaccination of its population against Covid-19 on Tuesday, becoming the first Western nation to do so in a global endeavour that poses one of the biggest logistical challenges in peacetime history.On a day dubbed “V-Day”, health workers started inoculating people with a shot developed by Pfizer and BioNTech, with the country a test case for the world as it contends with distributing a compound that must be stored at -70C (-94F).Read more| UK PM Boris Johnson thanks health workers after Covid-19 vaccine launchBritain is the first country globally to begin mass inoculations with that vaccine, one of three shots that have reported successful results from large trials after being developed in record time.Margaret Keenan, a 90-year-old grandmother from Britain, was the first person in the world to receive the vaccine outside of a trial following its rapid clinical approval.Health minister Matt Hancock described the start of vaccinations as “V-Day”. “If we manage to do that for everybody who is vulnerable to this disease, then we can move on and we can return to normal,” he said. The launch will fuel hope that the world may be turning a corner in the fight against a pandemic that has killed more than 1.5 million people and crushed economies. Britain, the worst-hit European country with over 61,000 deaths, has ordered enough supplies of the Pfizer-BioNTech shot to vaccinate 20 million people. The developers said it was 95% effective in preventing illness in final-stage trials. Britain approved the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine for emergency use less than a week ago, and is rolling it out ahead of the United States and European Union, from which it will finally part ways at the end of the year.“The deployment of this vaccine marks a decisive turning point in the battle with the pandemic,” said Simon Stevens, head of the publicly funded NHS health service. In total Britain has ordered 40 million doses of the Pfizer/BioNTech shot. As each person requires two doses, that is enough to vaccinate 20 million people in the country of 67 million.But the country is spreading it bets and has ordered 357 million doses of seven different Covid-19 vaccines in all.Russia and China have both already started giving domestically produced vaccine candidates to their populations, though before final safety and efficacy trials have been completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/britain-expects-next-batch-of-pfizer-vaccine-next-week-says-health-minister/story-VvZgytfCVfyLKMBCXwPUsL.html
08-12-2020||World||‘Unsupervised internet access, racist ideas’: 800-page report on how New Zealand mosque shooter eluded detection||A comprehensive report into the 2019 Christchurch mosque shootings in which 51 Muslim worshippers were slaughtered sheds new light on how the gunman was able to elude detection by authorities as he planned out his attack.The nearly 800-page Royal Commission of Inquiry report released Tuesday shows that the attacker, Brenton Tarrant, kept a low profile and told nobody of his plans.It concludes that despite the shortcomings of various agencies, there were no clear signs the attack was imminent — aside from the manifesto Tarrant sent out just eight minutes before he began shooting, which came too late for agencies to respond.But the report does detail failings in the police system for vetting gun licenses, and says that New Zealand’s intelligence agencies were focused on the threat posed by Islamic extremism rather than white supremacists.Among 44 recommendations, the report says the government should establish a new national intelligence agency.New Zealand currently has one intelligence agency that focuses on domestic threats and one that focuses on international threats. Often those agencies are focused on immediate events like keeping visiting dignitaries safe. The report recommends establishing a new, well-financed intelligence and security agency that’s more strategic in nature and can focus on emerging threats and developing a counter-terrorism strategy.New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said the government has agreed to implement all of the recommendations and apologized for agency shortcomings.Tarrant, who is Australian, was sentenced in August to life in prison without the possibility of parole after pleading guilty to 92 counts of terrorism, murder and attempted murder.The report details the extensive world travels of Tarrant but also shows he had almost no meaningful interactions with people in New Zealand because he was introverted and didn’t work.As a child, Tarrant had unsupervised access to the internet and became interested in video games from the age of six or seven, the report says. He began expressing racist ideas from a young age and told his mother he started using the 4chan internet forum from age 14.He put on a lot of weight as a teenager before starting to exercise compulsively at gyms and going on a diet, losing about 50 kilograms (110 pounds). His father Rodney was diagnosed with lung cancer caused by exposure to asbestos and in 2010 killed himself at home, leaving an inheritance of 457,000 Australian dollars (USD 339,000) to Tarrant.The gunman worked for about three years as a personal trainer at a gym in the Australian town of Grafton, but stopped working after an injury and then used his inheritance to live and travel. He visited dozens of countries around the world, including India, China, Russia, North Korea, and many countries in Africa and Europe.He moved to New Zealand in 2017 and focused on planning for his attack. The report said he only had superficial interactions with people at a gym and the rifle club where he practiced rapid-fire shooting. Yet when needed, Tarrant could present himself to others in a way that didn’t arouse suspicion.Tarrant told investigators that although he frequented extreme right-wing discussion boards on websites like 4chan and 8chan, he found YouTube a far more significant source of information and inspiration.Ardern said she planned to speak to the leaders at YouTube “directly” about how the gunman had become inspired by videos on the site.In 2018, Tarrant was treated at Dunedin Hospital for injuries to his right eye and thigh after telling doctors he accidentally fired a gun while cleaning it at his apartment, the report says. He got government compensation for his injury, which wasn’t reported to the police. The hospital registrar said the accident appeared to be careless and “a little unusual” but otherwise didn’t set off alarm bells.Health authorities also wrote that Tarrant was taking illicit steroids and injecting testosterone after he was treated for abdominal pain, but they didn’t report that to the police either.As part of the process for getting a gun license, Tarrant was required to provide to police the names of two referees who could speak to his good character. He gave them the name of a friend he knew mostly online from gaming together, along with that friend’s father. Vetting officers interviewed Tarrant and the referees, and recommended he be given his license.Police Commissioner Andrew Coster said that in deciding whether Tarrant was “fit and proper” to hold a gun license, “we could have done more to consider whether the two referees knew the individual well enough to serve as referees.” The report also found that the New Zealand Security Intelligence Service, the domestic spying agency, had chosen to concentrate scarce counter-terrorism resources on the threat of Islamist extremist terrorism inspired by groups like Islamic State at the expense of other threats.Despite the shortcomings of various agencies, the report concludes, there was no plausible way Tarrant’s plans could been detected “except by chance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/unsupervised-internet-access-racist-ideas-800-page-report-on-how-new-zealand-mosque-shooter-eluded-detection/story-XjWQbW3mOqLN491AOfsA6O.html
08-12-2020||World||Angela Merkel is losing her touch at the worst possible time||At a critical juncture for Germany and the European Union, Angela Merkel is faltering.In the final months of her 16-year tenure, the German chancellor is within touching distance of a historic budget settlement that would underpin the recovery from the pandemic, bind the European Union(EU) closer together and accelerate the shift to a carbon-neutral future. It’s threatening to slip through her fingers.For years, Merkel has allowed rule-of-law violations in Hungary and Poland to fester. Now they could derail the 1.8 trillion-euro ($2.2 trillion) budget and jointly funded recovery package that was supposed to be the centerpiece of Germany’s EU presidency. To make matters worse, the dispute with the UK over post-Brexit trade ties is overshadowing preparations for Thursday’s crucial EU summit and raising the risk of another economic shock.With negotiations hamstrung by restrictions on face-to-face meetings, Merkel’s European allies are talking about pressing ahead with the recovery fund without the two eastern holdouts. That would open a breach at the heart of the EU, fuel concerns that more member states could ultimately follow Britain’s exit, and interrupt the reintegration of former Communist states that has been a leitmotif throughout the chancellor’s political career.“We had imagined our presidency differently,” Merkel told European lawmakers last week. “The presidency is marked by the pandemic. That’s just the way it is, and you have to take things as they are.” Dissenters within her party say the chancellor should also shoulder some of the blame.Inside the concrete edifice of Berlin’s chancellery, Merkel has been switching between crisis meetings over the mounting number of Covid-19 cases in Germany and phone calls with EU leaders aimed at finding ways forward, according to an official, who asked not to be identified discussing internal deliberations.Normally, her spokesman Steffen Seibert issues a statement after such conversations, but during the budget crisis, there’s been little communication -- a sign of just how sensitive the issue has become. Even when French President Emmanuel Macron mentioned he’d be speaking to the chancellor on Monday, Seibert refused to comment.In an effort to resolve the stalemate, Merkel is resorting to an old trick, said the official familiar with her thinking. She tries to get herself into the mindset of her opponent to understand their weaknesses and find an opening for a compromise.The threat of EU funds drying up is one obvious pressure point, but for Hungary’s Viktor Orban and his Polish counterpart Mateusz Morawiecki, there’s more at stake, including national identity and a cultural agenda that collides with EU principles. That’s tough for the notoriously pragmatic German leader to crack.Making Merkel’s position more difficult is that she let Orban flout the rules for years without suffering any consequences, his party Fidesz even remained a member of the same European grouping as Merkel’s Christian Democrats. During the refugee crisis of 2015, which marked a watershed in Merkel’s relationship with German voters, Orban refused to take on Hungary’s allotment of migrants even when threatened with a cut in EU funding. And he ultimately suffered no repercussions.This time it’s not just the EU’s moral authority at stake, this fight is about its economic and political future. And the chancellor’s normally unflappable demeanor is starting to show the strain.Her frustration was evident when she addressed European parliamentarians last week on the results of the German presidency. She bemoaned her lack of progress and unusually complained about the demands put on her.“There are those who tell me: don’t make a compromise here and don’t change a single comma there. And then the same people tell me: but please come back with a result,” the 66-year-old chancellor said. “Without compromise from all sides, this won’t work.”Back home in Germany, some in her political movement are suggesting the chancellor carries some of the responsibility for her problems. In the Christian Social Union(CSU) -- the Bavarian sister party of Merkel’s Christian Democrats -- many officials say she misjudged support for the recovery fund and put Germany into an untenable position, just like she did with her open-door refugee policy.EU leaders should have known that the connection between the budget and democratic standards would provoke a hard confrontation, according to Alexander Dobrindt, leader of the CSU caucus in the Bundestag.Her most prominent critic is Ralph Brinkhaus, who leads the CSU and Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union(CDU) in Germany’s lower house. Brinkhaus spent political capital persuading conservatives in their party to support the EU’s controversial joint-debt plan only to see the agreement among leaders fall apart.When the recovery fund was agreed in July, Merkel was also winning plaudits for the low rate of infection during the first wave of the coronavirus pandemic. But the country has been hit much harder during the fall and Merkel’s partial lockdown policy has come in for heavy criticism while failing to bring the virus under control.That’s another point of friction for German conservatives -- already on edge as they struggle to chart a path for the post-Merkel era. The country’s soft shutdown is costing the federal government at least 15 billion euros a month to support affected bars, gyms and cinemas.At a meeting in November, state leaders rejected and openly criticized the chancellery’s push for harsher restrictions, including limiting kids to one playmate. By proposing measures that were too ambitious for the states to accept, Merkel wound up empty-handed, delaying a longer term strategy and leaving Germany most likely facing tighter curbs.Tension in the ranks over the disjointed strategy erupted at a closed-door meeting of CDU leadership last week. Volker Bouffier -- the state premier of Hesse, home of the Frankfurt financial center -- shouted down Brinkhaus over his criticism of the lack of state financing for pandemic support.“Let me make it clear we are no longer willing to watch your grandstanding,” he said, while Merkel sat quietly as the exchange unfolded, according to an official familiar with the meeting. A spokesman for Bouffier didn’t respond to a request for comment.Her pending departure from the political scene after elections in the fall is also playing into her fading authority. Markus Soeder, the Bavarian premier who’s the front-runner to succeed her, has grabbed the coronavirus spotlight. He pre-empted harsher national rules by implementing a state of emergency starting Wednesday, including a strict curfew in hard-hit areas.At a meeting with Merkel last week, which extended national curbs to Jan. 10, he slammed the current approach as too timid.“The question is whether we can keep the country in this kind of half-sleep all the time, or whether we will have to think again at some point to take a very clear and consistent deeper approach in some places,” he said.Merkel shot him an irritated look, but her own plans for tougher measures on a national level had been shot down by state premiers in November. They both knew she was powerless to change things.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/angela-merkel-is-losing-her-touch-at-the-worst-possible-time/story-NQu0Qk1lzkCxiLUzJBQoxL.html
08-12-2020||World||UK PM Boris Johnson thanks health workers after Covid-19 vaccine launch||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson welcomed the start of a Covid vaccination programme on Tuesday and thanked health workers, scientists and people who had volunteered for testing.“We will beat this together,” Johnson said in a message on social media, and urged the public to continue to follow guidance aimed at limiting the spread of the coronavirus.A 90-year-old woman from Northern Ireland on Tuesday became the first person in the world to receive the Pfizer/BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine - marking the start of the UK’s mass vaccination programme against the deadly disease.Margaret Keenan, from Enniskillen, said she felt “so privileged” to receive the jab at University Hospital, Coventry.Keenan became the first person in the world to receive the Pfizer/BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine outside trial conditions, the BBC reported.”I feel so privileged to be the first person vaccinated against Covid-19, it’s the best early birthday present I could wish for because it means I can finally look forward to spending time with my family and friends in the new year after being on my own for most of the year.””I can’t thank May and the National Health Service (NHS) staff enough who have looked after me tremendously, and my advice to anyone offered the vaccine is to take it - if I can have it at 90 then you can have it too.”The UK will be the first country in the world to start using the Pfizer vaccine after regulators approved its use last week.Since the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine got the green light from the UK’s Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA), the NHS said its workers have been working around the clock to manage the large-scale logistical challenge of deploying the vaccine.Vaccination will not be compulsory in the UK.The country has reported more than 1,742,000 conformed Covid-19 cases and over 61,000 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-pm-boris-johnson-thanks-health-workers-after-covid-19-vaccine-launch/story-xVh0zYn0svNB4p4mKAC00N.html
08-12-2020||World||US again designates China, Pakistan as countries of concern over violation of religious freedom||The US has again designated Pakistan and China as “countries of particular concern” for systematic and egregious violations of religious freedom, a move that could lead to the imposition of certain sanctions against them. US secretary of state Mike Pompeo announced on Monday that the US had designated China, Eritrea, Iran, Nigeria, Myanmar, North Korea, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Tajikistan, and Turkmenistan as “countries of particular concern under the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998”. The action was taken as these countries were “engaging in or tolerating systematic, ongoing, egregious violations of religious freedom”, he said. China, Pakistan, Myanmar and Saudi Arabia have figured in the list of countries of particular concern in recent years, though the state department has granted waivers to these countries from any meaningful action related to the designation because of US security interests. In 2019 alone, the state department issued three such waivers for Pakistan, Saudi Arabia and Tajikistan. Pompeo also said the US had placed the Comoros, Cuba, Nicaragua and Russia on a “special watch list” for governments that have engaged in or tolerated “severe violations of religious freedom”. The US also designated terror groups al-Shabaab, al-Qaeda, Boko Haram, Hayat Tahrir al-Sham, Islamic State and its affiliates in Greater Sahara and West Africa, Jamaat Nasr al-Islam wal Muslimin and the Afghan Taliban as “entities of particular concern” under the Frank R Wolf International Religious Freedom Act of 2016. The US didn’t renew the “entity of particular concern” designations for al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula and Islamic State-Khorasan, which operates in Afghanistan, due to “total loss of territory formerly controlled by these terrorist organisations”, Pompeo said. “The US will continue to work tirelessly to end religiously motivated abuses and persecution around the world, and to help ensure that each person, everywhere, at all times, has the right to live according to the dictates of conscience,” he said. Also read | China sends warplanes, troops for drill in PakistanThe US Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF), an independent, bipartisan federal government entity, has recommended that Pakistan be designated a country of particular concern every year since 2002, and the state department finally made the designation for the first time in 2018, and again in 2019. USCIRF also recommended in its 2020 report that Pakistan be designated a country of particular concern for its systematic violations of religious freedom. Though Pakistan took some positive steps during 2019-20, including its Supreme Court upholding the acquittal of Asia Bibi, a Christian woman sentenced to death for alleged blasphemy, and the government reopening Shawala Teja Singh temple in Punjab to Hindus and opening the Kartarpur Corridor with India for Sikh pilgrims, USCIRF said the country’s “particularly severe religious freedom violations persisted, largely due to the ongoing enforcement of blasphemy and anti-Ahmadiyya laws and the culture of impunity for violence against religious minorities”. USCIRF also said in its 2020 report that religious freedoms in China had continued to deteriorate. It said an estimated 900,000 to 1.8 million Uighur, Kazakh, Kyrgyz and other Muslims had been detained in more than 1,300 concentration camps in Xinjiang, and former detainees had reported suffering torture, rape, sterilisation and other abuses. The Chinese government also continued to pursue a strategy of “forced assimilation and suppression of Tibetan Buddhism”, as reflected by laws designed to control the next reincarnation of the Dalai Lama and other eminent lamas. Some 6,000 monks and nuns were displaced when authorities demolished thousands of residences at Yachen Gar Tibetan Buddhist centre in Sichuan province in 2019, while authorities also raided or closed down hundreds of Protestant house churches and continued to harass and detain bishops who refused to join the state-affiliated Catholic association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-again-designates-china-pakistan-as-countries-of-concern-over-violation-of-religious-freedom/story-3JnDdz5jHnA0dY9IoYOBhK.html
08-12-2020||World||New Zealand’s Ardern apologises as report into mosque attack faults focus on Islamist terror risks||New Zealand security agencies were “almost exclusively” focused on the perceived threat of Islamist terrorism before a white supremacist gunman killed 51 Muslim worshippers last year, a report into the country’s worst massacre found. The Royal Commission of Inquiry also criticised police for failing to enforce proper checks when granting a firearms license to Australian gunman Brenton Tarrant, who released a racist manifesto shortly before the attack and streamed the shootings live on Facebook.But despite the shortcomings, the report found no failings within government agencies that would have prevented the attack at two mosques in Christchurch on March 15, 2019.“The commission made no findings that these issues would have stopped the attack. But these were both failings and for that I apologise,” Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said after the report was released.Tarrant was sentenced to life in prison without parole in August for the attack, which left dozens injured.Ardern received global praise for her compassionate response to the attack and for swiftly banning the sale of the high-capacity semi-automatic weapons Tarrant used. She also launched a global movement against online extremism.However, authorities were criticised for ignoring repeated warnings from the Muslim community that hate crimes against them were escalating.The 800-page report said there was an “inappropriate concentration of resources” on the threat of Islamist extremist terrorism. Submissions to the commission by various Muslim organisations described how they felt they were targeted by security agencies while threats against them were not taken seriously.“We find it concerning that the Commissioners found systemic failures and an inappropriate concentration of resources towards Islamic terrorism, and yet state that these would not have made a difference to the terrorist being detected prior to the event,” the Islamic Women’s Council said in a statement.The report said there was no plausible way Tarrant’s plans could have been detected “except by chance.”Gamal Fouda, the Imam of Al Noor mosque targeted by the shooter, said the report showed “institutional prejudice and unconscious bias” exists in government agencies.The government accepted all 44 recommendations in the report, including establishing a new national intelligence and security agency, and appointing a minister to coordinate the government’s response.It said it would create an ethnic community ministry and a graduate programme for ethnic communities to support the country’s diverse population. The government would also tighten firearm licensing laws, strengthen counter-terrorism laws, and make changes so police can better record and respond to hate crime. The report found that despite having no history in New Zealand, Tarrant’s application for a firearms license was approved by the police.It recommended mandatory reporting of firearm injuries by health professionals, after it was revealed Tarrant was treated by doctors in the months leading up to the attack after accidentally shooting himself.The report described Tarrant as “socially isolated” with few childhood friends but an avid internet user and online gamer.Before arriving in New Zealand in August 2017, he travelled extensively, visiting dozens of countries between 2014 and 2017, mostly alone. “The individual could present well and conducted himself in a way that did not attract suspicion. He was not identified as someone who posed a threat,” said the report.Other than an email Tarrant sent eight minutes before he opened fire, there was no other information available that could have alerted authorities to the attack, it said.Tarrant trained for the attack in New Zealand by developing expertise with guns at a rifle club, working out at a gym and taking steroids to bulk up, the report said.He frequented extreme right-wing discussion boards such as those on 4chan and 8chan but YouTube was a far more significant source of information and inspiration.Ardern said she planned to raise this directly with the leadership of YouTube.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-zealand-s-ardern-apologises-as-report-into-mosque-attack-faults-focus-on-islamist-terror-risks/story-hpltighb3V6VS8XHlIXWNP.html
08-12-2020||World||Pope Francis to visit Iraq in March 2021||Pope Francis is set to travel to Iraq in March 2021, which would be his first outside Italy ever since the coronavirus pandemic, said the Vatican press office.According to a communique by the Vatican, the Pope is set to”visit Baghdad, linked to the memory of Abraham, the city of Erbil, as well as Mosul and Qaraqosh in the plain of Nineveh” from March 5-8, as quoted by CNN.“The programme of the journey will be made known in due course, and will take into consideration the evolution of the worldwide health emergency,” it added.Iraq’s foreign ministry said in a statement that the visit “represents a historic event and support for all Iraqis of all sectors”.“It also represents a message of peace to Iraq and to the region as a whole, affirms the unity of the humanitarian position in confronting extremism and conflicts, and promotes diversity and tolerance. And coexistence,” it added.The Pope has long sought a trip to Iraq and told a meeting of Catholic aid agencies last year that he wanted to travel there in 2020, CNN citing Vatican News reported.“I think constantly of Iraq -- where I want to go next year -- in the hope that it can face the future through the peaceful and shared pursuit of the common good on the part of all elements of society, including the religious, and not fall back into hostilities sparked by the simmering conflicts of the regional powers,” Francis said during the June 2019 meeting.On Monday, Iraqi President Barham Salih called the planned visit “a message of peace to Iraqis of all religions.”“The journey of Pope Francis to Mesopotamia - the cradle of civilization, the birthplace of Abraham, father of the faithful - will be a message of peace to Iraqis of all religions & serve to affirm our common values of justice & dignity,” Salih said in a tweet.CNN reported that Around 1 per cent of Iraq’s population is Christian from a “number of denominations”. The country has seen an exodus of Christians in recent years as Iraq was wracked by cycles of violence, including the rise of ISIS. Terrorist groups have repeatedly targeted churches since the 2003 US invasion which triggered civil unrest.Prior to the pandemic, Pope Francis visited several Muslim-majority countries, including the United Arab Emirates. His trip to the UAE in February 2019 marked the first-ever visit by a pontiff to the Arabian peninsula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pope-francis-to-visit-iraq-in-march-2021/story-5TUxUUl1HDGFGiYs3UI9jJ.html
08-12-2020||World||Abu Dhabi seeking volunteers for Russian Covid-19 vaccine trial||Abu Dhabi is seeking volunteers to take part in Phase 3 clinical trials of Russia’s Covid-19 vaccine, known as Sputnik V, in the capital of the United Arab Emirates.Two doses of the vaccine will be given to up to 500 initial volunteers, according to the emirate’s media office.Russia on Saturday began distributing the vaccine to the most exposed groups in the country, the start of the first large-scale vaccination against the disease there.Russia has developed two Covid-19 vaccines, Sputnik V which is backed by the Russian Direct Investment Fund and another developed by Siberia’s Vector Institute, with final trials for the both yet to be completed.The UAE is also conducting Phase 3 clinical trials of a Covid-19 vaccine developed by Chinese state-owned pharmaceutical company Sinopharm, and has approved emergency use of the vaccine for certain groups.The UAE, population of around 9 million, has reported 177,577 cases and 594 Covid-19 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/abu-dhabi-seeking-volunteers-for-russian-covid-19-vaccine-trial/story-jGXDEEaSUqUSuY67JZ7z8M.html
08-12-2020||World||France will not ‘sacrifice’ its fishermen in any Brexit deal, says minister||Negotiations between Britain and the European Union over a post-Brexit trade deal are complex and France will oppose any pact that “sacrifices” its fishermen, French European Affairs Minister Clement Beaune said on Tuesday.“On fisheries there is no reason to yield to Britain’s pressure. We can make some efforts but sacrificing fisheries and fishermen, no,” Beaune told RMC radio, reiterating that France would veto any agreement it considered a “bad” deal.Since Britain left the European Union in January, each side has urged the other to make concessions to unlock a trade deal before Britain’s transition period for leaving the bloc ends on Dec. 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/france-will-not-sacrifice-its-fishermen-in-any-brexit-deal-says-minister/story-RBxtNfCCZfCL08r634Z03O.html
08-12-2020||World||90-year-old British woman is first to receive Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine shot||Margaret Keenan, a 90-year-old grandmother from Britain, has become the first person in the world to receive the Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine outside of a trial following its rapid clinical approval. An early riser, Keenan received the jab at her local hospital in Coventry, central England, on Tuesday morning at 06:31 GMT, a week before she turns 91.Britain began rolling out the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Pfizer and BioNTech on Tuesday, the first Western country to start vaccinating its general population in what was hailed as a decisive watershed in defeating the coronavirus.The mass inoculation will fuel hope that the world may be turning a corner in the fight against a pandemic that has crushed economies and killed more than 1.5 million, although ultra-cold storage and tricky logistics will limit its use for now.“I feel so privileged to be the first person vaccinated against Covid-19,” said Keenan. “It’s the best early birthday present I could wish for because it means I can finally look forward to spending time with my family and friends in the New Year after being on my own for most of the year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/british-grandma-becomes-the-first-person-in-the-world-to-get-inoculated-for-covid-19/story-lweZRs7jaY8uelQYhfFIXN.html
08-12-2020||World||Canada may roll out Covid vaccines next week||The first doses of the Covid-19 vaccine could be available in Canada as early as next week if there is approval from the regulatory authorities.Facing criticism over delay in procuring vaccines, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau announced that 249,000 doses of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine will be available before the end of December and targeted at the most vulnerable, such as the residents of care homes and health care workers.The vaccines could be made available as early as next week, depending on approval from Health Canada. That department’s chief medical officer, Dr Supriya Sharma, has said it may be possible this very week. “The regulatory process needs to be as rigorous as it always is. There are no corners cut by Health Canada in terms of approving a vaccine for safe use by Canadians,” Trudeau said.“This is the largest mobilisation of vaccines in Canada’s history,” Trudeau said during a news conference, adding that it was a “good thing” that the country will start with a small sample and then “rapidly scale up as the flow of vaccine doses starts increasing.”His government is already facing a motion in the House of Commons related to the tardy nature of the vaccine roll-outplan for Canada.According to a recent survey from the non-profit Angus Reid Institute, the government has lost 10% of its approval ratings over its handling of the vaccine issue, going down to 56%.The Pfizer vaccine has to be delivered in two doses and brings with it logistical challenges, having to be stored at temperatures ranging between -80 degree Celsius and -60 degree C.While 14 distribution centres for the vaccine have been identified for the vaccine, it will not reach the country’s backward Arctic regions, with its indigenous populations, due to the storage and delivery challenges.About four million more doses are expected to arrive in Canada within the first quarter of next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-may-roll-out-covid-vaccines-next-week/story-DN5zR6qB1G7dlZnHjMo1WJ.html
08-12-2020||World||Does Trump have power to pardon himself? Legal experts divided||President Donald Trump has declared that he has “absolute power” to issue a pardon to himself. Yet the law is much murkier than his confidence suggests.No president has attempted to pardon himself while in office, so if Trump tries to do so in the next six weeks, he will be venturing into legally untested territory without clear guidance from the Constitution or from judges.Legal experts are divided on an inherently ambiguous question that was left vague by the Founding Fathers and has never had to be definitively resolved in court.“It’s impossible to anticipate every factual scenario that could come up under a legal provision. This is why we have the courts,” said University of Baltimore law professor Kimberly Wehle.Talk of a potential pardon comes with Trump facing a swirl of investigations as he prepares to leave office, including New York State inquiries into whether he misled tax authorities, banks or business partners.In favor of a self-pardon is the broad power the Constitution affords a president when it comes to absolving federal crimes — both charged and not-yet charged — and the absence of any law or language that explicitly prohibits such an act.But some scholars say a self-pardon collides with other provisions of the Constitution or even fundamental principles of law. The Constitution’s text — affording the president “power to grant reprieves and pardons for offenses against the United States, except in cases of impeachment” — can be read to suggest that the Founding Fathers envisioned some sort of limitations on a president’s pardon power. It could also mean the power is to be used on someone else, not yourself.“You could say, implicit in the definition of a pardon or implicit in the notion of granting a pardon — because the Constitution uses the word ‘grant’ — is that it’s two separate people,” said Brian Kalt, a constitutional law professor at Michigan State University. “You can’t grant something to yourself. You can’t pardon yourself.”It would also seem to run afoul of the fundamental principle that no one — in this case, a president issuing himself a pardon — may serve as a judge in his own case.That was the reasoning cited in a 1974 opinion from the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel, dated days before President Richard Nixon’s resignation, that said “it would seem” a president could not pardon himself.But that same opinion does suggest a potential workaround, envisioning as legally acceptable a scenario in which a president declares himself temporarily unfit for office under the Constitution’s 25th Amendment and transfers power to the vice president, who could then issue a pardon. The president could then either resign or resume his duties, the opinion said.The question of whether Trump will do it, though, is as unsettled as the question of whether he can.A self-pardon, which Trump has openly mused about, would on one hand be fitting as a final norm-shattering act in a presidency defined by them. But it might also be at odds with his oft-stated conviction that he has done nothing wrong for which he needs to be absolved.Regardless, the question has occupied Trump’s attention for years.In June 2018, 13 months into special counsel Robert Mueller’s Russia investigation, Trump tweeted, “As has been stated by numerous legal scholars, I have the absolute right to PARDON myself, but why would I do that when I have done nothing wrong?”Mueller’s report laid out facts that federal prosecutors could potentially use as the basis for an obstruction of justice prosecution, though the odds of that are unclear.If prosecutors were to bring a case against Trump in spite of any pardon he grants himself, the issue could wind up in court and before a judge for the first time.Mark Tushnet, a retired Harvard Law School professor, said he doubted any court could overturn a presidential self-pardon, though he said such an act would constitute an abuse of power that would have been abhorrent to the framers of the Constitution.“For them, I believe it would have been unthinkable that the American people would ever elect the kind of person who would pardon himself. Which is why they didn’t say anything about the possibility,” Tushnet said.Since presidential pardons don’t cover state crimes, it would seem unlikely a self-pardon would extend in any event to the state investigations Trump is facing. But, Tushnet said, Trump’s lawyers could conceivably try to invoke double-jeopardy arguments to claim that a federal pardon should bar any New York state prosecution based on the same conduct.On the federal level, a self-pardon obviously handcuffs the Justice Department under President-elect Joe Biden from pursuing any federal case against Trump. But it would also spare Biden from having to face questions about a prosecution that risks distracting from his agenda and keeping Trump in the spotlight.Ethan Leib, a law professor at Fordham University, said it is a well-established norm that presidents behave in the public interest rather than for personal gain. In this case, he said, it was possible Trump could argue that pardoning himself is motivated by the public interest and a desire to the extent it could pre-empt a divisive prosecution that could upend democracy and “trigger civil war,” Leib said.But, he noted, “The irony is this particular president does not seem particularly public spirited and public-interest minded.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/does-trump-have-power-to-pardon-himself-legal-experts-divided/story-3P9lwN3z0uHIDW5rM0OCPM.html
08-12-2020||World||Hong Kong arrests eight more activists as crackdown on opposition shows no sign of let-up||Hong Kong police arrested eight more activists on Tuesday over an anti-government protest in July, the latest move by authorities in a relentless crackdown on opposition forces in the Chinese-ruled city. The police did not identify the people, saying only that they were aged between 24 and 64. Local media said former pro-democracy lawmaker and veteran activist Leung Kwok-hung, known as Long Hair, was among those arrested. The move comes a day after eight people aged between 16 and 34 were arrested, including three on suspicion of violating a sweeping national security law, over a brief demonstration at a university campus last month.Hong Kong police fired water cannon and tear gas to disperse protesters on July 1, the anniversary of the former British colony’s handover to Chinese rule, as thousands demonstrated despite a police ban on the annual protest. More than 300 were arrested in the rally that came after Beijing imposed security legislation on its freest city, saying it was vital to plug gaping holes in national security defences exposed by months of sometimes violent anti-government protests that rocked the city over the last year.The law punishes what Beijing broadly defines as secession, subversion, terrorism and collusion with foreign forces with up to life in jail. Opposition politicians and Western governments fear the law is being used to suppress dissent and erode wide-ranging freedoms guaranteed to the former British colony when it returned to Chinese rule in 1997. On Monday, the United States announced further sanctions to punish Beijing for imposing the law on Hong Kong, escalating tensions between the two sides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-arrests-eight-more-activists-as-crackdown-on-opposition-shows-no-sign-of-let-up/story-TMaHH0EKd4mAKmtQOrMNtL.html
08-12-2020||World||Tech startups raise record $41 billion in Europe this year||European tech companies defied the pandemic this year to draw record levels of investment overall, though early-stage founders still struggled to clinch funding.Europe’s tech sector is on track for about $41 billion in venture capital investment this year, up around $500 million from 2019, according to VC firm Atomico’s annual State of European Tech Report published Tuesday. The slight increase was driven by greater numbers of $100 million to $250 million funding rounds, it said.Overall investment dropped around March, as large swathes of Europe went into lockdown, but began recovering by the end of summer and continued into the fall. September saw the highest-ever month of investment into European tech with more than $5 billion invested, Atomico said.“It’s not going to increase by much, but for a long period of time this year it was looking like we’d see a reduction,” said Tom Wehmeier, partner at Atomico, and co-author of the report. “Even creeping above last year’s figure represents quite an achievement for the ecosystem.”Still, entrepreneurs looking to raise rounds of about $20 million to $50 million struggled to do so this year in many sectors as the pandemic made it harder to demonstrate growth potential.“When it looks like your year may come in flat or it may even decrease, that is a much harder story to tell investors,” Wehmeier said.The US still vastly outpaces Europe when it comes to tech investments, attracting about five times as much capital in 2020, Atomico said. Foreign investors from the US and Asia saw continued appetite to invest in Europe this year, however. A record 19% of funding rounds in Europe during 2020 included participation from at least one U.S. investor, up from 16% in 2019, according to the report.Atomico also highlighted ongoing challenges with diversity in Europe’s tech industry. Its report concluded that little data about ethnicity exists at the European level, and what does emerge is “grim.” Between 2009 and 2019, only 0.24% of capital in the UK went to black founders, according to the report.Meanwhile, progress on gender has stagnated, Atomico said, with 90.8% of all capital going to men-only teams this year, compared to 90.3% last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tech-startups-raise-record-41-billion-in-europe-this-year/story-PW0PQ7FROh0dHY1TbFHvML.html
08-12-2020||World||Imran Khan unfollows everyone on Twitter, gets trolled||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan has unfollowed everyone from his Twitter account, including his first wife Jemima Goldsmith. But Twitteratis trolled him for feeling “inferior to former PM Nawaz Sharif”.According to a report by The News International, on Monday evening, users of Pakistani Twitter space noticed that PM Imran Khan was no longer following anyone on Twitter from his official @ImranKhanPTI account.Meanwhile, the Twitteratis have noticed that he unfollowed Jemima Goldsmith, a film producer and his former wife.Imran Khan, who had created his Twitter profile in 2010, had continued to follow his first wife Jemima Goldsmith even after parting ways with her and getting married twice.While not many comments have been made on Khan unfollowing everyone, people seem to have not like him unfollowing his first wife.“Bro @ImranKhanPTI unfollowed @Jemima_Khan?!?!” said one of the Twitter users.“Imran Khan visited Nawaz Sharif’s @NawazSharifMNS Twitter timeline, realised NS does not follow anybody. Got angry that this might reflect poorly on him. Went back to his own timeline and unfollowed all his MNAs and ex-wife,” another user said.Another user said, “Even though @ImranKhanPTI unfollowed everyone but I am sure something inside Jemima just broke.”“Baqi sub to theik hai khan sahib ne jemima ko b unfollow kr dyia (Unfollowing is still ok but Imran Khan unfollowed even Jemima?),” said one of the Twitteratis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/imran-khan-unfollows-everyone-on-twitter-gets-trolled/story-zW5autdabirR9dNloS4pRK.html
08-12-2020||World||Biden to name former general Lloyd Austin III as US defence secretary||President-elect Joe Biden is expected to name retired Gen Lloyd Austin III as US secretary of defence. He will become the first Black person to hold the top Pentagon job if confirmed.Austin, a four-star general, is the only African American to head the vaunted US Central Command with responsibility for American military operations in Iraq, Afghanistan, Syria and Yemen. He oversaw the US troop surge in Iraq in 2006 and the withdrawal in 2011.Austin retired in 2016 and his nomination, and confirmation by US Senate, will require a congressional waiver of a law that mandates a cooling off period of seven years for US military personnel to head the Pentagon. It would be a second time for this to be done in recent years. James Mattis, who was outgoing President Donald Trump’s first secretary of defence, needed a waiver as well in 2017; he had retired in 2013. His last assignment was head of the Central Command. He was succeeded by Austin.Austin’s nomination is expected to be announced on Tuesday, according to Politico, which first reported the selection.India will be watching Austin’s nomination and confirmation closely. Growing defence ties — both operationally through military exercises, agreements and exchange of sensitive information and technologies; and commercially through deals — account for a large portion of the bilateral relationship.The 2+2 India-US ministerial dialogue between the defence and foreign ministers of the two countries, the third edition of which was held in New Delhi this October, has emerged as the key driver of the relationship, between summit-level meetings.Antony Blinken is Biden’s nominee for the second leg of the 2+2 as secretary of state. He has been an outspoken supporter of stronger ties with India as a foreign policy spokesperson for Biden and has promised India will be a part of the incoming administration’s uncompromising stance towards China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-to-name-former-general-lloyd-austin-iii-as-us-defence-secretary/story-BuQSL8xIflXTZShU8LqwKI.html
08-12-2020||World||Thai demonstrators plan protest against Royal defamation law||Thailand’s pro-democracy groups will hold a gathering this week to press for the abolition of a law that penalizes insulting and criticizing the nation’s top royals, after authorities invoked the act against protest leaders who are demanding monarchy reform.The protesters, who have been rallying regularly in capital Bangkok and other cities since mid-July, will hold “an important event” on Dec. 10, the United Front of Thammasat and Demonstration said on Twitter. The day also marks Thailand’s Constitution Day and International Human Rights Day.More than a dozen protest leaders are facing lese majeste charges, which entail prison terms of as many as 15 years, as authorities seek to curb the growing taboo-breaking movement that calls for the monarchy power to be reined in. Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-Ocha, who’s rejected calls to quit, last month said the government “will now enforce all laws available to deal with protesters who break the law and ignore other people’s rights and freedom.”“We’re heading toward more conflict,” Arnon Nampa, a human rights lawyer and one of the protest leaders who have been charged with lese majeste, said in a Facebook post. “The Thai establishment has used lese majeste law as its weapons.”A call to government spokesman Anucha Burapachaisri went unanswered on Tuesday, and the Bureau of the Royal Household declined to comment.The protest movement is calling for the constitution to be rewritten to make it more democratic. They’re also seeking the resignation of Prayuth, a former army chief who took power in 2014 and returned as premier after elections last year under rules written during his military government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thai-demonstrators-plan-protest-against-royal-defamation-law/story-NNyYmsMiJAW5XMPeInnDUO.html
08-12-2020||World||Australia to reveal laws to make Google and Facebook pay for news||Australia’s government will reveal legislation in Parliament on Wednesday that would make Facebook and Google pay for journalism.Treasurer Josh Frydenberg said Tuesday that the legislation to create the News Media Bargaining Code will be scrutinized by a parliamentary committee following its introduction and before lawmakers vote on it next year.“This is a huge reform,” Frydenberg told reporters. “This is a world first. And the world is watching what happens here in Australia.”“This is comprehensive legislation that has gone further than any comparable jurisdiction in the world,” he added.The legislation differs from draft proposals that were released in July after consultations with the social media platforms as well as Australian media organizations.The government had initially planned to exclude state-owned media — Australian Broadcasting Corp. and the Special Broadcasting Service — from being compensated by the tech giants for their journalism.Frydenberg said those broadcasters would be paid under the latest draft legislation like commercial media businesses.Facebook has warned it might block Australian news content rather than pay for it.Google has said the proposed laws would result in “dramatically worse Google Search and YouTube,” put free services at risk and could lead to users’ data “being handed over to big news businesses.”Frydenberg said Google was taking 53% of online advertising dollars and Facebook took a 23% share.Michael Miller, executive chairman of News Corp Australia, one of the nation’s largest media organizations, described the draft legislation as a “significant step forward in the decade-long campaign to achieve fairness in the relationship between Australian news media companies and the global tech giants.”“All we have ever sought is a fair commercial outcome and fair payment for the valuable news content our journalists create,” Miller said in a statement. “I believe this code puts in place the framework for this to be achieved.”Neither Facebook nor Google immediately responded to a request for comment on Tuesday.The conservative government might need the support of the center-left opposition Labor Party to get the legislation through the Senate, where no party or coalition holds a majority of seats.Senior Labor lawmaker Jim Chalmers said his party gave in-principle support for “efforts to ensure that the playing field is levelled between the tech platforms and the news media organizations.”But Chalmers said the government had yet to brief Labor on the legislation’s details.The legislation would create an arbitrator to address the bargaining imbalance between the tech giants and news businesses. If a platform and a news outlet can’t reach an agreement on price, an arbitrator would be appointed to make a binding decision.Spain and France and have both failed to make Facebook and Google pay for news through copyright law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-to-reveal-laws-to-make-google-and-facebook-pay-for-news/story-dDfzKgXGIocoieZUuZyaxJ.html
08-12-2020||World||Georgia recertifies election results showing Joe Biden won||Georgia’s top elections official on Monday recertified the state’s election results after a recount requested by President Donald Trump confirmed once again that Democrat Joe Biden won the state, and the governor then recertified the state’s 16 presidential electors.“We have now counted legally cast ballots three times, and the results remain unchanged,” Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger said during a news conference at the state Capitol before the results were recertified.Georgia law allows a losing candidate to request a recount if the margin between the candidates is within 0.5%. Trump requested the recount after the results certified by Raffensperger showed that Biden led by a margin of 12,670 votes, or 0.25% of the roughly 5 million ballots cast.During the recount, which was done using scanners that read and tally the votes, there were discrepancies in vote totals in some counties. Since the results of a recount become the official results, those counties had to recertify their results. Once that was done the secretary of state recertified the statewide results, his office said in a news release.Kemp then recertified the state’s slate of 16 presidential electors — all prominent Democrats — as required by state law, spokesman Cody Hall said. The recertification of results comes before the federal “safe harbor” deadline on Tuesday — electors named by that date in accordance with state law cannot be disregarded by Congress.The recount was the third tally of votes in the presidential race in the state. After the initial count following Election Day, Raffensperger selected the presidential race for an audit required by state law. The tight margin meant the audit required the roughly 5 million votes in that contest to be recounted by hand, he said. That count also affirmed Biden’s victory.The total number of votes in the recount results certified Monday and posted on the secretary of state’s website was 766 fewer than the number certified when the ballots were first tallied after the election. Biden’s lead dropped from 12,670 to 11,779. That appears to be largely due to a discrepancy in Fulton County, the state’s most populous county that includes most of Atlanta.Fulton County’s recount results showed 880 fewer votes than the results certified after election night, with an overwhelming majority of those votes coming from Biden’s total in the county. Gabriel Sterling, who oversaw the implementation of the state’s new voting system, called the discrepancy in the county “a little worrisome” but said it’s a big county that’s had managerial issues. He also noted the difference isn’t enough to change the overall outcome of the election.Also Monday, a federal judge dismissed a lawsuit filed on behalf of would-be Republican presidential electors by former Trump lawyer Sidney Powell. The suit alleged widespread fraud and sought to decertify the results of the presidential race in Georgia, among other things.In the lawsuit, “the plaintiffs essentially ask the court for perhaps the most extraordinary relief ever sought in any federal court in connection with an election. They want this court to substitute its judgment for that of 2 and a half million Georgia voters who voted for Joe Biden and this I am unwilling to do,” U.S. District Judge Timothy Batten as he dismissed the suit following a hearing.Separately, an election challenge filed Friday by Trump, his campaign and Georgia Republican Party Chairman David Shafer was rejected by the Fulton County Superior Court because the paperwork was improperly completed and it lacked the appropriate filing fees.Even as lawsuits filed by Trump and his allies have been rejected around the country, the president has continued to make repeated baseless claims of widespread fraud. In Georgia, he has rained criticism on Raffensperger and Kemp, both fellow Republicans. Raffensperger, meanwhile, has been steadfast in his defense of the integrity of the election in the state and Kemp has said he has no power to intervene in elections.“I know there are people that are convinced the election was fraught with problems, but the evidence, the actual evidence, the facts tell us a different story,” Raffensperger said during the news conference Monday.Hours before coming to Georgia for a rally Saturday night, Trump called Kemp and asked him to call a special legislative session. The governor declined.In a tweet Sunday, Trump criticized Kemp and Lt. Gov. Geoff Duncan for inaction and again called for a special session.After four Republican state lawmakers on Sunday also requested a special session, Kemp and Duncan put out a statement saying that convening a special session to select a different slate of presidential electors would not be allowed under state or federal law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/georgia-recertifies-election-results-showing-joe-biden-won/story-LDcGWB8McDmaEg1q6wudmM.html
08-12-2020||World||China sends warplanes, troops for drill in Pakistan||China has dispatched fighter aircraft and troops to a Pakistani airbase close to the Gujarat border to take part in the latest edition of a bilateral military exercise, the Chinese military announced on Monday evening, adding that the air force drill was aimed at improving “actual combat training” of the two forces.“The Chinese air force’s troops set off on December 7 for the Pakistani Air Force’s air base in Bholari at Thatta District in Sindh, northeast of Pakistan’s Karachi to participate in the China-Pakistan Joint Air Force Exercise Shaheen (Eagle) – IX,” a statement put out by the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) said.The latest edition of the drill will take place in the backdrop of the ongoing India-China border friction along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh.The brief Chinese statement on Shaheen-IX did not give details of the deployment of PLA Air Force (PLAAF) for the exercise with Pakistan, but said it will conclude in late December.“The joint air force exercise, which will conclude in late December, is a project within the 2020 cooperation plan of the two militaries,” it said.“It will promote the development of China-Pakistan mil-to-mil relationships, deepen practical cooperation between the two air forces and improve the actual-combat training level of the two sides,” the statement added.The last edition of the Shaheen drill, which was held in China’s Xinjiang in September 2019, was the largest with nearly 50 warplanes from the two countries taking part in it.Twitter handle @detresfa, a satellite imagery expert, tweeted Monday evening that …a “#China AirForce (PLAAF) Y20 Heavy lift plane was spotted descending into #Pakistan near Bholari Airbase, along with it was spotted another unknown aircraft (suspected PLAAF) following the same route Aircraft are suspected to be in support of a joint exercise”PLAAF is said to have deployed fighter jets close to the LAC with India.A state media report last week said a large number of Chinese fighter aircraft recently conducted a series of intensive exercises around a Western Theatre Command – which oversees China’s disputed border with India -- Air Force base, which is located at an important strategic point in northwest China. “The drills honed and demonstrated the Chinese military’s capability to safeguard the country’s western air defence border,” the state media report added.Pakistan Air Force’s Bholari airbase was inaugurated in December 2017.Calling the Bholari project one of “strategic significance”, then Pakistan Air Force chief Sohail Aman had said: “Indeed, PAF Base Bholari is a project of strategic significance for capacity enhancement of Pakistan Air Force in operational domain both overland as well as at sea”.In the last edition of the Shaheen exercise held in Xinjiang close to the LAC, dozens of fighter aircraft from the two countries had taken part in mock battles, the PLA Air Force statement had then said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-sends-warplanes-troops-for-drill-in-pakistan/story-7feM7iIWrSak872pN0pcxK.html
08-12-2020||World||87-year-old Indian-origin man first to get Covid-19 vaccine in UK||An 87-year-old Indian-origin man from the north east of England will become one of the first people in the world to get a vaccine against Covid-19 when he receives his Pfizer/BioNTech jab at a hospital in Newcastle on Tuesday. Hari Shukla from Tyne and Wear said he feels it is his duty to receive his first of the two-dose vaccine, a moment UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson hailed as a “huge step forward” as Tuesday was dubbed “V-Day” or Vaccine Day in the UK.“I’m so pleased we are hopefully coming towards the end of this pandemic and I am delighted to be doing my bit by having the vaccine, I feel it is my duty to do so and do whatever I can to help,” said Shukla.“Having been in contact with the NHS (National Health Service), I know how hard they all work and the greatest respect for them – they have a heart of gold and I am grateful for everything they have done to keep us safe during the pandemic,” he said.Shukla was notified by the NHS based on the criteria set by the UK’s Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation as part of a phased rollout plan based on those at the highest risk of death from the deadly virus. People aged 80 and over, care home workers as well as NHS workers who are at higher risk will be first in line to receive the “life-saving jab”.“Today marks a huge step forward in the UK’s fight against coronavirus, as we begin delivering the vaccine to the first patients across the whole country. I am immensely proud of the scientists who developed the vaccine, members of the public who took part in trials, and the NHS who have worked tirelessly to prepare for rollout,” said Johnson.However, the UK PM struck a note of caution to warn that mass vaccination will take time and urged the public to remain “clear-eyed” and continue to follow the lockdown rules over the winter months ahead.The NHS said it is undertaking the biggest and most highly anticipated immunisation campaign in history at 50 hospital hubs, with more starting vaccinations over the coming weeks and months as the programme ramps up after the first set of doses arrived from Pfizer’s manufacturing site in Belgium.“We will look back on today, V-day, as a key moment in our fight back against this terrible disease, and I am proud our health services across the United Kingdom are about to embark on our largest ever vaccination programme,” said UK Health Secretary Matt Hancock.“With over-80s and frontline health and care staff receiving their vaccinations from today, the whole country will breathe a collective sigh of relief as our most vulnerable loved ones start to be given protection from the virus. Now’s the time to sit tight and remain patient until you get notified by the NHS that it’s time for your vaccination,” he said, adding that the light at the end of the tunnel is visible but there is still a long way to go.Since the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine got the green light from the UK’s Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) last week, the NHS said its workers have been working around the clock to manage the large-scale logistical challenge of deploying the vaccine. “Coronavirus is the greatest health challenge in NHS history, taking loved ones from us and disrupting every part of our lives,” said Sir Simon Stevens, NHS Chief Executive.“The deployment of this vaccine marks a decisive turning point in the battle with the pandemic. NHS vaccination programmes which have successfully helped overcome tuberculosis, polio, and smallpox, now turn their focus to coronavirus. NHS staff are proud to be leading the way as the first health service in the world to begin vaccination with this Covid jab,” he said.The Pfizer/BionTech formula is an mRNA vaccine that uses a tiny fragment of genetic code from the pandemic virus to teach the body how to fight Covid-19 and build immunity. It is delivered in two doses of 21 days apart and, according to experts, it has shown a strong immunity response kicking in after seven days of the second dose. The MHRA has stressed it has been cleared for mass rollout only after “rigorous” safety tests despite the process being speeded up due to the urgency of finding an effective vaccine against a pandemic which has wreaked havoc around the world.NHS national medical director, Professor Stephen Powis, has warned that the roll out of a vaccine will be a “marathon” not a sprint.The Pfizer vaccine needs to be stored at -70C before being thawed out and can only be moved four times within that cold chain before being used. General Practitioners (GPs) and other primary care staff have also been put on standby to start delivering the jab on a phased basis.Vaccination centres treating large numbers of patients in sporting venues and conference centres will subsequently start up when further supplies of vaccine come on stream, with a bulk of the rollout expected in the early part of the New Year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/87-year-old-indian-origin-man-first-to-get-covid-19-vaccine-in-uk/story-zYeQ6G9CqZMtJFR0defQpM.html
08-12-2020||World||Covid-19 vaccine update: UK to begin Pfizer vaccinations, Bharat Biotech seeks nod for emergency use in India||The United Kingdom will on Tuesday become the first country to administer doses of Pfizer Inc-BioNTech SE’s vaccine candidate against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), in what is perhaps the most critical development in the worldwide search for a shot. Last week, the UK health authorities had granted emergency use authorisation (EUA) to the vaccine candidate.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIn India, Hyderabad’s Bharat Biotech International Limited on Monday became the third firm to seek approval for its vaccine candidate, Covaxin, for emergency cases. Last week, both Pfizer and Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) had applied to be granted EUA in India. Bharat Biotech has thus become the second Indian firm, after SII, to seek approval for use in emergency cases in India.Here are the latest developments on the Covid-19 vaccine front:1. The UK’s National Health Service (NHS) has said people over the age of 80 will be given first preference in what the agency has described as the “biggest immunisation campaign” in its history. Vaccinations will begin early Tuesday morning in what prime minister Boris Johnson says is a “huge step forward” in the fight against the coronavirus, of which the country has more than 1.7 million cases with more than 61,000 people succumbing to the infection.2. Bharat Biotech, whose Covaxin is in the third stage of trials in India, has applied to the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) seeking approval for its candidate to be used in emergency cases. Covaxin, which has been developed in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), will be India’s first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine if approved. It is also the first vaccine candidate to have reached Phase 3 trials in India.3. South Korea’s government has said it has signed deals with four firms to vaccinate a total of 44 million people. While 20 million doses each will be delivered by AstraZeneca, Pfizer and Moderna, four million more doses will be delivered by Johnson & Johnson’s Janssen. Additional 10 million doses will be procured through the World Health Organization’s global vaccine project, COVAX.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-vaccine-update-uk-to-begin-pfizer-vaccinations-bharat-biotech-seeks-nod-for-emergency-use-in-india/story-BacpRGu4v8KyFps3JCqGcJ.html
08-12-2020||World||Joe Biden chooses retired general Lloyd Austin as defense secretary: Reports||President-elect Joe Biden has chosen retired General Lloyd Austin, who oversaw U.S. forces in the Middle East under President Barack Obama, to be his defense secretary, two people familiar with the decision said on Monday. Austin, who would be the first Black U.S. secretary of defense, was a surprise pick over Michele Flournoy, a former top Defense Department official who was considered the leading contender for the job. Flournoy would have been the first woman defense secretary.The news was first reported by Politico.Austin, who retired in 2016, will need a waiver from Congress since it has been less than the required seven years since he served. He would be the second Pentagon chief in four years to need a waiver, after President Donald Trump picked James Mattis, a retired Marine general, to be his first defense secretary.The nomination of Austin, who headed U.S. Central Command under Obama, could draw fire from some progressive groups given his role in retirement on the board of a number of companies, including weapons maker Raytheon Technologies Corp.But Biden and Austin developed a working relationship during the Obama administration and the retired general has been advising the transition team on national security issues, one of the people familiar with the decision to name him said.Biden, who takes office on Jan. 20, on Monday also announced key members of his health team to lead the administration’s response to the raging coronavirus pandemic.Biden chose California Attorney General Xavier Becerra for secretary of health and human services and Dr. Rochelle Walensky, chief of infectious diseases at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, to run the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, was named as Biden’s chief medical adviser on the virus.Biden’s first major challenge in the White House will be containing a resurgent COVID-19 virus that has killed more than 283,000 Americans, and finding ways to jump-start an economy still reeling from millions of pandemic-fueled job losses.He installed Jeff Zients, an economic adviser https://www.reuters.com/article/idUSL1N2II2BN known for his managerial skills, as coronavirus “czar” to oversee a response that will include an unprecedented operation to distribute hundreds of millions of doses of a new vaccine, coordinating efforts across multiple federal agencies.“This team of world-class medical experts and public servants will be ready on Day One to mobilize every resource of the federal government to expand testing and masking,” Biden said in a statement, adding they would “oversee the safe, equitable, and free distribution of treatments and vaccines.”DIVERSITY PUSHBiden’s choice of Becerra, 62, a Latino former congressman, adds a politician to a health effort that otherwise largely relies on government administrators and health experts.The choice also comes as Biden faces pressure to ensure diversity in his Cabinet appointments, including complaints from the Congressional Hispanic Caucus about the number of Latinos and from civil rights groups about the lack of Black nominees.Biden’s decision to nominate the first Black defense secretary in Austin helps him make good on his diversity promise. It also will resonate among proponents for greater diversity in the leadership of the U.S. armed forces, which is regularly criticized for failing to promote Black servicemembers and whose top tier has been largely white.Austin has not cultivated a public persona and is not seen as someone who enjoys the media spotlight. However, he is known to be a shrewd military strategist with deep knowledge of the U.S. armed forces.Earlier on Monday, the Democrat who leads the House Armed Services Committee, Rep. Adam Smith, had openly shown his preference for Flournoy. “I think Michelle Flournoy is hands-down the best-qualified person to do the job,” Smith said.But David Segal, executive director of the progressive group Demand Progress, said Austin was a better choice given his role presiding over drawdowns of forces from Iraq and Afghanistan.And while he had some concerning ties to major companies like Raytheon, they were not as broad in scope as those of Flournoy. “He doesn’t seem to have a web of entanglements that are as opaque and dense as hers,” Segal told Reuters.Biden, a Democrat, has pressed ahead with the transition to the White House even as Trump, a Republican, refuses to concede the Nov. 3 election and wages a foundering effort to overturn the results with unsubstantiated claims of fraud.Dozens of Trump’s legal challenges have been rejected by the courts, the latest on Monday when judges in Detroit and Atlanta tossed bids to decertify Biden’s election victories in Michigan and Georgia. Biden won Michigan by about 154,000 votes and Georgia by about 12,000 votes.In Georgia, Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger on Monday certified the state’s results, a statement said, after a third count confirmed Biden’s win. The Electoral College will formalize results nationwide on Dec. 14.Raffensperger, a Republican, said continued debunked claims about voting fraud were “hurting our state.” Runoff elections for Georgia’s two U.S. Senate seats, scheduled for Jan. 5, will determine which party controls the chamber. (Reporting by Trevor Hunnicutt and John Whitesides; Additional reporting by Doina Chiacu and Julia Harte; Writing by Grant McCool and John Whitesides; Editing by Scott Malone, Sonya Hepinstall and Peter Cooney)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-chooses-retired-general-lloyd-austin-as-defense-secretary-reports/story-hAnTgLWErDL8XKtDfVzAfN.html
08-12-2020||World||World needs to come up with long-term strategies to tackle future pandemics: India at UNGA||India has taken a holistic approach to health based on four main pillars of healthcare, including preventive healthcare, affordable healthcare, supply-side improvement and mission mode intervention, said Pratik Mathur, Counsellor at United Nations General Assembly (UNGA).Delivering India’s statement on ‘Global Health and Foreign Policy’ at the UNGA, Mathur said: “A healthy life is every person’s basic right and the onus for this rests on our respective governments to make every possible effort to ensure full protection and enjoyment of this right by everyone.”He also said that countries need to come up with long-term strategies and roadmaps to deal with future pandemics, adding that equitable access to affordable medicines, diagnostic tools and technologies remain a concern.During the session, Mathur thanked Indonesia for putting forward the resolution this year on behalf of the seven-member countries on strengthening health system resilience to affordable healthcare for all, and welcomed the resolutions on the International Day of Epidemic Preparedness and UN Decade of Healthy Ageing from 2021-30 tabled under the global agenda.While speaking on preventive healthcare, Mathur said India has put special emphasis on yoga, Ayurveda and fitness aimed at controlling at lifestyle diseases such as diabetes, blood pressure, hypertension and depression.The Counsellor elaborated on the National Health Protection Scheme (NHPS) launched in September 2018, which played an essential role in promulgating affordable healthcare in the country.“The scheme is based on a 12-pillar approach expanding access to primary healthcare services through health and wellness centres, and providing insurance coverage for secondary and tertiary hospitalisations to poor and vulnerable families,” he said.He informed that 24,608 hospitals have been included under the program, and 126 million health cards have been issued to people, adding that the scheme provides health insurance coverage of up to USD 7,000 per family per year for secondary and tertiary hospitalisations.On mission mode intervention, he said: “We have started the National Nutrition Policy to improve the nutritional status of the people, specially disadvantaged groups, including mothers, adolescent girls, and children.”“In Sustainable Development Goals, 2030 has been set as the target for ending tuberculosis (TB). We plan to achieve this target by 2025, five years ahead of the deadline. To reach its goal, India has started implementing the National Strategic Plan and has substantially increased fund allocation for TB control,” he added.Mathur further claimed that the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic had highlighted the systemic weaknesses in health systems and vulnerabilities incapacity to prevent and respond to its threats.“We need to address the major weaknesses and gaps to strengthen global coordination to ensure that the world is better prepared to curb impacts of the future health-related crisis,” he said.He asserted the need to capitalise on existing programs such as Access to Covid-19 Tools Accelerator (ACTA), and COVAX facility to ensure affordable and equitable global access to diagnostics, therapeutics and vaccines, while strengthening health systems.“We are committed to partner with member states and other stakeholders to synergise our efforts to accelerate progress towards achieving Sustainable Development Goals and universal health coverage with the most productive, efficient and effective utilisation of resources,” Mathur said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/world-needs-to-come-up-with-long-term-strategies-to-tackle-future-pandemics-india-at-unga/story-Vx2OAAzsi6dv0Pw4GQ63cI.html
08-12-2020||World||Brazil in advanced talks with Pfizer to buy 70 million Covid-19 vaccine doses||Brazil’s government is in advanced talks with Pfizer Inc to buy 70 million doses of its Covid-19 vaccine and a Memorandum of Intent should be signed this week, the Health Ministry said on Monday.The ministry said in a statement that the vaccine developed by Pfizer and BioNTech, whose final trial results showed it had a 95% success rate and no serious side effects, will be delivered next year.Earlier on Monday, President Jair Bolsonaro said that the government will offer Covid-19 vaccines to all Brazilians free of charge, once health regulator Anvisa gives it scientific and legal approval.In a post on his Twitter account, Bolsonaro said the economy ministry has assured him that there will be no shortage of resources to administer a vaccine to everyone who wants one.“Once certified by @anvisa_oficial (scientific guidelines and legal precepts), @govbr will offer the vaccine to all, free of charge and not mandatory,” Bolsonaro tweeted.Bolsonaro’s tweet came shortly before the president of Sao Paulo’s Butantan Institute biomedical center, Dimas Covas, said all necessary data for the CoronaVac vaccine developed by China’s Sinovac Biotech Ltd has been or will soon be sent to health regulator Anvisa.He expects Anvisa to approve it, regardless of the political storm between Bolsonaro and Sao Paulo Governor Joao Doria over competing vaccines.“I want to think that no political problem is bigger than people’s lives,” Covas said in an interview with GloboNews.Doria said earlier on Monday that the country’s most populous state plans to start vaccinating its population against Covid-19 on Jan. 25, The federal government expects to roll out its own immunization plan at least a month later.Doria’s ambitious timeline comes even though the Sinovac vaccine has yet to be approved by Anvisa.Doria has frequently clashed over the vaccine with Bolsonaro, an aggressive China critic who has baselessly dismissed the Sinovac candidate as lacking credibility.A successful early rollout would mark a significant political victory for Doria, a center-right politician who is expected to run against Bolsonaro in the 2022 presidential elections.Brazil has the world’s third highest coronavirus case count at more than 6.6 million, and the second heaviest death toll of more than 177,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazil-in-advanced-talks-with-pfizer-to-buy-70-million-covid-19-vaccine-doses/story-hJlLX3weD0lJlM7x3OqrMN.html
08-12-2020||World||Donald Trump to order priority access to US Covid-19 vaccines for Americans||President Donald Trump will sign an executive order on Tuesday to ensure that priority access for COVID-19 vaccines procured by the U.S. government is given to the American people before assisting other nations, senior administration officials said on Monday.The Trump administration is confident it will have enough vaccine to inoculate everyone who wants a vaccine by the end of the second quarter of 2021, one official said, disputing a New York Times story that the government declined when Pfizer Inc offered in late summer to sell more vaccine doses to the United States.Trump, who has faced sharp criticism for his handling of the coronavirus pandemic, is eager to take credit for the speedy development and distribution of a vaccine.Officials said the executive order would set up a framework for U.S. government agencies to help other countries procure the vaccine once demand in the United States was met.It was unclear why an executive order was needed to ensure that the vaccines would be distributed first in the United States.Trump has followed an “America First” motto as president, and his aides want to make clear that the same policy is at work with vaccine distribution.The White House is holding a summit on Tuesday to highlight that and to explain plans for distribution through Trump’s Operation Warp Speed, which has been organizing the effort.Vaccine developers Pfizer Inc and Moderna Inc will not attend.A White House official said the companies were not coming because they had active applications pending before the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. A senior FDA official, Dr. Peter Marks, is scheduled to address the Tuesday event.Invitees at the meeting include drug distributors, pharmacies and logistics companies such as McKesson Corp, Walgreens Boots Alliance Inc, CVS Health Corp, United Parcel Service Inc and FedEx Corp.The New York Times reported that Pfizer may not be able to provide more of its vaccine to the United States until next June because of its commitments to other countries.An administration official noted that Pfizer’s vaccine was still in clinical trials last summer and that the government secured advanced deals to acquire multiple other vaccine candidates.“Anyone who wanted to sell us, guaranteed without an EUA (FDA emergency authorization) approval, hundreds of millions of doses back in July and August was just not going to get the government’s money,” the person added.About 85 percent of long-term care and assisted living facilities around the country had signed up for a mobile vaccination service provided by CVS and Walgreens, the official said. The U.S. government was concerned about cyber attacks related to the vaccine and had protected itself against them, he added.Pfizer spokeswoman Sharon Castillo said: “The U.S. government placed an initial order of 100 million doses for Pfizer-BioNTech’s Covid-19 vaccine, and Pfizer is ready to begin shipping initial doses soon after receiving an Emergency Use Authorization from the FDA. Any additional doses beyond the 100 million are subject to a separate and mutually acceptable agreement.”Representatives from Democratic President-elect Joe Biden’s transition team were not invited to the summit. Trump, a Republican who lost the Nov. 3 election to Biden, has refused to concede.Trump and other officials will speak at the Tuesday event, which will focus on informing the public about how distribution of the vaccine will work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-to-order-priority-access-to-us-covid-19-vaccines-for-americans/story-boyJBAtLGpPIJwXXJSCvSO.html
08-12-2020||World||Pfizer, Astra shots to be combined in UK Covid vaccine trials||Even as it begins the first Covid immunizations with a shot from Pfizer Inc., the U.K. plans to test it in combination with another vaccine from AstraZeneca Plc.Studies aimed at determining whether using the two jabs together can enhance immunity are planned for next year, according to the U.K. Vaccine Taskforce. The group disclosed the plans as it published a report on its work so far, including deals for 357 million doses from seven makers and investments in three sites to expand the nation’s manufacturing capacity.The UK is set to begin administering doses from Pfizer and German partner BioNTech SE on Tuesday, making it the first Western country to receive a vaccine. The massive logistical challenge of inoculating as many as 67 million people is getting underway at about 50 hospitals.Approval for the shot from Astra and its partner, the University of Oxford, could come by the end of the year. That would set the stage for the combination trials, which will involve initial shots from either of the two vaccines, followed by a booster jab with the other.“These will be relatively small studies,” Clive Dix, taskforce deputy chair, said at a press briefing. “They’ll only be with the approved vaccines.”Dix will take over as taskforce chair on an interim basis when Kate Bingham steps down this month.Brexit PlansThe panel said plans are in place to protect the U.K. from any vaccine fallout if there’s a no-deal Brexit. Some of the initial U.K. doses of the Astra-Oxford vaccine are set to be imported, although more than 80 million of the 100 million-dose order will be produced onshore, according to Ian McCubbin, manufacturing lead for the taskforce.“The vast, vast, vast majority of what will be produced by AstraZeneca for the U.K. will be in the U.K.,” said McCubbin at the briefing. “It’s just that the initial supply, and it’s a little bit a quirk of the program, actually comes from the Netherlands and Germany.”The taskforce is also looking to build a bulk antibody manufacturing site in Britain. More than half a million people in the U.K. are heavily immunosuppressed and potentially unable to have a vaccine, according to the report. An antibody cocktail, like the one being developed by Astra that the taskforce has purchased up to one million doses of, could be used to protect those individuals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pfizer-astra-shots-to-be-combined-in-uk-covid-vaccine-trials/story-3vPYJXofHiE6sIa6VEGJVN.html
08-12-2020||World||US AstraZeneca vaccine trial will clear confusion on how well it works: Scientist||A top US scientist overseeing Covid-19 vaccine trials expects a large U.S. study to determine how effective AstraZeneca’s experimental inoculation is, following perplexing results from other trials released by the company and partner Oxford University.AstraZeneca Plc is one of the leading vaccine developers, but interim data released Nov. 23 from trials in Britain and Brazil showed a vastly divergent performance when the vaccine was tested in two different dose combinations.According to the company, a small group of trial subjects inadvertently received a half dose followed by a full dose, instead of the planned two full doses. In that group, the vaccine proved to be 90% effective at preventing illness. But the larger group that received two full doses showed a 62% success rate.Although 62% efficacy is above the benchmark set by regulators to declare a Covid-19 vaccine a success, it pales when compared with efficacy of 95% and 94.1% demonstrated in large trials for vaccines from Pfizer Inc and Moderna Inc, respectively. A U.S. study of AstraZeneca’s vaccine involving about 30,000 volunteers is in the works and should produce data by late January.“We feel very comfortable that we designed a really good trial in the United States, where everybody’s getting boosted in a uniform time, and we know what the dose is,” said Dr. Larry Corey, co-leader of the U.S. Coronavirus Vaccine Prevention Network, who helped design and is overseeing trials for the U.S. government Operation Warp Speed program.The dosing in the British trial “wasn’t done correctly,” Corey maintains. Still, the dosing difference does not fully explain the variation in effectiveness seen in the U.K. and Brazilian trials, he said.“One of the issues with the Oxford data is that there’s a lot of lack of uniformity in the schedule and the dose that makes interpretation of the results difficult at best,” he said in a phone interview.There were also differences in the intervals between doses in the U.K. trial versus the Brazilian trial, as well as significant differences in the age range included in the studies. For example, everyone in the 90% effective group was under the age of 55, a group less susceptible to severe Covid-19.“My personal summation is that there seems to be effectiveness in the AstraZeneca vaccine from this other trial that provides optimism that the current trial in the United States will define that effectiveness,” said Corey, a virologist at Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center.AstraZeneca did not respond immediately to a request for comment.Moncef Slaoui, chief adviser for the Operation Warp Speed vaccine program, said last week the British and Brazilian trials may not be enough to ensure the vaccine receives a U.S. Food and Drug Administration emergency use authorization.Results and potentially a request for U.S. emergency use authorization by AstraZeneca could come in late January, he said.AstraZeneca has said it is considering a new global trial based on the half dose first regimen. The U.S. trial calls for testing the original regimen of two full doses.Should AstraZeneca decide to run a new U.S. trial testing the half dose first option, Corey said, the United States was unlikely to help foot the bill.“Companies get to decide what they want to do,” he said. “I’m sure they’ll have to fund it themselves, or maybe somebody else would fund it for them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-astrazeneca-vaccine-trial-will-clear-confusion-on-how-well-it-works-scientist/story-j74LLjiLsYVZpAzHHnHvYM.html
08-12-2020||World||Hailing ‘turning point’, Britain begins roll-out of Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine||Britain will start rolling out the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Pfizer and BioNTech on Tuesday, the first Western country to start vaccinating its general population in what was hailed as a decisive watershed in defeating the coronavirus.The mass inoculation will fuel hope that the world may be turning a corner in the fight against a pandemic that has crushed economies and killed more than 1.5 million, although ultra-cold storage and tricky logistics will limit its use for now.Britain is the worst-hit European country from Covid-19, with over 61,000 deaths, but Prime Minister Boris Johnson hopes to turn the tide against the disease by rolling out the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine before the United States or European Union.Britain approved the vaccine for emergency use less than a week ago, and is rolling it out through its National Health Service (NHS).“The deployment of this vaccine marks a decisive turning point in the battle with the pandemic,” said NHS chief executive Simon Stevens. “NHS staff are proud to be leading the way as the first health service in the world to begin vaccination with this Covid jab”In total Britain has ordered 40 million doses of the Pfizer/BioNTech shot. As each person requires two doses, that is enough to vaccinate 20 million people in the country of 67 million.About 800,000 doses are expected to be available within the first week, with care home residents and carers, the over 80s and some health service workers the top priority to get them.The roll-out provides a test case for Pfizer and BioNTech’s distribution networks. The shot must be stored at -70C (-94F) and only lasts five days in a regular fridge.While Britain is relatively small and has good infrastructure, the logistical challenges mean it will first be applied in 50 hospitals and cannot yet be taken into care homes.Pfizer and BioNTech said their shot proved 95% effective in preventing illness in final-stage trials. In all, Britain has ordered 357 million doses of seven different Covid-19 vaccines.Russia and China have both started giving vaccine candidates to their populations before final safety and efficacy trials have been completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hailing-turning-point-britain-begins-roll-out-of-pfizer-s-covid-19-vaccine/story-3JGlhlcbgdwO8CfZym1VbN.html
08-12-2020||World||Moderna, Pfizer won’t attend White House summit on vaccines||Pfizer Inc. and Moderna Inc., the two pharmaceutical companies closest to gaining U.S. clearance for a Covid-19 vaccine, won’t attend a White House summit intended to build confidence in the shots.With the Food and Drug Administration expected to decide on whether to allow the companies’ vaccines to be distributed in the coming days, there was worry that regulators and executives shouldn’t be seen rubbing elbows at the Tuesday meeting.Operation Warp Speed had early discussions with several vaccine makers about attending the event, according to a senior administration official. However, the focus of the gathering shifted after Peter Marks, the head of the FDA center that reviews vaccines, volunteered to make a presentation.Since it would be would inappropriate to have vaccine company executives touting their shots while in the same room with their regulator, a decision was made not to include any drugmakers in the meeting, the official said on a call with reporters on Monday.Pfizer said in a statement it had informed the White House that it wouldn’t attend the Tuesday event, but didn’t elaborate. Moderna spokesman Ray Jordan said in a statement the company was contacted by Operation Warp Speed to be part of the meeting and that it was willing to participate, but later learned that its participation wouldn’t be required, based on the agenda.Both Pfizer and Moderna could soon gain authorization for their messenger RNA-based shots. A group of outside advisers to the FDA is scheduled to consider the case for clearing Pfizer’s vaccine, which it is developing with German drugmaker BioNTech SE, on Thursday. An advisory panel is set to scrutinize Moderna’s shot at a meeting on Dec. 17.Soon after each of those meetings, the FDA could grant authorization for the shots, setting off what is expected to be one of the largest mass immunization efforts in history.The Tuesday meeting hosted by President Donald Trump is designed to boost confidence in the shots at a time when some groups have voiced reluctance to take them. The summit is likely to focus on distribution, with Trump planning to sign an order directing his Department of Health and Human Services to prioritize getting them to people in the U.S. before helping other countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/moderna-pfizer-won-t-attend-white-house-summit-on-vaccines/story-3XrUTWmfACCaMUVvrZACfN.html
08-12-2020||World||Brazil to offer Covid-19 vaccine for all at no cost, says president||Brazil’s government will offer Covid-19 vaccines to all Brazilians free of charge, once health regulator Anvisa gives it scientific and legal approval, President Jair Bolsonaro said on Monday.In a post on his Twitter account, Bolsonaro also said the economy ministry has assured him that there will be no shortage of resources to administer a vaccine to everyone who wants one.“Once certified by @anvisa_oficial (scientific guidelines and legal precepts), @govbr will offer the vaccine to all, free of charge and not mandatory,” Bolsonaro tweeted.Bolsonaro’s tweet came shortly before the president of Sao Paulo’s Butantan Institute biomedical center, Dimas Covas, said all necessary data for the CoronaVac vaccine developed by China’s Sinovac Biotech Ltd has been or will soon be sent to health regulator Anvisa.He expects Anvisa to approve it, regardless of the political storm between Bolsonaro and Sao Paulo Governor Joao Doria over competing vaccines.“I want to think that no political problem is bigger than people’s lives,” Covas said in an interview with GloboNews.Doria said earlier on Monday that the country’s most populous state plans to start vaccinating its population against Covid-19 on Jan. 25, The federal government expects to roll out its own immunization plan at least a month later.Doria’s ambitious timeline comes even though the Sinovac vaccine has yet to be approved by Anvisa.Doria has frequently clashed over the vaccine with Bolsonaro, an aggressive China critic who has baselessly dismissed the Sinovac candidate as lacking credibility.A successful early rollout would mark a significant political victory for Doria, a center-right politician who is expected to run against Bolsonaro in the 2022 presidential elections.Brazil has the world’s third highest coronavirus case count at more than 6.6 million, and the second heaviest death toll of more than 177,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazil-to-offer-covid-19-vaccine-for-all-at-no-cost-says-president/story-vfpemGjnYaY5wgpDna2D4H.html
08-12-2020||World||US schools go back and forth on in-person learning||New York City reopened classrooms to many of its youngest students on Monday in what has become a frustrating, stop-and-start process in many school systems around the US because of the alarming surge in the coronavirus.The nation’s largest school district, with 1 million students, had shut down in-person learning just two weeks ago but decided to bring back preschoolers and elementary school children after parents pushed for it and the mayor concluded it was safe to do so with beefed-up testing.In contrast, school systems in Detroit, Boston, Indianapolis, Philadelphia and suburban Minneapolis in recent weeks abandoned in-person classes or dropped plans to bring students back because of soaring infections.The retreat in some places and the push forward in others are happening as the virus comes back with a vengeance across much of the US, with deaths per day averaging over 2,200 — about the same level seen during the very deadliest stretch of the outbreak, last spring in the New York City area.Newly cases are averaging close to 200,000 a day, the highest level on record, and the number of Americans now in the hospital has reached all-time highs at over 100,000.The virus is blamed for more than 280,000 deaths and over 14.8 million confirmed infections in the US, with the crisis widely expected to worsen in the coming weeks because of Americans’ disregard of warnings to stay home and avoid others over Thanksgiving.Health officials say the virus does not appear to be spreading rapidly in classrooms themselves, perhaps because children may be less likely to spread or contract the virus. Instead, many cases among youngsters and educators have been traced to activities outside school.Still, the infections have alarmed parents and educators, and the illnesses and quarantines among teachers and other employees have left some schools short of adult supervision.Also Read| Covid-19 vaccine: The next steps in the United StatesAt the same time, parents and others have complained that children are not getting a good education at home in front of a computer. And the switch to remote learning has caused hardship for many families by forcing parents to watch over their children instead of going to work.In South Carolina, where Covid-19 cases have spiked to levels higher than those seen when the state was one of the nation’s hot spots over the summer, school districts are considering cutting back on how much time students spend in the classroom. More than 2,450 new Covid-19 cases have been reported in South Carolina in each of the past three days.A teacher group there is asking districts to go back to all-virtual teaching until the spike can be flattened, citing not just health concerns but a shortage of adults to keep students safe.The plea was given more emotional weight after the death on November 11 of 50-year-old Staci Blakely, a third grade teacher in Lexington.At least four school districts in South Carolina have returned to all-virtual learning. The largest so far, Orangeburg County, sent its 12,000 students home to learn, starting Monday, until at least the end of Christmas break. Nearly a quarter of the state’s districts are teaching in person every day.In New York, Mayor Bill de Blasio announced just last month that school buildings would close after the city crossed a threshold of 3% in the share of coronavirus tests coming back positive for the virus. The rate is now 5%, according to the city, but de Blasio said new testing protocols made it safe to reopen classrooms, in part because few infections have been linked to transmission inside schools.About 190,000 students are eligible to return. Middle schools and high schools will remain all-remote at least until after the holiday break.“This is a good day for New York City, even against a tough backdrop,” de Blasio said on Monday.Miriam Petrovitch was among staffers welcoming children back at an elementary school on Manhattan’s Lower East Side.“We miss them dearly,” Petrovitch, who works as a parent coordinator, said at a union news conference. “There’s no school without children.” After closing schools in March, New York became one of the first large US cities to reopen classrooms in September, but the majority of parents chose online-only learning for their children. Other parents chose a hybrid in which students were in their classrooms only a few days a week.Since the beginning of the New York City school year, more than 1,740 students and 2,240 staff in the public system have gotten the virus, according to city statistics.It’s been a struggle for American schoolchildren for the entire year — academically, psychologically and physically.School districts across the country, both big and small, have reported an increase in the number of students failing classes. Students for whom English is not their native language, students with disabilities and poor children are suffering the most.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-schools-go-back-and-forth-on-in-person-learning/story-JBNcYQU2P74zF8S1gcvaaK.html
08-12-2020||World||Covid-19 vaccine: The next steps in the United States||How quickly can Americans hope to get the coronavirus vaccine? Here is a look at the next steps in the approval and distribution process:Short term: first authorizationsThe vaccine advisory committee of the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) will meet Thursday after poring over data from clinical trials carried out by Pfizer/BioNTech.The FDA should then give its authorization for emergency use of the vaccine. That decision could come “within days after the advisory committee” meets, Health Secretary Alex Azar said.On December 17, the same process will unfold for the Moderna vaccine. In each case, distribution will begin immediately after FDA approval. US Army General Gus Perna, in charge of logistics for the government’s Operation Warp Speed to develop a Covid-19 vaccine, has set a December 15 target date for Pfizer. “Within 24 hours of FDA green lighting with authorization we’ll ship to all of the states and territories that we work with. And within hours they can be vaccinating,” Azar said.December: 20 mn vaccinatedThe number of available doses would be limited at first. The government says 40 million doses will be distributed by year’s end, meaning that 20 million people can be vaccinated, as each requires two doses separated by three to four weeks.Officials say the logistics are in place to distribute the first batch of roughly 6.4 million Pfizer vaccine doses right away.The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has recommended that health care workers (21 million) and residents of long-term care facilities (three million) be first in line.In the end, though, state governments decide who gets priority for the vaccine, but most will adhere to CDC guidelines.Early 2021: 100 mn vaccinatedAfter that, the details of the process are a bit fluid. Of course, Donald Trump will leave office and President-elect Joe Biden will take over on January 20, though much will be in place by then.“By the middle of the month of March, we should have really covered most of the highly susceptible population, about 100 million people,” Moncef Slaoui, Warp Speed’s chief science advisor, said Sunday.Initially, he had set end-February for that 100 million target.Who will these 100 million people be, exactly? Authorities have not yet finalized their priority groups. And experts don’t all agree about who should come next.Deborah Birx, a member of the White House’s coronavirus task force, told AFP the first 100 million should be those whose pre-existing conditions put them at high risk if they get infected.But other experts advising the CDC suggested they would recommend that 87 million essential workers in fields such as education, food service, law enforcement and transportation be given priority after health care workers and nursing home residents.Moderna said last week that it would be able to deliver 85 to 100 million vaccine doses to the United States in the first quarter of 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-vaccine-the-next-steps-in-the-united-states/story-xpRHz8d0OC6wT9Mz091STJ.html
08-12-2020||World||Pompeo to speak in Georgia as Senate run-offs loom||Secretary of State Mike Pompeo plans to deliver a speech extolling the Trump administration’s foreign policy this week in Georgia, ahead of key Senate run-off elections in the state that will determine control of the upper chamber of Congress.Pompeo is expected to address threats posed by China in an address to Georgia Tech on Wednesday, the university said. The speech in Atlanta will come less than a month before the run-off elections for the Georgia Senate seats and follows weekend senatorial campaign appearances in the state by President Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pence.Pompeo will discuss “the China challenge to US national security and academic freedom,” the university said. The administration has rapidly and steadily ramped up sanctions against China over the past two years, limiting visas for Chinese researchers, scientists and academics, closing China’s consulate in Houston and imposing penalties on Chinese and Hong Kong officials.Pompeo, who is widely seen as a contender for the 2024 GOP presidential nomination, has been heavily criticized for departing from the traditionally non-partisan role of the nation’s top diplomat by making appearances that have political overtones over the past several months. Most notably, those include a video address to the Republican National Convention in August that he taped during a trip to Israel.Although secretaries of state often speak to domestic audiences, Pompeo’s RNC speech prompted calls from congressional Democrats for an investigation into whether it violated the Hatch Act that bars political appointees from overtly partisan activities. Pompeo has said a probe is underway, although State Department ethics officials have cleared him.But, the RNC speech from the roof of a Jerusalem hotel is not the only Pompeo appearance that has raised eyebrows. Pompeo has spoken at The Villages, a heavily Republican retirement community in the battleground state of Florida, as well as at an Evangelical church in Texas and religious gatherings in Iowa and Florida, over the past 18 months.In addition, he has spoken several times to conservative religious groups that have taken clear political positions on November’s presidential election between President Donald Trump and former Vice President Joe Biden.Pompeo has yet to unambiguously recognize that Biden won the contest, although the State Department and other federal agencies are now cooperating with the Biden transition team. Pompeo, who made a point of discussing his outreach to his predecessors when he took over the job from fired Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, has yet to publicly acknowledge any contact with his designated successor, Antony Blinken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pompeo-to-speak-in-georgia-as-senate-run-offs-loom/story-tVGkCqq9Kj9afWtmS5zJyN.html
08-12-2020||World||California becomes biggest US state to launch virus contact-tracing app||California on Monday announced an app to help people track their exposure to the coronavirus, becoming the biggest US state to take advantage of new technology from smartphone software makers Apple Inc and Alphabet Inc’s Google.Beginning on Thursday, people in California can activate the exposure notifications tool from the settings menu on iPhones or by downloading the CA Notify App in the Google Play store on Android devices.The apps enable Bluetooth signals between devices to determine when they are in close proximity, and the apps then anonymously alert users when a recent contact later tests positive. At least 6 million people in the United States have tried the system in recent months across the 21 states and two territories that made apps available before California. Colorado and New York are among other states with apps.Public health experts say adoption has lagged because of technical shortcomings in the earliest apps, privacy concerns and dismissive attitudes toward taking precautions to avoid the virus. But California officials hope the app will be adopted quickly in a state that is home to many tech workers.The state’s two most densely inhabited regions and its agricultural breadbasket went under stay-at-home orders in the last couple of days as the pandemic strains hospitals in the most populous US state.CA Notify had been tested on state university campuses since September. The University of California San Diego will continue to oversee the system and staff a user support phone hotline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/california-becomes-biggest-us-state-to-launch-virus-contact-tracing-app/story-hecsjxJFb1DuHjQQDWejJK.html
08-12-2020||World||Angela Merkel warns Germany needs tougher lockdown to get through winter||German leaders came out on Monday in favour of stricter measures to curb the spread of the coronavirus, a few days after the country posted its highest one-day death toll so far.Chancellor Angela Merkel told party colleagues that existing lockdown measures - with bars and restaurants closed and shops admitting limited numbers - were too little to get the virus under control.“The situation is getting very serious: these measures will not be enough to get us through the winter,” participants said she had told a meeting of her conservative bloc’s legislators.Daily infections are no longer rising as sharply as previously in Germany, Europe’s largest economy, but they have stagnated at a high level and the highest single-day coronavirus death toll yet was reported last Wednesday.Markus Soeder, premier of the southern state of Bavaria, which has the nation’s highest death toll, said he was certain regional and national leaders would agree tighter measures before Christmas. They had previously agreed not to revisit lockdown rules before Jan. 10.Although vaccines that are expected to help contain the pandemic are on their way, available doses are limited, meaning that only certain groups, notably the very elderly, can expect to be inoculated during the winter, an expert panel ruled on Monday.Meanwhile, some states are going further on their own initiative: Rhineland-Palatinate banned takeaway sales of mulled wine in a bid to discourage disease-spreading impromptu street parties.From Wednesday, Bavaria will allow people to leave home only for essential reasons, while evening curfews are planned for hotspots with the highest infection rates.Data from the Robert Koch Institute for infectious diseases on Monday morning showed the number of confirmed cases rose by 12,332 in the past 24 hours to 1,183,655. The reported death toll rose 147 to 18,919 - still well below that of large European peers such as Spain, France and Italy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/angela-merkel-warns-germany-needs-tougher-lockdown-to-get-through-winter/story-jeDxfGEgBOBWsE9xwmAFQK.html
08-12-2020||World||2 Indian Covid-19 vaccine producers apply for approval||Two Indian pharmaceutical firms, including the world’s biggest manufacturer of vaccines, on Monday sought fast-track approval for coronavirus shots in the world’s second most populous nation.The country of 1.3 billion is the world’s second-worst hit by the pandemic after the United States, and has already recorded nearly 9.7 million infections and more than 140,000 deaths.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageSerum Institute of India chief executive Adar Poonawalla said approval for distribution of the AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine -- of which the company is already making 50-60 million doses a month -- “will save countless lives”.Poonawalla said last month the doses would be sold to the Indian government at around 250 rupees (US$3.00).“As promised, before the end of 2020, @SerumInstIndia has applied for emergency use authorisation for the first made-in-India vaccine, COVISHIELD,” Poonawalla tweeted.Bharat Biotech on Monday also applied for emergency use permission for its indigenously developed vaccine, the Press Trust of India and other local media reported.Also Read: Indian Air Force fully prepared to transport Covid-19 vaccinesThe announcements came after US giant Pfizer and Germany’s BioNTech last week sought approval for its coronavirus vaccine in India, local media reported late Sunday.AstraZeneca’s vaccine can be stored at the temperature of a normal refrigerator, while Pfizer’s needs to be kept at minus 70 degrees Celsius (minus 94 degrees Fahrenheit).India’s Health Minister Harsh Vardhan told local media last month that first in line for the vaccine would be health workers, other frontline workers including the police, paramilitary and those working in sanitisation, as well as people aged above 65.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/2-indian-covid-19-vaccine-producers-apply-for-approval/story-dkuv1BQM9XaLlUsxHT4nuL.html
08-12-2020||India||Security forces seize narcotics and contrabands worth Rs 165 crore in Manipur’s Moreh||The Assam Rifles, the Manipur police and the Narcotics Control Bureau in a joint operation raided two locations in the border town of Moreh and seized drugs and contraband worth Rs 165 crores on Monday.“The raid unearthed a large haul of narcotics and contraband estimated to be worth over Rs 165 crores. One foreign made pistol and a gun along with ammunition were also seized,” PRO Assam Rifles (South) said in a press statement on Tuesday. Two Myanmarese and four Indian traffickers were apprehended by the team, the statement added.Troops of the Assam Rifles also intercepted a large narcotics consignment worth Rs 2.92 crores on Larong-Khongjol route in Chandel being smuggled from Myanmar on Tuesday, the statement said.Based on a specific intelligence regarding the movement of narcotics consignment from Myanmar to Chandel, a swift operation was launched in which troopers intercepted two individuals moving on a motorcycle carrying brown sugar worth Rs 2.92 crore, it said. The seized narcotics were handed over to Chandel police for disposal and investigation.There is a major concern due to the rise in drug addiction among youth of the region for which The Assam Rifles said it is carrying out extensive operations in close coordination with civil administration and police for controlling the drug trade in the region to stop addiction among the youth, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-forces-seize-narcotics-and-contrabands-worth-rs-165-crore-in-manipur-s-moreh/story-fUjfTbz215zw3AtXKpdI4N.html
08-12-2020||India||New Parliament building landmark opportunity to build peoples’ Parliament: PMO||The new Parliament building, whose foundation stone will be laid by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday, is an intrinsic part of the vision of Aatmanirbhar Bharat and will be a landmark opportunity to build peoples’ Parliament for the first time after independence, the PMO said on Tuesday. The upcoming Parliament building will match the “needs and aspirations of New India” in the 75th anniversary of independence in 2022, it said. The building will be modern, state-of-the-art and energy efficient, with highly non-obtrusive security facilities to be built as a triangular shaped building, adjacent to the present Parliament.Lok Sabha will be three times of the existing size and Rajya Sabha will be substantially bigger, the Prime Minister’s Office said, adding that the interiors of the new building will showcase a rich blend of Indian culture and diversity of our regional arts, crafts, textiles and architecture.The design plan includes space for a magnificent central constitutional gallery, which will be accessible to the public, it said. The construction of the new Parliament building will utilise resource-efficient green technology, promote environment-friendly practices, generate employment opportunities and contribute towards economic revitalisation, it said. The building will comply with the highest structural safety standards, including adherence to Seismic Zone 5 requirements and is designed for ease of maintenance and operations, the PMO added. The foundation stone laying ceremony will also be attended by Speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh besides several union ministers. Around 200 dignitaries, MPs, ambassadors and high commissioners, will attend the function.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-parliament-building-landmark-opportunity-to-build-peoples-parliament-pmo/story-9BKbvjTC4eUf47oZAGzTpN.html
08-12-2020||India||Full potential of SAARC can only be realised in atmosphere free of terror: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said the full potential of SAARC can only be realised in an atmosphere free of terror and violence, even as his Nepali counterpart K P Oli pitched for an early convening of the summit of the eight-member regional grouping.Modi, in his message on the occasion of the 36th charter day of SAARC (South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation), also called for commitment to defeat the forces that “support and nurture terrorism”.“The full potential of SAARC can only be realised in an atmosphere free of terror and violence. On this 36th SAARC Charter Day, let us re-commit ourselves to defeating the forces that support and nurture terrorism, and to work collectively towards a secure and prosperous South Asia,” the Prime Minister said.Modi also said India remains committed to an “integrated, connected, secure and prosperous” South Asia, and will continue to support the economic, technological, cultural and social development of the region.In his message, Oli said,”time has come to move forward with concrete action in the ground with needed political will and commitment. Giving fresh impetus to the stalled SAARC process including through the early convening of the Summit can rekindle hope among our people and provide ground to move forward.” Noting that the early coordination between SAARC countries for dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic is an example of the benefit that our region can derive from greater collaboration, Modi said India will continue to work with other countries in the region to ensure a robust recovery after the pandemic.The SAARC leaders, under India’s initiative, held a virtual meeting in March to work on a common strategy to effectively deal with the coronavirus pandemic.In the message, Modi conveyed “warm greetings” to the citizens of member states of the grouping.SAARC is a regional bloc comprising India, Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, the Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka.SAARC has not been very effective since 2016 as its biennial summits have not taken place since the last one in Kathmandu in 2014.The 2016 SAARC Summit was to be held in Islamabad. But after the terrorist attack on an Indian Army camp in Uri in Jammu and Kashmir on September 18 that year, India expressed its inability to participate in the summit, saying “increasing cross-border terrorist attacks in the region... have created an environment that is not conducive” for the meet.The summit was called off after Bangladesh, Bhutan and Afghanistan also declined to participate in the Islamabad meet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/full-potential-of-saarc-can-only-be-realised-in-atmosphere-free-of-terror-pm-modi/story-zQaIqkVVwv1SMJqoH1Xf5J.html
08-12-2020||India||Bill Gates calls India’s digital finance approach a global model||Tech pioneer Bill Gates praised India’s policies for financial innovation and inclusion, saying his philanthropic foundation is working with other countries to roll out open-source technologies modeled on the country’s implementation.India has built ambitious platforms for universal identification and digital payments, including the world’s largest biometric database and a system for sending rupees between any bank or smartphone app. Gates said those policies have drastically reduced the cost and friction of distributing aid to the poor, especially during the pandemic.“If people are going to study one country right now, other than China, I’d say they should look at India,” Gates said at the Singapore Fintech Festival on Tuesday. “Things are really exploding there and innovation around that system is phenomenal.”Indian digital payments took off after the government pushed demonetization in 2016, invalidating most of the country’s high-value bank notes in a move to curb corruption and push Indians away from cash. The Unified Payments Interface, or UPI, has been aided by booming smartphone use and wireless data rates that among the lowest in the world.India mandates that companies use its UPI platform so payments can be sent easily among all services, including those from Facebook Inc., Amazon.com Inc., Walmart Inc., Paytm and any new upstart. Zero user fees are also required.“India is a great example,” the co-chairman of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation said during the virtual conference. His organization is now helping some countries that don’t have established standards to roll out similar systems based on open-source technologies, he added.India’s biometric system -- called Aadhaar or “foundation” in Hindi -- has raised privacy concerns because it can also be used for government surveillance of citizens. Prime Minister Narendra Modi opposed the system before coming to power, but has since embraced it. Countries such as Russia, Morocco and Bangladesh have expressed interest in the approach.Gates, overall, was optimistic about how quickly vaccines were being developed to address the Covid-19 pandemic. He expects there will be about six treatments available in the first quarter of next year, which he called a significant accomplishment.“Digital things overall -- remote learning, telemedicine, digital finance -- were greatly advanced,” he said. “So even though the pandemic has been terrible, it has pushed some of these innovations, including how quickly we make vaccines.”But Gates warned that addressing the virus has to be done in an equitable way -- rich countries shouldn’t get to decide who gets access to vaccines. That’s why his foundation is working with global manufacturers, including the Serum Institute in India, to make sure there are sufficient dosage numbers at reasonable prices.He said he expects vaccines to put an end to the coronavirus in 2022, though he warned against complacency.“We can’t forget that another pandemic will come, so we need to invest and be ready,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bill-gates-calls-india-s-digital-finance-approach-a-global-model/story-RZxZ6T1XwFZFxYC5BdoVPK.html
08-12-2020||India||‘Seen this script play out before’: Omar Abdullah reacts to Arvind Kejriwal’s house arrest claim||Responding to Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)’s claim that Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal is under house arrest, former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Omar Abdullah on Tuesday said that he feels like he has seen “this script play out somewhere else also”.“AAP claims the Chief Minister is under house arrest. The police deny the claim. I do not know why but I feel like I have seen this script play out somewhere else also,” National Conference vice-president Abdullah said in a tweet.Omar Abdullah was released on March 24, 2020 after more than seven months in detention in Srinagar. Abdullah was among the several political leaders who had been put under house arrest after the Central government revoked Article 370 of the Constitution that accorded special status to Jammu and Kashmir. The AAP in Delhi had claimed that Kejriwal had been put under house arrest on Tuesday, a day after he visited farmers protesting at the Singhu border.“BJP’s Delhi Police has put Chief Minister Kejriwal under house arrest ever since he visited farmers yesterday. No one has been permitted to leave or enter his residence,” said the Aam Aadmi Party in a tweet. Denying AAP’s claims, Satish Golcha Special CP said there’s absolutely no restriction whatsoever on the movement of Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal.“These claims are totally baseless and unfounded. There’s absolutely no restriction whatsoever. The Chief Minister has been meeting his usual engagements and has been moving out of his residence. There’s adequate security in the area to maintain peace and to prevent the untoward incident,” Golcha told media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seen-this-script-play-out-before-omar-abdullah-reacts-to-arvind-kejriwal-s-house-arrest-claim/story-LWxfFTu1vBYQ5M4i1EYquL.html
08-12-2020||India||‘Should I go or stay?’ Tripura CM asks people if he should remain in power||In a rather dramatic move, Tripura chief minister Biplab Deb on Tuesday said he would leave the CM’s chair if people want him to. His comments came two days after a group of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) supporters raised slogans against him and chanted ‘Biplab Hatao, BJP Bachao’ (remove Biplab, save BJP) during a visit of party’s central observer Vinod Sonkar to the state.Biplab, who was considered a greenhorn in state politics at the time of his return in Tripura in 2015 as leader of Mahasampark Abhiyan - a political campaign to connect with people in the erstwhile Left Front era, roped in Indigenous Peoples Front of Tripura (IPFT), a tribal political party and jointly decimated CPI(M)-led Left Front’s 25 year-long rule, winning 44 out of 60 seats in the assembly.However, a year after his government was formed, his health minister Sudip Roy Barman, who had joined from the Congress, was dropped from the state cabinet, allegedly due to some sort of clash between the two leaders. In November, a group of dissident BJP legislators, led by Roy Barman, reached out to BJP president JP Nadda in New Delhi. While the visit was touted as an effort to remove Biplab from his position, the visiting leaders later clarified that they went to discuss ‘organizational issues’.Also read: Amit Shah meets farmer leaders ahead of crucial talks on Dec 9Two days back when BJP observer Vinod Sonkar was in Tripura during his maiden visit as state in-charge, a group of BJP supporters raised slogans ‘Biplab Hatao, BJP Bachao’ at the State Guest House, where he was staying. The controversy was soon doused by Sonkar, who claimed that people came to speak their mind since a BJP observer was appointed for Tripura after a long time.On Friday, CM Biplab Deb held a press conference at the state secretariat and said he would happily leave the CM’s post if people of Tripura wished so.“I want people of Tripura to tell me if they want me removed. I shall go to Astabal Maidan on December 13 at 2 pm. I invite everyone to join me there and tell me whether I should go or stay. If you wish me to go, I shall abide by your wish and tell my party high-command that people of Tripura wanted this,” Deb said.He also said, ON a rather emotional note, that he always worked for Tripura with what he calls ‘Modi Mantra’. However, he said it pained him to hear people raise slogans to remove him.“I wish to work for everyone, across religions, castes, colours or other identities. This state gave me everything, even those beyond my dreams. I never dreamt of becoming the chief minister at the first place. But, some people raised slogans of ‘Biplab Hatao, Tripura Bachao’ the other day. It pained me very much. So, I want to know if everyone feels the same way. If yes, I shall leave,” he said, throwing an open challenge to his opponents within the party.He also claimed his government has achieved considerable development in last three years including HIRA, HIRA Plus, educational development, infrastructure development, Special Economic Zone (SEZ) Integrated Check Post (ICP) with Bangladesh, Logistics Hub, high-rise buildings, smart city, new airport, agricultural growth, among others.HIRA is an acronym Prime Minister Narendra Modi coined during his tour in Tripura before the 2018 state assembly elections. It stands for Highways, I-ways, Roadways and Airways – something PM Modi promised for Tripura if BJP was voted to power.Stating that his only passion is to transform Tripura into the best state of country, Biplab Deb said his government is focusing on growing job creators, developing entrepreneurship and creating government jobs.However, he warned that if he stayed back in power, he would not tolerate any illegal activities and would follow a zero-tolerance policy on crimes.“If someone wishes to engage in mafiagiri, hooliganism, illegal land brokerage business, I shall never compromise. I hereby iterate that I shall not engage in any illegal activities, nor shall I allow anyone to do so, like drug trade of phensidyle, yaba or such,” he said.Deb also asked people to decide for him about what might be done to people who raised slogans against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/should-go-or-stay-tripura-cm-biplab-deb-asks-people-if-he-should-remain-in-power/story-RkMujBuS02nqfISnAH0A8J.html
08-12-2020||India||Beware of BJP’s NRC, NPR agenda, Mamata Banerjee tells coal belt voters||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will try to divide people in West Bengal by enforcing the National Register of Citizens (NRC) and the National Population Register (NPR), chief minister Mamata Banerjee alleged at an administrative programme in West Burdwan district on Tuesday afternoon. “They (BJP) is saying NRC and NPR will be enforced. They will ask for birth certificates of your grandfather so that your citizenship can be proved. I do not know when my mother was born. This is how things were in the past. Births took place at homes. People did not get certificates. Whoever lives in Bengal is a Bengali, a citizen,” Banerjee said at the programme held in Raniganj. “I will not allow Bengal to turn into Gujarat. I have respect for Gujarat and Gandhi but Bengal will remain Bengal. I will do or die in the process,” she added. Since the Asansol-Raniganj zone is home to many industries, including Central public sector undertakings, and coalmines owned by the Eastern Coalfields Limited (ECL) where thousands of Hindi-speaking people work, Banerjee spoke in Hindi several times during her speech. Although the Centre has not announced any decision to privatize ECL, Banerjee said, “They will privatize ECL. Where will all these workers go? Where will the officers go? They (the Centre) will sell the railways and even the Chittaranjan Locomotive Works that I once saved (as Union minister),” said Banerjee. Incidentally, Union railway minister Piyush Goyal announced last year that the Indian Railways manufactured a high speed locomotive at Chittaranjan Locomotive Works and it achieved a top speed of 180 kmph. Reacting to Banerjee’s statement, Bengal BJP vice -president Ritesh Tiwari said, “These days her strategy is to tell lies and then repeat those lies over and over again. This is followed by intimidating people and finally, killings. No senior leader of the BJP has made any comment on NPR and NRC in recent days.” “She raised the issue because Raniganj has a large Muslim population. Why didn’t she say these at her West Midnapore rally on Monday? The BJP has already secured 40 % votes in the state. She is scared because we are coming to power,” Tiwari added. Banerjee on Tuesday distributed monetary compensation and land deeds to a few thousand people who vacated their land and property for construction of the Andal airport and adjoining township. The government also announced that it had increased its stake in the joint venture project from 27 % to around 48 % to ensure its success.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/beware-of-bjp-s-nrc-npr-agenda-mamata-banerjee-tells-coal-belt-voters/story-NLXDc1y7SMB2K0ibLtYgUL.html
08-12-2020||India||DRDO’s new Arjun tank demonstrates advanced capability to Army||Soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi took a ride in the Arjun tank on Diwali, senior Indian Army officials were shown the advanced capabilities of the DRDO-manufactured Mark1A version of the tank.Some rounds were fired during the demonstration and remote-controlled weapon system operation was also showcased during the demonstration before the Director-General Armoured Corps Lt Gen MJS Kahlon and Lt Gen Hasabnis in Jaisalmer, sources told ANI.“The DRDO tank capability upgradation trials would continue for some more days,” they said.The Mark1A are the advanced version of the two regiments of the Arjun tanks in the Army and the force is looking to place orders for 118 more of these.The Army had placed an order for 124 of these tanks in the first go and is now likely to order more if they meet its requirements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-s-new-arjun-tank-demonstrates-advanced-capability-to-army/story-1LfwK9xMTqlnxOsRNXhglJ.html
08-12-2020||India||Court in Bengal orders second autopsy of BJP workers killed in Siliguri||A court in Jalpaiguri on Tuesday evening ordered a second autopsy to find the cause of death of a BJP supporter who, police said died of shotgun injuries during the party’s protest rally in north Bengal’s Siliguri on Monday.Earlier in the morning, the West Bengal Police had claimed that 50-year-old Ulen Roy who died during a pitched battle between the police and BJP workers at Siliguri, was killed with a shotgun that local law enforcement agencies do not use. The post mortem examination was conducted on Monday night. The Bengal police described the incident as “unprecedented” and said armed men were present in the BJP’s rally to incite violence. “As per the PM (post mortem examination) report “death was due to the effects of shotgun injuries.” Police do not use shotguns. It’s obvious that during yesterday’s protest in Siliguri, armed persons were brought and they fired from firearms,” the West Bengal Police said in a tweet around 10.30 am. Roy died shortly after he was rushed to a local private hospital. Police used tear gas and water cannons to stop two BJP processions from moving towards Uttar Kanya, the secretariat building in north Bengal. The BJP refused to accept the statement of the police and demanded a probe by the Central Bureau of investigation (CBI). The party also demanded a second autopsy which the court of the chief judicial magistrate, Jalpaiguri, ordered in the evening. In its order, the court said the autopsy has to be done by December 11. The body was kept at the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital where the first autopsy was conducted.Without naming the BJP, the police had accused it of allowing armed protesters in the rally. “The deceased received pellet injuries from a shotgun fired from close range by a person standing near the deceased in the protest program. This is unprecedented. Bringing armed persons in protest programs and inciting them to fire is unheard off,” said the state police. “There was a malafide intention to create violence by the use of firearms. CID West Bengal has been asked to investigate. Truth will come out and strong action will be taken against all those who planned and executed the heinous crime,” the police said in a third tweet. The tweets drew immediate criticism from BJP leaders who were observing bandh in Siliguri and alleging since morning that the post mortem examination was done at night to hide something. BJP workers refused to receive Roy’s body and demanded a second examination in the presence of three doctors. The second examination should be recorded on video, they said. The chief judicial magistrate, Jalpaiguri, accepted both these demands. The petition was moved by Roy’s family. “The first autopsy report confirmed our allegation that the police used firearms and Roy was shot by them. The allegation being made against us is ridiculous because Roy was shot in the chest while approaching the police barricades. Had someone in the procession shot him, the injuries would have been found on his back,” said BJP state general secretary Sayantan Basu, who is stationed in Siliguri. “We will not stop till the truth is revealed. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) government has come down to killing our workers because the ruling party knows that its days are numbered,” said Basu, referring to the assembly polls due in about five months. The BJP won seven of the eight Lok Sabha seats in the north Bengal region in 2019. As Roy’s death snowballed into a major issue, chief minister Mamata Banerjee defended the police while addressing an administrative meeting at Ranigunj in West Burdwan district on Tuesday afternoon. “BJP is killing its own people with pellets and blaming the police. Police do not use these (shotguns). The media should not encourage this,” she said. State panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee alleged that BJP workers were carrying several shotguns. “One of these killed the man. He was carrying a shotgun too. The police never lost patience. They only chased away the troublemakers. The CID will find out the truth,” he said. Monday’s rally was attended by the BJP’s senior central and state leaders such as Tejasvi Surya, Kailash Vijayvargiya, Arvind Menon and Dilip Ghosh who demanded a judicial inquiry into Roy’s death. The party called a 12-hour bandh in the north Bengal region on Tuesday protesting the death and the force used by police. “We will not spare the policemen responsible for Rai’s death. They will go to jail,” Vijayvargiya, BJP’s national general secretary, said after the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-in-bengal-orders-second-autopsy-of-bjp-workers-killed-in-siliguri/story-n4XVnmw8uriYm7x9d4fhWL.html
08-12-2020||India||Nirmala Sitharaman, Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw in Forbes 2020 list of 100 most powerful women||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, US Vice President-elect Kamala Harris, Biocon Founder Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw and HCL Enterprise CEO Roshni Nadar Malhotra have been named among the world’s 100 most powerful women by Forbes, a list topped by German Chancellor Angela Merkel for the 10th year in a row. The women on the 17th annual Forbes Power List hail from 30 countries and were born across four generations. “There are 10 heads of state, 38 CEOs and five entertainers among them. But where they differ in age, nationality and job description, they are united in the ways they have been using their platforms to address the unique challenges of 2020,” Forbes said. Sitharaman is ranked 41st on the list, Nadar Malhotra comes in at the 55th spot, Mazumdar-Shaw -- described as “India’s richest self-made woman” -- is ranked 68th and chairwoman of Landmark Group Renuka Jagtiani is ranked 98th. Merkel ranks No. 1 for the tenth year in a row. “Merkel remains the de facto leader of Europe, leading the region’s largest economy after steering Germany through financial crisis and back to growth. Her leadership is marked by her steely reserve, from standing up to Donald Trump to allowing more than a million Syrian refugees into Germany,” Forbes said, adding: “the big question that the public is now asking is who and what will come after Merkel’s time in office comes to an end.” Harris, who became the first woman, first Black American and first Asian American to be elected vice president -- “an unprecedented trifecta of firsts for California Senator Harris”, is ranked third on the list. Harris’s “rapid ascension in U.S. politics has also catapulted” her onto the Forbes list of the World’s 100 Most Powerful Women for the first time. European Central Bank chief Christine Lagarde is ranked second for the second straight year. “From fighting the pandemic to re-engineering American politics, these influential women, including New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern, Vice President-elect Kamala Harris and voting rights advocate Stacey Abrams, are making history,” Forbes said. Several of this year’s Power Women received “global plaudits” for their effective responses to COVID-19. New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern (No. 32) vanquished a first and second wave of the virus in her country by implementing strict lockdown and quarantine procedures. Taiwan’s President Tsai Ing-wen (No. 37) implemented a rigorous contact-tracing program in January, as a result, to date, the island of 23 million people has lost only seven lives to the virus, Forbes said. There are 17 newcomers on this year’s list, illustrating that women are “leading all aspects of a society transformed by a global pandemic”. New CEO of American multinational company United Parcel Service Carol Tomé (No. 11) and head of California-based Clorox Linda Rendle (No. 87) are responsible for helping provide essential services that have kept Americans connected and clean. CVS Health executive vice-president and incoming CEO Karen Lynch (No. 38) leads the pharmacy giant’s vast COVID-19 testing programme and, in 2021 will be responsible for its critical handling of coronavirus vaccines. The list also includes Co-Chair of Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, Melinda Gates (5), US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (7), Facebook chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg (22), Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina (39), UK’s Queen Elizabeth II (46), celebrated artistes Rihana (69) and Beyonce (72).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nirmala-sitharaman-kiran-mazumdar-shaw-in-forbes-2020-list-of-100-most-powerful-women/story-v2uSjCxjB3fgcdUnKfkfYI.html
08-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Confusion over meeting venue, Amit Shah meets farmers at ICAR||The meeting between Union home minister Amit Shah and the leaders of the protesting farmers on Tuesday got delayed owing to a confusion over the venue of the meeting. The meeting was scheduled to begin at 7pm but it began after 8pm as some of the union leaders were not ready to hold the meeting at Amit Shah’s residence. Finally, the meeting was shifted to the office of Indian Council of Agricultural Research.  We are talking to our people on where the meeting is to be held: Rakesh Tikait, Spokesperson, Bhartiya Kisan Union on being asked about the meeting with Union Home Minister Amit Shah https://t.co/dKjmCe3cFl pic.twitter.com/ZNVBr9YM5iAccording to PTI, 13 farmer leaders were called for the meeting which included eight from Punjab and five from various nationwide organisations. Some farmer leaders said they first expected the meeting to take place at Shah’s residence here, but the venue was shifted to the Pusa area, PTI reported. Bhartiya Kisan Union national spokesperson Rajesh Tikait even reached Amit Shah’s residence at around 7pm. The meeting assumes significance as Union home minister Amit Shah’s intervention comes after the farmers called a four-hour symbolic protest on Tuesday, which evoked mixed response across the country, but received massive political support from opposition parties and regional parties. On Wednesday, the farmers and the Centre are scheduled to meet for the sixth time to discus the farmers’ grievances over the farm laws enacted in September.Ahead of the meeting with Shah, the farmers said they will demand just a ‘yes’ or ‘no’ answer from Shah on whether the laws that the farmers fear will make them vulnerable to the exploitation of the corporates. “We will demand just a ‘yes’ or a ‘no’ from Home Minister Amit Shah,” farmer leader Rudru Singh Mansa said.In their last meeting with the Centre on Saturday, the leaders observed ‘maun vrat’ and put up placards ‘yes’, ‘no’ written on them, which led to a deadlock and the Centre asked for some time to come up with an alternative proposal. Since the laws were passed in Parliament, the farmers have been voicing concerns against the reforms, which the Centre has termed as pro-farmer. From November 26, thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana started ‘Dilli Chalo’ rally with their tractors and managed to enter Delhi. The protest entered its 13th day on Tuesday with no solution to the stalemate in sight yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-confusion-over-meeting-venue-amit-shah-meets-farmers-at-icar/story-95eXp6sSRxgMdJNvKE3UvI.html
08-12-2020||India||‘With no film institute tag, it was challenging for me’||Actor Princy Sudhakaran feels having tag of some prominent film institute or background make the film producers take you more seriously. “It’s very challenging for a newcomer to beat that huge crowd waiting outside a casting director’s office and get a particular role. I think, it’s a matter of credibility because if you have a certain tag with you, it’s easy to get a role. Being a software engineer with no film institute tag or background it was very testing for me to attain a place in the industry,” said the ‘Palki’ actor.Talking about her initial days she said, “Being a software professional and a trained Bharatnatyam dancer, I had this strong inclination towards performing arts. I couldn’t let go the love of stage from my heart and to get back to performing arts I joined theatre. I started doing theatre workshops and plays. After a couple of years in theatre, I decided to quit my job and pursue acting with all my might.”“I used to go for open auditions for TV, commercials and films because it was a matter of survival. Luckily, an Indo-Canadian project ‘Palki’ happened followed by ‘Bhor’, ‘Dum Dum Deega Deega’ and more short films finally led me to chef Vikas Khanna’s directorial debut ‘The Last Colour’. The film has been completely shot in Varanasi, Vrindavan and Lucknow. “Being part of anybody’s dream project is a fulfilling experience. I loved the story and my character ‘Chhoti’ was so well etched that it made me fall in love with the film completely. On top of that shooting in Varanasi was truly magical. The film has been highly appreciated at many global fests,” said Princy who just wrapped a web series and is shooting for a feature film.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/with-no-film-institute-tag-it-was-challenging-for-me/story-d8oCpGLhcJwd5baLGWFp2O.html
08-12-2020||India||Malini’s scratch song becomes a spooky delight||Folk singer Malini Awasthi’s latest film song ‘Heer’ is making waves in musical space. Sung and recorded in Lucknow, she teamed with city-folks and composers Naman Adhikari and Abhinav Sharma. Talking about the song, the Padma Shri awardee said, “It has been over a year since I recorded the song. It started when two young boys Naman and Abhinav came to meet and take my blessing. They were fresh pass-outs from AR Rehman’s music academy. They wished to collaborate for some project.” Then Malini came across a poem by lyricist Dipti Misra, an UPite. “So, I went to their studio in Lucknow. Heer is a ‘fakirana andaaz’ genre, but I wanted to sing in a ‘doha’ style. We tried a basic composition and added the modern peppy feel to it. Then, I recorded this scratch to pitch it for some film,” said ‘Dil Mera Muft Ka’ (Agent Vinod) singer. It was in that same period, a leading production house held an online competition. Telling more about it, she said, “It was then our song was submitted the song and got selected. We went to Mumbai and they promised to use this song. After sometime, I got to know that Akshay Kumar’s company has loved our song and have decided to use it for a film. Later, we came to know that it was for a supernatural thriller ‘Durgamati’.” Giving an insight on her new song, which already has multi-million hits, she said, “The lyrics ‘Bina Ranjhe ki Heer hui main’ has eerie feel to it and we knew from the beginning that it will suit a supernatural subject. To give it a haunting and tripping feel of the past we added sitar, flute and variety of other musical equipment. Another interesting thing is that I wanted to render a fresh version but the team was so sure to use the scratch only!”Mailini has earlier too sung ‘Sunder Sudheel’ for Bhoomi Padnekar in ‘Dum Laga Kar Haisa’ with Rahul Ram for composer Anu Malik. The music production has also asked the team to make more songs for them. Besides, Malini has presented seven independent songs since lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/malini-s-scratch-song-becomes-a-spooky-delight/story-7VB0Z8iKjac6SegKFr0AGO.html
08-12-2020||India||‘We need to be united,’ says Muslim man who donates land worth lakhs for expansion of temple||The decision of a Muslim businessman to donate 1.5 guntas (about 1634 sq feet) of prime land, worth between Rs 80 lakhs-1 crore, for expanding a Hanuman temple on the outskirts of Bengaluru has drawn much praise from netizens and city residents.HMG Basha, a businessman involved in goods transport services, saw that devotees of a small Hanuman mandir located adjacent to his three-acre land in Valgerapuru of Hoskote taluk were struggling to accommodate the growing number of devotees. The temple trust was planning to expand the temple but didn’t have sufficient funds. Basha showed his willingness to donate some land to the temple trust. The land commands a high price because it is adjacent to the highway.Also read: Foreign ministry to fly over 60 foreign envoys to Hyderabad for Covid vaccine briefingThough the temple trust sought only about one gunta (1089 sq feet) of land, Basha decided to donate 1.5 guntas of land whose value is estimated between Rs 80 lakhs-1 crore. He, subsequently, transferred the land to the temple trust free of cost. A grateful trust has put up banners thanking Basha and his family for their kind gesture.Speaking to media, Basha said that “Hindus and Muslims have lived together as one from time immemorial. Today, there is much talk of divisive things. If we want to progress, we need to be united as a country.” Residents of Hoskote have praised his gesture. Basha’s move and the flex banners put up by the temple trust have gone viral with netizens and others showering praise on Basha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-need-to-be-united-says-muslim-man-who-donates-land-worth-lakhs-for-expansion-of-temple/story-t41BVELUUscIA8LXxfx3OP.html
08-12-2020||India||High turnout in first phase of Kerala local body election||Braving restrictions that are in force for the Covid-19 pandemic, people came out in large numbers to vote in the first phase of local body elections in Kerala on Tuesday, considered a vital show of strength before the assembly elections due in April-MayThe state election commission said the polling percentage would be around 75% and a final picture will emerge later in the night. Except for stray incidents, polling was peaceful and some Covid-19 patients also exercised their right in PPE kits in the closing hours of the polling. There were winding queues outside many polling stations since morning. In the first phase, elections were held in five districts - Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha, Pathanamthitta and Idukki. The second phase of polling is on December 12 and the third and final phase on December 14. Counting will be held on December 16. The stakes are high for all three major players – the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF), opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) and BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA). For the ruling LDF, which is reeling under many charges and allegations of corruption, it is a referendum on its four and a half years’ rule and for the opposition UDF it is an opportunity to prime itself for the assembly election. And for the BJP, boosted by the recent performance in Hyderabad civic body election, it is an opportunity to prove that it is no more a pushover in the state where the LDF and the UDF have shared power alternately for more than three decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-turnout-in-first-phase-of-kerala-local-body-election/story-9LVOpGiYHMV96JYX9C1K4H.html
08-12-2020||India||India drops to 9th spot in global spam call tally, Gujarat gets max calls: Truecaller||Indian mobile users saw a 34 per cent decline in spam calls received in 2020, helping the country move lower to the ninth position in the tally of most spammed countries, according to a report by Truecaller.Within India, Gujarat received the most spam calls in 2020.In 2019, India was at the fifth position in terms of number of spam calls received by users. This year, India has dropped down to ninth position, while Brazil continues to stay on top, Truecaller said in its report.Despite a reduction in the number of spam calls received (34 per cent decline), India still makes it into the top 10 most spammed countries, it added.Other countries in the top 10 tally are the US, Hungary, Polen (Poland), Spain, Indonesia, the UK, Ukraine, and Chile.“...(about) 98.5 per cent of all spam calls in India originate from domestic numbers, which could partly explain why spam calls have been decreasing in India, as strict curfews implemented in the country earlier this year made it impossible for telemarketers to go to work, or utilise the equipment they need to carry out large scale spam campaigns,” it said.Interestingly, India witnessed calls to emergency services increase by 148 per cent in the first three months of the lockdown.The Swedish company - which is known for helping users find out caller identity - has over 250 million users globally, of which over 180 million users are in India.The report said operators continue to be the top spammers in India with 52 per cent user calls received for the upselling of various offers and reminders. Telemarketing services accounted for 34 per cent share, followed by scam (9 per cent) and financial services (5 per cent).Gujarat emerged as the state that received the most spam calls in 2020, followed by Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh, it added.The report pointed out that 8 out of 10 women in India receive sexual harassment or inappropriate calls and SMS regularly.Truecaller said spam had reached its lowest point in April when strict curfews and lockdowns were implemented worldwide. The overall volume of calls also dipped during this period.However, from this point, reports of scammers taking advantage of the uncertainty around the pandemic emerged. In May, spam calls started to pick up again and have been increasing on average by 9.7 per cent per month, it said.“October this year was the record high in terms of spam calls. It was 22.4 per cent higher compared to pre-lockdown,” it added.The biggest increase in spam calls was seen in the US and Europe - where Hungary saw the biggest jump (1,132 per cent), followed by Germany (685 per cent), Belgium (557 per cent) and Romania (395 per cent).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-drops-to-9th-spot-in-global-spam-call-tally-gujarat-gets-max-calls-truecaller/story-ly1oJrXFeGU09Vg7VWk9aM.html
08-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9pm: Agencies to probe Christchurch shooter’s stay in India and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Agencies to investigate Christchurch shooter’s stay in IndiaIndian intelligence officials said on Tuesday that they will look into 2019 Christchurch mosque shooter Brenton Tarrant’s three-month stay in India. The agencies will try to know the places he visited and people he met, officials said on condition of anonymity. Read moreOppn leaders to meet President on Wednesday to seek repeal of farm lawsLeaders from different opposition parties are likely to meet President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday over the ongoing farmers’ agitation and also express their concerns over the three new agriculture laws enacted by the Centre in September and seek their repeal. Read moreChina cancels special stamp launch with India to mark 70 years of tiesChina has cancelled the joint launch of a commemorative stamp with India amid the ongoing military standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. Read moreIndia vs Australia: ‘I’ll see if I can play the tour match,’ Virat Kohli reveals plans ahead of first TestThe India captain Virat Kohli lifted the trophy after his team won the three-match T20I series 2-1. The third T20I in Sydney did not go India’s way as the visitors fell short by 12 runs while chasing the target of 187 set up by Australia in Sydney. Kohli smashed 85 runs in 61 balls - becoming the only Indian batsman to register a fifty in the match - but his fiery innings was not enough to see India through. Read more Priyanka Chopra can’t stop smiling as she holds her book’s cover in her hands for the first timePriyanka Chopra is super excited about her upcoming autobiography, titled, Unfinished. The actor shared a new picture on Instagram on Tuesday, showing her fans how she cannot wait to get her hands on the book. Read more From most tweeted emojis to most liked tweet: Twitter India shares #ThisHappened2020As 2020 approaches its end (fortunately), many people are reminiscing about what this whirlwind of a year has meant to them. Now, Twitter India has shared a few posts recapping some big happenings of 2020. The tweets, shared with the hashtag #ThisHappened2020, will not only help you remember the year better but may also leave you feeling a little nostalgic. Read moreWatch: India-China tension: Russia blames ‘devious’ West as LAC stand-off continuesAs the border tension between India and China continues, Russia blamed Western powers for the stand-off. Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov said that ‘devious policies’ of Western nations were trying to draw India into ‘anti-Chinese games’. He added that the US is pressurising India to weaken its partnership with Russia. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9pm-agencies-to-probe-christchurch-shooter-s-stay-in-india-and-all-the-latest-news/story-xTwsDqWVZhngxWne3RuQyH.html
08-12-2020||India||Over 150 politicians, activists detained in Mathura during ‘Bharat Bandh’||To foil any untoward incident during the ‘Bharat Bandh’, the Mathura district administration made preventive arrests of over 150 leaders and activists of different political parties on Tuesday, officials said.“The strategy of the district administration to divide it into six zones and 18 sectors paid rich dividends as not a single untoward incident was reported,” Mathura District Magistrate Sarvagya Ram Mishra said.The DM said he visited rural areas extensively where he interacted with the farmers and was happy that they reciprocated in equal measure without creating problems for the administration.In the urban areas of the district, over 80 activists and leaders of different political parties were detained in the Police Lines area, City Magistrate Manoj Kumar Singh said.A ‘Kisan Yatra’ taken out, led by the Samajwadi Party, between Jabra and Mant area of the district was stopped as the participants were detained.In support of protests against the farm laws, a peace march of local farmers was taken out in the Yamuna Expressway led by Ram Babu Katelia, president of Bhartiya Kisan Kalyan Samiti.“On December 12, a similar peace march covering 10 kilometres would be taken out on the Yamuna Expressway, by the farmers of the area in case the demand of agitating farmers are not conceded,” he stated.The Mant toll plaza was blocked by farmers of the area on both sides for a few hours. After some time, vehicles were allowed to go through but only on one side of the road, SP (Rural) Srish Chand said.There was no work in the courts in support of farmers, said Sunil Kumar Chaturvedi, Secretary of Mathura Bar Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-150-politicians-activists-detained-in-mathura-during-bharat-bandh/story-nMxlbgZf4oFXsPpHBGwAwK.html
08-12-2020||India||‘300 mn people may get vaccinated simultaneously as per availability of doses’: Union health secy||Healthcare workers, frontline workers, and those at the highest risk of dying from coronavirus disease (Covid-19) - such as those above the age of 50 or patients with comorbidities - are the three priority groups who have been recommended to receive the vaccine by the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC).Vaccination across the priority groups will take place simultaneously depending on the availability of doses, according to the health ministry.“These are the recommendations of NEGVAC and the government has to take a decision based on it. The immunisation process across the groups will not be sequential; it can also happen simultaneously depending upon the availability of vaccine,” said Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan at a press briefing on Tuesday.As per health ministry estimates, there are around 10 million healthcare workers, 20 million frontline workers, including the police and the army, and another 270 million people either above the age of 50 or with comorbidities.He said the state, district and block-level structures have already been created to ensure a smooth delivery of the vaccine till the last mile.Also read: Foreign ministry to fly over 60 foreign envoys to Hyderabad for Covid vaccine briefingThe multi-level coordination mechanism created under the NEGVAC has a state-level steering committee headed by the chief secretaries to ensure coordination across departments. A state-level task force, headed by the state health secretary, to manage logistics for the vaccine delivery and administration, and a 24x7 state-level control room have also been set-up. At district level, a district task force headed by the district collector, an urban task force headed by the municipal commissioner, and a district control room will do the same. A block-level task force and block control room will also be created.Bhushan said that the teams had already started meeting or will do so at state level latest by December 8, at district level latest by December 14, and at block level by December 15.As for the infrastructure needed for vaccine delivery, Bhushan said that there were 85,634 devices available, such as deep freezers, freezer trucks, and iceboxes. A survey of additional needs has already been done and requisite orders have been placed, he said.There are 28,947 cold chain points where the vaccines and syringes are stored. “These are adequate for storing the existing vaccines for the universal immunisation programme and another 3 crore vaccine doses for the first phase of vaccination,” said Bhushan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-update-300-mn-people-may-get-vaccinated-simultaneously-as-per-availability-of-doses-union-health-secy/story-b9ms8IvtOmb3hD7S32IMMN.html
08-12-2020||India||TRP scam: Arnab Goswami moves Bombay HC seeking stay to probe by Mumbai police||Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami moved the Bombay High Court on Tuesday seeking a stay to further investigation by the Mumbai police in the alleged Television Rating Points (TRP) manipulation scam.The petition, filed by Goswami and ARG Outlier Media which owns Republic TV, also alleged that one of the employees of the firm was tortured by the police in custody.It sought protection for all employees from the “malicious witch hunt” allegedly being carried out by the Maharashtra authorities.Ghanshyam Singh, “assistant vice president, distribution” of Republic TV was arrested on November 10 and “tortured, beaten and harassed in custody”, it alleged.Singh was given bail last week.The police was working in a “pre-determined manner to falsely implicate” Goswami and others from ARG Media by “influencing witnesses, and extracting false statements against the petitioners”, petition alleged.The court should, therefore, transfer the probe to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or any other independent agency, the petition said. It is yet to be listed for hearing.When contacted for reaction, senior police officials refused to comment.TRP, measured by recording viewership data at sample households, is crucial for attracting advertisers.As per the police, some of these households were being bribed to tune into Republic TV and a few other channels.Republic TV has denied wrongdoing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arnab-goswami-moves-bombay-hc-seeking-stay-to-probe-by-mumbai-police-in-trp-scam/story-df7qATx8niBxq55sDMukiL.html
08-12-2020||India||Farmer leaders claim Bharat Bandh successful; want to shift protest to Delhi’s Ramlila ground||Farmer leaders claimed on Tuesday their ‘Bharat Bandh’ against the new farm laws was “successful” and had an impact in 25 states. Addressing a press conference at a protest site on the Singhu border, they said the “super bandh” made the government open its “eyes and ears”. The farmer leaders said the protestors did not go to Burari ground as it is an “open jail” and demanded that Ramlila Ground be given to them. They stressed that they don’t want to trouble the people of Delhi and Haryana. Punjab Kisan Union president Ruldu Singh Mansa said a 13-member delegation of farmers’ representatives will seek a “yes or no” to their demands when they meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday evening. “The ‘Bharat Bandh’ against the new farm laws was successful and had an impact in 25 states. It was ‘super bandh’ from Kashmir to Kanyakumari,” Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union president Gurnam Singh Chaduni said. The meeting between Shah and the 13-member farmer leaders’ comes a day before their sixth round of talks with Union ministers slated for Wednesday. “There is no midway. We will demand just ‘yes’ or ‘no’ from Home Minister Amit Shah at today’s meeting,” Mansa said. The central government now knows it doesn’t have a way out. They will have to withdraw the three new farm laws and guarantee minimum support prices for crops, he said. He claimed the central government has bowed down before the ‘Bharat Bandh’. “When the first four meetings did not lead to any breakthrough, we went silent in the fifth one and demanded that the government answer in ‘yes or no’,” Mansa said. “We will rest only when we make the government accept all our demands,” he said. BKU leader Bhog Singh Mansa said the farmers will hold discussions after the meeting with Shah and announce their future course of action on Wednesday. The nationwide shutdown was observed in around 10,000 places in 25 states, added Swaraj India leader Yogendra Yadav. “It was a historic day. Nobody thought the bandh will be successful on such short notice... It has made the government open its eyes and ears,” he said. Fishermen, sand mine and stone quarry workers, industrial federation, students, railway personnel federation, intellectuals and writers all supported the bandh, he claimed, adding “it became successful because every citizen of India made it his own protest”. Besides Punjab and Haryana, the ‘bandh’ was “successful” in states like Telangana, Tripura, Assam, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra, he claimed, adding social activist Anna Hazare also observed a ‘symbolic fast’ in support of the protesting farmers. Yadav alleged that around 200 farmer leaders were detained in Gujarat, and there were reports that many were arrested in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmer-leaders-claim-bharat-bandh-successful-want-to-shift-protest-to-delhi-s-ramlila-ground/story-1JKEHiwDUhdyBLb33CPjAP.html
08-12-2020||India||‘Longest in 3 years’: Agencies to probe Christchurch shooter’s stay in India||Indian intelligence officials said on Tuesday that they will look into 2019 Christchurch mosque shooter Brenton Tarrant’s three-month stay in India. The agencies will try to know the places he visited and people he met, officials said on condition of anonymity. According to a comprehensive 792-page New Zealand Royal Commission of Inquiry report released on Tuesday, Australia-born attacker was in India between November 21, 2015, and February 18, 2016. HT has seen the report. The report added that Tarrant travelled extensively, always alone, between April 15, 2014, and August 17, 2017, to various countries before moving to New Zealand. In all, the inquiry report lists 57 countries spread over Asia, most in Europe and Africa, where he travelled during these three years. He came to India on November 21, 2015, immediately after finishing his 23 day-trip in Nepal. In fact, his longest stay was in India during these three years. “The longest visit the individual (Tarrant) made to any one country was to India where he stayed between 21 November 2015, and 18 February 2016,” the report said. He visited several countries for about a month or more including – Japan, Thailand, Vietnam, South Korea, Myanmar, Russia, Serbia, Croatia, and Slovenia among others. Also read: 800-page report on how New Zealand mosque shooter eluded detectionA senior Indian counter-terrorism official said they will enquire about the cities he visited, people he was in touch with or stayed with. “We will seek information from regional FRROs (Foreigners Regional Registration Offices) about his travel in India,” said this officer. He added, “There is no formal enquiry or investigation in India as of now. We will look into his travel based on the Royal Commission of Inquiry report. If required later, we may seek further inputs from New Zealand authorities”. The report says that “while extremist groups (including violent extremists) can be found in some of the countries the individual (Tarrant) visited, there is no evidence that he met with them”. “Likewise, there is no evidence that he engaged in training or investigated potential targets,” the report stated. Tarrant, 30, was sentenced to life prison without the possibility of parole in August this year after pleading guilty to 92 counts of terrorism, murder and attempted murder for killing 51 Muslim worshippers, including five Indians, at two mosques during Friday prayers in Christchurch on March 15, 2019. The report says Tarrant lived off the money that he had received from his father and income from investments made with it. “With the money from his father, the individual travelled extensively. First, in 2013, he explored New Zealand and Australia and then between 2014 and 2017 he travelled extensively around the world,” it said. The Royal Commission has concluded that when Tarrant moved to New Zealand in August 2017, it was with a fully-developed terrorist ideology based on his adoption of the Great Replacement theory and his associated beliefs that immigration, particularly by Muslim migrants, into Western countries is an existential threat to Western society and that the appropriate response (at least for him) was violence. It, however, adds the purpose of the travel was not to meet up with extreme right-wing people or groups or engage in training activities or reconnaissance of possible targets. “Put simply, he travelled widely because he could and had nothing better to do,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/longest-stay-in-3-years-agencies-to-probe-christchurch-shooter-s-stay-in-india/story-tKI02hVHeh7NbtwA2Jl4fI.html
08-12-2020||India||Centre’s new farm laws ‘farmer-friendly’, says Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Terming the Centre’s new agri laws as “farmer-friendly”, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday said only 12 lakh to 13 lakh out of an estimated 80 lakh cultivators in the state sell their crops as per pre-determined minimum support price (MSP).He said many people are spreading “confusion” about the three agricultural-marketing laws enacted a few months ago, but their efforts will not succeed, comments coming on a day when agitating farmers observed a nationwide shutdown to demand a roll-back of the contentious legislations.The Centres farm laws are farmer-friendly. These will not only increase farmers’ income significantly, but also provide economic security to them.“Procurements (of farm produce) will continue at MSP... there is no question of ending this mechanism. Mandis (agri markets) will also continue to function as usual,” Chouhan said.Besides, under the new laws, farmers will benefit as they will be able to sell their produce outside existing mandis at competitive prices, the BJP leader said in a statement.The government is committed to safeguard the interest of farmers and the new laws will prove beneficial to them.There are about 80 lakh farmers in Madhya Pradesh, but only 12 lakh to 13 lakh of them sell their crops at MSP,” he said.Chouhan said Madhya Pradesh has recorded the highest annual growth rate in the agriculture sector among states in the last few years.The farmers of MP understand that these new agricultural laws are beneficial to them. Many people are spreading confusion (about the laws), but their efforts will not succeed, he said.The chief minister said the Manmohan Singh government was in favour of amending the APMC Act to facilitate entry of private players in the farm sector.NCP president Sharad Pawar, as the Union Agriculture Minister under the Congress-led UPA, had written to CMs, underlining the need to amend the Act to encourage private participation in the key sector for overall interest of farmers, he said.Chouhan said more agricultural produce was purchased at MSP during the last six years of the BJP-led NDA government than under the previous UPA administration (2004-2014).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-s-new-farm-laws-farmer-friendly-says-shivraj-singh-chouhan/story-BpTujJxQ8KWWQvKsJWoOBK.html
08-12-2020||India||Tough reforms difficult in India, says Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant||Tough reforms are difficult in India’s democratic set-up without political determination and strong administrative will, Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said on Tuesday, adding that the current government has shown the courage and determination to carry out hard-headed reforms across sectors.“Tough reforms are very difficult in the Indian context. We are too much of a democracy. For the first time, the government has had the courage and determination to carry out hard-headed reforms across sectors,” said Kant. “Mining, coal, agriculture, labour, these are very difficult reforms. The easier reforms were done away with. You needed a huge amount of political determination and administrative will to carry out these reforms that are being done,” he added.Kant said that many more reforms were needed – across logistics and power, for example. “But this government has at least demonstrated its political will to do hard-headed reforms and we need to see them through to become a manufacturing nation. It’s not easy to compete with China,” he said.“It requires a very hard-headed ground-level approach which is being attempted for the first time in India,” he said at the webinar titled “Strategic Enablers and Policy Ecosystem for Atmanirbhar Bharat” organised by Swarajya in association with Vedanta Resources Limited.Kant also spoke about the emphasis of the government’s new Production Linked Incentive scheme for manufacturing being focused on creating a few “champions” as he termed them in specific sectors rather than trying to do too much by looking at all kinds of companies across sectors. Kant said that the agriculture sector needed to be reformed, and argued that the mandis, or government controlled market yards, were not being done away with. “The mandis will be there and the MSP will be there. But the farmer will get alternative choices…I am a great believer that the farmer must get a choice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tough-reforms-difficult-in-india-says-niti-aayog-ceo-amitabh-kant/story-fLWRSxIfNEl8HsvfuvJaaK.html
08-12-2020||India||Four, including drunk driver killed in road accident in Chhattisgarh||Four people were killed and five were seriously injured when a pickup truck turned turtle in Dhaurpur in Chhattisgarh’s Surguja district in the early hours of Tuesday, police said.The accident took place when the victims were returning from a wedding.The injured were sent to the local hospital and their condition is said to be stable.“The victims were returning after attending a marriage in Semardih village under Lundra police station of the district. When they reached Dhaurpur village the driver lost control while trying to avoid a collision with a biker and the vehicle turned turtle,” OM Chandel, Additional Superintendent of Police (Surguja) said.The officer said the driver who was among the dead, was drunk due to which he lost control of the vehicle.Three persons died on the spot while a woman who was rushed to the Government Medical College Ambikapur died later in the morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-including-drunk-driver-killed-in-road-accident-in-chhattisgarh/story-HuWbT47tXbcY8vB7YTpMeJ.html
08-12-2020||India||They did not let me go, says Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, counters police version on ‘house arrest’||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) claimed was put under house arrest after his visit to the farmers protesting the three central farm laws at the national capital’s Singhu border, said that he was prevented from expressing solidarity with the farmers and that he had planned to go to the border not as a CM but as a common man.“I had planned that today I would go to the border not as CM but as a common man to express my solidarity with the farmers. I think they came to know about my plan and they did not let me go,” CM Kejriwal said.Also Read: Bharat Bandh: Delhi Police call AAP’s allegation of Kejriwal’s house arrest ‘baseless, unfounded’AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj on Tuesday said that nobody was being allowed to leave or enter the CM’s official residence since Monday. “On a day when the entire country is supporting the farmers in the Bharat Bandh, the Central government’s home ministry has asked the Delhi Police to not allow Kejriwal to leave his residence. Yesterday, when Kejriwal, along with all his Cabinet colleagues, went to Singhu border to meet the protesting farmers as a sewadar, the BJP-led Central government got scared. It is the same way as they got upset when Kejriwal did not allow the Delhi Police to convert nine stadiums into temporary jails for the farmers,” he said.Farmers protesting against the three farm laws cleared by the Parliament in September had called for a nationwide strike or a Bharat Bandh on Tuesday. AAP was among other political parties who extended their support to the call. “The Aam Aadmi Party fully supports the Bharat Bandh call made by farmers on December 8. AAP workers across the country will support it peacefully. There is an appeal to all countrymen that everyone should support the farmers and participate in it,” Kejriwal tweeted.Also Read: Sisodia says public not being allowed to meet CM, police refute allegation“I am glad Bharat Bandh was successful. I prayed for protesting farmers while sitting inside,” he said from his residence on Tuesday.The bandh (shutdown) call was supported by several opposition parties and state governments. Major political parties, such as the Congress, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Samajwadi Party (SP), Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) and Left Front came out in support of the bandh.The farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. They believe these laws will pave way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/they-did-not-let-me-go-says-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-counters-police-version-on-house-arrest/story-9IZllD1HxHEqEfARopB6rM.html
08-12-2020||India||PM Modi’s 9pm-9minute tweet India’s most retweeted post by any political leader in 2020||A tweet by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has become the most retweeted one in politics in 2020, the micro-blogging platform has revealed in its year-ender blog. It was a collage of four photos where Modi could be seen lighting diyas. The prime minister posted it on April 5 at 9.34pm. So far, the post has 106.8K retweets, 11.8K quote tweets and 513.5K likes. In 2020, this became the most retweeted post by a politician in India, Twitter said.  शुभं करोति कल्याणमारोग्यं धनसंपदा ।शत्रुबुद्धिविनाशाय दीपज्योतिर्नमोऽस्तुते ॥ pic.twitter.com/4DeiMsCN11“During his ‘9 PM-9 Mins’ public address, Prime Minister Narendra Modi requested people of India to light lamps from the safety of their homes as a symbolic gesture of solidarity towards one other. This Tweet became the most Retweeted Tweet by a politician,” Twitter said. One and a half week into the Covid-19-induced nationwide lockdown, imposed on March 25, PM Modi had urged countrymen to switch off the lights in their homes and instead light diyas, candles for nine minutes at 9pm on April 5. Along with the photos, PM Modi wrote about lighting the lamps of hope and good health. In its #ThisHappened2020 lookback series, Twitter found the “Golden Tweets of 2020” in various segments like entertainment, sports, business and politics etc. The time period Twitter considered is from January 1 to November 15. Tamil actor Vijay’s selfie with his fans in Neyveli in February is the most retweeted tweet across all segments.In sports, Mahendra Singh Dhoni’s tweet expressing appreciation for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s letter dated August 19 is the most retweeted post. In business, Ratan Tata’s tweet on March 28 pledging support to communities affected by Covid-19 garnered maximum retweets.The most liked tweet of 2020 is the one where Virat Kohli tweeted about Anushka Sharma’s pregancy on August 27.“Needless to say, #Covid19 dominated this year with people on Twitter seeking reliable information, connecting with experts and following what was happening in real-time. The conversations on the service revolved around multiple Coronavirus-related topics, including the critical need to #WearAMask. Within the larger conversation about Covid-19, hashtags used prominently included #Coronavirus, #JantaCurfew as well as those that encouraged people to #StayHomeStaySafe and maintain #SocialDistancing. Other popular topics of conversation included the adverse impact on migrant workers as well as gratitude for healthcare professionals across the country,” Twitter wrote in its blog.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-9pm-9minute-tweet-india-s-most-retweeted-post-by-politician-in-2020/story-phBkNsRD1OuFgCj27ko5aO.html
08-12-2020||India||Bharat Bandh ends peacefully in UP with mixed response||The Bharat Bandh, called by various farmers’ unions against three central agricultural laws drew a mixed response in Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday even as about 1,300 people were detained by police to avert law and order problems. Markets and offices remained largely open while Samajwadi Party, Congress, RLD, Left parties’ workers and some other unions held protests in several districts and even held up a train in Prayagraj. UP’s director general of police (DGP) HC Awasthy said no untoward incident was reported from across the state. He said police and administrative officials remained vigilant all through the day.“Some people who violated section 144 of Cr PC (which prevents assembly of five or more people at one spot) and Covid-19 protocols were detained to maintain law and order,” the DGP said. Additional director general (ADG) of police (law and order) Prashant Kumar said about 1,300 people involved in blocking roads or forcibly closing markets were detained. He also said some politicians, including Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad and SP and Congress leaders, were confined to their houses to avert any untoward incident. VISIBLE IN WEST UP The bandh was most visible in western UP’s Meerut region, but it passed off without any untoward incident. The police were prepared for the day and either restrained leaders from various farmers’ outfits and political parties, or put them under house arrest, including Azad at his house in Saharanpur district. Trucks and buses remained off the roads for most parts of the day. Activists and leaders of BKU, BKU (Tomar), Bhartiya Kisan Sabha, Kisan Vichar Manch and Bhartiya Kisan Andolan blocked Delhi-Pauri highway at Mawana Khurd in Meerut district. Leaders and activists of BKU (Bhanu), led by it vice president Choudhary Diwakar Singh blocked traffic at Rajabpur Toll Plaza in Amroha on Delhi-Lucknow highway. In Agra region, impact of the closure was not much in urban areas and the supporters for the bandh remained mainly active in the rural areas belt and on expressways and roads. “In Prayagraj, SP workers clashed with police at many places. They stopped the Bundelkhand Express at Prayagraj station and raised slogans while sitting on the railway track,” Allahabad superintendent of police (city) Dinesh Kumar Singh said. “Those who tried to hold up the train were taken into custody,” he added. In Lucknow, SP leaders sat on a silent dharna near the statue of former prime minister Chaudhary Charan Singh at Vidhan Bhawan. SP MLCs Rajpal Kashyap, Sunil Singh Sajan, Anand Bhadauria and Ashu Malik were part of the protest. Some protests were also reported from different parts of the city. However, life in Lucknow remained mostly unaffected with Lucknow commissioner of police (CP) DK Thakur saying that stray incidents of protests were reported but everything remained peaceful and traffic remained uninterrupted. Lucknow’s district magistrate Abhishek Prakash said attendance in offices was normal. “The impact of the closure was zero in Lucknow as all markets and mandis were open,” he said. UPSRTC regional manager PK Bose said, “Passenger flow was less as compared to other days. However, operation-wise it was a normal day.” In Bundelkhand region, the response to bandh was partial. In Mainpuri, lawyers abstained from work and business at the wholesale grain market was affected, while for other establishments it was a normal day. Despite some protests by SP and Congress workers in Gorakhpur, shops were open and traffic was usual. (With agency inputs )||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-ends-peacefully-in-up-with-mixed-response/story-597QhZD6WAo9BjEurrW2aM.html
08-12-2020||India||‘Don’t want to inconvenience anyone, should be allowed to hold protest at Ramlila Ground’: Punjab Kisan Union||Asserting that farmers protesting the central farm laws do not want to cause any inconvenience to the people of Delhi and Haryana, the Punjab Kisan Union(PKU) on Tuesday said that they should be allowed to hold their protest at Ramlila Ground. “We do not want to cause any inconvenience to anyone from Delhi or Haryana, we should be allowed to hold the protest at Ramlila Ground,” RS Mansa, Punjab Kisan Union said in a press conference at Singhu (Haryana-Delhi) border.Mansa said that five rounds of talks have taken place but the Centre is yet to give any relief to the farmer protesting the farm laws. In the meeting with Home Minister Amit Shah at 7 pm today, Mansa said he will ask him if the Centre is willing to accept the farmers’ demands.This comes as farmer leaders have been invited to meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah at 7 pm on Tuesday, a day before the sixth round of talks between the protesting farmers and the Central government called by Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar.Thousands of farmers, who have been protesting at several borders of the national capital since November 26 against the farm laws, had called for a ‘Bharat Bandh’ today, which had gained support from all corners, including opposition parties and lawyers.Notably, after the fifth round of talks remained inconclusive, Tomar has called another meeting on December 9. Leaders of farmer groups have held several rounds of talks with the government so far.The farmers are protesting against the three newly enacted farm laws -- Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-want-to-inconvenience-anyone-should-be-allowed-to-hold-protest-at-ramlila-ground-punjab-kisan-union/story-fPRIOVfBV76N3GyqesItHO.html
08-12-2020||India||Protesting farmers forced to take shower at odd hours, women stand in long queues to use toilets||With farmers’ protests against the agricultural laws at Singhu border enters the thirteenth day, the farmers -- both men and women -- who remain steadfast at the gates of Delhi share their ordeals. Among women farmers, the most challenging activities appear to be that of bathing, changing clothes and availability of toilets. The nearby petrol pump of Bharat Petroleum which is closed since the agitation began witnesses a long queue near the washroom one each for men and women.For 40-year-old Sarabjeet from Punjab’s Amritsar, it is a norm now to wake up at three in the morning and stand in a queue to use the washroom, which she is only able to use after a long wait of two hours. “As a woman, the most difficulty which I have faced so far is of toilet and bathing. We wake up at 3 am and stand in a queue to avail the petrol pump washroom. Our turn comes after waiting for at least two hours. But we won’t leave till our demand is fulfilled,” she told ANI. Speaking about the struggles women farmers are undergoing here, 63-year-old Balbinder shares how these challenges have escalated due to the winter season. “Today, I stayed in the queue for two hours before I could use the washroom. Although there are a few portable toilets, very far from where we are stationed. Moreover, most of us bathe before we begin to prepare the day’s food. It’s winter so our adversities have doubled,” she said. Various NGOs have come forward to help the farmers with basic necessities such as medicines, sanitary napkins, blankets. Although compared to women, men are here in large numbers but they are also facing certain difficulties. Seventy-three-year-old Kuldeep Singh from Punjab’s Patiala said that due to lack of enough bathrooms, he is forced to take bath at random hours in the day. “I am here since November 25. I take bath at the midnight and then sleep. Today also I took bath at 12:56 am. What else can we do, we do not get a spare bathroom even during the day,” he told ANI. Residents at the Singhu border have welcomed the farmers to use their washrooms but being large in number they mostly stick to the water petrol pumps, tankers, and portable toilets.A security guard named Ramdhari Sharma (46) from Bharat petroleum, Kundli said, “No matter at what time of the day it has never seen this washroom empty even for one minute since the protest began. In a day we clean the septic tank five times a day.”Farmers here are also facing difficulty in washing clothes. Although residents have offered to wash their clothes but water availability becomes a problem here, especially when numbers are huge.Among all the protest sites, Nirankari Samagam Ground in Delhi’s Burari is better with most of the facilities available, said a farmer.Farmers who have blocked the borders leading to Delhi as a measure to put pressure on central in rhetoric have stated that they will go back only and if they receive a solution otherwise have ration to sustain longer.After five inconclusive meetings, the sixth round of talks between centre and farmer’s unions scheduled tomorrow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protesting-farmers-forced-to-take-shower-at-odd-hours-women-stand-in-long-queues-to-use-toilets/story-tFcHgGvPN45b9ejNJ3vELL.html
08-12-2020||India||Bharat bandh: Mixed response in most of Uttarakhand; maximum impact in US Nagar, Pithoragarh||The Bharat bandh, called by the farmers over the recently passed three agricultural laws, witnessed an overall mixed response in the state barring US Nagar and Pithoragarh districts of Kumaon region which were most affected with majority of the markets closed in support of the bandh.The districts of Dehradun, Haridwar and Nainital saw a mixed response to the bandh with about only half the shops closed in support of the bandh call.US Nagar district, which saw the maximum impact of the bandh, witnessed all major markets closed in support of the farmers. The local trader unions decided to support the farmers by closing their shops on the day.Observing the bandh, Congress workers gathered near Ambedkar chowk in Rudrapur led by the former minister in Congress government TR Behar and raised anti-Centre slogans.Terming the agricultural laws as “black laws” he said, “Modi government has sold agriculture to the corporate sector and has nothing to do with the farmers’ welfare. Congress would raise its voice to save farmers of the country.”Also read: British foreign secretary begins visit on Dec 16 to focus on trade and securityDuring the bandh, some groups of farmers tried to block the highways in Jaspur and Kashipur areas of the district but were soon removed from there.Another district of Kumaon region, Pithoragarh, also witnessed almost complete closure of the markets in support of the farmers.In Dehradun, major markets like Paltan Bazar and Arhat Bazar were mostly open but with less number of customers than usual. City’s biggest mandi of fruits and vegetables was also open with people buying groceries without any hassle caused by the bandh.Amid the bandh, the district police had also made adequate security measures to ensure a peaceful bandh without any untoward incident which could disturb the law and order situation.Deputy inspector general, Dehradun, Arun Mohan Joshi had divided the whole city into nine zones and 21 sectors with significant deployment of police force at major places of the city.Earlier on Monday evening before the bandh, he had also warned of strict action against anyone found forcefully implementing the bandh.During the day, Congress members led by state Congress president Pritam Singh held a protest and tried to block the road near busy Gandhi Park square. However, they were soon detained by police from the spot and taken to Police Lines from where they were released after some time.Also read: No midway, just ‘yes’ or ‘no’ from Amit Shah at today’s meeting, says farmers’ leaderThe Haridwar district also witnessed a mixed response to the bandh in its urban areas but a significant impact was seen in its agriculture dominated rural belts.The farmer unions, including Bharatiya Kissan Union - both Tikait-Ambawat factions and Uttarakhand Kissan Morcha - staged protests and tried to block the Roorkee-Delhi highway. The police, however, prevented them from doing so to ensure smooth flow of traffic of the main highway.Congress members staged protest marches in Haridwar city, Jwalapur, Roorkee, Laksar, Bhagwanpur and Manglaur areas against the newly enacted three agricultural laws.Former Congress legislator, Ambrish Kumar, while addressing the farmers at Jwalapur area of Haridwar, said that the “newly enacted farm laws will not only harm the agricultural sector but also adversely impact the poor and the lower-middle-class section.”“Modi government is trying to hand over the agriculture to corporates and in the coming time, public sector undertakings and every major sector will be corporate-managed. Anti-poor, anti-labour and anti-farmers policies are the hallmark of the BJP-led NDA government,” said Kumar.In Haldwani city of Nainital district, a group of farmers gathered at Tikonia square where they tried to block the national highway. The police deployed there tried to stop them, however, no incident of violence was reported.Supporting the bandh, leader of opposition, Indira Hridayesh, held a protest in Haldwani where she attacked the BJP government of acting against the farmer’s rights and said, “If farmers are demanding to guarantee MSP for crops then what is wrong in it? Congress fully stands in support of the farmers.”Considering the Bharat bandh, the state police had deployed a significant force to prevent any untoward incident.Inspector general, AP Anshuman, also the chief spokesperson for police headquarters, said the bandh was a “peaceful one” barring some incidents of road blockage.“The bandh saw a mixed response in the state with no incidents of violence. There were some road blockades in US Nagar which were soon opened. There were also some arrests by the police, including one of the Congress members in Dehradun who were trying to block the road, but were soon released after a brief detention,” said Anshuman||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-mixed-response-in-most-of-uttarakhand-maximum-impact-in-us-nagar-pithoragarh/story-BwwjrV15vr6drJP9WlQXaP.html
08-12-2020||India||‘Bharat Bandh’ ends peacefully, life hit in some states as farmers take national centre stage||Life was disrupted in several parts of the country on Tuesday as shops and commercial establishments stayed closed, transport was affected and protesters squatted on key roads and rail tracks in response to a ‘Bharat Bandh’ called by farmers demanding a repeal of the new agri laws.As the day wound to a mostly peaceful close and the farmers termed their show of strength a success, Union Home Minister Amit Shah stepped in to call their leaders for talks, ahead of the sixth round of talks between Central ministers and farmer representatives on Wednesday.“There is no midway. We will demand just a ‘yes’ or a ‘no’ from Home Minister Amit Shah,” farmer leader Rudru Singh Mansa told reporters at the Singhu border where thousands of farmers have been protesting for the last 12 days. A delegation of 13 leaders will meet Shah. The nationwide shutdown was observed in around 10,000 places in 25 states, claimed Swaraj India leader Yogendra Yadav. Emergency services were exempted and banks, too, continued operations as the pan-India shutdown, backed by most opposition parties and trade unions, rolled out noisily but peacefully with its impact felt in Punjab, Haryana and Delhi, the epicentre of the snowballing protests, as well as in states such as Odisha, Maharashtra, Bihar and Jharkhand.The pandemic appeared to recede into the background as security was stepped up across the country, restive crowds demonstrated in some places and the numbers swelled at Delhi’s border points. Protesters also blocked railway tracks at several places in West Bengal, Bihar and Odisha.As slogans such as “Kisan Ekta Zindabad” were heard in protest centrepoints such as Tikri and the agitation picked up pace, so did social media with the hashtag #Aaj_Bharat_Bandh_Hai trending worldwide till late afternoon.From the Rajasthan capital Jaipur, where ‘mandis’ were closed but shops open, there were reports of clashes between workers of the state’s ruling Congress and the BJP.In Delhi, where most main markets were open, tension spiralled with the ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) alleging that Delhi Police had put Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal under house arrest till evening. City police denied the claim but AAP leaders stuck to their stand.Farmer unions had threatened to block national highways and occupy toll plazas across the country during a ‘chakka jam’ protest from 11 am to 3 pm.All India Kisan Sabha general secretary Hannan Mollah described the shutdown as a show of strength by the farmers.“We are standing by our demand that we want a complete repeal of the three laws and will not accept any cosmetic changes… If our demands are not met, we are ready to take our agitation to the next level,” Mollah said. The protesting farmers fear the new laws will pave the way for eliminating the safety of the Minimum Support Price cushion and do away with ‘mandis’, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The government maintains the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.Opposition parties are expected to meet Kovind on Wednesday evening to raise their concerns about the three laws. “Leaders from different political parties (those opposing the farm bills) will sit, discuss and take a collective stand on the contentious farm laws before meeting President Ram Nath Kovind,” NCP chief Sharad Pawar told reporters.Farmers from Punjab and also Haryana have been the drivers of the movement against the laws. In both states, shops and commercial establishments were closed as were thousands of fuel pumps. Farmers assembled at highways and other key roads in both states since morning. All major parties in Punjab — the ruling Congress, AAP and the Shiromani Akali Dal -- extended their support.Over 50,000 government employees took mass casual leave in support of farmers, said Punjab Civil Secretariat Staff Association president Sukhchain Khaira.In neighbouring BJP-JJP ruled Haryana, the opposition Congress and Indian National Lok Dal extended their support.The Haryana Police traffic advisory had warned commuters that main national highways would be closed and the peak time of impact was expected to be between 12 noon to 3 pm.In West Bengal, where the ruling Trinamool Congress joined the Congress and the Left in supporting the shutdown but stayed away from enforcing it, the response was mixed. Railway tracks were blocked in several places and there were sit-ins on major roads.Life was hit in Bihar too with train tracks, highways and inner roads teeming with protesters as opposition parties extended their support. In Jehanabad, the movement of Patna-Palamu Express was obstructed for a few minutes until the bandh supporters, squatting on the tracks, were chased away by the police.Train services were also affected in Odisha as activists of farmers’ organisations, trade unions and political parties held sit-ins on tracks in Bhubaneswar, Cuttack, Bhadrak and Balasore.Elsewhere in the state, ruled by the Biju Janata Dal, normal life was hit with markets and offices shut and Congress and Left supporters blocking major roads. Major cities in Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh were deserted with most business establishments closed and public transport keeping away.In Maharashtra, where the ruling Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress combine extended its support, wholesale markets in major cities like Pune, Nashik, Nagpur and Aurangabad were shut. Retail shops also downed shutters in many cities.Agriculture Produce Market Committees (APMCs) were closed in many parts of the state.The state government appealed to protesters to not disrupt public transport services and buses and local trains were unaffected.“…The situation needs to be created to put pressure on the government, and to achieve this, farmers need to hit the streets. But no one should resort to violence,” said social activist Anna Hazare who went on daylong fast in his village Ralegan Siddhi village in Maharashtra’s Ahmednagar district.There was a mixed response in other states as well. In Assam, shops pulled down shutters, protesters blocked traffic and demonstrations were staged but most offices were functioning. Dozens of protesters were detained, officials said.The ruling TRS and opposition parties, including the Congress and various unions, held protests across Telangana. In Tamil Nadu, the opposition DMK and its allies, including the Congress, held protests across the state but life was mostly unaffected. In the union territory of Puducherry, ruled by the Congress, however, the ‘bandh’ call evoked a near total response. Normal life was affected in parts of Karnataka as farmers and workers hit the roads. Many organisations in the state came out in support of the bandh. In some states, including in Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Meghalaya and Arunachal Pradesh, life continued unimpeded. The three contentious laws at the centre of the farmer protests are the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-ends-peacefully-life-hit-in-some-states-as-farmers-take-national-centre-stage/story-ruPcpFo1k4QypzdBW0yIFJ.html
08-12-2020||India||Foreign ministry to fly over 60 foreign envoys to Hyderabad for Covid vaccine briefing||The Centre will tomorrow fly more than 60 heads of foreign missions to Bharat Biotech and Biological E the two biotech companies that are working on a Covid-19 vaccine, people familiar with the matter said on Tuesday. The envoys would be briefed about the progress made by scientists who are working on the vaccine.Bharat Biotech is among the three companies to have sought emergency authorisation from the government for use of the Covid vaccine. The Serum Institute of India and Pfizer India are the other two.Bharat Biotech, which has developed an Indian vaccine in collaboration with government’s National Institute of Virology, is at present in phase III trials, with over 25,000 volunteers. It uses an inactivated virus to elicit an immune response in people.The foreign ministry had earlier proposed to include Pune-based Serum Institute of India in the itinerary but later dropped the idea.The foreign ministry had last month briefed diplomats from 190 countries and international organisations about the steps taken by India to control the disease. It had then promised to organise visits to institutions engaged in Covid-19 related research and vaccine development programmes.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan told reporters that a decision on the approval request for the three vaccines could be taken in a few weeks.In all, six vaccines including Biological E.are in trial stages.Biological E, one of the two companies to interact with the diplomats, is among the six vaccine candidates that are in trial stages in India. Biological E has started early phase 1 and 2 human trials of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-fly-60-foreign-envoys-to-hyderabad-for-covid-vaccine-briefing/story-dchszVG0HPfhu0Zr7QePhO.html
08-12-2020||India||Saarc can realise full potential only in atmosphere free of terror: PM Modi||In a veiled reference to terror emanating from Pakistan, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday the full potential of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc) can only be realised in an atmosphere free of terrorism and violence. Modi, however, underscored India’s commitment to work with other countries in the region for post-Covid-19 recovery in a message on the occasion of the 36th charter day of Saarc. The eight-nation grouping’s functioning and activities have virtually stalled because of the strained relations between India and Pakistan. Besides a virtual meeting in March on the Covid-19 situation, Saarc hasn’t had any significant engagements since India pulled out of the summit that was to be held in Pakistan in 2016 in the aftermath of the Uri terror attack. Modi said in his message: “The full potential of Saarc can only be realised in an atmosphere free of terror and violence. On this 36th Saarc Charter Day, let us re-commit ourselves to defeating the forces that support and nurture terrorism, and to work collectively towards a secure and prosperous South Asia.” India, he said, “will continue to work with other countries in the region to ensure a robust recovery after the pandemic”. India is also committed to an “integrated, connected, secure and prosperous South Asia”, and will support the economic, technological, cultural and social development of the region, he added. “The early coordination between Saarc countries for dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic is an example of the benefit that our region can derive from greater collaboration,” he said, referring to the meeting held in March and the creation of an emergency Covid-19 fund with an initial contribution of $10 million from India. Saarc leaders had participated in the virtual meeting at Modi’s initiative. However, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan skipped the meet and the country was represented by its de facto health minister, who created a controversy by raising the Kashmir issue. The charter day marks the signing of the Saarc Charter in 1985 by the leaders of the member countries at the grouping’s first summit in Dhaka. The grouping now includes Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, the Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka. In a separate message on the occasion, Nepal Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli said the Saarc Charter reflects the region’s “shared vision, collective resolve and mutual pursuit to promote peace, stability and prosperity in South Asia through eradication of poverty, accelerated economic growth and advancement in socio-cultural development”. Oli described the pandemic as an “unprecedented challenge affecting not only health and economy but also social life and livelihoods in the region and beyond” and said it had compounded existing challenges such as poverty, terrorism, transnational crime and climate change. “There is a need for greater regional cooperation today than ever before. To collectively emerge from the pandemic, the situation underlines the importance of more concerted efforts, collaboration and cooperation among the member states of Saarc,” he said. Oli also called for the holding of the stalled Saarc Summit. “The longer we delay, the more will be the opportunity cost. Giving fresh impetus to the stalled Saarc process, including through the early convening of the summit, can rekindle hope among our people and provide ground to move forward,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saarc-can-realise-full-potential-only-in-atmosphere-free-of-terror-pm-modi/story-JDqQtBu0ALSlgb8kpC6WGK.html
08-12-2020||India||Serum Institute likely to supply Covid-19 vaccine at Rs 250 a dose to govt: Report||Serum Institute of India, the world’s largest vaccine producer by volume, is close to signing a supply contract with the country’s Central government and likely to fix prices at 250 rupees ($3.39) per dose of the vaccine, Business Standard reported on Tuesday, citing people familiar with the matter.The government is pinning its hopes for mass supply on Serum Institute, which lodged the first formal application for emergency-use approval of AstraZeneca’s shot on Monday.Chief Executive Officer Adar Poonawalla had earlier said the vaccine would be priced at 1,000 rupees ($13.55) per dose in India’s private market, but governments signing large supply deals would likely buy it at lower prices.Poonawalla had said Serum will first focus on supplying the vaccine to Indians before distributing it to other countries.With 9.70 million COVID-19 cases recorded so far, India is second only to the United States and is accelerating its review of vaccines developed by Pfizer Inc and AstraZeneca to authorize for emergency use, a senior official said on Monday.While the state-run Indian Council of Medical Research and Indian Ministry of Health did not respond to Reuters request for comments, Serum Institute declined to offer one. ($1 = 73.8060 Indian rupees)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-likely-to-supply-covid-19-vaccine-at-rs-250-a-dose-to-govt-report/story-3FryZ805YERh4p1HCGsODL.html
08-12-2020||India||SC stays contempt proceedings against Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari||The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed the contempt of court proceedings against Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari in connection with the alleged non-payment of the market rent for the government bungalow allocated to him as a former Chief Minister of Uttarakhand.A three-judge bench of the apex court, headed by Justice Rohinton Fali Nariman and also comprising Justices KM Joseph and Krishna Murari, stayed the contempt proceedings against Koshiyari on his petition against the notice issued to him by the Uttarakhand High Court.The bench, after hearing Koshyari’s petition, issued a notice to the Uttarakhand government and tagged his petition with a pending plea challenging the basis at which market rent rates were decided by the Uttarakhand High Court.Koshyari had moved the apex court on November 17 against the notice issued by the High Court on a plea seeking to initiate contempt proceedings against him for not paying the market rent of a government bungalow allocated to him as a former Chief Minister.Koshyari, who served as the Chief Minister of Uttarakhand between 2001 and 2002, had sought that the apex court should also grant special leave to him to file the appeal against the judgement of May 03, 2019, order of the Uttarakhand High Court.A plea filed before the Uttarakhand High Court had alleged that Koshyari has till date not paid the market rent for a government bungalow allocated to him.Acting on the plea, the High Court had on October 20, 2020, sought Koshyari’s reply for starting a contempt proceeding against him for his failure to follow a court order to pay market rent for a government bungalow allocated to him as a former Chief Minister.The plea filed before the Uttarakhand High Court had accused Koshyari of committing “willful non-compliance” of the State High Court’s May 3, 2019, order asking him to pay the market rent of the bungalow occupied by him as former Chief Minister within six months of the direction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-stays-contempt-proceedings-against-maharashtra-governor-bhagat-singh-koshyari/story-tZ2VdPt9nJ9xxg8gdrH5AM.html
08-12-2020||India||Oppn leaders to meet President on Wednesday to seek repeal of farm laws||Leaders from different opposition parties are likely to meet President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday over the ongoing farmers’ agitation and also express their concerns over the three new agriculture laws enacted by the Centre in September and seek their repeal. On Tuesday, the Congress said it was not against farm sector reforms, but those brought in through the three new farm laws do not reflect those changes. The party also reiterated its demand for a special Parliament session to scrap these laws. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar said the opposition leaders will meet to discuss the issue and formulate a collective stand on the contentious farm laws before meeting the President at 5 pm. “Tomorrow 5-6 people from different political parties are going to sit, discuss and take a collective stand. We will present our collective stand before the President,” he said. Apart from the NCP, the other opposition parties likely to join the meeting include the Congress, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) or CPI(M), the Communist Party of India (CPI), the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and the Trinamool Congress (TMC), which is a last-minute addition to the delegation. The opposition parties also supported Tuesday’s ‘Bharat bandh’ called by the farmers’ unions against the three new agriculture laws. Besides Pawar, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, CPI general secretary D Raja and TKS Elangovan of the DMK will meet the President. On Tuesday, Pawar met defence minister Rajnath Singh and the two are said to have discussed the land acquisition for the Purandar airport in Pune district. The ongoing protests by farmers have triggered a war of words between the government and the opposition parties. Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Monday said Pawar as the agriculture minister in the UPA government had asked states to amend the APMC Act and had even warned them that the Centre will not provide financial assistance in absence of the three reforms. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) also cited letters written by Pawar at that time to chief ministers in this regard. However, Pawar said the BJP is trying to divert attention by creating controversy over his letters written, asking the chief ministers to amend the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act. “I had said the APMC Act should continue but needed some reforms. There is no doubt that I had written the letter. But the new laws do not even mention APMC. BJP is just trying to divert the attention. No need to give importance,” he said at a press conference in Delhi. Meanwhile, former Haryana chief minister and senior Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda said agriculture reforms should be discussed afresh in Parliament and new laws enacted after consulting all stakeholders. He said the minimum support price (MSP) mechanism has to be incorporated in the law to protect the interest of farmers. He alleged the farm laws brought in by the BJP-led government were passed without any consultation with farmers, and these were pushed through amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “We are not against reforms but current laws must be immediately repealed and a fresh reform process initiated after consultations with all stakeholders and discussion in Parliament,” Hooda told mediapersons at a press conference. He wondered why the government did not agree to the opposition demand of bringing another law to punish those buying farm produce below the MSP. The former chief minister also alleged the BJP-led Haryana government has lost the trust of the people and of the assembly as it “mishandled” the farmers’ agitation. “I have written to the governor demanding immediate convening of the Haryana assembly as the state government has insulted farmers and lost the trust of the people,” he said. Hooda said the Congress would move a no-confidence motion against the Manohar Lal Khattar government as a large number of its supporting legislators have backed the farmers’ protest. He also said the 2019 Congress manifesto promising abolition of the APMC act was being “misrepresented” by the BJP. “We had promised to create procurement centres and mandis in nearby areas for farmers. We did that in Haryana, some even in a village with a small population of 10,000,” Hooda said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-leaders-to-meet-president-on-wednesday-to-seek-repeal-of-farm-laws/story-DkCX1MzXPmwnLyc8TQF2RI.html
08-12-2020||India||British foreign secretary begins visit on Dec 16 to focus on trade and security||As the United Kingdom prepares for an uncertain future outside the European Union, British foreign and commonwealth secretary Dominic Raab will begin a two-day visit to India from December 16 that is expected to extensively focus on bilateral trade and security. First Secretary of State Raab and foreign minister S Jaishankar are expected to review the progress made in the effort to draw up a 10-year roadmap “for a quantum jump” in the relationship between the two countries as well as the finalisation of the defence logistics agreement, according to people familiar with the matter.The visit is also seen as a precursor of the British Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s visit to New Delhi in light of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s invitation to visit India when they last spoke on November 27. PM Modi had then asked Boris Johnson to be the chief guest at India’s Republic Day parade on January 26.In the same conversation, PM Modi had tweeted that the two leaders had discussed “an ambitious roadmap for India-UK ties in the next decade” and agreed “to work towards a quantum leap in our cooperation in all areas — trade and investments, defence and security, climate change and fighting Covid-19.India’s external affairs ministry hasn’t spoken on the invite to Boris Johnson, underlining that it only comments on visits by foreign dignitaries closer to the date.South Block officials said that there has been a sea change in Britain’s attitude under the Boris Johnson administration with London demonstrating sensitivity to India’s concerns over terrorism, security and interference in its internal affairs.In contrast to 4 September 2019 when anti-CAA protesters broke glass panes of Indian High Commission in London, this time Britain responded swiftly to India’s message on anti-farmers protest on Monday. While the Khalistan supporters infiltrated the protests, the London police not only arrested the protestors but also used smoke bombs to disperse the largely Punjabi activists.It is understood that UK Homeland Secretary Priti Patel sent a message to New Delhi that London would not allow a repeat of the anti-CAA protests.While the UK has always been soft on terrorism emanating from Pakistan, Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla found acceptance of India’s concerns when he briefed his UK counterpart on November 3. Johnson has already offered a free trade agreement with India and is keen to bolster economic ties with India against the backdrop of Brexit. India-UK trade was worth £24 billion last year, and India is now the second-largest investor in the British economy. There is uncertainty in UK about trade and commerce with European powers playing hard ball and the incoming Biden administration not so convinced over Brexit. It is only natural that UK would like to strengthen trade ties with the largest democratic market in the world.From a security perspective also, officials indicated that Dominic Raab’s visit would lay the groundwork for a quantum leap for the relationship between the two countries, particularly given how the British government lately appeared to recalibrate its approach towards New Delhi and, as one academic described it, move beyond attempts to balance relationships.When news of India and the United Kingdom negotiating the defence logistics pact emerged in October, Avinash Paliwal at the School of Oriental and African Studies had interpreted it to imply a foreign policy shift in London vis-a-vis China and Pakistan. “Such a defence logistics pact affords clarity of intent i.e. the UK is increasingly wary of China and is unlikely to let Pakistan’s sensitivities hinder a truly strategic partnership with India (something that has been the case for many years),” Paliwal had said.Boris Johnson has already announced its decision to send its largest warship, HMS Queen Elizabeth, and its strike group to the Mediterranean, the Indian Ocean and East Asia in 2021, a move aimed at China amid concerns over its increased assertiveness, and the UK’s concerns over the political crackdown in its former colony of Hong Kong.The deployment is seen to be part of what has been described by London as a shift towards greater engagement with the Indo-Pacific.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/british-foreign-secretary-begins-visit-on-dec-16-to-focus-on-trade-and-security/story-HpFaaiWAJwbNAsGuk6hpAK.html
08-12-2020||India||Chhattisgarh farmers can now call emergency helpline for paddy procurement grievances||The Chhattisgarh government has decided to redress all grievances of farmers in Chhattisgarh, including those related to paddy procurement through Dial 112 service, officials said on Tuesday. Officials said the decision was taken by Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel in the larger interest of farmers. Senior officials have been told to include farmers’ grievances redressal service under Dial 112 which would be provided to the farmers during the paddy procurement season. Presently, emergency services are provided under Dial 112 and now Collector and Superintendent of Police (SP) have been directed to ensure immediate redressal of the complaints received from farmers via Dial 112. “Farmers of Chhattisgarh can get all the required information about registration of the procurement and can lodge complaints about any kind of error in the procurement system and can get seek financial assistance by calling on 112 . Under Dial 112 service, their problems and grievances would be quickly redressed and will be monitored by Collector and SPs. Every week the Chief Secretary would review the complaints received from the farmers under Dial 112 and the action taken to redress the same,” said a senior official of Chhattisgarh’s public relations department.The government’s decision comes almost a week after a 45-year-old farmer allegedly died by suicide in Bastar’s Kondagaon district. His family members claimed that he was worried about selling his paddy crops cultivated in over six acres of land after learning that the maximum area of his farm under paddy production was written off in the government record for the purpose of procurement. The district administration later suspended a revenue official for allegedly making an erroneous entry for the farmer’s paddy cultivation area in the government record. However, the administration said that the error was not the reason for the farmer’s death. The farmer was found dead on December 2. As per preliminary information, the farmer had sown paddy on his 2.731 hectare (6.70 acre) of land and was eligible to sell around 100 quintal of paddy at the minimum support price (MSP) in the cooperative society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-farmers-can-now-call-emergency-helpline-for-paddy-procurement-grievances/story-13fNEuQqExMBczCZxpq4xL.html
08-12-2020||India||Winter session of Karnataka assembly cut short, citing upcoming gram panchayat polls||The seven-day long winter session of the Karnataka Legislative Assembly will now be curtailed by three days, in the wake of the upcoming Gram Panchayat polls in the state, Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri said on Tuesday.“It was earlier decided to hold the winter session since yesterday (December 7) to December 15, but as the Gram Panchayat polls have been announced, keeping in mind the opinion of the members, it was discussed in the Business Advisory Committee meeting and it has been decided to hold the session till December 10,” Kageri said.Informing the outcome of the BAC meeting to the Assembly, he said, the proceedings of the House on Friday, Monday and Tuesday stood cancelled.The Karnataka State Election Commission has announced the polls to some 5,700 gram panchayats in the state in two phases on December 22 and 27.The results for both phases will be declared on December 30.The Speaker said, at the meeting it has been decided to take up certain replacement bills for the ordinances that have been promulgated, along with important bills if any and supplementary estimates for discussion during the next two days.The special discussion on the subject “one nation, one election” that was scheduled to take place on December 14 and 15, will now be taken up during the next session, he said.The monsoon session of legislature held in September was also curtailed by two days, due to Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/winter-session-of-karnataka-assembly-cut-short-citing-upcoming-gram-panchayat-polls/story-nU1tjUedWGOX6fJZxY3s8H.html
08-12-2020||India||Yediyurappa claims ‘no one is supporting Bharat Bandh call in Karnataka’||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Tuesday claimed that no one is supporting the farmers’ call for Bharat Bandh in Bengaluru and other parts of the state.While talking to media in Bengaluru, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader said, “No one is supporting the Bandh in Bengaluru and other parts of the state. The State and Centre are pro-farmer. Prime Minister Narendra Modi won’t take any decision against farmers.”Karnataka CM further said, “It’s not right to give the call for Bandh for political reasons. Police will take proper action on breaking the law.”The farmers’ union had called Bharat bandh on Tuesday against the newly enacted farm laws. The protest has entered into the 13th day with demonstrations continuing on Sant Nirankari Samagam ground in Burari on the outskirts of Delhi and at borders on December 8.Meanwhile, a day before the sixth round of talks between the protesting farmers and the Central government, farmer leaders have been invited to meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah at 7 pm on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yediyurappa-claims-no-one-is-supporting-bharat-bandh-call-in-karnataka/story-LIaRiPgw20rSSx6jVp4rnN.html
08-12-2020||India||No midway, just ‘yes’ or ‘no’ from Amit Shah at today’s meeting, says farmers’ leader||Hours ahead of a meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah, farmers have reiterated their stance of not compromising on their demand that the three contentious farm laws be repealed.“There is no midway, we will demand just ‘yes’ or ‘no’ from Home Minister Amit Shah at today’s meeting,” farmer leader Rudru Singh Mansa told news agency PTI.Also Read: Home minister Amit Shah to meet farmers at 7pm todayOn the day of a nationwide strike or Bharat Bandh observed in protest against the farm laws, Amit Shah invited the farmers for a meeting at his residence at 7pm. “The home minister’s office sent a message. We will meet him. Efforts to resolve the farmers’ protests are going on. Our bandh today has been successful and peaceful,” said Rakesh Tikait, the leader of Bharatiya Kisan Union’s Tikait faction, a farmers’ union. The meeting comes a day ahead of the sixth round of talks between farm unions and the government, in which both sides will try to resolve the impasse caused by the farm-reform laws approved by Parliament in September.Also Read: Sisodia says public not being allowed to meet CM, police refute allegationThe three farm laws that the farmers want the Narendra Modi government to revoke are -- the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.Farmers say the reforms would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and stop the government’s purchase of staples at guaranteed prices. The government, on the other hand, hails the laws as reforms that have opened new doors of possibilities for farmers. “These reforms have not only broken shackles of farmers but have also given new rights and opportunities for them. These rights started mitigating problems that were being faced by farmers in a short span of time,” prime minister Narendra Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-midway-just-yes-or-no-from-amit-shah-at-today-s-meeting-says-farmers-leader/story-P3spvJ4b4e3ZVrsOaf8zfN.html
08-12-2020||India||ED arrests Rahul Nanda’s aide M Shashidharan in TOPSGRUP case||TOPSGRUP’S chairman Rahul Nanda’s aide and company’s senior employee M Shashidharan was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate on Monday night in the money laundering case in which Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik has been named. According to ED sources, Shashidharan is suspected to have helped Nanda in the majority of funds transfer parts. While staying abroad Nanda was getting all the money transfers done through his company executives including Shashidharan.He is also suspected to be involved in an MMRDA deal involving money laundering with Nanda. He was working on the instructions of Nanda for money transactions, ED sources said.This is the second arrest by ED in the TOPSGRUP case. Amit Chandole, a business associate of Shiv Sena Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) Pratap Sarnaik was arrested last month. On Monday, the high court extended Chandole’s custody following a request by the ED. Shashidharan is the same person who on behalf of Nanda has filed an FIR with Mumbai Police recently against TPOSGRUP’s ex-vice president Ramesh Iyer (the complainant in ED case) and others for financial irregularities by cheating and forgery. The Mumbai EOW is now investigating the case.Sources said that ED officials may confront Chandole and Shashidharan in their custody and grill the two together in connection with the suspicious funds transfers linking MMRDA security service contracts, Nanda and Sarnaik.TOPSGRUP had obtained a contract for providing security guards for the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) projects in collusion with Pratap Sarnaik through illegal means by a “well-thought out strategy”, the ED had claimed.The agency has claimed that the aim of these illegal manoeuvres was to get additional inadmissible benefit by inflating the number of contracted security guards deployed at the cost of MMRDA and illegal cash gratification to Sarnaik for facilitating this scam. Against this “active role and criminal conspiracy”, Sarnaik used to get 50% profit earned out of the said contract and sometimes, the money used to be transferred to the account of a third person, said ED. Chandole accepted the receipt of cash from TOPSGRUP for the MMRDA projects, ED claimed. Therefore, part of the amount received by TOPDGRUP from MMRDA appears to be proceeds of crime, said ED. Previously, the Sena leader had termed ED’s actions as an outcome of vendetta politics. “The day I moved a privilege motion against (actor) Kangana Ranaut and (Republic TV editor-in-chief) Arnab Goswami, and spoke about reopening the Anvay Naik (suicide) case (in which Goswami is an accused), I knew what would happen. I am a Shiv Sainik and a fighter who has reached this far,” he said last week after ED raided his properties and questioned his son. Sarnaik on November 25 quarantined himself citing Covid-19 guidelines after returning to the state from Goa. He has asked ED for time to join the investigation. The agency said other people linked to Sarnaik’s businesses would also be soon asked to join the probe.Earlier, Nanda had also denied all the allegations. “Pratap is a very old friend and has not invested a single penny in my business or company ever. He or Sena have nothing to do with Tops. This is absolutely absurd,” he said. ED’s money laundering probe is based on a first information report (FIR) registered by Mumbai’s Yellow Gate police on October 28 on the direction of 16th metropolitan magistrate court against Nanda and his family members. The case was recently transferred to the Mumbai Police economic offences wing (EOW) for further investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-arrests-rahul-nanda-s-aide-m-shashidharan-in-topsgrup-case/story-tp0I5X1hVIBXlACoGv0iRI.html
08-12-2020||India||Bengal govt to launch scheme for kharif paddy procurement||The West Bengal government is planning to roll out a scheme to procure kharif paddy for its public distribution system, as it seeks to maintain unhindered supply of free rice to nearly 10 crore people till next June, a state minister said on Tuesday.Under the scheme, the government aims to enrol over 30 lakh farmers, state food and civil supplies minister Jyotipriya Mallick said.Nearly 13 lakh of an estimated 72 lakh paddy farmers in West Bengal have registered themselves for the scheme so far, he said.“We are planning to reach out to as many farmers as possible, with an aim to procure paddy to maintain unhindered supply of rice for our public distribution system. The scheme will be rolled out soon and we will start procuring paddy later this month,” Mallick explained.A super harvest this season and low demand have hit paddy prices, which have fallen below the government-announced minimum support price (MSP), a senior official of the agriculture department said.“We are planning to impose a ceiling on the amount of paddy to be procured from each farmer. This will help us enrol more and more farmers under this scheme,” he said.The government is planning to procure around 45 quintals of paddy from each farmer.Last year, the maximum procurement went up to 90 quintals for every farmer at an MSP of Rs 1,868 per quintal.“The price, this time, is yet to be fixed. It will be done keeping in mind the interest of the farmers,” the official said.The state also has plans to set up a special surveillance system to ensure that the enrolled farmers sell their harvest to the government and not to hoarders, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-govt-to-launch-scheme-for-kharif-paddy-procurement/story-5XsqlxtpLU6qWe5MREpmFP.html
08-12-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccines may get license in coming weeks, says health ministry||India may approve license to some developers of Covid-19 vaccine in the next few weeks, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on Tuesday. The Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech have applied for emergency use approval (EAU) of their respective vaccine candidates against coronavirus in India, Bhushan further said. Astra Zeneca and Pfizer have already applied for EAU in India. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has held talks with the all vaccine manufactures and scientists. “Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech have applied to Emergency Use Approval. PM Modi has interacted with all vaccine manufactures and scientists. 6 vaccine candidates in clinical trial stage in India,” the health ministry said during a press briefing on Tuesday.“Some of the vaccine candidates may get licensed in the next few weeks,” Bhushan added. Six vaccines, including Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Astra Zeneca’s Covidshield, are in trial stages, Bhushan added.Watch l ‘Some vaccines may get licensed in the next few weeks’: Health Ministry The Centre also informed that there are three vaccine candidates under consideration for license approval. “Three vaccine candidates are under consideration of the regulator for licensing. Very active consideration is going on. There is hope that early licensure is possible in respect of all of them or any one of them,” said Dr VK Paul, member of NITI Aayog.The health ministry also said that the Covid-19 vaccination drive will have minimal impact on routine health services including routine immunisation. “There are around 2.39 lakh vaccinators (Auxiliary Nurse Midwife-ANM) across the country. Only 1.54 lakh ANMs to be used for Covid-19 vaccination,” the health ministry said.The preparatory activities for the roll out of the Covid-19 vaccine is being carried out by Centre in collaboration with states and Union territories. “Covid-19 vaccination cannot just be a state or the Centre’s responsibility. It has to be people’s participation,” Bhushan added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccines-may-get-license-in-india-in-coming-weeks-says-health-ministry/story-5x5IMpZl8bhl9naANFjnhN.html
08-12-2020||India||Free mobile app Co-WIN to self-register for Covid-19 vaccine. All you need to know||With three vaccine-makers, including Pfizer, having applied for emergency use authorisation of their vaccine candidates in India, the vaccination drive is likely to begin shortly. The health ministry on Tuesday revealed details of how the entire vaccination programme will be conducted, though no date has been made public so far. Addressing a press meet on Tuesday, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the Centre has created an application which will monitor the process from the beginning to the end. Co-WIN, the new app which will be available for free download, is an upgraded version of the Electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network (eVIN). Here is all you need to know about the app> This app will be useful for all those engaged in the process — administrators, vaccinators and people who are going to receive these vaccine shots.> The government will be vaccinating priority groups in the first two phases: frontline workers including all healthcare professionals in the first stage and emergency workers in the second stage. While the data of these people are already being compiled by the state governments, from the third stage onwards where people with co-morbidity will be given vaccines, self-registration will be introduced. And that will happen through the Co-WIN app.Also Watch l ‘Some vaccines may get licensed in the next few weeks’: Health Ministry > There are five modules in Co-WIN app: Administrator module, registration module, vaccination module, beneficiary acknowledgement module and report module. Reports said each vaccination will take at least 30 minutes and only 100 people will be administered in each session.> The administrator module is for the administrators who will be conducting these vaccination sessions. Through this module, they can create sessions and the respective vaccinators and managers will be notified.> Registration module is for people to get registered for vaccination. It will upload bulk data on co-morbidity provided by local authorities or by surveyors. > The vaccination module will verify beneficiary details and update vaccination status.> Beneficiary acknowledgement module will send SMS to beneficiaries. It will also generate QR-based certificates after one gets vaccinated.> Report module will prepare reports of how many vaccine sessions have been conducted, how many people have attended those, how many people have dropped out etc. > The app will also send real-time data of the temperature of the cold-storage units to the main server. “Every single India who needs to be vaccinated will be vaccinated, which roughly includes one crore healthcare workers, two crore frontline workers and 27 crore of prioritised age groups,” Rajesh Bhushan said on Tuesday quoting the proposal of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration. “It is to be noted that the government will take a final call on this and these stages may not be sequential. Depending on the availability of the vaccines, these can go on simultaneously,” the secretary said. Both Serum Institute of India which is producing Oxford-Astrazeneca vaccine and Bharat Biotech, which is producing the first indigenous vaccine, have approached the regulator for emergency use licence. Pfizer India was, however, the first one to approach the Drugs Controller General of India for a licence after the United Kingdom and Bahrain gave the nod to the vaccine candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/free-mobile-app-co-win-to-self-register-for-covid-19-vaccine-all-you-need-to-know/story-BvSGknvVF3Lhw5HyeEm6DI.html
08-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Home minister Amit Shah to meet farmers at 7pm today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Home minister Amit Shah to meet farmers at 7pm todayHome minister Amit Shah has invited a group of protesting farmers for a meeting at 7pm Tuesday, two farm union leaders who will be attending the meet have said. Read more.Farmers today are much better informed, says Congress leader Kamal NathCongress leader and former chief minister of Madhya Pradesh Kamal Nath on Tuesday came out in support of the farmers protesting against Centre’s three farm laws. Nath said that the farmers today are much better informed than before. Read more.90-year-old gets first Covid-19 vaccine in UK. What’s next for Pfizer?American pharmaceutical giant Pfizer in collaboration with German biotechnology company BioNTech carried out the world’s first Covid-19 vaccination on a 90-year-old British individual, Margaret Keena, on Tuesday. Read more.Mrunal Thakur shares fitness mantra learned from co-stars John Abraham, Hrithik Roshan, Shahid Kapoor and Farhan AkhtarBeing paired opposite some of the most robust fitness enthusiasts-actors in Bollywood, Mrunal Thakur had enough direct inspiration to motivate herself towards a fit lifestyle as she worked with actors John Abraham in Batla House, Hrithik Roshan in Super 30, Shahid Kapoor in Jersey and Farhan Akhtar in Toofan. The diva gained recognition after her television show, Kumkum Bhagya which she quit to work for the international movie, Love Sonia. Read more.Mobile technology to be used for Covid-19 vaccination drive, says PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi said that mobile technology will be used for mass inoculation against Covid-19 pandemic. He also pitched for making India a global hub for telecom equipment, manufacturing, etc. Prime Minister was speaking at the fourth India Mobile Congress via video conferencing. Watch video here.Sneak peek at Ford’s upcoming India-bound SUVFord has several new products on the cards for the Indian market and the list majorly includes SUVs made in collaboration with Mahindra. Read more.India vs Australia 3rd T20I: Late DRS call from Virat Kohli against Matthew Wade proves costly for visitorsIndia captain Virat Kohli missed a chance to get rid of Australia batsman Matthew Wade early on in the 3rd T20I against Australia in Sydney. Wade has been in fine form and carried in the same form in the match, scoring 80 runs in 53 balls. Read here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-home-minister-amit-shah-to-meet-farmers-at-7pm-today-and-all-the-latest-news/story-FQxSKdqzTGEVPCOlEfqbPI.html
08-12-2020||India||Meghalaya to allow tourists from December 21||With Christmas around the corner, Meghalaya is bracing to open its doors to visitors as usual, albeit in a more structured manner keeping in mind the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic.An upbeat chief minister Conrad K Sangma announced reopening of tourism for visitors from outside the state from December 21. However, registration and abiding with the prescribed health protocols is an absolute must, the CM tweeted.“To ensure the safety of everyone, registration has been mandatory through the meghtourism app,” he said.The mobile application available on Google Play store must be downloaded and one can register or a registered tour operator can assist visitors in completing the formalities, including a mandatory upload of photo ID. As per the standarding operation procedures (SOPs) laid down by Meghalaya Tourism, visitors should provide a complete itinerary of their proposed visit and share details of confirmed bookings in hotels, guest houses, home stays for at least the first two nights.Those staying with families or friends must share their host/s’ full address and contact details and a complete itinerary is mandatory to generate the e-invite. After the generation of e-invite, the same should be presented at the entry point along with a Covid-19 negative certificate.“We are reopening for tourism and have issued SOPs for the same keeping in mind the prevailing Covid-19 scenario so as to ensure that everyone is protected within the prescribed guidelines,” tourism director CVD Diengdoh said.The state tourism department has also opened a communication channel for interested visitors who can address their queries and doubts through WhatsApp number 8132011037 from 10am to 8pm on all working days, said the department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalaya-to-allow-tourists-from-december-21/story-903JFzxbqZXPoYZVgihyPK.html
08-12-2020||India||PM Modi, Qatar emir decide to create task force for investments into India||India and Qatar decided on Tuesday to set up a special task force to facilitate investments by the Qatar Investment Authority, part of India’s ongoing outreach to key West Asian states to overcome the economic impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. The decision was made when Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke on the telephone with the emir of Qatar, Sheikh Tamim Bin Hamad Al-Thani. The two leaders also looked at potential Qatari investments in the entire energy value chain in India. The move came ahead of an expected visit to Qatar and Kuwait by external affairs minister S Jaishankar and a trip to Oman by minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan. On Tuesday, Indian Army chief Gen MM Naravane began the first ever visit by an army chief to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Saudi Arabia. The flurry of engagements are part of India’s current outreach to West Asia, seen as part of New Delhi’s extended neighbourhood and home to some nine million expatriates. The leaders of India and Qatar discussed the “robust cooperation” between both sides in investment flows and energy security, and decided to “create a special task force to further facilitate investments by Qatar Investment Authority into India”, the external affairs ministry said. Also read | Prez Macron dials PM Modi, gets support on action against terror and radicalisationThey also decided to explore Qatari investments in the entire energy value chain in India and reviewed recent positive developments in the investment and energy sectors. Modi conveyed his felicitations to the emir for the forthcoming Qatari national day of Qatar, while Al-Thani appreciated the enthusiasm with which the Indian community in Qatar participates in the celebrations.The leaders agreed to remain in regular touch and looked forward to meeting in person after the normalisation of the situation caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. In recent weeks, India has focused on the interests of Indian workers in West Asia, and Jaishankar raised the issue of the return of a large number of Indian workers and professionals who want to resume work amid the easing of Covid-19-related restrictions during a virtual meeting with the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) troika last month. The meeting was joined by senior officials of Qatar, the UAE, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Bahrain. India had despatched medicines and medical rapid response teams to West Asia amid the pandemic and also ensured that there was no disruption of food and essential supplies. This was appreciated by the GCC states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-qatar-emir-decide-to-create-task-force-for-investments-into-india/story-leqVr8oFLsMg29jZL7fqtM.html
08-12-2020||India||Bharat Bandh puts brakes on normal life in Bihar||Normal life came to a standstill in many parts of Bihar on Tuesday due to the Bharat Bandh called by farmers demanding the repeal of three farm laws.Farmers supported by various political parties and trade unions held protests against the new farm laws. Roads were mostly deserted but emergency services, including hospitals and chemist shops remained open. There has been heavy police deployment across the state to prevent any untoward incident. But despite the large number of policemen on major roads and national highways, protesters blocked many routes including state highways and Mahatma Gandhi Setu that connects north Bihar to Patna by placing burning tyres on roads, affecting vehicular traffic leading to long queues of vehicles. A few luxury cars were damaged at Ara, Patna, Muzaffarpur and Samastipur by bandh supporters.Train services too were affected due to ‘rail roko’ agitation at many stations like Jehanabad, Ara, Pawapuri, Rajgir, Laheriasarai, Saharsa, Chhapra over demands to repeal the new farm laws. Hundreds of passengers were stranded at scores of railway stations, bus stations and taxi stands from the morning. A clash between police and protesters was reported from Jehanabad after cops tried to drive away protesters from the national highway. Police said that protestors blocked the national highway after puncturing many trucks. Reports from Jamui, said a clash took out between protestors and passerby at Chakai locality. The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and Communist supporters fanned out to various parts of Patna, forcing shopkeepers to down their shutters and deflating tyres of vehicles plying on the roads. Many bandh supporters were seen carrying party flags, much to the embarrassment of their leaders who had said that instructions were in place “not to give a political colour” to the support for the bandh. All examinations scheduled for Tuesday under Magadh University and Bihar University’s jurisdiction have been postponed in view of Bharat Bandh, the university administration said. Central and state government offices registered thin attendance while banking services across the state worked unhindered. Additional director general of police (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said, “Police were deployed in large numbers across the state to ensure that the movement of essential goods and services remained unhindered”.Police patrolling across Bihar has been increased to ensure the shutdown remains peaceful. The security forces are also keeping a vigil at the railway stations to avoid any ‘Rail Roko’ protests in Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-puts-brakes-on-normal-life-in-bihar/story-hHEPPoxp74KPTi33X7WJ2N.html
08-12-2020||India||Farmers today are much better informed, says Congress leader Kamal Nath||Congress leader and former chief minister of Madhya Pradesh Kamal Nath on Tuesday came out in support of the farmers protesting against Centre’s three farm laws. Nath said that the farmers today are much better informed than before. “Are the farmers stupid that they’ve gathered here in such numbers? There’s a huge difference in the farmers from 30 years ago and now. The farmers today are much better informed,” Nath said, as quoted by ANI.Thousands of farmers from Haryana and Punjab are currently protesting in and around Delhi against the agriculture laws with a single demand that the Modi government revokes the laws approved by Parliament in September. The farmers also held a nationwide shutdown on Tuesday from 11am to 3pm, which received support from major opposition parties and lawyers. So far, several rounds of negotiations have taken place between Union ministers and farmers’ representatives to resolve the differences. However, the talks have been inconclusive. The farmers are fully prepared to carry on their ‘Delhi Chalo’ protest until their demands are meant and have stocked up on months of supplies.Now ahead of sixth round of talks, Union home minister Amit Shah has invited farmer leaders for a talk at 7pm today. “The home minister’s office sent a message. We will meet him. Efforts to resolve the farmers’ protests are going on. Our bandh today has been successful and peaceful,” said Rakesh Tikait, the leader of Bharatiya Kisan Union’s Tikait faction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-today-are-much-better-informed-says-congress-leader-kamal-nath/story-VtUWqzfnQaACh9ojcbh3xL.html
08-12-2020||India||BJP’s Vetrivel Yatra ends, party preps for 2021 Tamil Nadu polls||Tamil Nadu Bharatiya Janata Party on Monday concluded its much-publicised Vetrivel Yatra (victorious spear march) with Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan saying that the party’s winning performance in Bihar and Telangana will be repeated in Tamil Nadu and West Bengal.“The yatra will wipe out anti-national and anti-Hindu forces in the state like how Lord Murugan defeated demons,” he said speaking in Hindi translated to Tamil by BJP’s former national secretary H Raja. Several times in his speech, Chouhan likened Modi to matinee idol and AIADMK founder leader MG Ramachandran (MGR). BJP usurped MGR for its promotional content of the yatra much to the dismay of its partner, AIADMK. The yatra, which began on November 6, garnered attention primarily because BJP’s ally All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) denied permission citing Covid-19 guidelines. Also, national leaders like JP Nadda were expected to participate but their plans were foiled for lack of police permission. Defying the government’s order, BJP state president L Murugan led a massive roadshow visiting six abodes of Tamil deity Lord Muruga, across the state. BJP promised to safeguard the interest of Hindus and blamed DMK of insulting Hinduism and Hindu deities. The yatra was partially cancelled due to cyclone Nivar and Buveri.However, Tamil Nadu BJP leaders are satisfied with their yatra and their next move is twofold - to plunge into election work by strengthening booth level committees as advised by union home minister Amit Shah during his two-day visit to Chennai on November 21. The other immediate plan is to meet farmers across all districts to explain the three new farm bills amidst large scale agitations by farmers in the capital.“DMK is misleading the farmers to destroy BJP’s image,” said BJP vice-president K S Nagendiran. “They are on the backfoot because of our yatra.”Analysts say that the yatra invoking sentiments of Tamil Hindus is unlikely to garner support. “Believers of Lord Muruga who have traditionally walked for days on special pilgrimage didn’t pay attention to BJP’s rally,” said independent political researcher Geetha Narayanan. Murugan temples are present in foreign countries such as Singapore and Malaysia where there is a widespread Tamil diaspora. But after making gains in the Hyderabad municipal elections, the BJP is hopeful of a better performance in Tamil Nadu. “Every election matters to us. You climb up slowly and that is how you win the big elections,” says Khushboo Sundar, who joined the BJP in October after quitting as Congress spokesperson. “We have seen the results in Hyderabad. I’m sure in 2021 the BJP is going to make a huge mark in Tamil Nadu.”BJP’s national secretary and Tamil Nadu in-charge CT Ravi has repeatedly tried to underscore that the party treated all languages like Tamil, Kannada or Malayalam the same. “Prime Minister Modi quotes Thiruvalluvar in global meetings and brought Chinese President Xi Jinping to Mahabalipuram,” Ravi said. In the 2016 assembly elections, the BJP tied up with a few parties drawing a blank with a vote share of 2.8%. In the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, the BJP managed one seat but failed to retain it in 2019 but increased its vote share to 3.6% “It is not going to be like the previous elections where even 1,000 votes was a big factor for BJP,” says Ramu Manivanan, head of political science, Madras University. “BJP will get about 5,000-7,000 votes on their own in every constituency this election with factors like dividing the votes of oppositions, Dalits and bringing votes if actor Rajinikanth joins them,” he said. The BJP’s ideation for the yatra stemmed after the party lodged complaints against a YouTube channel Karuppar Kootam which ridiculed Kandha Sashti Kavasam, a devotional hymn dedicated to Lord Muruga. Police arrested members who made the video. The BJP has blamed DMK of backing the members but the Dravidian party has denied it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-s-vetrivel-yatra-ends-party-preps-for-2021-tamil-nadu-polls/story-B5thghpj7IKYY1aHvhW4rI.html
08-12-2020||India||BJP worker died of shotgun injuries in Monday’s rally, say Bengal police||The West Bengal Police on Tuesday morning said that a 50-year-old man who died during a pitched battle between the police and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers at Siliguri town in north Bengal on Monday afternoon, was killed with a shotgun that local law enforcement agencies do not use. The post mortem examination was conducted on Monday night. The Bengal police described the incident as “unprecedented” and said armed men were present in the BJP’s rally to incite violence. “As per the PM (post mortem examination) report “death was due to the effects of shotgun injuries.” Police do not use shotguns. It’s obvious that during yesterday’s protest in Siliguri, armed persons were brought and they fired from firearms,” the West Bengal Police said in a tweet around 10.30 am. Roy died shortly after he was rushed to a local private hospital. Police used tear gas and water cannons to stop two BJP processions from moving towards Uttar Kanya, the secretariat building in north Bengal. “The deceased received pellet injuries from a shotgun fired from close range by a person standing near the deceased in the protest program. This is unprecedented. Bringing armed persons in protest programs and inciting them to fire is unheard off,” said the state police. “There was a malafide intention to create violence by the use of firearms. CID West Bengal has been asked to investigate. Truth will come out and strong action will be taken against all those who planned and executed the heinous crime,” the police said in a third tweet. The tweets drew immediate criticism from BJP leaders who were observing bandh in Siliguri and alleging since morning that the post mortem examination was done at night to hide something. BJP workers refused to receive Roy’s body and demanded a second examination in the presence of three doctors. The second examination should be recorded on video, they said. “The report confirms our allegation that the police used firearms and Roy was shot by them. The allegation being made against us is ridiculous because Rai was shot in the chest while approaching the police barricades. Had someone in the procession shot him, the injuries would have been found on his back,” said BJP state general secretary Sayantan Basu, who is stationed in Siliguri. “We will not stop till the truth is revealed. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) government has come down to killing our workers because the ruling party knows that its days are numbered,” said Basu, referring to the assembly polls due in about five months. The BJP won seven of the eight Lok Sabha seats in the north Bengal region in 2019. The TMC defended the state police. “The police have said that it does not use shotguns that fire pellets. Someone in the rally must have been carrying a shotgun and it went off. The CID will find out the truth. A second post mortem examination cannot be conducted just because the BJP is demanding one. This requires a judicial order. The BJP may go to court if it wants to,” said TMC Lok Sabha member and party spokesperson Saugata Roy. Monday’s rally was attended by the BJP’s senior central and state leaders such as Tejasvi Surya, Kailash Vijayvargiya, Arvind Menon and Dilip Ghosh who demanded a judicial inquiry into Roy’s death. The party called a 12-hour bandh in the north Bengal region on Tuesday protesting the death and the force used by police. “We will not spare the policemen responsible for Rai’s death. They will go to jail,” Vijayvargiya, BJP’s national general secretary, said after the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-worker-died-of-shotgun-injuries-in-monday-s-rally-says-bengal-police/story-lXPV14IJk5WMObUM5W5FXN.html
08-12-2020||India||Shiv Sena never supported farm laws, says Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Tuesday said the Uddhav Thackeray-led party never supported the three farm laws in Lok Sabha as alleged by the BJP.Taking a swipe at the Centre over farmers’ protests, Raut suggested that Prime Minister Narendra Modi or Union Home Minister Amit Shah can hold talks with cultivators who are observing the Bharat Bandh against farm laws.Speaking to reporters here, Raut said the “non-political” shutdown is receiving support from the people across the country.The ruling Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress have extended their support to the Bharat bandh called by famrer unions for repeal of the three agri laws.Raut rubbished BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis’ reported comments that the Sena had supported the farm laws in Lok Sabha, saying the Uddhav Thackeray-led party never did so.“There is no politics involved in it (Bandh). There should be none. Forget about the brain, if the government has heart, then the government, be it the prime minister or home minister, will approach and speak to the farmers,” Raut said.Asked about Fadnavis’ remarks, Raut said, “This is an old issue. We did not support it (laws), never”.Raut further said that instead of talking about what happened 10 years ago, the BJP should talk about what is happening now.“The farmers who are on the streets do not have any political backing. The Leader of the Opposition in Maharashtra (Fadnavis) should understand this. The farmers do not have any political flag in their hands. Hence, he should think ten times before speaking as the leader of the opposition,” Raut said.He further said Fadnavis will understand the pains of farmers if he keeps aside political considerations and thinks “why farmers are at present ready to face even bullets on their chests”.To a question, Raut said NCP chief Sharad Pawar will definitely meet President Ram Nath Kovind along with other opposition leaders on Wednesday to raise farmers’ issues.“The President will solve the problem if he has rights. The issue will be resolved if the President can order the (Union) cabinet or the prime minister,” Raut said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-never-supported-farm-laws-says-sanjay-raut/story-rK9ao7vHm6xdSREz1tIkSK.html
08-12-2020||India||Uttarakhand AAP chief booked for leading protest march in farmers’ support||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)’s Uttarakhand unit president SS Kaler has been booked by police for allegedly violating Covid-19 norms and taking out a protest march without permission in Dehradun along with over five dozen members of the party, said police. The AAP leaders and workers were holding a protest in support of the agitating farmers. “AAP president SS Kaler and AAP workers took out a march towards the chief minister’s residence on Monday without district administration’s permission and without following the Covid norms. They were stopped at Hathibarkala from proceeding ahead.” said Manibushan Srivastava, in-charge of Dalanwala police station. Srivastava said Kaler and over five dozen AAP demonstrators have been booked under section 188 (disobedience to order), 269 (negligent act), 270 (malignant act), of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of The Epidemic Act and Disaster Management Act. “They are trying to muzzle the voice of the farmers and all those who are trying to come out in support of the farmers. But we will not be affected by such cases. We will continue to fight for the cause of the farmers”, said Kaler. Kaler said that this government has gone to the extent of house arresting Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. “Can they stop people, parties and groups from coming out in support of the farmers. We continued with our protest for farmers in Rudrapur today”, he said. In October also, Kaler had been booked for allegedly blocking a road and violating Covid-19 norms along with 50 members of the party in US Nagar district. At that time AAP leader had stated they were protesting against harassment of e-rickshaw operators and two-wheeler owners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-aap-chief-booked-for-leading-protest-march-in-farmers-support/story-v0fdyRlJ7i3cQ6ujSYxTYK.html
08-12-2020||India||Indian-origin Raj Chouhan elected speaker of Canada’s British Columbia province||Raj Chouhan, an Indian-origin legislator in Canada, has been elected as the Speaker of the British Columbia Legislative Assembly, becoming first from the community to occupy the post, according to a media report.Chouhan, who has represented Burnaby-Edmonds constituency five times in the British Columbia legislature, has served as Deputy Speaker in the previous government and would be replacing retiring Darryl Plecas as Speaker, Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (CBC) News reported on Monday.Punjab-born Chouhan immigrated to Canada in 1973 and started working on a farm.He was greatly impacted by the plight of other immigrant workers and the wide disparity between the rich and poor in a prosperous country. This contributed to his ongoing advocacy for community and social justice for workers, the report said, citing Chouhan’s biography.“I am truly grateful to have been entrusted with this role by all members of the legislative assembly,” Chouhan was quoted as saying in the report.“As a proud member of the Indo-Canadian community, I am tremendously proud of this historic occasion and honoured to continue my public service in this new role,” he added.Chouhan’s selection was the first order of business Monday as British Columbia politicians returned to the legislature for a brief session after the October election that gave the New Democratic Party (NDP) a majority government.Former NDP cabinet minister Moe Sihota called Chouhan’s selection “a historic day for British Columbia.” “We are in awe of Raj’s accomplishment and what it says about ethnic communities in general, and the degree with which we are beginning to take our place in society,” Sihota said on CBC Radio.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-origin-raj-chouhan-elected-speaker-of-canada-s-british-columbia-province/story-T6D6gw5JS59GQAYVx1HKMJ.html
08-12-2020||India||Home minister Amit Shah to meet farmers at 7pm today||Home minister Amit Shah has invited a group of protesting farmers for a meeting at 7pm Tuesday, two farm union leaders who will be attending the meet have said. The meeting, likely to take place at Shah’s residence, comes a day ahead of a crucial round of talks between farm unions and the government, the sixth time the two sides will be meeting to resolve a crisis sparked by a set of farm-reform laws approved by Parliament in September. Tens of thousands of farmers are protesting a set of pro-market agricultural laws with a nationwide shutdown from 11am to 3pm on Tuesday. Major Opposition parties have supported their strike call. The farmers have stocked up on months of supplies, preparing to dig in for months on New Delhi’s borders. “The home minister’s office sent a message. We will meet him. Efforts to resolve the farmers’ protests are going on. Our bandh today has been successful and peaceful,” said Rakesh Tikait, the leader of Bharatiya Kisan Union’s Tikait faction, a farmers’ union. Also read | Opposition leaders likely to meet President, seek repeal of farm laws“One of the issues we will raise is the arrest of several farmers in and around Delhi, including Karol Bagh. We will urge the home minister to meet our demands on the three farm laws,” said Shiv Kumar Sharma Kakaji of the Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh, a farmers’ organisation. Although previous rounds of discussions led by agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar have showed no signs of ending the impasse, the home minister has been informally talking to farmers’ representatives to facilitate a solution. The first round of talks was facilitated by several rounds of phone conversations between Shah and key farm union leaders, which took place on December 1. Farmers want the Narendra Modi government to revoke three laws approved by Parliament in September. The laws essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets to compete with a network of government-controlled agricultural markets. The government has leaned on a reformist agenda to overhaul India’s antiquated agriculture. Deregulation of agricultural markets will pave the way for more competition and better prices, the government has claimed. Farmers say the reforms would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and stop the government’s purchase of staples at guaranteed prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-amit-shah-to-meet-farmers-at-7pm-today/story-pwYu6awy6oOMsg0GwTozRP.html
08-12-2020||India||Opposition leaders likely to meet President, seek repeal of farm laws||Leaders from different Opposition parties are likely to meet President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday over the ongoing farmers’ agitation, express their concerns over the three new agriculture laws enacted by the Centre in September and seek their repeal. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar said the Opposition leaders will meet to discuss the issue and formulate a collective stand on the contentious farm laws before meeting the President. Apart from the NCP, the other Opposition parties likely to join the meeting include the Congress, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) or CPI(M), the Communist Party of India (CPI), the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and the Trinamool Congress, which is a last minute addition to the delegation. All these parties are supporting Tuesday’s Bharat Bandh call given by the farmers’ unions. Also read | Farmers to meet Amit Shah today before 6th round of talks tomorrowBesides Pawar, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, CPI general secretary D Raja and TKS Elangovan of the DMK will meet the President. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi is also likely to join but there is no official confirmation yet. On Tuesday, Pawar met defence minister Rajnath Singh and the two are said to be have discussed land acquisition for the Purandar airport in Pune district. A war of words has erupted between the government and the Opposition parties over the farmers’ protests. Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said on Monday that Pawar, as the agriculture minister in the UPA government, had asked states to amend the APMC Act and had even warned them that the Centre will not provide financial assistance in absence of the three reforms. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) also cited letters written by Pawar at that time to chief ministers in this regard. However, the NCP said after taking over as the agriculture minister, Pawar had tried to form a broader consensus among state agriculture marketing boards by inviting suggestions for the implementation of the Act. “The benefit of farmers as per the model APMC Act was explained by Pawar to various state governments, many of which came forward to implement it. Farmers across the country are gaining from the implementation of the Act which was fine-tuned by Pawar to protect farmers’ interests,” it said. Meanwhile, former Haryana chief minister and senior Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda demanded immediate convening of the Parliament session to repeal the farm laws. He also said that some reforms are needed in the agriculture sector but those have to be framed keeping in mind the interests of farmers. “I agree some reforms are needed but these should be in the interests of farmers. The Acts passed recently have no reflection of such reforms. The government should call a Parliament session to repeal these laws and discuss agricultural reforms that don’t hurt the farmers,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-opposition-leaders-likely-to-meet-president-seek-repeal-of-farm-laws/story-BODZJTBOEswV7zqse15dhL.html
08-12-2020||India||Gautam Navlakha denied spectacles in Taloja jail; Bombay HC calls for sensitization workshop for jail officials||Observing that humanity is most important, the Bombay High Court on Tuesday referred to alleged theft of activist Gautam Navlakha’s spectacles inside Taloja prison and called for the need to conduct a workshop for jail officials to sensitise them on the needs of prisoners.Navlakha is an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case.A division bench of Justices S S Shinde and M S Karnik said it has learnt about how spectacles of Navlakha were stolen inside jail and the prison authorities refused to accept the new spectacles sent by his family through courier.“Humanity is most important. Everything else will follow. Today, we learnt about Navlakha’s spectacles. This is the high time to conduct a workshop for even jail authorities,” Justice Shinde said.“Can all these small items be denied? These are all humane considerations,” he added.Navlakha’s family members on Monday claimed that his spectacles were stolen on November 27 inside the Taloja prison, where he is lodged.They claimed that Navlakha is “almost blind” without the spectacles and yet, when they sent a pair of new spectacles to him by post earlier this month, the prison authorities refused to accept it and sent it back.“Presently Gautam Navlakha is in acute distress, is unable to see things around him and consequently his blood pressure has shot up,” read a statement circulated on Monday evening by Navlakha’s lawyers that was signed by the activist’s wife Sahba Husain.The high court was hearing two petitions filed by activists, Ramesh Gaichor and Sagar Gorkhe, challenging their arrest by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case.Senior counsel Mihir Desai, appearing for Gaichor and Gorkhe, told the HC on Tuesday that the duo were arrested by the NIA only because they refused to make statements before a magistrate against the other accused in the case.The petitions also said the case should be held before the special NIA court in Pune, and not in Mumbai.“The offence is alleged to have occurred in Pune. The case was initially held before a court in Pune. However, after the NIA took over the probe, it was transferred to the special NIA court in Mumbai even when there is a special NIA court in Pune,” Desai said.NIA’s advocate Sandesh Patil sought time, following which the HC posted the matter for hearing on December 21.Navlakha had surrendered before the NIA, which is probing the nearly three- year-old case, on April 14, 2020.Between August 29 and October 1, 2018, the activist had been kept under house arrest.The case pertains to the Elgar Parishad conclave held in Maharashtra’s Pune district on December 31, 2017, which, the police alleged, was funded by Maoists.The speeches made by some activists at the conclave triggered violence near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial on outskirts of Pune city the next day, according to the police charge sheet.The NIA later took over the case in which several activists and academicians have been named as accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gautam-navlakha-denied-spectacles-in-taloja-jail-bombay-hc-calls-for-sensitization-workshop-for-jail-officials/story-7BFnnKn6aK6l9GkJYQ1UxL.html
08-12-2020||India||Indian Army chief General Naravane begins week-long visit to UAE, Saudi Arabia||Indian Army chief Gen MM Naravane on Tuesday embarked on a week-long visit to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Saudi Arabia, the first ever trip by an army chief to both West Asian states that is expected to significantly boost security ties. This is Naravane’s third foreign tour this year with diplomatic overtones, following his visits to Myanmar along with foreign secretary Harsh Shringla in October, and to Nepal in November. “The visit is historic in the sense that it will be the first time an Indian Army chief is visiting the UAE and Kingdom of Saudi Arabia,” the Indian Army said in a statement. Naravane will meet his counterparts and the senior military leadership of the two countries during the tour that will end on December 14. The army chief will be in the UAE during December 9-10, and is scheduled to meet senior military officials to discuss ways to enhance India-UAE defence relations, the statement said. He will travel to Saudi Arabia for the second leg of the tour during December 13-14 to take forward the “excellent defence cooperation” between the two countries through multiple meetings with senior functionaries of the security establishment, the statement said. Naravane will also exchange views on various defence-related issues.Also read: A boost for defence ties in West Asia | HT Editorial The army chief will visit the headquarters of Royal Saudi Land Force, the Joint Force Command headquarters and King Abdulaziz War College. He is also scheduled to visit the National Defence University to address students and faculty. People familiar with the developments said on condition of anonymity that the trip was initially slated to begin on Sunday but had to be rescheduled. The reason for this couldn’t immediately be ascertained. The two-day gap between the visits is being attributed to the holidays in West Asian states on Fridays and Saturdays. The visits are part of the Indian government’s outreach to West Asia, seen by New Delhi as part of its extended neighbourhood, and come close on the heels of external affairs minister Jaishankar’s visit to Bahrain and the UAE during November 24-26. This outreach has dramatically expanded defence and security cooperation, especially in counter-terrorism, in recent years. During the visit to Myanmar in October, Naravane and Shringla held talks with the senior leadership, including Aung San Suu Kyi and Senior Gen Min Aung Hlaing, on security and development cooperation. Naravane’s visit to Nepal prepared the grounds for Shringla’s subsequent trip, with both engagements helping nudge bilateral ties towards normalcy after a border row over a new political map issued by Kathmandu that included Indian territories. The latest visit comes against the backdrop of the fast-changing situation in West Asia after the UAE, Bahrain and Sudan normalised relations with Israel. Saudi Arabia and the UAE are home to a majority of the nine million Indian expatriates in West Asia, whose annual remittances amount to about $48 billion. The visit also comes at a time when Pakistan’s ties with Saudi Arabia and the UAE are strained. Angered by Islamabad’s criticism of Riyadh’s position on the Kashmir issue, Saudi Arabia recently sought the early repayment of a $3-billion loan provided to the Imran Khan government in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-chief-general-naravane-begins-week-long-visit-to-uae-saudi-arabia/story-Vcvcqya5AccFh6jvbRCVaI.html
08-12-2020||India||Farmers to meet Amit Shah today before 6th round of talks tomorrow||As the four-hour Bharat Bandh called by farmers protesting against the farm laws recently passed by Parliament comes to a close, farmers are likely to meet Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday. National spokesperson of Bhartiya Kisan Union Rakesh Tikait said farmer leaders will meet the home minister on Tuesday at around 7pm.The farmers’ unions which have been protesting since November 26 demanding an immediate withdrawal of the farm laws that they apprehend will corporatise farming are scheduled to meet Union ministers on Wednesday for another round of talks. In Wednesday’s meeting, the Centre is supposed to new draft to the farmers, though both sides remain quite unwavering on their stance — the protesting farmers on their demand to completely withdraw the laws, and the Centre on its decision to amend the laws instead of withdrawing.Click here for live updates of farmers’ protest and Bharat BandhHectic parleys went on throughout Tuesday in preparation for Wednesday’s talks as agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar met Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar. So far, there have been five rounds of negotiations between the farmers and the Centre since September. The farmers walked out of the first meeting in September as there was no minister present in the meeting. Three rounds of talks took place in December after the farmers started their ‘Dilli Chalo’ protest. Though there has been no headway so far, the proposed meeting between the farmers and home minister Amit Shah comes as a significant development, indicating that the top level of the government is engaged in addressing the farmers’ issues and overcoming the stalemate situation.On Wednesday, several opposition parties will also meet and take a collective stand on the ongoing farmers’ protest before meeting President Ram Nath Kovind, NCP president Sharad Pawar has said. The ongoing protest against Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 gathered momentum after political parties, celebrities supported farmers’ cause. The call for nationwide strike on December 8 too received support from political parties, a number of trade, transport, bank unions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-to-meet-amit-shah-today-before-6th-round-of-talks-tomorrow/story-LSv9OAIc5A2SFTACpTWI9K.html
08-12-2020||India||More farmers arrive from Haryana, Punjab; bandh likely to hit supply of rations for protesters||More farmers from Punjab and Haryana trickled in at the Singhu border on tractor-trolleys and cars on Tuesday amid heavy security presence as a nationwide protest called their representatives against the Centre’s agri laws was underway.The ‘Bharat Bandh’, however, hit the supply of essentials, including rice, wheat flour, lentils, oil, milk, soap and toothpaste, for the protesters camping at the border for the 13th day on the trot.“Obviously, the rations supply will be hit. But we have enough stacked up for another 2-3 months. We have come prepared for a long haul,” Gurjaint Singh from Panipat said.But the numbers have started to swell as many more are coming in on bicycles and carts, he said.At lunch time, the protesters sat in rows for a langar organised by several non-profit organisations.After relishing lip-smacking meals, some went back to rest on their trolleys, while others listened intently to their leaders speaking from podiums.Punjabi and Haryanvi songs blared from speakers fitted on tractors as youngsters in jeeps and cars filled service lanes in the area.Many one-stop kiosks along the road have been doling out items of daily need, including inner wear, hair oil, skin cream, socks and soaps, for free to the protesters.Their numbers has been increasing every day, Rajinder Singh Kohli from Mohali said.Fewer vehicles plied on roads amid the bandh called by protesting farmer unions. App-based cabs, auto-rickshaws and DTC buses, however, could been seen on the roads. Most of the shops on the roads leading to the Singhu border remained shut. Agitating farmer unions have threatened to block national highways and occupy toll plazas across the country during their ‘chakka jam’ protest from 11 am to 3 pm as part of their stir. Emergency services will be exempted during the bandh.In its wake, the Delhi Police beefed up security at all border points and made arrangements to maintain law and order across the city, including market places. The bandh has been called against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020, all of which were passed by Parliament recently.The three farm laws enacted in September have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The Centre has repeatedly asserted that these mechanisms will remain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-farmers-arrive-from-haryana-punjab-bandh-likely-to-hit-supply-of-rations-for-protesters/story-PvxukYdINm1xNfchDURpeM.html
08-12-2020||India||Delhi auto-taxi union stays away from Bharat Bandh despite supporting farmers||Asserting that the autorickshaw and taxi drivers have already been suffering because of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, Delhi auto-taxi Union decided to stay away from the Bharat Bandh call by farmers, agitating against the new agricultural laws, on Tuesday.Delhi auto-taxi Union General Secretary Rajendra Soni said they support the demands of the farmers, but not the bandh. “Due to the coronavirus pandemic, the auto-taxi drivers have been suffering a lot. In such a situation it is not right to go on strike.”He alleged that the Congress and Aam Aadmi Party(AAP) are doing politics on this issue. “The auto-taxi drivers are being pressurised by the workers of both the parties since morning today to stay away from roads,” he alleged, making it clear that the auto-taxis will run under any circumstance.Many auto-taxi drivers also made it clear that they will continue with their work like normal days. On the other hand, people, especially commuting to and from Noida, Faridabad, and Gurugram are facing trouble, as autorickshaw and taxi drivers avoided going out of Delhi.Farmers have been protesting at different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws -- Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Farmers’ leaders have held several rounds of talks with the central government but all of them remained inconclusive so far. After the fifth round of talks, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar has called another meeting on December 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-auto-taxi-union-stays-away-from-bharat-bandh-despite-supporting-farmers/story-54NHQiJdPpcjbLMmqubhxK.html
08-12-2020||India||‘This is not LoC,’ AAP tweets after Delhi Police clarify Kejriwal not under ‘house arrest’||After the Delhi Police on Tuesday clarified that Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal was not put under house arrest and the claims earlier made by the Aam Aadmi Party were totally “baseless and unfounded”, the party again posted a photo of the heavy police deployment in front of Kejriwal’s house and said this is not Line of control. “No! This is not LOC. This is CM’s residence. Does the Chief Minister of India’s capital deserve this treatment? His crime? He supported India’s farmers,” the party wrote after tweeting several photos and videos of Kejriwal’s house. It also said AAP MP Bhagwant Mann was stopped from meeting Kejriwal. Also Read: AAP alleges Arvind Kejriwal under house arrest; Delhi Police deny claim No! This is not LOC. This is CM's residence. Does the Chief Minister of India's capital deserve this treatment? His crime? He supported India's #farmers#BJPHouseArrestsKejriwal #आज_भारत_बंद_है pic.twitter.com/XB5offInZ4“Heavy police force deployed and have surrounded the residence of CM. Entry/exit of people has been banned. But police is allowing BJP councillors to protest right in front of the gate,” the party tweeted.  Latest visuals from CM @ArvindKejriwal's residence.Heavy police force deployed and have surrounded the residence of CM. Entry/exit of people has been banned. But police is allowing BJP councillors to protest right in front of the gate. #BJPHouseArrestsKejriwal pic.twitter.com/61uThHcnV7Delhi Police has repeatedly refuted AAP’s claim that Kejriwal’s movement has been restricted. Delhi’s Special CP Satish Golchha said Kejriwal has been meeting his usual engagements and has also gone out of his residence. “There is adequate security in the area to maintain peace and to prevent any untoward incident,” he said, adding that there will be police intervention if there is any attempt to block the movement of any leader or person. AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj on Tuesday morning Kejriwal has been put under house arrest as not even his domestic help has been allowed to enter his house. The CM had to cancel all his scheduled meetings on Tuesday, he said.“On a day when the entire country is supporting the farmers in the Bharat Bandh, the Central government’s home ministry has asked the Delhi Police to not allow Kejriwal to leave his residence. Yesterday, when Kejriwal, along with all his Cabinet colleagues, went to Singhu border to meet the protesting farmers as a sewadar, the BJP-led Central government got scared. It is the same way as they got upset when Kejriwal did not allow the Delhi Police to convert nine stadiums into temporary jails for the farmers,” Bhardwaj said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/this-is-not-loc-aap-tweets-after-delhi-police-clarify-kejriwal-not-under-house-arrest/story-rKhKnVGqZiZumw7HPz3stM.html
08-12-2020||India||Mt Everest’s new height is 8,848.86 metres, say Nepal and China||The height of the world’s highest peak, Mount Everest, is 8848.86 metres, Nepal and China on Tuesday jointly announced ending a long-standing debate about the height of the world’s tallest mountain.The new height is 86 cm - a little less than 3 feet - more than the previous measurement, the country’s foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali said at a briefing on Tuesday. The height of the mountain peak that straddles the Nepal-China border, was announced simultaneously by Nepal’s foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in Kathmandu and Beijing, according to the Kathmandu Post.“This is a historic day,” Foreign Minister Gyawali said, while making the much-awaited announcement on Tuesday.Nepal had been working on measuring Mt Everest’s height since 2011.The official Everest snow height of 8,848 meters (29,028 feet) was measured by the Survey of India in 1954.The precise height of Mount Everest had been contested ever since a group of British surveyors in India declared the height of Peak XV, as it was initially called, to be 8,778 metres in 1847.Between 1849 and 1855, the Survey of India made observations from Dehradun, India base to Sonakhoda base in Bihar during which the Himalayan peaks of Nepal were also observed. At that time it was not known that this peak in the Himalayas was the highest in the world. During computations, the mean computed height of Peak XV came out to be 8839.80 metres, and it was later named after Sir George Everest, the ex surveyor-general of India. The widely accepted height of 8,848 metres was determined by the Survey of India in 1954 from Bihar using the trigonometric method.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mt-everest-s-new-height-is-8-848-86-metres-say-nepal-and-china/story-nzpE6jqjV3IPmkXIG04dSJ.html
08-12-2020||India||No buses to Delhi, Uttar Pradesh from Uttarakhand due to Bharat Bandh||The Uttarakhand Road Transport Union on Tuesday decided to not run buses to Delhi, Uttar Pradesh over safety of passengers during Bharat Bandh hours. Ashok Chaudhary, state general secretary of Uttarakhand Roadways Employees Union, said that inter-states buses will ply only after 3 pm. “Looking at the safety of passengers during the Bharat Bandh, we decided to not ply buses to Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and other plain areas of the state. There is a chance of violence due to the bandh. We are still monitoring the situation and will start the service after the bandh ends,” said Chaudhary. He added that the buses are likely to leave for different states after 2:30 pm. “Taxi and private car services were functional in the state but only in the hilly regions. In plain areas like Dehradun, Haridwar, and Udham Singh Nagar there is a chance of violence; so we informed passengers in advance. No one showed up at the bus terminals in the state in the morning hours of Tuesday,” he added. Meanwhile, Dehradun district administration and police have appealed to people to not forcefully close shops or other establishments during Bharat Bandh. Dehradun district magistrate Ashish Shrivastava instructed all the additional district magistrates, deputy district magistrates to take concrete steps to maintain peace in their respective areas. “No one will be allowed to forcibly disrupt any establishment or means of transportation. If someone voluntarily stops operating their establishment or vehicles, it will be their choice. Apart from this, if anyone tries to forcibly disrupt any establishment or vehicle then legal action will be taken against them,” said the district magistrate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-buses-to-delhi-uttar-pradesh-from-uttarakhand-due-to-bharat-bandh/story-1ROaq4z0bumLKx30KwFN0I.html
08-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Haryana CM Khattar to meet agriculture minister Tomar today||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar is scheduled to meet Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Tuesday to discuss the ongoing farmers’ protest demanding rollback of the recently passed farm laws.The meeting comes a day before the sixth round of meeting between the government and the farmers’ representatives. It also comes amid speculation that the Khattar government in Haryana could come under a cloud as its ally, the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), has joined the chorus for revisiting the recently enacted farm laws. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), however, appears unfazed by the JJP’s stand. According to a senior party functionary, statements from five JJP MLAs who have expressed support for the ongoing farmers’ protest should not be read as an indication of partnership being on the verge of breaking.Catch LIVE Updates of Bharat Bandh here“It is obvious that a political party that counts farmers among its core supporters cannot shy away from taking up their concerns. So the statements from the JJP leaders are politically expedient,” the senior functionary quoted above said. While there is speculation that the JJP could go the Shiromani Akali Dal’s way and break its alliance with the BJP over the farm laws, the BJP leadership in Delhi appeared confident that there is no threat to the Manohar Lal Khattar government in Haryana. “The JJP is in no position to pull out (support) from the government. There appears to be no imminent threat to the Khattar government. Even if the Congress tries, JJP a will not extend support them. Besides, they are short of numbers and cannot ratchet up a government,” the functionary said. The leader also added that the Union government has indicated that it will address the concerns that famers have about certain provisions in the laws. “For instance, there is a fear that in contract farming, the remuneration may begin to decrease after a few years. There are provisions and rules by which such concerns can be addressed. The government is open to making rules that will benefit the farmers,” the leader said.The JJP has been cautious in its demands and has urged the government to consider the demand from farmers that a guarantee for MSP should be given in writing and be made part of the laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-haryana-cm-khattar-to-meet-agriculture-minister-tomar-today/story-vNjb9wHNo61e63UHH7nIVL.html
08-12-2020||India||Pfizer, Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech apply for EUA in India: Here’s what might happen next||Hopes for an early vaccine for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India have been rekindled after three firms, within days of each other, applied for emergency use authorisation (EUA) of their respective vaccine candidates in the country. While America’s Pfizer Inc was the first to apply on December 4, Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited applied on December 6 and 7 respectively.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageWhile SII will manufacture in India the Oxford University-AstraZeneca vaccine candidate, Covishield, Bharat Biotech’s candidate, Covaxin, is the country’s first, and thus far only, indigenously developed vaccine candidate. According to reports, the EUA applications of all three companies will be reviewed on Wednesday.Here’s what is likely to happen next:1. The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) describes EUA as “mechanism to facilitate the availability and use of medical countermeasures, including vaccines, during public health emergencies, such as the current Covid-19 pandemic.” For approval for full-time use, a company needs to submit, among other information, data on the vaccine candidate’s efficacy.Also Read | Emergency use authorisation for Covid-19 vaccines explained2. In India, the power to grant EUA lies with the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO). However, there are no provisions for EUA under India’s drug regulations. In such a scenario, processes to obtain EUA here are not clearly defined. However, CDSCO had granted permission for the use of drugs like remdesivir and favipiravir in June, and itolizumab in July.3. Since there are no fixed rules for granting EUA in India, the minimum efficacy that a candidate needs to have to be granted permission for use in emergency cases is not yet known. In FDA’s case, the agency says it would consider a EUA application only if the vaccine candidate has shown at least 50% efficacy in phase 3 trials. Additionally, the data should have been generated from more than 3,000 participants.4. In terms of how long it might take for a vaccine candidate to be granted EUA in India, Dr VK Paul, NITI Aayog member, told NDTV it might take 90 days for an EUA application to be reviewed and permission to be granted. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) is the department within CDSCO which grants such approvals.5. Globally, Pfizer has filed for EUA in the United States and the application is likely to be reviewed this week. The United Kingdom on Tuesday initiated the use of Pfizer’s vaccine candidate in emergency cases. Bahrain, too, has granted EUA for the US firm’s vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pfizer-serum-institute-and-bharat-biotech-apply-for-eua-in-india-here-s-what-might-happen-next/story-n1AFFRpKMQdDkNGsStbsgM.html
08-12-2020||India||Snowfall in higher reaches of Kashmir valley||The famous ski-resort of Gulmarg and other higher reaches of Kashmir received snowfall for the second day on Tuesday, while the plains were lashed by rains, the MET Office.It said there would be a decrease in precipitation in the union territory from Wednesday.Snowfall continued in many areas in the higher reaches of the valley on Tuesday with Gulmarg, in north Kashmir, recording about seven inches of fresh snowfall, officials said.They said other areas like Gurez, Mughal Road and Zojilla axis on Srinagar-Leh road also received fresh snowfall which was going on when the last reports came in.The officials said most places in the plains of the valley received heavy rains which continued this morning.The fresh snowfall and rains have led to the closure of the Srinagar-Leh road – connecting the Kashmir valley with Ladakh u– as well as the Mughal Road – the alternate road-link connecting the valley with the Jammu region, the officials said.The MET Office on Monday issued an ‘Orange Colour’ weather warning for hilly areas of J-K and Ladakh and said the weather was most likely to deteriorate on Tuesday in both the UTs.It said there would be decrease in the precipitation across both the union territories from Wednesday.However, there is a possibility of another spell of widespread rains/snowfall on Saturday, the MET Office said.Gulmarg was the only place in the Kashmir valley to record sub-zero temperatures last night as the mercury there settled at a low of minus 2.4 degrees Celsius, the officials said.All the remaining weather stations in the valley, including Pahalgam, recorded the minimum temperature above zero degrees Celsius, with the night temperature in Srinagar settling at a low of 2.4 degrees Celsius, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/snowfall-in-higher-reaches-of-kashmir-valley/story-VFmDdIIjzShIGGJvqtkTQP.html
08-12-2020||India||Bharat Bandh: BJP scared of farmers and Kejriwal, says deputy CM Manish Sisodia||Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Tuesday the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is perplexed and scared by farmers and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal as it thinks he might take to the streets in favour of the agitating agriculturists’ call for the Bharat Bandh. “The BJP is perplexed by the farmers and CM Kejriwal. They are perplexed after he went to meet the farmers at Singhu border. He has been put under house arrest ever since he returned, his house has been barricaded. Entry and exit of people are not being allowed,” Sisodia told news agency ANI. “The BJP is scared that the chief minister will take to the streets in favour of Bharat Bandh and speak for farmers. They don’t say anything to Captain Amarinder Singh because the two are colluding to call the farmers anti-nationals,” he said referring to the Punjab chief minister.Earlier in the day, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) had also alleged in a tweet that the Delhi Police, on the directions of the central government, “has almost“ put Kejriwal under house arrest ever since he returned from Singhu border after meeting the protesting farmers. The Delhi Police, however, categorically denied the allegations and said it is “general deployment” and that the CM’s movement has not been barred in any way.“The Delhi Police will intervene in case of apprehension of breach of peace or any effort is made to block the movement of any critical leader or any person. These claims are totally baseless and unfounded. There is absolutely no restriction whatsoever. The chief minister has been meeting his usual engagements and has been moving out of his residence. There is adequate security in the area to maintain peace and to prevent an untoward incident,” Satish Golchha, Delhi Police’s special commissioner, said.The four-hour Bharat Bandh or the nationwide strike started on Tuesday at 11am. Several political parties such as the Congress, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Trinamool Congress (TMC), Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Shiv Sena, Left parties and many others have extended their support to the farmers ‘call for the strike.The farmer unions are observing the strike against the three newly-enacted farm laws - Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The Centre’s offer to amend the contentious laws failed to cut ice with farmer groups during the fifth round of talks on December 5. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has called another meeting on December 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-bjp-scared-of-farmers-and-kejriwal-says-deputy-cm-manish-sisodia/story-fsZGuOM28yzXMLJ6BKUVJK.html
08-12-2020||India||Teeth of musk deer, head recovered from 5 poachers in Uttarakhand||Five alleged poachers, including four Nepalis, with body parts of musk deer and mountain goat were arrested from Uttarakhand’s Nanda Devi National Park and sent to 14 days of judicial custody on Monday, said officials. NB Sharma, divisional forest officer of Nanda Devi National Park, said that during patrolling, forest staff found unusual footsteps of humans and traces of fire. “On Sunday morning, while patrolling forest staff found the footsteps of humans and saw a local walking around in the forest area. The staff stopped the man, who must have been a porter and was coming down to stock up groceries, and interrogated him. Through that man, the forest staff found the other four poachers,” said Sharma. Sharma said that four teeth of musk deer, one head, skin and two legs of a mountain goat were recovered from the poachers along with wires used for trapping the animals. The five were arrested late on Sunday night and were presented in court on Monday. They were charged under relevant sections of the Wildlife Protection Act, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/teeth-of-musk-deer-head-recovered-from-5-poachers-in-uttarakhand/story-tE3NujUUltwbleEavjyCmJ.html
08-12-2020||India||Odisha Lokayukta orders probe into alleged scam in purchase of PPE kits||The Odisha Lokayukta has asked the state vigilance department to probe alleged irregularities in the purchase of PPE kits, masks and other equipment during the Covid pandemic early this year and submit the preliminary report within two months.After the final hearing in the case filed by petitioners Sudarsan Das and Susanta Padhi was over on Monday, Lokayukta Ajit Singh ordered the probe.“A preliminary inquiry has to be conducted by the director of vigilance to see whether to combat Covid-19, essential pharmaceutical good and critical equipment, including 3-layered masks, were purchased on higher rates by Hemant Sharma and other public servants with an ulterior motive for their wrongful gain,” the Lokayukta said in his order.The anti-corruption body also said a competent officer not below the rank of Superintendent of Police/additional Superintendent of Police having impeccable integrity has to complete the probe within the next two months.The order came after industry secretary Hemant Sharma and managing director of Odisha State Medical Corporation Yamini Sarangi appeared before the Lokayukta, in connection with the alleged irregularities in the purchase of PPE kits and masks.Sharma, currently working as principal secretary of the industries department, in April was given the charge procurement for Covid-19 as chief minister Naveen Patnaik asked his officials to be “prepared for the worst”. The officer was among the key people who led the ‘emergency procurement’ team dealing with purchase of personal protective equipment, viral transport media, testing kits and other medical essentials required in the management of the disease.In their petition, the complainants had alleged that there was corruption in the procurement of masks, testing kits, Real Time Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) machines, Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits, Bi-level Positive Airway Pressure (BiPAP) machines, nebuliser, etc, during the Corona pandemic by the Odisha State Medical Corporation Ltd and Hemanta Sharma, who was entrusted by the state government to supervise the process of procurement.On April 6 this year, Sarangi, the MD of OSMC, had issued a public notice seeking an open tender for the purchase of triple layer face mask at Rs 10/- per piece but on April 17, the corporation purchased 30 lakh face masks from M/s Vishnu Disposable Pvt Ltd, Tamilnadu at Rs 16/- per piece flouting the modalities of procurement. The petitioners had alleged that Hemant Sharma was the chief architect of the purchase and his complicity is well made out when he publicly said that blank cheques have been issued for the purchase of the essential pharmaceutical goods and critical care equipment.The complainants alleged that the same quality of masks was purchased by different states at much lower prices.The complainants also alleged that even other essential pharmaceutical goods and critical care equipment were purchased at much higher rates by the officials with an ulterior motive of wrongful gain.Both Sharma and Sarangi in their replies before the Lokayukta denied the allegations of corruption and wrongful gain. Sharma said the procurement was absolutely transparent with no preferential treatment to any supplier.Sarangi said all the procurements were made mainly to protect the people from Covid-19 virus and save their precious lives and that too after approval by the Emergency Procurement Committee and Empowered Group of Ministers as well as by the state Cabinet.Pradipta Kumar Mohapatra, additional chief secretary of health and family welfare department, said the process of procurement was undertaken before he joined.“The complaints have to be viewed from a standpoint that the scourge of Covid-19 pandemic has been unprecedented, causing unforeseen consequences and hazards. Apart from the fact that it is a viral disease, the world knows little how to combat it. On the emergence of a situation like this, in a welfare state, the response of the government, to arrest the menace of the pandemic has necessarily to be an out of box one. Nevertheless, in a parliamentary democracy, the people have a right to know, whether the response of the government to the present pandemic, has been an honest one and up to their desired expectation,” the Lokayukta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-lokayukta-orders-probe-into-alleged-scam-in-purchase-of-ppe-kits/story-BapZzKq92BE82YKI6JQI3L.html
08-12-2020||India||Bharat Bandh: Delhi Metro shuts entry, exit of one station on Green Line||Amid Bharat Bandh on Tuesday, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation shut the entry and exit gates of Pandit Shree Ram Sharma Station on Green Line. The station is located in the Bahadurgarh district of Haryana and is near Tikri border — one of the places where farmers are protesting against the three agriculture laws passed by Parliament in September.  Security UpdateEntry & exit gates of Pandit Shree Ram Sharma station on Green Line are closed.With several transport and trade unions extending their support to the nationwide strike called by the farmers, cabs, auto-rickshaws are fewer on the road. However, Delhi Metro services are running as usual, including on sections extended to Noida, Haryana. Today’s bandh is a symbolic one, as farmers leaders have said, which should not inconvenience people. “Our bandh is different from that of political parties. It is a four-hour symbolic bandh for an ideological cause. We want that there should be no problem to the common people. We appeal to them not to travel during this period,” farmer leader Rakesh Tikait had said. The protesters also said essential services are exempted from today’s bandh and no one is forced to join the shutdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-delhi-metro-shuts-entry-exit-of-one-station-on-green-line/story-LsU9kKAKZkaDOiQVP8X2xI.html
08-12-2020||India||Modi govt doesn’t understand D of Democracy: CPI(M) leader Brinda Karat||Slamming the BJP government at the Centre for not listening to the voices of farmers, Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader Brinda Karat on Tuesday said that the Modi government doesn’t understand the D of Democracy.Asserting that farmers of the country don’t want reforms, Karat asked “who is the Central government bringing the reforms for?”“Democracy starts with the D and the Modi government does not even understand the D of democracy. This government does not understand the meaning of democracy. Whom are the reforms for when the farmers are saying they don’t want this?” Karat said.Alleging that the Central government wants multinational companies to take over the entire farm trade, she said that the reforms have been brought for the welfare of big corporations.“Modi government wants reform for big corporations. The government wants the reform for the big multinational companies to take over the entire trade. The government wants to push down the minimum support price that is a Kisan requires in any democratic country. These are not the reforms, this is destruction,” Karat said.“The BJP has shown its true colours. The reality is that it is not just opposition parties, it is the people of India who is standing by the farmers. Unlike this government, the people of India understand what is the future of our country will be if farmers are oppressed this way,” she added.This comes amid the ‘Bharat Bandh’ called today by the thousands of farmers who have been protesting at different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the farm laws, recently passed by the Central government.Leaders of farmer groups have held several rounds of talks with the government but all of them remained inconclusive so far. After the fifth round of talks, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar has called another meeting on December 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-govt-doesn-t-understand-d-of-democracy-brinda-karat/story-PUZ2YI6BAtux4R6E3lu7OP.html
08-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1pm: India to spend money, not worry about widening fiscal gap, says Nirmala Sitharaman and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Nirmala Sitharaman says India is not worried about widening fiscal gap, will step up spendingIndia will not worry about missing its budget deficit target as it seeks to step up spending to support the economy, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said. The stimulus spending won’t be wound down in a hurry, she said in an interview to Bloomberg TV. The government and the central bank together have done a good balancing act, she added. Read moreBharat Bandh: AAP alleges Arvind Kejriwal under house arrest; Delhi Police deny claimThe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday alleged that the Delhi Police, on the directions of the Central government, “has almost“ put chief minister Arvind Kejriwal under house arrest ever since he returned from Singhu border after meeting the protesting farmers. The Delhi Police, however, categorically denied the allegations and said it is “general deployment” and that the CM’s movement has not been barred in any way. Read more‘Mobile technology will help India embark on one of the largest Covid-19 vaccination drives’: Prime Minister Narendra Modi at IMC 2020Prime Minister Modi said on Tuesday India will use mobile technology for mass inoculation against the coronavirus disease in the country as chances of the availability of a Covid-19 vaccine soon going up. The Prime Minister said mobile technology has enabled benefits worth billions of dollars to reach the deserving and also helped the poor and vulnerable during the pandemic. “It is also with the help of mobile technology that we will embark on one of the world’s largest Covid-19 vaccination drive,” he said without giving details. Read moreRelief for small businesses: Now, only four GSTR-3B returns a year instead of 12Goods and Services Tax (GST) taxpayers having annual aggregate turnover up to Rs5 crore will require filing only four tax returns (GSTR-3B) in a year instead of 12 monthly returns that would provide major relief to about 9.4 million small businesses, two officials said. The ‘Quarterly filing of Return with Monthly Payment’ or QRMP scheme would impact about 92% of the total tax base under the GST regime, officials working in the Union finance ministry said requesting anonymity. Read moreAfter MS Dhoni, Virat Kohli, he has the opportunity to be next global superstar: Michael Vaughan predicts big things for India starIt has almost been a second coming of all-rounder Hardik Pandya. The dynamic all-rounder had a tough 2019 when he had to undergo a back surgery that kept him out of the team for several months. When he finally got a chance to play for India in the home series against South Africa in March, the pandemic situation changed the plans - leading to the cancellation of the series. Read moreHyundai to recall Kona EV, Nexo hydrogen SUVs to fix faulty brakesHyundai Motor Co is planning to recall a total of 50,864 Kona electric cars and Nexo fuel cell vehicles in South Korea due to faulty electronic braking systems, the transport ministry said. Their braking systems may not function due to software defects, the ministry said, but did not mention if the defects have led to accidents. Read moreHere’s what happened when Esha Deol introduced Bharat Takhtani to DharmendraA daughter will always have an upper hand at pulling her father’s heartstrings more than a son and Dhoom star Esha Deol seemed to be doing just that on Dharmendra’s 85th birthday this Tuesday. Setting all daddies’ girls relating, Esha penned a heartwarming note and shared it with a twinning picture which sent possessive elder daughter vibes right to the core of the netizens’ hearts. Read moreRedditors are freaking out at this pic of a kitchen aisle. Can you spot what it is?Ghosts- Do they exist or is it just a hoax? This question results in different answers from different people. But, whichever answer you pick, this Reddit post may intrigue you if you are also curious about this particular topic. Even if you’re not, the image shared in the post may send a shiver down your spine. Watch ‘Kejriwal under house arrest; orders from MHA’: AAP MLA slams CentreAam Aadmi Party MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj has alleged that Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal has been put under house arrest. The AAP leader said that Delhi police officials have barricaded Kejriwal’s house since his return from the Singhu border after meeting farmers. Bharadwaj said that no party leader is being allowed inside the Chief Minister’s residence and said that this is being done on the instructions of the Ministry of Home Affairs. The AAP leader said that the Centre has been miffed since the state government rejected the Centre’s appeal to turn Delhi’s stadiums into jails for farmers. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1pm-india-to-spend-money-not-worry-about-widening-fiscal-gap-says-nirmala-sitharaman-and-all-the-latest-news/story-57SO0coW0YoJaPsJdR57VO.html
08-12-2020||India||J&K: Detained at home ahead of Budgam visit, alleges Mehbooba||Former J&K chief minister and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti alleged that she had been detained at her house ahead of her visit to Budgam district on Tuesday.She posted a video on her Twitter handle, claiming that she had been detained by the police. “Illegal detention has become GOIs favourite go to method for muzzling any form of opposition. I’ve been detained once again because I wanted to visit Budgam where hundreds of families were evicted from their homes,” she tweeted. In the video shot near the entrance of her official residence at Fairview Gupkar, she can be heard saying that she is not being allowed to move out and later, the Lt Governor says that they (leaders) are free.“GOI wants to continue inflicting oppression & zulm on the people of J&K without any questions asked,” she tweeted while posting another video in which the former chief minister, along with PDP spokesman Suhail Bukhari, can be seen arguing with the security deployed at her house. This is not the first time that the PDP president is not allowed out of her house since her release after 14 months. Earlier, police didn’t allow her to travel to Pulwama to meet the family of PDP youth president Waheed Parra a day after his arrest by NIA in New Delhi. Police had then cited security reasons. However, she visited Pulwama later and met the family members of Parra at Naira village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-detained-at-home-ahead-of-budgam-visit-alleges-mehbooba/story-TR8XJFprQcRyYFwybTbHzJ.html
08-12-2020||India||Centre hits out ‘hypocritical’ opposition over Bharat Bandh support, says MSP will continue||Union minister Prakash Javadekar said on Tuesday opposition parties asking for the rollback of the Centre’s farm laws, which are being opposed by thousands of farmers, are hypocrites and pointed out that they had passed the contract farming act while in power.Several political parties such as the Congress, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Trinamool Congress (TMC), Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Shiv Sena, Left parties and many others have extended their support to the farmers ‘call for the Bharat Bandh on Tuesday. The four-hour Bharat Bandh or the nationwide strike started on Tuesday at 11am.“The opposition which is asking to roll back these laws is hypocritical as they had passed the contract farming act while in power. Congress has mentioned the introduction of these laws in their manifesto,” Javadekar, the Union minister for environment, forest and climate change, said according to news agency ANI.“Farmers had demanded remunerative price additional to the cost and we are giving them 50% above the cost. Congress has never offered anything during their tenure. It is Prime Minister Narendra Modi who is giving this,” Javadekar added.Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said, “It has been an old practice of the opposition parties to mislead the people on every issue and destroy the image of the nation. While in power, parties like Congress, NCP, Akali Dal and Left have supported such bills.”Amid a Bharat Bandh call on Tuesday, the farmers’ protest against the Centre’s farm laws entered its 13th day. In view of the nationwide strike, a huge force of security personnel was deployed at Singhu border between Haryana and Delhi.The farmer unions are observing the strike as they are not satisfied with the three newly-enacted farm laws - Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Leaders of farmers’ groups have held several rounds of talks with the government but all of them remained inconclusive so far. After the fifth round of talks, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has called another meeting on December 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-hits-out-hypocritical-opposition-over-bharat-bandh-support-says-msp-will-continue/story-3QzNETZJrbEVlSRanRbBVL.html
08-12-2020||India||Diego Maradona museum in India, golden ‘hand of God’ statue star attraction||A Kerala-based businessman, who brought football legend Diego Maradona to the state in 2012, has announced his plan to build a museum comprising a golden sculpture of the all-time great and other memorabilia related to him. Chairman of the Chemmanur group Bobby Chemmanur said the exact location of the museum was not decided but it will be either in Kolkata or in a city in Kerala. “It will be named “Hand of Gold”, depicting the crucial goal he scored in the 1986 World Cup. It will showcase his professional and personal life. Gold sculpture will be the main attraction,” he said in Kochi on Monday. The proposed museum will be a blend of traditional art and modern technology, he added. “The museum will be best of its kind. It is my tribute to the all-time great. It will be a storehouse of information about him. We have already started collecting memorabilia related to him,” said Chemmanur. He said curator of the museum will be artist-writer Bony Thomas, a founder trustee of the Kochi Biennale Foundation. Recalling his long friendship with Maradona, Chemmanur said once he gifted a miniature gold statue of the football legend who while accepting it with a broad grin expressed his desire to see a life-size gold sculpture related to his “hand of gold” posture. “I find it is my duty to fulfil his wish,” he said. Kerala’s love for the soccer great was well known. The state had observed two-day mourning when he died on November 24 in Buenos Aires at the age of 60. In north Kerala the soccer crazy fans took to the grounds in his favourite jersey No 10 and some of them broke down while talking about the all-time great. They had organised many mini-matches and gatherings. Maradona had visited the state in 2012 and celebrated his 52 birthday in north Kerala’s Kannur. He cut a 25-kg football-shaped cake, sang and danced and kicked many balls to galleries for the ecstatic fans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/diego-maradona-museum-in-india-golden-hand-of-god-statue-star-attraction/story-5iTHvD4MzlUddeWlk8LwNN.html
08-12-2020||India||Nations must address barriers against access to affordable medicines, new technologies: India at UN||India has underlined the need for the global community to chart out long-term strategies and roadmaps to deal with future pandemics and their impacts, emphasising that barriers to equitable access to affordable medicines and new technologies must be addressed. Speaking at the UN General Assembly session on ‘Global Health and Foreign Policy’, Counsellor in India’s Permanent Mission to the UN Pratik Mathur said on Monday the international community needed to capitalise on existing programmes such as the Access to Covid-19 Tools Accelerator (ACTA), and COVAX facility to ensure affordable and equitable global access to diagnostics, therapeutics and vaccines, while strengthening health systems. “We need to come up with long term strategies and roadmaps to put in place a system to deal with the future pandemics,” he said. “The Covid-19 pandemic has highlighted systemic weaknesses in health systems and vulnerabilities in the capacity to prevent and respond to pandemic threats. We need to address the major weaknesses and gaps to strengthen global coordination to ensure that the world is better prepared to curb the impacts of future health-related crisis,” he said. Mathur stressed that nations must address all barriers against access to medicines and new technologies, including through use of flexibilities provided in WTO TRIPS Agreement and the Doha Declaration. There is also a need to strengthen capacity of community health workers, who play a crucial role in covering the last mile in delivery of services, he said. COVAX is one of three pillars of the Access to Covid-19 Tools (ACT) Accelerator, which was launched in April by the World Health Organization (WHO), the European Commission and France in response to the pandemic. COVAX is the sole global effort to ensure that people across the world get access to Covid-19 vaccines once they are available, regardless of their wealth and circumstances. The 193-member General Assembly decided by consensus to proclaim December 27 as the ‘International Day of Epidemic Preparedness’ - a day to highlight the importance of the prevention of, preparedness for and partnerships against epidemics such as Covid-19. President of the General Assembly Volkan Bozkir said the Covid-19 pandemic had cost around one and a half million lives and shown the dire socio-economic consequences of a pandemic. “This is a wake-up call, for greater political commitment and action, multilateral cooperation, and health care solidarity, which are essential, to support global economic recovery and to build back better,” he said. So far, more than 67 million people across the world have been infected and over 1.5 million people have died from the coronavirus, he said. India welcomed the resolutions on International Day of Epidemic Preparedness and United Nations Decade of Healthy Ageing 2021-2030 tabled in the General Assembly. Mathur told the General Assembly that India had extended medical and other assistance to more than 150 countries to fight against the Covid-19. He said the India-UN Development Partnership Fund, managed by the United Nations Office for South-South Cooperation, was working rapidly to support projects responding to the Covid-19 pandemic. “India has taken proactive measures from the early stage of the virus spread which ensured that we stayed ahead of the curve,” he said. Emphasising that health does not alone mean freedom from diseases but rather encompasses all-inclusive wellness, Mathur outlined the four main pillars of India’s holistic approach towards healthcare. The first pillar is Preventive Healthcare that lays special emphasis on Yoga, Ayurveda and fitness to control lifestyle diseases such as diabetes, blood pressure, hypertension and depression. Affordable Healthcare makes up the second pillar of India’s holistic approach towards healthcare, he said. In this context, India launched the National Health Protection Scheme two years ago aimed at expanding access to primary healthcare service through Health and Wellness Centers and providing insurance coverage for secondary and tertiary care hospitalisation to poor and vulnerable families. Currently more than 150,000 Health and Wellness Centers are operational and a total of 126 million health cards have been issued and 14 million people have availed treatments under the scheme. The third pillar is improvements on the supply side and the government has taken several major steps for quality medical education, and for medical infrastructure development, he said. The last pillar is mission mode intervention under which India started the National Nutrition Policy to improve the nutritional status of the people, especially disadvantaged groups, including mothers, adolescent girls and children. India also plans to achieve the target of ending Tuberculosis by 2025, five years ahead of the Sustainable Development Goals deadline of 2030. In order to reach this ambitious goal, India has started implementing the National Strategic Plan and has substantially increased fund allocation for TB control, he said. “The motto of the Government of India, ‘Together, for everyone’s growth, with everyone’s trust’ resonates with the core SDG principle of leaving no one behind,” Mathur said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nations-must-address-barriers-against-access-to-affordable-medicines-new-technologies-india-at-un/story-z0mjjPG6FGqhFBVNGYQGZI.html
08-12-2020||India||Canara Bank shares zoom nearly 8 per cent||Shares of Canara Bank on Tuesday gained nearly 8 per cent after the firm set the floor price for its qualified institutional placement (QIP) to raise up to Rs 2,000 crore. The stock jumped 7.52 per cent to Rs 126.40 at the BSE. On the NSE, it zoomed 7.70 per cent to Rs 126.45. The lender on Monday said it has set a floor price of Rs 103.50 per share for its qualified institutional placement (QIP) to raise up to Rs 2,000 crore. The bank had received shareholders’ nod in its annual general meeting, held in August, for raising the funds. The sub-committee of the board, at its meeting held on December 7, authorised the opening of the QIP issue and approved the floor price of Rs 103.50 per equity share, Canara Bank said in a regulatory filing. “A meeting of the sub-committee of the board-Capital Planning Process of board of directors of the bank is scheduled to be held on Thursday, December 10, 2020, to consider and determine the issue price for the equity shares as well as the number of shares to be allotted to qualified institutional buyers, pursuant to the QIP,” the bank said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/canara-bank-shares-zoom-nearly-8-per-cent/story-b6DvekkYgwWlqMIFnRjy0L.html
08-12-2020||India||Bharat Bandh: All you need to know right now||Tens of thousands of farmers protesting a set of pro-market agricultural laws are enforcing a nationwide shutdown from 11am to 3pm on Tuesday. Major Opposition parties have supported their strike call. The farmers have stocked up on months of supplies, preparing to dig in for months on New Delhi’s borders. The strike has so far been peaceful but it has choked the Capital. Here’s what to expect through the day: How will the Bharat Bandh impact you? The impact of the strike is likely to be most felt in New Delhi and its adjacent satellite towns. The crisis has already snarled traffic into New Delhi at many points. Routes out of Delhi to Meerut, Haryana and Punjab are blocked, police said on Tuesday. An advisory on the Delhi Traffic Police’s Twitter handle has a list of alternate routes commuters may take. What’s open and what’s shut?Banks are functioning as banking unions have withdrawn support to the strike. Major primary agricultural markets across the country are shut, hampering transportation of essentials. The Railways’ two major unions, All India Railwaymen’s Federation (AIRF) and National Federation of Indian Railwaymen (NFIR), have lent support to the farmers’ strike, which may affect running of trains. Flight and airports are functioning as usual. Why are farmers protesting? Farmers want the Narendra Modi government to revoke three contentious laws approved by Parliament in September. The laws essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old, government-controlled agricultural markets. Catch LIVE Updates of Bharat Bandh hereWhat do the new laws contain? The laws allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside the so-called government-controlled “mandi system”, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales, which earlier only government-approved agents could, and lay down new rules for contract farming. What do the changes aim to achieve? The government has leaned on a reformist agenda to overhaul India’s antiquated agriculture. Deregulation of markets will pave the way for competition in agriculture markers, which currently run on an archaic licenced system. Increasing the food-stocking limits of traders will spur private investments in supply chains and cold chain, which are scarce, officials say. Why do farmers oppose these new rules? Farmers say the reforms would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and weaken the government’s procurement system, whereby the government buys staples, such as wheat and rice, at guaranteed prices. How will the government solve the crisis? The Modi government has so far held six rounds of talks with farmers’ unions, but they have refused to call off the strike, rejecting a proposal to make amendments to the laws. They have stuck to their demand for a repeal of the laws. The next round of talks is slated for December 9. Does the farmers’ rebellion pose a risk to the government? Modi’s popularity has held up despite the pandemic due to his welfare policies and strong personal appeal. His party won elections in Bihar just last month. The new farm laws however have rattled his administration and pose a political challenge. More than half of the population is dependent on a farm-based income.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-all-you-need-to-know-right-now/story-7HJLIpGnjWbaaqUjWVWkcL.html
08-12-2020||India||Rajasthan Panchayat Samiti Election Results: Counting of votes underway, fate of 12,663 candidates on line||The counting of votes polled in all the four phases of panchayat samiti and zila parishad members’ elections is being held in Rajasthan on Tuesday, two days after the polls concluded in the western state. The counting will decide the fate of 1,778 candidates for zila parishad elections and 12,663 candidates for panchayat samiti elections.The counting of votes for all the phases began at 9am at all district headquarters amid elaborate security arrangements. The polling to elect 636 zila parishad members and 4,371 panchayat samiti members was held in four phases on November 23 and 27 and December 1 and 5.The elections were held in 21 districts and 59 panchayat samities of Ajmer, Banswara, Barmer, Bhilwara, Bikaner, Bundi, Chittorgarh, Churu, Dungarpur, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu, Nagaur, Pali, Pratapgarh, Rajsamand, Sikar, Tonk and Udaipur. State election commissioner PS Mehra said around 7.238 million people were eligible to vote in the panchayat samiti and zila parishad polls for which nearly 25,000 electronic voting machines (EVMs) were used at 10,131 polling stations where more than 50,000 employees were deployed. Nearly 63% turnout was recorded in all the four phases.The election for the head or chief of panchayat will be held on December 10 and the election for the deputy chief will be conducted on December 11. The result will be declared on xxx.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-panchayat-samiti-election-results-counting-of-votes-underway-fate-of-12-663-candidates-on-line/story-Dgiwx0DELvv2nRLSaAwLmL.html
08-12-2020||India||Photos: Farmers stage Bharat Bandh protests across nation||Bharat Bandh protests against the Centre’s three contentious farm laws are currently underway. The nationwide protests come a day before sixth round of talks between the Centre and farm unions are scheduled to take place on Wednesday.While the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government and states ruled by the party have said they don’t support the bandh, almost all opposition parties and opposition-ruled states have thrown their weight behind the protesting farmers.The farmers have been protesting against the three laws since September, the month these were passed. While initially they blocked railway tracks in Punjab, which has been the epicentre of these protests, on November 26 they started marching towards the national capital and arrived on its borders despite stiff resistance from the Haryana police, in what is a BJP-ruled state.Since then, the farmers have been staging protests on the outskirts of Delhi while others are camping at Nirankari grounds, the site allotted to them by the Delhi police.While the Centre has said it is open to amendments in the three laws and asked for farmers’ feedback, farm unions have demanded a complete repeal of what they have termed as “black laws.” However, according to reports, the government is not in favour of repealing the laws completely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/photos-farmers-stage-bharat-bandh-protests-across-nation/story-Dj6Od0IkzOo0uhm8XDJylO.html
08-12-2020||India||Haryana CM Khattar cancels visit after venue vandalised in farmers’ support||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had to cancel a programme scheduled for later today after miscreants vandalised the venue on Monday night, a day ahead of the Bharat Bandh call given by various farmer unions seeking repeal of three new agriculture laws.Per information, a group of villagers vandalised the helipad area, uprooted tents in Padha village of Karnal district ahead of the CM’s visit. It is learnt that the venue was vandalised in support of the farmers’ protests as they also burnt the effigy of the CM late on Monday night.Deepika Rani, Sarpanch of Padha village, speaking to HT said, “As per the information from the district administration the chief minister was to visit our village to review the progress of some developmental programmes at 3.30pm on Tuesday.“On Tuesday evening some people gathered in the sports complex and burnt the effigy of the chief minister and vandalised the venue, they also dismantled the helipad.”The CM’s visit was subsequently cancelled.However, some villagers said that the farmers were angry over the failure of the government to resolve the farmers’ issue. Rajesh Kumar, a local BJP leader, alleged that the incident was politically motivated. “The chief minister was to give developmental projects of several crores to Padha and nearby villages but some people could not digest it and they played politics in the name of farmers,” he added.He demanded that the action should be taken against the people responsible for it.The CM was to review the progress of developmental works of an under construction women college and Panchtirthi Tirath and was to address a gathering. Karnal District Collector Nishant Kumar Yadav said the chief minister’s visit to Padha village has been cancelled for now but he will visit to Karnal on Tuesday evening. Karnal Superintendent of Police Ganga Ram Punia said that the main accused are being identified. He said that legal action will be taken under the appropriate sections of law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-cm-khattar-cancels-visit-after-venue-vandalised-in-farmers-support/story-n36jRSSVRWEiqR6up2OjsK.html
08-12-2020||India||Computer engineering graduate from Ahmedabad wins GSTN contest with Rs100,000 award||Viraj R. Raval, 23, a computer engineering graduate from Ahmedabad has won a cash prize of Rs100,000 for his video “Benefits of Registering the Business under GST” in the GST-n-You, a creativity contest organised by Goods and Services Tax Network (GSTN), an official statement said.Out of the 223 entries for GST-n-You, 16 participants have been adjudged as the winners under three categories in the contest that was open from September 15 to October 15, 2020.Four entries have been selected for the second prize of Rs 50,000 each and the winners in this category are Arun Vijayan of Thiruvananthapuram for his video on “Benefits of GST for Taxpayers and Consumers”, Gautam Mahanti of Navi Mumbai for his creative graphic “Benefit of e-Invoice and SMS based EWB generation”, Shubham Jaiswal of Kanpur for his video ”Benefits of GST for Taxpayers” and Hensi Shah of Anjar in Kachchh for her video “Basic Concepts of Refund on Inverted Duty Structure”, it said.Also read | GST investigators uncover fraudulent transactions of Rs290 crBesides these, 11 other participants have been selected for the third position and have won a cash prize of Rs10,000 each, it added. Apart from these 16 cash prize winners, 14 more participants have been selected for the Certificate of Appreciation for their creativity and originality. The results along with the awarded entries of participants have been uploaded on the GSTN portal, it said.GSTN provides IT infrastructure and services to the Central and state governments, taxpayers and other stakeholders for implementation of GST.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/computer-engineering-graduate-from-ahmedabad-wins-gstn-contest-with-rs100-000-award/story-B420R0LGdQQZJlo2Y2yFbN.html
08-12-2020||India||Bharat Bandh: Highway blockades, slogans, police deployment in states||Police in several states tightened security on Tuesday as protests and highway blockades in several states began amid the call for the Bharat Bandh or nationwide shutdown by farmers protesting the three central farm laws. Transport services, offices and shops, particularly those selling fruits and vegetables, are likely to be affected in some states and cities during the Bharat Bandh from 11am to 3pm.The farmer groups are expected to block highways and occupy toll plazas but they have said this will be a “peaceful protest” and emergency services - like ambulances - will not be stopped or delayed.The Congress, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Trinamool Congress (TMC), Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Shiv Sena, Left parties, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Samajwadi Party, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) and Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) have extended their support to the call. Several cab and taxi unions are also supporting the Bharat Bandh due to which travelling across the states is likely to be disrupted.The farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.As India gears up for Bharat Bandh on Tuesday, here’s how states are dealing with it:1. Protesting farmers started preparations to block key roads and occupy toll plazas on Tuesday as part of their call for a ‘Bharat Bandh’ against the Centre’s new farms laws.2. Gautam Buddh Nagar’s additional commissioner of police Love Kumar said they are ensuring that the public don’t face inconvenience and there’s no traffic disruption. “Adequate security deployed at all important entry/exit points to/from the district. We also deployed the PAC (Provincial Armed Constabulary) force. Officers are making the rounds in their respective areas and ensuring that no one imposes Bandh forcibly. Everyone has been instructed to ensure the security of railway stations, bus stands, metro stations and autos. We will strictly deal with anyone who takes law in their hands,” Kumar said.3. Protests were held in Seoni-Malwa area in Hoshangabad district of Madhya Pradesh in support of the Bharat Bandh called by farmers’ unions against the Centre’s farm laws.4. Agriculture Produce Market Committees (APMCs) remained closed in many parts of Maharashtra in support of the Bharat Bandh. Members of a farmers’ organisations also staged a ‘rail roko’ in Maharashtra’s Buldhana district.5. Social activist Anna Hazare on Tuesday sat on a day-long hunger strike to support agitating farmers. Hazare also said the agitation should spread across the country so that the government comes under pressure to act in the interests of cultivators.6. Protesters blocked three highways in rural Gujarat by placing burning tyres on roads on Tuesday morning as part of the Bharat Bandh, affecting vehicular traffic for some time.7. Delhi Police on Tuesday tightened security at all border points and made arrangements to maintain law and order across the city, including market places, officials said.8. All examinations scheduled for Tuesday, under Osmania University’s jurisdiction have been postponed, the varsity administration said.9. Azadpur mandi, one of the largest wholesale markets for fruits and vegetables in the country, along with all others in the national capital will remain shut on Tuesday in support of the Bharat Bandh, its chairman Adil Ahmed Khan said, according to news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-highway-blockades-slogans-police-deployment-in-states/story-3cBV6dBd3md3fBudbSZYHO.html
08-12-2020||India||‘Mobile technology will help India embark on one of the largest Covid-19 vaccination drives’: Prime Minister Narendra Modi at IMC 2020||Prime Minister Modi said on Tuesday India will use mobile technology for mass inoculation against the coronavirus disease in the country as chances of the availability of a Covid-19 vaccine soon going up. The Prime Minister said mobile technology has enabled benefits worth billions of dollars to reach the deserving and also helped the poor and vulnerable during the pandemic. “It is also with the help of mobile technology that we will embark on one of the world’s largest Covid-19 vaccination drive,” he said without giving details.PM Modi was speaking at the India Mobile Congress (IMC), considered the largest digital technology event in India and the biggest international technology conference in South Asia.Three leading vaccine developers - Pfizer Inc, Serum Institute of India Ltd and Bharat Biotech International Limited - have applied for emergency use authorisation in India. Pfizer India has applied to the drug regulator for permission to import its experimental mRNA vaccine for sale and distribution without the requirement for local clinical trials.SII, AstraZeneca’s India vaccine partner, has applied for emergency use authorisation using data from Phase-III trials that were conducted locally, as well as in Brazil and the UK. Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech has sought a nod for Covaxin, which is being indigenously developed in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).The applications mean that a mass vaccine effort could be shortly underway in India that has the world’s second-largest coronavirus caseload.The Prime Minister also pitched for making India a global hub for telecom equipment, design, development, manufacturing. “We need to work together to ensure a timely roll-out of 5G to leapfrog into the future and empower millions of Indians,” he said.Speaking on mobile technology, he said it was because of this that the government was able to provide benefits worth billions of dollars to millions of Indians. “It is because of mobile technology that we are seeing billions of cashless transactions which boost formalisation and transparency. It is because of mobile technology that we will enable smooth contactless interface on toll booths,” he saidThe government is planning a detailed technological road map to optimise the distribution of the Covid-19 vaccine. The plan will include the use of more regional languages for creating awareness, addressing challenges of last-mile vaccinators and generating alerts about fake vaccines. Health workers will be at the forefront of the immunisation drive while information technology (IT) experts will be in charge at the back end. Experts are working to develop requisite software to ensure the vaccine is properly distributed across the country.An inter-ministerial team for this purpose has members from the ministries of IT and health and as well as the United Nations Development Programme. The government is expected to roll out the COVIN app to track the procurement, supply and distribution of the vaccine to the last mile. The app is likely to be a bolstered version of the Electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network (e-VIN) used for the polio eradication programme in India. The e-VIN technology is currently active in 32 states and Union Territories and the government plans to roll it out in the remaining ones immediately.“23,507 cold chain points across 585 districts of 22 states and 2 UTs [Union Territories] routinely use the eVIN technology for efficient vaccine logistics management. Over 41,420 vaccine cold chain handlers have been introduced to digital record-keeping by training them on eVIN. Nearly 23,900 electronic temperature loggers have been installed on vaccine cold chain equipment for accurate temperature review of vaccines in storage,” the government said in a statement in August.As per the ministry’s dashboard, 26,567 new Covid-19 cases took India’s tally past the 9.7 million mark to 9,703,770 on Tuesday. India has reported 383,000 active infections, 9.17 million recoveries and 1,40,958 deaths so far.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mobile-technology-will-help-india-embark-on-one-of-the-largest-covid-19-vaccination-drives-pm-modi-at-imc-2020/story-9NuC94hCr1E5WKVI7k0IvL.html
08-12-2020||India||Fresh snowfall in Kashmir: Traffic suspended on Mughal Road, Srinagar-Leh highway||Traffic on Srinagar- Leh highway and Mughal Road has been suspended following fresh snowfall in the region. Since Monday afternoon, the plains have been observing rainfall, while snowfall has been recorded in the upper parts of Kashmir. Officials said Srinagar-Leh highway and Mughal Road are closed due to snow accumulation at many places. The traffic is, however, plying on the Jammu-Srinagar National Highway.Tourist spot Gulmarg that witnessed good snowfall in November has recorded six inches of fresh snow. This is the first snowfall of December in upper parts of Kashmir as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had predicted that intensity of the snowfall could increase later in the day. Also read | Widespread snowfall expected in Western Himalayan region todayJ&K IMD director Sonam Lotus said that the weather could deteriorate further and there is a possibilty of snowfall that could disrupt surface traffic on Mughal Road, Srinagar Leh Road and Banihal-Ramban axis.Srinagar recorded maximum temperature of 9 degrees Celsius and minimun 3 degrees Celsius, while Jammu recorded maximum 25 degrees Celsius and minimum 13.5 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-snowfall-in-kashmir-traffic-suspended-on-mughal-road-srinagar-leh-highway/story-5wKxew7WnkmU8ab2VELM5M.html
08-12-2020||India||In Chhattisgarh, Congress urges people to support Bharat Bandh||The ruling Congress in Chhattisgarh has extended its support to the Bharat Bandh call given by farmers’ unions on Tuesday against the three new farm laws enacted by the Centre. The Congress has appealed to people to express solidarity with cultivators.Massive protest is expected in Raipur, Bilaspur and Durg as Congress has directed the district-level workers to actively take part in the bandh. DM Awasthi, Director General of Police, instructed the police chiefs of all the districts to remain alert to prevent any untoward incident in the state.“We have appealed to all sections of society that they should stand by the farmers and support their agitation. Bandh will be observed in an aggressive but peaceful and non-violent manner,” Shailesh Nitin Trivedi, who heads the communication wing of the Chhattisgarh Pradesh Congress Committee (CPCC), said.He said state Congress president Mohan Markam has given the responsibility to office-bearers and workers of all units of the party in the state to make the bandh successful.Chhattisgarh Chamber of Commerce and Industries (CCCI) has also agreed to support the shutdown and to keep commercial establishments and shops shut, he added.Emergency services like hospitals, ambulances, fire brigade and medicine shops have been exempted from the bandh, Trivedi added.Chhattisgarh Kisan Majdoor Mahasangh (CKMM) office-bearer Sanket Thakur said, “At least 36 farmers, labourers and social organisations led by the CKMM will take out rallies at various places across the state in support of the bandh”.Road transport organisations have also extended support to the bandh, he said.On the other hand, BJP national vice president and former chief minister Raman Singh has accused the Congress and Opposition parties at the Centre of “hatching a political conspiracy and misleading farmers”.“The Congress party is on the verge of getting extinct in the entire country. Now, it has been hatching a conspiracy to come out on streets in a bid to save its existence,” Singh told reporters.When asked why farmers are not convinced with the new agriculture laws, he said they will come on board.“But there are certain groups which are spreading apprehension and misleading farmers. Wherever there is Congress in power like in Punjab, its chief minister and his government have held hostage that road (apparently referring to protest of farmers on Delhi borders). It is a political conspiracy of Congress and its allies in the UPA,” he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-chhattisgarh-congress-urges-people-to-support-bharat-bandh/story-NOoTUJsTUs7dXujnFWGzJI.html
08-12-2020||India||PM Modi to give inaugural address at virtual IMC 2020||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will deliver the inaugural address at the virtual India Mobile Congress (IMC) 2020 on Tuesday, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said. The fourth edition of the three-day telecom industry event will be held online for the first time due to the coronavirus pandemic.Here’s all you need to know about India Mobile Congress 2020:1. IMC 2020 is being organised by the department of telecommunications (DoT) and the Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI) and will be held from December 8-10.2. The title theme for IMC 2020 is Inclusive Innovation - Smart, Secure, Sustainable. The Prime Minister’s Office said in a statement that the aim of IMC 2020 is to align PM Modi’s vision “to promote Aatmanirbhar Bharat, digital inclusivity, sustainable development, entrepreneurship and innovation.” IMC 2020 also “aims to drive foreign and local investments, encourage Research and Development in the telecom and emerging technology sectors”, the statement added.3. IMC 2020 will witness participation from various ministries, telecom CEOs, global CEOs, and domain experts.4. Telecom minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, minister of state for communications Sanjay Dhotre, and telecom secretary Anshu Prakash will attend the inaugural session.5. Reliance Industries Ltd chairman and managing director Mukesh Ambani, Bharti Enterprises chairman Sunil Bharti Mittal, and Ericsson head of South East Asia, Oceania and India Nunzio Mirtillo will also attend the session.6. According to the COAI, participants from over 30 countries, 210 national and international speakers, more than 150 exhibitors and over 3,000 CXO-level delegates are expected to participate in the event.7. In 2019, the event recorded participants from over 60 countries, 350 national and international speakers, 350 exhibitors, 56 live 5G demos, over 50 thought leadership sessions and 75,000 visitors.8. IMC is considered as the largest digital technology event in India and the biggest international tech conference in South Asia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-give-inaugural-address-at-virtual-imc-2020/story-ZLcpDYK3UMEfENcHdfbZ3O.html
08-12-2020||India||Normal life hit in Odisha as Bharat Bandh begins, govt offices shut||Normal life came to a grinding halt in Odisha as the dawn to dusk Bharat Bandh, called by dozens of trade union bodies, farmer organisations seeking repeal of three new farm laws, stopped all movement of trains, trucks and other vehicles on Tuesday morning. The Bandh is supported by opposition parties such as Congress, CPI, CPM, SUCI, All India Forward Bloc, CPI (ML), CPI (M) and AAP, among others.In Bhubaneswar, vehicle movements came to a stop as bandh organisers burnt tyres at Master Canteen Square and Jaydev Vihar Square while others picketed on train tracks in Bhubaneswar railway station. At Jaydev Vihar square, hundreds of inter-state trucks and ‘night-coach’ buses were stranded between Cuttack and Bhubaneswar.Movement of auto rickshaws and taxis was also stalled. In Baramunda bus stand, passengers had a torrid time as no buses were plying on roads. Several office goers in Bhubaneswar too faced difficulties as the Mo Bus service of the state government remained off the roads due to bandh.Public transportation services were affected as the protesters held picketing at the railway stations and bus stops in Bhubaneswar, Rourkela, Rayagada, and several other places. Vegetable markets, shops, shopping malls, petrol pumps were shut as the Federation of All Odisha Traders Association have also extended its support to the farmers’ cause.“The BJP government is against the farmers. If Narendra Modi believes in democracy, he must repeal the new farm laws,” said CPI leader Narayan Reddy.Though the Naveen Patnaik-led BJD government did not publicly support the bandh call, the party indirectly supported it shutting down all the government offices in the state. The party hoped that all outstanding issues can be resolved through dialogues between the Centre and the farmers’ groups.“The party has always been demanding doubling of Minimum Support Prices as suggested by the Swaminathan Committee and will continue to do so for the benefit of our farmers,” a BJD leader said.The state home department has asked district collectors to take all preventive measures to maintain law and order and ensure maintenance of essential services in the districts in view of the Bharat Bandh.Meanwhile, the General Studies Paper-I and General Studies Paper-II of the Odisha Civil Services-2019 Main examination scheduled for Tuesday has been rescheduled in view of the Bharat Bandh. As per the new schedule, the OCS 2019 main exam for General Studies Paper 1 and Paper 2 will be held on January 2, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/normal-life-hit-in-odisha-as-bharat-bandh-begins-govt-offices-shut/story-5S18vZnc2RDMZm7VCtlGdO.html
08-12-2020||India||Kangana Ranaut tweets on Bharat Bandh, shares video against protests||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut on Tuesday tweeted about the call of farmers for a Bharat Bandh or a nationwide strike. Ranaut also shared a video of spiritual leader Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev talking about protests even as the agriculturists are agitatating against the Centre’s new agricultural laws.“Aao Bharat ko band kr dete hain, yun to tufaano ki kami nahi is naav ko, magar laao kulhaari kuch chhed bhi kar dete hain, reh reh ke roz marti hai har ummeed yahaan (Come let’s shut India, though there is no scarcity of storms hitting this boat, but bring an axe to make some holes in the boat, every hope dies here every day),” she tweeted. आओ भारत को बंद कर देते हैं, यूँ तो तूफ़ानों कि कमी नहीं इस नाव को, मगर लाओ कुल्हाड़ी कुछ छेद भी कर देते हैं, रह रह के रोज़ मरती है हर उम्मीद यहाँ, देशभक्तों से कहो अपने लिए देश का एक टुकड़ा अब तुम भी माँग लो, आजाओ सड़क पे और तुम भी धरना दो, चलो आज यह क़िस्सा ही ख़त्म करते हैं 🙂 https://t.co/OXLfUWl1gbAlso read | How Bharat Bandh is likely to pan out across different states“Deshbhakton se kaho apne liye desh ka ek tukda tum bhi maang lo, aajaao sadak pe aur tum bhi dharna do, chalo aaj yeh kissa hi khatam karte hain (tell the patriots to ask for a piece of the nation for themselves as well, take to the streets and you also protest, let’s end this story once and for all),” she said.Also read | As states brace for Bharat Bandh, police departments issue travel advisoryRanaut has been voicing her opinion on the issue of farmers’ agitation and has been speaking against it through her tweets. She was recently involved in a Twitter spat with actor and singer Diljit Dosanjh among others over the farmers’ protests after she tweeted, and later deleted the post, misidentifying an elderly woman protester as Shaheen Bagh dadi Bilkis Bano.Police across several states have tightened security and made arrangements to maintain law and order across in view of the ‘Bharat Bandh’ called by farmer unions against the Centre’s new farm laws, officials said. Farmers’ leaders have said emergency services will be exempted and appealed to their affiliates to not force anyone to join the shutdown. Protesting farmers will block key roads and occupy toll plazas during their ‘chakka jam’ protest from 11am to 3pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kangana-ranaut-tweets-on-bharat-bandh-shares-video-against-protests/story-7dgjjSi2hoTAeBLjHWbpTJ.html
08-12-2020||India||Widespread snowfall expected in Western Himalayan region today||A Western Disturbance is likely to cause widespread and heavy snowfall in the Western Himalayan region today.Under its influence, rain and snow is very likely over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh during December 7 to 9. Heavy rain and snow also very likely over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad on Tuesday.But temperatures in the northern plains will not fall immediately. “We are not expecting a fall in temperatures immediately because there are consecutive Western Disturbances which are affecting the Western Himalayas. With a Western Disturbance, there is usually clouding and temperatures are marginally above normal. Just behind tomorrow’s Western Disturbance, there is another Western Disturbance approaching on December 11 so it’s unlikely that temperatures will fall significantly now. A significant drop in temperatures is expected only once the Western Disturbances pass and there is no other Western Disturbance approaching,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre.Air quality hovered in the very poor to severe range in most parts of northwest India on Tuesday. While Delhi recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 394 in very poor category, Ghaziabad, Greater Noida, Kanpur, Noida, Bulandshahr recorded severe air.There is mild to moderate fog in most parts of northwest India on Tuesday morning. A Western Disturbance was impacting the Western Himalayan region on Monday and brought rain and snow to the higher reaches. There was also an intense cyclonic circulation over Haryana and neighbourhood and winds were somewhat easterly which means they are moisture laden winds. The combination of moisture availability, convergence of winds, relatively low temperature in some places has led to dense fog developing on Monday,” said Sathi Devi.Moderate to very dense fog had disrupted traffic and flights on Monday over many parts of Delhi, west Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, West Rajasthan, east Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Tripura, sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim.A cyclonic circulation is lying over Gulf of Mannar and another cyclonic circulation lies over southeast Arabian Sea and adjoining Maldives. Under the influence of these systems, widespread and heavy rain with thunderstorm and lightning is very likely over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karaikal, Kerala, Mahe and Lakshadweep on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-snowfall-expected-in-western-himalayan-region-today/story-330g6pvLuHM9iNvMuzMTHJ.html
08-12-2020||India||India registers less than 30,000 new Covid-19 cases as tally crosses 9.7 million||India registered a substantial fall in its latest daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as less than 30,000 new infections were recorded in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry’s dashboard showed on Tuesday. As per the ministry’s dashboard, 26,567 new Covid-19 cases took India’s tally past the 9.7 million mark to 9,703,770.The number of active Covid-19 cases in the country, which on Monday had fallen below 400,000 for the first time since July, remained below that mark, and are currently at 383,866 or 4.10% of the total cases. The trend of more new recoveries than daily infections also continued, as 39,045 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours, taking the number of such cases to 9,178,946 or 94.45% of total cases. Also, the virus claimed a total of 385 lives in this duration, taking the death toll to 140,958 or 1.45% of total cases.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageOver the last few days, the country has been recording less than 40,000 daily Covid-19 cases. But this is the first time in several months it has logged less than 30,000 new daily infections. Globally, India remains the second worst-hit country behind the United States, and is immediately ahead of Brazil.These latest numbers come at a time three firms, two of which are Indian, have applied for emergency use authorisation (EUA) of their respective vaccine candidates in the country. America’s Pfizer Inc was the first to seek approval for its candidate to be used in emergency cases. Pune’s Serum Institute of India (SII), which will manufacture Oxford-AstraZeneca’s vaccine candidate in India, and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, which has developed Covaxin, too, have applied for their candidates to be used for emergency cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-registers-less-than-30-000-new-covid-19-cases-as-tally-crosses-9-7-million/story-PROAsTsNAkHjCYz68qVvXL.html
08-12-2020||India||Bharat Bandh: As states brace for shutdown, police departments issue travel advisory||Police in several states have issued advisories to commuters on Tuesday ahead of the farmers’ unions call for a Bharat Bandh or a nationwide strike against three contentious farm laws enacted by the Centre during the monsoon session of Parliament. Commuters in several states are likely to be affected as farmers have said they are planning to block roads, highways and borders as a part of the Bharat Bandh from 11am to 3pm.Haryana Police and Delhi Police have issued travel advisories informing people that they may face traffic blockages on various roads and highways. In Delhi, nearly 4,000 traffic personnel and thousands of security personnel will be deployed on the borders and the city roads to regulate traffic and avoid any untoward incidents. Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava said Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), prohibiting gathering of people, is already in place in the entire city.As on Tuesday morning, the Capital’s Tikri, Jharoda and Dhansa borders were closed for any traffic movement, Delhi Traffic Police said in a tweet. Badusarai border is open only for light motor vehicles like cars and two-wheelers and the Jhatikara border is open only for two-wheeler traffic, they added. Follow latest updates on Bharat Bandh here Haryana Police also took to Twitter to inform citizens about the expected blockades saying, “It is expected that agitating groups may sit in dharna on various roads and highways, within Haryana and blockage them for some time. The peak time of impact is expected to be between 12 pm to 3 pm. There may be some disruptions on various toll plazas in the state. The main national highways Delhi-Ambala (NH-44), Delhi-Hisar (NH-9), Delhi-Palwal (NH-19) and Delhi to Rewari (NH-48) may also see some traffic disruptions for a short time.”“According to reports, it is expected that agitating groups may sit in dharna on various roads and highways within Haryana and block them for some time,” Navdeep Singh Virk, the additional director general of police (law and order), said. Almost all the districts in the state except Nuh and Narnaul are likely to be impacted by big or small road jams. In addition, there may also be disruptions on various toll plazas in the state, he added.Meanwhile, buses of Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) will not ply till 1pm, the state’s agriculture minister Kurasala Kannababu had said on Monday. In Maharashtra, however, Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) buses will run as scheduled during the bandh. The All India Motor Transport Congress, an apex body of trucker outfits, said it would “join the Bharat bandh and suspend their operations on December 8”.Farmers’ leaders, who have demanded the scrapping of the three laws, have assured that emergency services will be allowed during the Bharat Bandh. They also said they did not want any trouble for common people.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-as-states-brace-shutdown-police-departments-issue-travel-advisory/story-D32NMgvihsrTSDxHxRAX9N.html
08-12-2020||India||Panel to oversee development of 65-acre land on Ram Janmabhoomi campus||The Ram Mandir construction committee on Tuesday decided to constitute a separate committee headed by Swami Govind Dev Giri Maharaj to oversee development of 65-acre land on the Ram Janmabhoomi campus where the temple will be constructed. Govind Dev Giri is the treasurer of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust. The committee will work under the Ram Mandir construction committee. The Ram Janmabhoomi campus comprises 67.77 acre land. Out of this, in the 2.77-acre land stands the sanctum sanctorum of the temple. Nripendra Misra, chairman of Ram Mandir construction committee, on Monday presided over a meeting in Ayodhya to review test reports related to laying of foundation pillars of Ram Mandir. It will continue on Tuesday also.“A separate committee will be constituted to oversee development work of the rest of the 65-acre land at Ram Janmabhoomi. Swami Govind Dev Giri Maharaj will head this committee,” Dr Anil Mishra, a member of the trust, told mediapersons after the meeting. “This committee will have architects, engineers and experts of Tata Consulting Engineers. It will also review suggestions received by the Trust related to the development work of the 65-acre campus of the Ram Janmabhoomi,” Mishra said. On the issue of sand being found below the surface while testing foundation pillars of Ram Mandir, Mishra said: “The surface (on which foundation will stand) will be made strong. We are discussing all aspects with experts.” Earlier in the day, Nripendra Misra, along with engineers of Larsen and Toubro, Tata Consulting Engineers and members of the Trust, inspected the ongoing foundation laying work of the Ram Mandir. Trust wants to expedite the work which got delayed due to the pandemic. On September 11 this year, the Trust had started the work for testing the foundation pillars. Around 1,200 pillars will be laid 100 feet below the surface to prepare the temple’s foundation. In technical terms, this process is called piling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panel-to-oversee-development-of-65-acre-land-on-ram-janmabhoomi-campus/story-X07AOzc4JaKu7b3a4jSOcM.html
08-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Haryana farm group backs Centre’s agricultural laws and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.One farm group in Haryana backs Centre’s new lawsA group of farmers from Haryana met Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar to lend support to three new farm laws, appealing the minister not to repeal the legislation. Read moreSonia Gandhi not to celebrate her birthday in view of farmers’ protests, Covid-19Congress president Sonia Gandhi has decided not to celebrate her birthday on Wednesday in view of the ongoing farmers’ agitation and the Covid-19 pandemic, a party functionary said Tuesday. Read more‘Mystery disease’ in Eluru: Central team to take stockThe Centre rushed a three-member expert team to the Andhra Pradesh town of Eluru on Monday as authorities struggled to control a yet-to-be-identified “mystery” disease and 171 more patients were admitted to hospital. Read moreChina sends warplanes, troops for drill in PakistanChina has dispatched fighter aircraft and troops to a Pakistani airbase close to the Gujarat border to take part in the latest edition of a bilateral military exercise, the Chinese military announced on Monday evening. Read moreIndia will have a strong attack if he plays with Bumrah and Bhuvi: Sehwag names third Indian pacer for T20 World Cup 2021Former Indian opener and captain Virender Sehwag has opined that pacer T Natarajan can play a major role in making the Indian bowling attack look extremely dangerous in next year’s ICC World T20. Read moreTwitter reveals what Indians talked about the most this yearTwitter has revealed what Indians have talked about the most on its platform this year. The results aren’t surprising as the most talked about topics were Covid 19, Sushant Singh Rajput, and the Hathras gang rape. Read moreMumbai Police shares viral video of kid getting haircut. Here’s whyIf you’ve been around the Internet recently, then you must have seen the viral video of a kid named Anushrut. The clip shows the cutie being less-than-pleased about getting a haircut. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-haryana-farm-group-backs-centre-s-agricultural-laws-and-all-the-latest-news/story-nzV4DWLykbgQBWNSgaDYaM.html
08-12-2020||India||Parliament: A look at how seating arrangement has evolved over the past 68 years||The Indian Parliament, that will see 55% additional seating capacity for MPs in its new building, has been no stranger to additions and alterations of seats in the past 68 years since the first Lok Sabha. The Lok Sabha chamber, used as the Legislative Assembly much before independence, had only 145 seats. After 1947, “the chamber was remodelled to accommodate a much larger number of members when the Constituent Assembly took over the function of the Central Legislature”, according to documents available with the Lok Sabha secretariat. The first Lok Sabha election in 1952 had 461 seats but within three years, the seats swelled up to 499. “Subsequently, the seats went up to 522, then to 530 and “now, presently up to 550 within the same building,” said Parliament documents. And it was during this period that the House authorities had no other choice but to install a few seats that are always hidden behind the pillars of the chamber—places where no MP likes to sit. Also read | New Parliament building will be temple of Aatmanirbhar Bharat: Lok Sabha Speaker Om BirlaThe proposed chamber will be better designed and the architect firm has assured that no seat for MPs will be obstructed by pillars or other structures. From time to time, Parliament has cleared constitutional amendments to increase the seats of both Houses. The share of seats from each state depends largely on the census and the current strength of 545 seats was construed with reference to the 1971 census. The delimitation of the current seat allocation will expire in 2026 and it is widely anticipated that the government will refer to the 2001 census to review the seat allocation of different states as the first census of the new century is expected to reflect the population trend more appropriately. The new Parliament building, for the first time, would also allot individual offices for each MP—a departure from the current practice where only the ministers are allotted chambers in the Parliament building. Transport Bhawan and Shram Shakti Bhavan would be demolished to build the office complex for MPs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-a-look-at-how-seating-arrangement-has-evolved-over-the-past-68-years/story-N2ymUfaLNZyo8yBCmfMsGK.html
08-12-2020||India||Bharat Bandh: UP government advisory asks police to avoid confrontation with farmers||The Uttar Pradesh government has issued an advisory asking police personnel to avoid confrontation with farmers. It also asked the police not to take any harsh action against the protesters during the Bharat Bandh on Tuesday. The government also issued an advisory to create six check points between six and 10km stretch on the Noida–Delhi border to prevent the entry of agitating farmers from the state into Delhi. Also read | Bharat Bandh: How strike is likely to pan out across different statesBesides, the government directed for checking at entry points on all borders which Uttar Pradesh shares with Uttarakhand, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. The state government has also directed the police to look for anti-social elements to ensure they do not mingle with the farmers and indulge in violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-up-government-advisory-asks-police-to-avoid-confrontation-with-farmers/story-xYgnLBDDevdeDRo7y2F2IP.html
08-12-2020||India||Bharat Biotech seeks nod for Covaxin use||Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical firm Bharat Biotech on Monday applied to the central drug regulator seeking emergency use authorisation for its Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin, news agency Press Trust of India quoted an official as saying. Covaxin is being indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). It wasn’t immediately clear whether the authorisation request was based on trial data from Phase 1 and Phase 2 of human trials – the results for which were reported as a success but haven’t been released in the public domain – or the ongoing Phase 3. However, the timelines involved in Phase 3 suggest that the use of this data was unlikely. The first enrollment for Phase 3 trial was done on November 11 after the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) gave its approval in October. According to the trial procedure, after the first dose, a second dose is administered 28 days later, and the evaluation is conducted another two weeks after that. This suggests that the first reliable data from Phase 3 is unlikely to be available before December 23. On December 4, Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed hope that a Covid-19 vaccine could be ready in a few weeks. That evening, the Indian arm of US pharmaceutical giant Pfizer sought emergency use approval for its vaccine from DCGI. The Serum Institute of India sought a similar nod for the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, Covishield, on December 6. The Phase 3 data of these vaccines has shown 95% (Pfizer) and up to 90% (Oxford) efficacy respectively, according to data released by them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-seeks-nod-for-covaxin-use/story-PDVXeKrpaHQhDKEjbsxxyK.html
08-12-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi not to celebrate her birthday in view of farmers’ protests, Covid-19||Congress president Sonia Gandhi has decided not to celebrate her birthday on Wednesday in view of the ongoing farmers’ agitation and the Covid-19 pandemic, a party functionary said Tuesday. The leader, who will turn 74 on December 9, is currently in Goa after doctors advised her to shift out of Delhi in view of heavy pollution and poor air quality that had aggravated her chest infection.Her son and former Congress president Rahul Gandhi is accompanying her. Even last year, she did not celebrate her birthday in the wake of rise in incidents of rape in various parts of the country and concerns over women’s security. The decision came after the death of a rape victim, who was set ablaze, at a hospital in Delhi and also the incident of a young veterinarian being raped, killed and set ablaze in Hyderabad by four people last year.Also read | Bharat Bandh: How strike is likely to pan out across different statesThe Congress has already extended its support to the farmers’ agitation and demanded repeal of the three new agriculture laws. Sonia Gandhi had made a brief appearance at the Indira Gandhi Memorial on November 19 to pay tributes to the late Prime Minister on her 103rd birth anniversary. Earlier, she was admitted to the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital in Delhi on July 30 after chairing a meeting of party’s Rajya Sabha members. “She has been under heavy medication pursuant to her discharge from hospital in August,” a party functionary had said. On September 12, Sonia Gandhi, accompanied by Rahul Gandhi went to the United States for a few days for her routine medical check-up. The two missed the monsoon session of Parliament from September 14 to 23. Before leaving for the US, she had carried out major organisational changes, reconstituted the Congress Working Committee and her team of office bearers, and also formed a special panel to help her in organisational and operational matters. Sonia Gandhi left Delhi at a time when there are rumbling in the Congress over the debacle in Bihar assembly elections and bypolls in several states with the group of 23 dissenters, who had written a letter to the party chief in August this year seeking organisational overhaul, calling for introspection over the electoral setbacks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-not-to-celebrate-her-birthday-over-farmers-protests-covid-19/story-las7rP0QktZh2MLtTUE8dI.html
08-12-2020||India||Kerala local body elections: 6,910 wards, 395 local bodies, 5 districts in 1st phase polling||The first phase of voting for the three-phased elections to the decentralised tiers of local bodies at the village, block and district levels in Kerala will be conducted by the Kerala State Election Commission on Tuesday. The elections are being conducted for panchayats, municipalities and corporations in which 27.1 million voters are eligible to vote across 34,744 polling stations.Kerala’s three political coalitions — CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF), Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) are in the fray in these polls. The polls are being held five months ahead of crucial assembly elections in Kerala, which are likely to be conducted in May 2021.Here’s all you need to know about the Kerala local body elections 2020:1. In the first phase of polling on Tuesday, voters from five districts of Kerala — Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha and Idukki — will exercise their franchise. The fate of 24,584 candidates would be sealed during voting from 7am to 6pm. As many as 11,225 polling booths have been set up and webcasting has also been introduced in 320 problematic polling booths, officials have said. Authorities have deployed 56,122 personnel for election duty.2. The second phase of polling on 10 December will see voters from Ernakulam, Kottayam, Thrissur, Palakkad and Wayanad districts head to the polls. The third and final phase on 14 December will see voting in Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod districts in northern Kerala.3. Out of the 1,200 self-government institutions in Kerala across 14 districts, elections will be held to 1,199 local bodies which includes 15,962 wards in 941 village panchayats, 2,080 seats in 152 block panchayats, 331 seats in 14 district panchayats, 3,078 wards in 86 municipalities and 414 wards in six municipal corporations.4. According to the State Election Commission, 74,899 candidates will contest the polls which include 38,593 men, 36,305 women and one transgender candidate.Read more| Fierce three-cornered contest in Kerala local body polls5. There are 88,26,873 voters in the first phase, including 41,58,395 males, 46,68,267 females and 61 transgender people. This includes 150 NRIs and 42,530 first-time voters.5. The polls were originally scheduled to take place in October as the tenure of elected representatives to the local bodies was set to end on November 12 but due to the coronavirus pandemic, the state election postponed the polls till December.6. In the 2015 polls, out of the six corporations, the LDF won in four and two are in the UDF’s kitty. Currently, the LDF rules the majority of the municipal and local bodies.7. The LDF’s prime focus during the campaign has been the achievements of the four-and-half-year-old Pinarayi Vijayan government as the party has touted its social welfare schemes and handling of the coronavirus pandemic. But LDF is not in a comfortable position this time in the polls as UDF and the BJP have questioned the ruling party on controversies related to the gold smuggling case, corruption in the Life Mission project and allegations against the Pinarayi Vijayan government. The BJP-led NDA is trying to create a dent in the state, pinning hopes on various development programmes initiated by Prime minister Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre.8. Notably, Kerala has reserved 50% of seats in local body polls for women.9. The local body polls are being held under strict Covid-19 norms and voters have been asked to sanitise their hands as they enter and exit the polling booths. To maintain social distance markers are used and face masks are mandatory. Only three voters are allowed inside the booth at a time.10. Apart from postal ballots, Covid-19 patients are allowed to vote after regular voters cast their votes. Listed as special voters, they must arrive at the polling station before 6pm. Polling officials and agents have been instructed to wear personal protection equipment (PPE) kit before special voters can enter the polling station.11. The state election commission has said that those treated at government-run hospitals will be taken to the polling station by the health department. Special voters living in non-government-controlled institutions or homes should come with a PPE kit at their own expense and drivers ferrying them must also wear a PPE kit.12. Votes will be counted on December 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-local-body-elections-6-910-wards-395-local-bodies-5-districts-in-first-phase-polling/story-lAZ4XHdhRQwCK9ZQWzdD0O.html
08-12-2020||India||Gauhati HC stays Centre’s approval to OIL for drilling in national park||The Gauhati high court on Monday stayed approval given to Oil India Limited (OIL) to explore hydrocarbons at seven locations inside the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park (DSNP) in Assam. A division bench comprising chief justice (acting) N. Kotishwar Singh and justice Manish Choudhury passed the order while hearing a plea by petitioners Mrinmoy Khataniar and Amar Jyoti Deka, who had sought the stay on permission given to OIL by the Centre in May to drill for hydrocarbons at seven locations in DSNP. After hearing arguments by advocates Debajit Kumar Das, RS Choudhury and H Betala, who represented the petitioners, the division bench stayed the environmental clearance for non-compliance with a Supreme Court order of 2017 which required OIL to conduct a biodiversity impact assessment study. The decision is another setback to OIL, which this month abandoned a well at Baghjan in Assam, seven months after it blew out and 17 days after the blaze it caused was doused.The company faced a loss in production and a backlash from local residents over its handling of the blowout. As the well was located close to DSNP and the Maguri Motapung Wetland, the blowout and fire also raised concerns of damage to ecology. In an affidavit filed last month, OIL had stated that no public consultation for environmental clearance or biodiversity impact assessment had been done yet for proposed drilling for oil and natural gas in DSNP. The company maintained that existing rules do not require it to conduct public consultation and stressed that no work on oil and gas exploration and extraction had started till date. OIL said it was committed to the undertaking submitted before the apex court with regard to conducting a biodiversity study prior to the start of drilling. OIL had maintained that the company won’t operate inside the national park.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gauhati-hc-stays-centre-s-approval-to-oil-for-drilling-in-national-park/story-9OLJO9eINDwBN36LKvKdUI.html
08-12-2020||India||Fog spell continues in Delhi; AQI remains in very poor category||A thick layer of fog continued to envelop the national Capital on Tuesday, a day after the city witnessed the season’s first episode of fog, said officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD). There was moderate fog at Palam with visibility of 300 metres this morning.The fog spell also added to the foul air quality, with the air quality index at 7am being 394, in the very poor category, according to the Central Pollution Control Board. IMD forecast for Tuesday read that dense fog in isolated pockets was expected over Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttarakhand, Odisha, West Bengal, Bihar, Manipur, Mizoram,Tripura and Assam and Meghalaya. Isolated heavy rain and snow was also expected over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad today. On Monday, at the Safdarjung Observatory -- representative of Delhi’s weather, moderate fog was observed with the visibility reduced to 300 metres at 8.30am. “The season of fog has started. Easterly winds that were blowing over Delhi till Sunday noon brought moisture. High moisture content combined with low wind speed resulted in heavy fog. On Tuesday, we are expecting dense fog at Safdarjung while very dense fog at Palam,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.He added that at Safdarjung, the visibility may reduce to less than 200 metres on Tuesday morning. Also, air quality is likely to remain in the higher end of very poor because of the impact of fog, which makes the air heavier, allowing higher concentration of pollutants. “Though moisture content will start reducing from Tuesday, its impact will be felt only later in the day. Also, wind speed will pick up to 10-12 kmph, which may result in an improvement in air quality on December 9-10,” said Srivastava.Also, Delhi may see very light rain or drizzle on December 11 on account of a Western Disturbance that will affect the whole of northwest India. “Till at least December 12, there will be no significant change in the morning and night temperatures. Only after the passing of the WD, there could be a drop in temperature,” he said.On Monday, the minimum temperature was 12 degrees C, three notches above normal. The maximum settled at 26.3 degrees C, two notches above normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fog-spell-continues-in-delhi-aqi-remains-in-very-poor-category/story-PpBPpG5l95pfwQtt1LQqcK.html
08-12-2020||India||Voting for first phase of BTC election passes peacefully; over 77% polling reported||Polling took place in the first phase of the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) election on Monday, with 77% of the eligible voters turning out. Polling started at 7:30 am and continued till 4:30 pm in 1,739 polling stations. In some stations, voters who had turned up at the polling stations cast their votes even after 4:30 pm. A total of 130 candidates were in the fray in 21 constituencies in Udalguri and Baksa districts in the first phase. Voting for the other 19 constituencies in Kokrajhar and Chirang districts will take place on Thursday. “We recorded nearly 79% voting till evening. The figures are still being collected and the percentage might go up slightly. Polling was peaceful and there was no report of any law and order problem,” Ranjan Sarma, deputy commissioner of Baksa said. While there are 11 constituencies in Baksa, 10 others are in Udalguri. Because of the Covid-19 pandemic, polling officials were given face masks and sanitisers for themselves and also to offer voters who came to the polling stations without masks. Social distancing was also maintained during voting. “We recorded 75.4% polling in our district, but the figures are still being collected. There was no major issue anywhere and voting took place smoothly,” said Prakash Ranjan Gharphalia, deputy commissioner of Udalguri. This is the first election being held in Assam since the Covid-19 pandemic started. The polls were scheduled to be held in April but had to be postponed because of the pandemic and all the four districts under BTC placed under Governor’s rule. Assembly polls in Assam are due in March-April this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/voting-for-first-phase-of-btc-election-passes-peacefully-over-77-polling-reported/story-PxOypJPNmc4JiJc4P1gw7J.html
08-12-2020||India||Bharat Bandh: How strike is likely to pan out across different states||Farmers, agitating for nearly two weeks against the three farm laws enacted by the Centre earlier this year, have called for a nationwide strike on Tuesday. The general strike from 11am till 3pm will be backed by several political parties and a joint platform of 10 central trade unions.The Congress, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Trinamool Congress (TMC), Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Shiv Sena, Left parties, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Samajwadi Party, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) and Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) have extended their support to the call. Several cab and taxi unions are also supporting the Bharat Bandh due to which travelling across the states is likely to be disrupted.Follow latest updates on Bharat Bandh here The ministry of home affairs (MHA) has asked all states and Union territories to enforce Covid-19 health and safety protocols strictly and make adequate security arrangements during the nationwide shutdown strike called by farmers’ groups, demanding the repeal of three laws that seek to liberalize agricultural markets.ALSO WATCH | Bharat Bandh: Farmers stop train in Maharashtra’s Buldhana, several detained Thousands of farmers have gathered on Delhi’s borders since November 26 to protest against the three contentious laws. Due to the demonstrations, seven borders of the national capital are completely closed. They are protesting the three legislation —The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.Here’s how the bandh will come to pass across different states of the countryDelhi: While the ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government led by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is all set to lend its support to the Bharat Bandh call and peaceful protests against three contentious laws, the Delhi Police on Monday said that they will take strict legal action against persons who would try to disrupt the movement of traffic or people or forcefully close shops. Nearly 4,000 traffic and thousands of security personnel will be deployed on the borders and the city roads to regulate the traffic and avoid any untoward incidents.Punjab: Farmers who have been protesting for the past 13 days are mainly from the northern states of Punjab and Haryana. Punjab is therefore likely to witness a major impact of the strike. All political parties, traders’ bodies, truck unions and mandi associations have extended support to the call. The Sikh Gurudwara Prabhandak Committee (SGPC), the highest religious body of Sikhs, on Tuesday said the strike will be complete.Haryana: In Haryana, five legislators of deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala-led Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) have extended support to the protest. All major markets in the state are expected to remain closed with farmers’ bodies planning blockades along major highways. Haryana’s additional director general of police (law and order) Navdeep Singh Virk said the public may have to face traffic blockages while travelling on various roads and highways of the state on Tuesday.Uttar Pradesh: Thousands of protesters from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled UP have marched to the Capital. Opposition parties, including the Congress, Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party have supported the bandh. The general strike is likely to have a major impact in western UP where the Bhartiya Kisan Union has influence. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has asked officials not to compromise with peace and order at any cost and take all necessary steps for ensuring that people do not face any problem because of the proposed ‘Bharat Bandh’ on Tuesday. West Bengal: The ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) in West Bengal has decided to extend “moral support” to the nationwide strike called by farmers. The party, in solidarity, will stage sit-ins in various parts of the state for the next three days. Senior TMC leader and lawmaker Saugata Roy said the party will not enforce the strike called by the farmers as it is against “bandh culture”.Maharashtra: The ruling alliance of the Shiv Sena, Congress, and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) have supported the Bharat Bandh. Offices in major cities like Mumbai and Pune may continue to operate but highways in rural areas of Marathwada and Vibadhra could be blocked.Bihar: Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Congress and Left parties have supported the call for the bandh in Bihar, which is ruled by a coalition of the BJP, Janata Dal(United) or JD(U) and other small parties. Tejashwi Yadav-led RJD has announced protests across the state due to which the police fear major blockades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-how-nationwide-strike-is-likely-to-pan-out-across-different-states/story-nfzqkXBF8oZTUbuhNok0iN.html
08-12-2020||India||11 days on, body found near MiG-29 crash site; DNA report awaited||A body believed to be of Indian Navy pilot Commander Nishant Singh, missing since his MiG-29 combat jet crashed into the Arabian Sea 11 days ago, has been found by rescue teams and officials are awaiting the result of a DNA test to confirm his identity. The result of the DNA test alone can confirm the identity as the body was beyond recognition when it was found, people aware of the matter said on condition of anonymity on Monday. “Mortal remains of a human body have been recovered in the vicinity of the wreckage. The samples are being sent for DNA testing for confirmation of identity,” said a statement from the Indian Navy. The people cited above said the body was found near the spot where the MiG-29 crashed into the Arabian Sea on November 26. One of the two pilots in the jet was rescued soon after the crash. “All sections of the aircraft wreckage, including ejection seats, have been accounted for using side scan sonar and HD cameras. The FDR/CVR [flight data recorder/cockpit voice recorder] along with other important material have been recovered so far for analysis [and] investigation,” the statement said. The Navy had mobilised nine warships, 14 aircraft and several small vessels for the search and rescue mission to locate the missing pilot. The statement said maritime surveillance aircraft and helicopter had flown sorties totalling 270 hours during the search. The Navy has ordered an inquiry into the crash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-days-on-body-found-near-mig-29-crash-site-dna-report-awaited/story-l4M2TnB3wYlvhkMfUNZRWM.html
08-12-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh minister told to exit bungalow, dept regrets, officer shifted||The Public Works Department (PWD) of the Madhya Pradesh government has expressed regret and shifted its executive engineer from his post in Gwalior for having issued a notice to minister for woman and child development Imarti Devi, asking her to vacate the government bungalow she is occupying in Gwalior.Imarti Devi, who was one of six ministers among 22 Congress MLAs who resigned from the state assembly on March 10 this year in an act of rebellion against the then chief minister Kamal Nath, lost the by-election held in November from Dabra (SC) assembly constituency. She, however, continues to hold her portfolio. Post the loss, she sent her resignation letter to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. The resignation is yet to be accepted. Executive engineer of PWD, division-I, Gwalior Omhari Sharma in a notice dated December 2, 2020 which was received by the minister on Saturday, while addressing her as the ‘then cabinet minister’ asked her to vacate the government bungalow no. 44A, RC Road, Gwalior, while stating that the bungalow had been allotted to her for the period till she remained a minister. “Since you are not holding any post at present you are requested to vacate the bungalow and give its possession to the PWD,” read the notice to the minister. As the eviction notice caused a flutter in the government, the PWD authorities shifted the executive engineer to Bhopal from Gwalior and attached him with the officer of engineer-in-chief, Bhopal, through an order issued on Sunday. In a subsequent letter to the minister, the department also regretted issuance of the notice to her, as per officials. State Congress spokesperson Bhupendra Gupta said, “When the minister has tendered her resignation she should herself have vacated the government bungalow on moral grounds.” State BJP leader Dr Hitesh Bajpai said, “The state government’s action against the executive engineer is a correct step. He deserved the punishment. It is very surprising that the officer issued the notice to the minister despite the fact she continues to hold her portfolio.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-minister-told-to-exit-bungalow-dept-regrets-officer-shifted/story-P22suhPUuw11pyXMp0ezBL.html
08-12-2020||India||Jail statistics to include transpersons’ data||The Centre on Monday informed the Delhi high court that it had directed all states and Union territories to include data on transgender prisoners in jail statistics beginning this year.Additional solicitor general Chetan Sharma, appearing for the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), told a bench comprising chief justice DN Patel and justice Prateek Jalan that the Prison Statistics India report would henceforth classify prisoners as male, female and transgender.The submission was made during a hearing on a plea filed by Karan Tripathi, an independent researcher in criminal justice and criminology, seeking a direction to the NCRB to “make requisite policy and format amendment to include the data on transgender prisoners either in the latest Prison Statistics Report, 2019 (through revision)” or “incorporate the same in the subsequent reports, which will be published in the coming years”.At the last hearing, the court had sought to know from the authorities what steps they had taken for including data on transgender prisoners.Following the additional solicitor general’s submission, the court disposed of the plea, which had sought a direction to the Centre to ensure prison authorities and departments “maintain data on transgender prisoners/inmates in each and every document/report required to be maintained by them”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jail-statistics-to-include-transpersons-data/story-9SnIJcnDW1Bwkad1WBUrVM.html
08-12-2020||India||GoM lays out plan for govt’s media outreach||The Union government is working on a new strategy to overhaul its media and public outreach, with a group of ministers (GoM) comprising nine Union ministers recommending a focus on 10 key areas as well as detailing ways in which criticism can be addressed and positive messaging can be spread wider.The recommendations, part of a report accessed by HT, were made after extensive sittings by the GoM to discuss “Government Communication” and include evolving a multipronged strategy to amplify messages through media engagement, outreach programmes at the level of states and districts, and working with influencers. The suggestions also include developing Prasar Bharati News Service as a key news agency of the country and developing DD International along the lines of “best international public broadcasters”. “The deliberations of the GoM focused on evolving multipronged strategy to take these 10 big narratives to the people by various means including direct connect by elected representatives and state and district level representatives, engaging with media houses and academia at national and international level, utilising all types of media, feeding them with positive stories and testimonials, developing institutional mechanisms for structured engagements, developing DD International on lines of best international public broadcasters and strengthening a resource pool of domain experts,” the report said. Two officials aware of the discussions confirmed the deliberations, while asking not to be named.“The GoM was formed to streamline communication strategy a few months ago. We felt that there was a need to assess how we could reach out in a more effective manner. Various ministers were part of it to remove gaps in government communication. During Covid, small media outlets found it difficult to collect information and get videos. We figured out we needed to share videos [too],” said one of these people. “This process has been underway for some time now,” the second official added. The group has met six times since June 14 and its recommendations will now be sent to the Cabinet secretariat.The 10 core narratives include projecting India’s soft power, the country’s standing in the international community and marquee government initiatives such as Aatmanirbhar Bharat and Digital India.10 key areas identifiedIndia @ 75 (2022) and Republic @75 (2025) celebrations$5 trillion economy plansAatmanirbhar Bharat initiativesSabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas initiativeDigital India effortsSwachh Bharat, Swasth BharatNaari Shakti programmesSkill India initiativeSustainable development focusProjecting India’s soft power globallyThe recommendations also appeared to focus on social media discourse, saying there is a need to constantly track “negative influencers”, and to engage with “positive influencers” to put the “government’s view point in the right perspective.” The GoM also proposed to identify journalists who have lost their jobs recently who are “supportive of the government or are neutral”, so that their services could be utilised by various ministries.The GoM includes Cabinet ministers Ravi Shankar Prasad, Smriti Irani, Prakash Javadekar, S Jaishankar, Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, and Union ministers Kiren Rijiju, Hardeep Singh Puri, Anurag Thakur and Babul Supriyo. The group has made its first presentation to the Prime Minister, who guided the GoM with his insights and gave vital inputs, the report noted.A group of secretaries has also been formed to monitor each of the key areas mentioned under the 10 core narratives. The recommendations also spoke of previous efforts to ensure digital media reporting “is not biased”. “Steps have been taken to ensure that the news reporting on digital media is not biased primarily due to its foreign investment component. It has been decided to cap the foreign investment to 26% and the process to implement the same is under way,” the report said. During discussions, which was also included in the report, concerns were raised over foreign media coverage with one member suggesting there be curbs on interacting with foreign journalists. The report concluded that international outreach is an important component in putting government’s stand properly in an international forum and opted for the opposite. “Regular interaction with foreign media journalists would help disseminate correct information and perspective of the government, especially on sensitive issues,” it added. The report added that there should be local level outreach, for which volunteers of National Service Scheme (NSS), National Cadet Corps, National Youth Corps (NYK) and party leaders be involved. The GoM suggested that every ministry should identify two major public outreach programs in a year along with one day of pre-event publicity and one day of post-event coverage. “This way, for around 300 days in a year, there will be coverage of one or the other government program,” the report said. The GoM recommendations also called for a new communication wing and to establish a strong ‘Fact Check Unit’ to more effectively use the social media for targeted communication. The group has also suggested a research unit to collate all information in proper format for easy and timely retrieval.“Based on the agreed/approved action points, the timelines for each one will be drawn and then these will be implemented. A review and monitoring mechanism also needs to be put in place. Either the same GoM can be entrusted with the responsibility to review and monitor the progress on a quarterly basis or a separate mechanism in the cabinet secretariat can be established,” it added. The ministry of information and broadcasting has sought inputs from the group of secretaries on the action plan to implement the above recommendations. A communication regarding this was sent on Thursday. HT has reviewed a copy. “There is nothing wrong in the government planning better media outreach. Any entity whether public or private is entitled to do so. However it is a little disconcerting that people might get influenced to be more pro-government to gain favours now that they know they will be tracked,” said Pradyuman Maheshwari, editor-in-chief and founder of MxMIndia, a media and advertising analytics firm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gom-lays-out-plan-for-govt-s-media-outreach/story-nAV6jIlO6IDzfJI3pAE7LJ.html
08-12-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi won’t celebrate birthday over farmers’ agitation, pandemic||Congress president Sonia Gandhi will not celebrate her birthday on Wednesday, in view of the ongoing farmer’s agitation against the three farm bills and the Covid-19 situation across the country, a party functionary said on Tuesday. Gandhi is currently in Goa after doctors advised her to move out of the national capital in view of heavy pollution and poor air quality that had aggravated her chest infection.Her son and former Congress president Rahul Gandhi is accompanying her. Farmers protesting the Centre’s agricultural sector laws have called a ‘Bharat Bandh’ on Tuesday after several rounds of talks with the government over the new farm laws remained inconclusive. Farmers’ unions on December 4 decided to intensify their agitation against the farm laws calling for ‘Bharat Bandh’ stating that they were not satisfied with amendments to the agricultural legislation being proposed by the government.The ‘Bharat Bandh’ or the nationwide strike called by the farmers against the farm laws will begin at 11am and continue till 3pm on Tuesday. Haryana Police and Delhi Police have issued travel advisories informing that people may face traffic blockages on various roads and highways.“It is expected that agitating groups may sit in dharna on various roads and highways, within Haryana and blockage them for some time. The peak time of impact is expected to be between 12 pm to 3 pm. There may be some disruptions on various toll plazas in the state. The main national highways Delhi-Ambala (NH-44), Delhi-Hisar (NH-9), Delhi-Palwal (NH-19) and Delhi to Rewari (NH-48) may also see some traffic disruptions for a short time,” the travel advisory by Haryana Police read.Thousands of farmers have been protesting on different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly-enacted farm laws - Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Leaders of farmer groups have held several rounds of talks with the government but all of them remained inconclusive so far. After the fifth round of talks, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has called another meeting on December 9.Meanwhile, India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crossed 9.67 million after 32,981 new infections and 391 deaths were reported from across the country, according to the Union health ministry on Monday. The nation’s death toll has mounted to 140,573 and the active cases stood at 396,729.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-won-t-celebrate-birthday-over-farmers-agitation-pandemic-report/story-h3G2S5zlLZCSCXL3gnMJfM.html
08-12-2020||India||Kerala to move SC against new farm laws: State agriculture minister||Kerala will move the Supreme Court against the new farm laws in a couple of days, said state agriculture minister V S Sunil Kumar. He said that since agriculture falls in the concurrent list, the new laws encroach upon the rights of states and are against the federal structure of the country. The state government claims to have sought legal opinion and received advice that the validity of the laws can be challenged the apex court. “Agriculture falls into the state list as per the seventh schedule of the constitution. States were not consulted before bringing such legislation and farmers’ bodies were also kept in the dark. We feel this legislation will only benefit big corporate houses engaged in the sector,” said Kumar. The minister said the state will introduce an alternative mechanism for procurement and distribution of produce, that involves agriculture co-operative societies and self-help groups. “Farmers are on the street for more than two weeks but their cries fall on deaf ears. The union government can’t go ahead like this, crushing farmers’ interests,” he said. The Bharatiya Janata Party has criticised the decision saying it is politically motivated. “Kerala is not an agrarian state and it will be least affected. The state wants to score some political points.This is nothing but sheer drama,” said minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan, hailing from the state. In 2018-2019, agriculture accounted for 11% of Kerala’s GSDP (industry 25% and services 64%), and only 32% of the state’s population, as opposed to 58% at the national level identified themselves as belonging to an agricultural household. As the first phase of local body election is being held on Tuesday, Kerala is not participating in the nationwide bandh called by various farmers’ outfits. Usually in the state, such protests turn a forced shutdown but political parties arrived at a consensus to facilitate smooth electioneering this time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-to-move-sc-against-new-farm-laws-state-agriculture-minister/story-dXJpbhkEIJPt8XmqzBGNVI.html
08-12-2020||India||BJP, Opposition slugfest over stir intensifies||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Monday accused political rivals, who have found a rallying point in the ongoing farmers’ agitation, of displaying “shameful double standards”, saying that parties such as the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) had once supported what are now key provisions of the new laws that have triggered the protests.Addressing media persons on Monday, Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said that the parties were opposing Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government in a bid to “retain their political relevance”.“The Congress party in their 2019 manifesto had promised to repeal the APMC Act and make trade of agricultural produce including export free from all restrictions,” Prasad said.Hitting out at NCP leader Sharad Pawar, Prasad said, “He had written to the then Delhi chief Minister Sheila Dikshit and MP chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan that agricultural sector needs improvement and that the market requires huge investment in infrastructure including cold chain and private sector participation is essential...”He also said as the Union agriculture minister in the United Progressive Alliance government, Pawar had strongly advocating for greater participation of the private sector in the farm sector and highlighting the need for making suitable regulatory and policy changes for that.“Now they are opposing what they had been working to do when in power. This exposes their shameful double standards. This is opposition for the sake of opposition,” he added.The NCP said Pawar, as the agriculture minister, persuaded many “reluctant” states to implement the BJP-led Atal Bihari Vajpayee government’s model APMC Act.Speaking to reporters in Mumbai, NCP spokesperson and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik said Pawar took decisions with consensus and never imposed them on states. “After the NCP declared support (to farmers stir), the people of BJP have circulated some letters, claiming Pawar saheb himself was encouraging privatisation.The Congress said farmers were justified in opposing the alleged “corporatisation” of agriculture. Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar said, “Please do not follow America. Government should not become a lobbyist for the corporate.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-opposition-slugfest-over-stir-intensifies/story-B8DyitZJ9aqq6GcBzZuPWN.html
08-12-2020||India||SC dismisses plea seeking protection for Republic TV staff||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to entertain a petition filed by Republic TV and its editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami seeking blanket protection from arrest for all employees of the channel, quashing of all pending criminal cases and an omnibus direction to transfer all probes pending against the company to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).“This is a little ambitious,” remarked a bench of justices DY Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee, pointing to the general orders stated in the petition. Senior advocate Milind Sathe, who appeared for the holding company of Republic TV – ARG Outlier Media Private Limited -- and Goswami informed the court that the petition was filed in anticipation of the arrest of several employees of the company.The bench pointed out: “You are seeking a direction to the Union government to protect all employees of the news channel, restrain Maharashtra police from arresting any of your staff, quash all FIRs {first information reports} lodged against the company and transfer all cases to the CBI. It is better you withdraw this petition.” Sathe agreed to do so in order to pursue a remedy as and when an occasion arose in any matter. The court agreed to the request.The same bench had granted Goswami interim bail on November 11 following his arrest in a two-year old abetment to suicide case of a businessman, Anvay Naik.The current petition was not filed with regard to any specific case. The plea said: “The liberties of the employees of petitioner 1 ( ARG Outlier) and petitioner 2 (Goswami) are under attack by the political dispensation in the state of Maharashtra, Maharashtra Police by way of a series of targeted, malicious, wrongful, high handed and arbitrary acts of respondent 1 (Maharashtra government).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-dismisses-plea-seeking-protection-for-republic-tv-staff/story-zlTMdhC0HtJx0IWn2gNvXN.html
08-12-2020||India||Ahead of Bharat Bandh, states told to bolster security||The ministry of home affairs (MHA) has asked all states and Union territories to enforce Covid-19 health and safety protocols strictly and make adequate security arrangements during the nationwide shutdown strike called by farmers’ groups on Tuesday, demanding the repeal of three laws that seek to liberalize agricultural markets.All opposition parties except the Biju Janata Dal and YSR Congress Party, the ruling parties in Odisha and Andhra Pradesh, and major labour and workers’ unions have supported the Bharat Bandh, which is likely to have an impact in Punjab, Haryana, West Bengal, western Uttar Pradesh, and parts of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Telangana. In an advisory, the home ministry also asked state governments and the police to ensure that all Covid-19 guidelines are strictly adhered to by the protestors, officials familiar with the matter said. “Peace and tranquility should be maintained during Bharat Bandh and security arrangements should be in place to avoid any untoward incident,” said the advisory, a copy of which was reviewed by HT.Also Read: Strike over new farm laws across India todayAfter the MHA sent out its advisory, the governments of states such as Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Odisha and Andhra Pradesh instructed district administrators to take “stern action” against those engaging in violence or violating Covid-19 guidelines.The impact of the bandh, which will start in the morning and will continue until 3 p.m., is expected to be felt particularly in Punjab, where all political parties, trade bodies, truck unions and mandi associations have extended farmers their support. The Sikh Gurudwara Prabhandak Committee (SGPC), the highest religious body of Sikhs, said on Monday that the strike will be complete. In Haryana, five legislators of deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala’s Jannayak Janata Party have extended support to the protest. All major markets in the state are expected to remain closed with farmers’ bodies planning blockades.In Uttar Pradesh, opposition party leaders Akhilesh Yadav of the Samajwadi Party and Mayawati of the Bahujan Samaj Party asked their workers to participate in the bandh. The police expect the bandh to have impact in western UP, where Bharatiya Kisan Union has considerable influence. “The opposition parties are trying to mislead innocent farmers on the Centre’s revolutionary and historic laws to further their selfish political ends,” UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath said. Also Read: Farmers say they will block roads, seek supportIn Rajasthan, various farmers groups have announced plans to block all highways in the state until 3 p.m. even as chief minister Ashok Gehlot appealed to protestors to maintain peace. In Maharashtra, the ruling Shiv Sena, along with its alliance partners, Congress and Nationalist Congress Party, has supported the bandh. In Madhya Pradesh, over 50 farmers groups have decided to block traffic on various highways on Tuesday. Gujarat has invoked prohibitory orders across the state to prevent major protests, officials said.There would be no strike in Kerala, where local body polls are to be held on Tuesday, even though the state government on Monday decided to approach the Supreme Court against the three farm laws. In Tamil Nadu, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam chief M K Stalin will lead the protests .In West Bengal and Jharkhand, the bandh is expected to have impact as all main parties and trade unions have called for a complete strike. “Our government does not support strikes, but the TMC fully supports farmers’ struggle,” said Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Thousands of farmers from Punjab have massed on Delhi’s borders to protest against the Centre’s new agricultural laws. “The response is overwhelming, not only in Punjab or the neighbouring states; it would be a total bandh in the entire country,” said BS Rajewal, president of a faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-bharat-bandh-states-told-to-bolster-security/story-d6nCZaReMXLLXxizx9SPCL.html
08-12-2020||India||Bharat braces for Bandh||A day before their proposed Bharat Bandh against three agricultural laws, farmers’ leaders on Monday appealed for peaceful protests and asked demonstrators not to force anyone to take part in the nationwide strike, but indicated again that their campaign will continue till the central government repeals three contentious farm laws that have emerged as a rallying point for political rivals of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Agitating farmers have urged shopkeepers to join their “four-hour symbolic bandh” and shut their establishments, and said they will occupy key roads between 11am and 3pm in different parts of the country. Multiple unions, including those representing autos and taxis, traders at several mandis, transporters, and even railwaymen have said they will support the call either by stopping work during those hours or by gathering at protest sites.As authorities across the country rushed to put in place arrangements to deal with possible law and order challenges, several political heavyweights — from West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee to Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot to Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal — reiterated their support for farmers, while Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad accused the BJP’s rivals of displaying “shameful double standards” and alleged that some of them had in the past backed efforts for farm sector reforms.Also Read| Farmers’ protest: Ministers to explore all measures, says officialSeparately, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, too, stressed the need for reforms in bringing about development while launching a Metro rail project in Agra through a video conference, a pitch that came a day ahead of the strike that is expected to stall life and impact traffic and supply of essential items in several parts of the country, including in Delhi, with tens of thousands of farmers across the country.“Reforms are very much needed for a new order and to give new facilities. We cannot build the next century with the laws of the previous century,” Modi said, without mentioning the ongoing protests. “Some laws that used to be good in the past century have become a burden in the present century. Reforms should be a continuous process.”Farmers’ leaders, however, appeared steadfast in their demand for scrapping the three laws while they assured that emergency services will be allowed during the Bharat Bandh on Tuesday. They also said they did not want any trouble for common people.“The Modi government will have to accept our demands. We want nothing less than withdrawal of the new farm laws,” farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said, addressing a press conference at the Singhu border connecting Delhi and Sonepat — one of the key points blocked since thousands of protesters from Punjab and Haryana reached there on November 27 as part of their protests.Another farmers’ leader, Darshan Pal, said the bandh will be apolitical. “It will be a peaceful bandh. We are firm on not allowing any political leaders on our stage,” he added. A large section of farmers has demanded the repeal of the three controversial laws enacted by Parliament in September, which, together, allow agribusinesses to freely trade farm produce without restrictions, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming. Farmers say the reforms will make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power, weaken the government’s minimum support price (MSP) system, and will eventually be detrimental to the farm sector, which supports nearly half the population. Five meetings between the government and farm leaders have remain deadlocked, with the next round of dialogue slated for Wednesday. Farmers want a legal guarantee for MSPs, which offers cultivators assured prices from the government, as well as a special session of Parliament to repeal the laws. They have even rejected four major amendments — verbally proposed by the government — to the set of farm laws. On Monday, political rivals upped the ante against the Centre with all major parties — except Odisha’s ruling Biju Janata Dal and Andhra Pradesh’s ruling YSR Congress Party — seeking to mount pressure on the BJP over the farmers’ protests.Also Read: Strike over new farm laws across India today“The BJP government (at the Centre) should immediately withdraw the farm bills or step down. It should not continue to remain in power after sacrificing the rights of the farmers,” West Bengal CM and Trinamool Congress leader Banerjee said at a rally in West Midnapore district.Rajasthan CM Gehlot said the Centre must not delay paying attention to issues of farmers’ welfare. “The NDA (National Democratic Alliance) government must shun its arrogance, insensitivity, adamant attitude and roll back the black farm laws. The Congress party stands with our farmers in ensuring the mandi system, MSP must continue & farmers & farm lands are saved from big corporate,” he said on Twitter.The BJP hit back, stressing that parties such as the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party had once supported what are now key provisions of the new farm laws. Union minister Prasad alleged that the Opposition was conspiring to create “unrest” by misleading people over the issue, but at the same time appreciated farmers’ unions for not linking their stir with any political party.Addressing BJP supporters at an event in Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan said the three farm laws were not anti-farmer. “If a farmer can sell his produce for a better price outside the market, what is the problem to anyone? What is so anti-farmer about this? If a farmer is assured of a price for his produce, if a trader buys more from a farmer without any ceiling for stocks, what is against the farmer about it?” he asked.As the political tug of war continued, law enforcement authorities focused on putting in place arrangements to avoid trouble, as instructed by the home ministry in an advisory. The Centre also asked states and Union Territories to ensure all Covid-19 guidelines were followed by protesters. The Delhi Police, which function under the Union home ministry, said they had taken elaborate steps and warned that strict action will be taken against those trying to disrupt movement or “forcefully” shut shops. “Delhi Police have also issued a traffic advisory for smooth movement of vehicles and commuters. Anybody who tries to disrupt normal movement, life or forcefully closes shops will be strongly dealt with, as per the law,” Eish Singhal, Delhi Police public relations officer, said.Also Read: One farm group in Haryana backs Centre’s new lawsSinghu and Tikri borders connecting Delhi to Haryana, and the Chilla border on the Noida Link Road were expected to remain closed on Tuesday as well in view of the protests, just like the past few days. On Monday, the Ghazipur border on NH-24 was also closed for traffic from Ghaziabad to Delhi.Though the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) and All India Transporters Welfare Association (AITWA) said they will not participate in the strike, some auto and taxi unions — including those associated with app-based aggregators — and traders’ groups in Delhi announced that they will be a part of the agitation, in what could impact transport facilities and supplies of vegetables and fruits.Adil Ahmed Khan, chairman of Delhi’s Azadpur Mandi — a wholesale market for fruits and vegetables — said several traders’ associations, including those in Ghazipur and Okhla, decided not to operate on Tuesday. However, not all traders appeared to agree with Khan.“Traders have even put banners at all gates of Azadpur Mandi in solidarity with the one-day strike. This is a historic decision because if there are no farmers, then there will be no traders in our mandis. But there is nothing to panic. Delhi will not face any crisis due to the shortage of supplies,” said Khan.The All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC), which is the apex body of transporters representing about 9.5 million truckers, said it will suspend operations across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-braces-for-bandh/story-TWBc5cCozlzQGJbCS8IPuO.html
08-12-2020||India||One farm group in Haryana backs Centre’s new laws||A group of farmers from Haryana met Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar to lend support to three new farm laws, appealing the minister not to repeal the legislation. Their demand comes at a time when thousands of farmers, largely from Punjab and Haryana, have called for a nationwide blockade on December 8 in protest against the farm laws and vowed to intensify their agitation if the government did not repeal the laws. This is the first time since the agitation began when a section of farmers have come out in support of the laws. The farmers, representing Har Kisan, an organization of 116 farmer-owned agri enterprises known as farmer producer organisations, met the agriculture minister and asked for a separate meeting with him with more members of their organization. Also Read| Farmers’ protest: Ministers to explore all measures, says officialThe farmers’ group from Haryana said they were not opposed to any amendments that the government may be considering but they want to the laws to be in force. “We want MSP to continue, we also want the mandi system to continue but we also want more marketing options that these new laws will create,” said Satpal Singh, one of the signatories of a memorandum submitted by the delegation to the farm minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-farm-group-in-haryana-backs-centre-s-new-laws/story-tWXPmG7PlzaCHAIEHekceL.html
08-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Ministers to explore all measures, says official||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has asked ministers negotiating with farm unions to explore “all possible measures” to secure farmers’ rights and incomes to end the ongoing agitation, a person familiar with the matter has said. The PM is open to amendments or new rules, if necessary, the person added. Modi has advised his key ministers that the government should explore more safeguards to protect farmers against exploitation, strengthen existing notified markets, known as Agricultural Produce Market Committees, bring stricter provisions to secure farmers engaging in contract farming, and also expand procurement of crops at state-set minimum support prices (MSP). The ministers are likely to draw up their final proposal along these guidelines. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, railways and food minster Piyush Goyal, and minister of state (commerce) Som Prakash are set to meet farmers’ representatives again on December 9 -- the sixth round of talks -- a day after a nationwide Bharat Bandh called by the unions on Tuesday. “The PM’s message is that all safeguards possible for farmers should be created. If amendments are needed to strengthen farmers rights over their land and resources, there should be no hesitation. Procurement should be strengthened...,” the person said. Also Read| Bharat Bandh: Police warn strict action against disruptors, to use drones to keep an eye on protestersGovernment officials on Monday hastily went over proposals they think might help resolve the stand-off: while the government hasn’t showed any signs it will rescind a set of pro-market policies, farmers have stuck to the demand for a complete repeal of three new farm laws. “If the farmers had cited specific provisions and objections, we would have been in a better position to come up with proposals,” the person cited above said. The government pushed three laws in September to deregulate markets and permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future, which, officials say, will spur investments in supply chains. Farmers in India, on average, receive lower-than-global prices because of rising costs of cultivation and policies to keep food cheap. Farmers are seeking a law prohibiting sale of any farm produce below MSP. Many economists say such a law could turn demand-supply laws upside down, causing private traders to exit markets during gluts, when buying at MSP will not be profitable. On the other hand, the government cannot be a monopoly buyer of all farm produce. Thousands of protesting farmers have marched towards the capital and are camped at several entry points. They largely oppose the laws saying they will be swallowed by big corporations. A background note from the government-run think-tank Niti Aayog, which the negotiating team will draw on, says farm sectors, such as horticulture, milk and fishery – where government intervention is low – has grown on average 4-10% annually, compared to a flat growth rate of 1.1% in cereals where government intervention is high. “This clearly indicates that in recent times liberalized markets are more favourable to agricultural growth than government support and intervention in markets,” an official said. The government is likely to argue that there are ways to ensure existing notified markets can co-exist with free markets, the official said. Also Read: Farmers say they will block roads, seek supportSome economists say competition could lead to better price discovery. It is a fallacy that APMC markets offer any price security for produce other than rice and wheat, according to noted farm economist Ashok Gulati. A second official contended there will be no impact of free markets to reformed APMCs in at least 12 states that “do not charge commission on notified crops”. Nine such states charge only a reasonable fee and service charges from 0–1%. The “real threat” to APMC mandis and their business is from “excessive and unjustified charges in these markets”, the second official said. Farmers aren’t convinced. “The issue is not about one particular clause, but about the direction in which the government is pushing farming in India,” said Avik Saha, a farm activist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-ministers-to-explore-all-measures-says-official/story-vWaeSyTPwctoXYKSr5MOOL.html
08-12-2020||India||Review of Covid vaccine applications of Pfizer, SII, Bharat Biotech tomorrow: Report||An expert committee of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) will meet on Wednesday to review applications of Pfizer, Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech seeking emergency use authorisation for their Covid-19 vaccine candidates, official sources said on Monday night.The decision was taken late on Monday evening after the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech became the third pharmaceutical firm to apply to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for emergency use authorisation for its indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin.Also Read: Hailing ‘turning point’, Britain begins roll-out of Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine The Indian arm of US pharmaceutical giant Pfizer had on December 4 sought approval for its vaccine from the central drug regulator, after the firm secured such clearance in the UK and Bahrain. The Pune-based Serum Institute of India sought the nod for the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine, Covishield, on December 6. “DCGI has already started processing the applications. The subject expert committee (SEC) on Covid-19 at CDSCO will deliberate on the applications by Pfizer, Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech seeking emergency use authorisation for their COVID-19 vaccines on December 9,” a source said. After evaluation, the SEC will give its recommendations to the DCGI on whether emergency use approval for the vaccine candidates should be granted or not, the source said. At an all-party meeting on December 4, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had expressed hope that a Covid-19 vaccine may be ready in a few weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/review-of-covid-vaccine-applications-of-pfizer-sii-bharat-biotech-tomorrow-report/story-PjfowCTwrCLheo8A5724zO.html
08-12-2020||India||Bharat Bandh Updates: Centre not ready to repeal farm laws, say farmer leaders after meeting with Amit Shah, reports PTI||Thousands of farmers are protesting against Centre’s new farm laws in and around Delhi with a nationwide strike or Bharat Bandh held on Tuesday from 11am to 3pm. A day before the sixth round of talks between farmers’ representatives and the government, Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday invited the leaders of farmers’ union for talks. The meet which began after 8 pm was held at the office of Indian Council of Agricultural Research. As many as 13 farmer leaders were invited for talks with Shah which ended post 11pm. The farmer leaders said that Centre was not ready to repeal the farm lawsFarmers have been protesting the three contentious farm laws - Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 - enacted by the Centre during the monsoon session of Parliament.The next round of talks between the government and the protesting farmers is scheduled to take place on Wednesday. Follow live updates here:Govt not ready to repeal farm laws, say farmer leaders after meet with Amit ShahThe meeting between Union home minister Amit Shah and farmer leaders finally ended with farmer leaders saying that the Centre was not ready to repeal the farm laws. CPI(M) Polit Bureau member Hannan Mollah post the meeting said the home minister told the government would give in writing about the amendments it is willing to make, reports PTI. Plea in Supreme Court to allow farmers to protest at designated placeA PIL seeking to allow farmers, who are protesting at several border points of the national capital against the new farm laws, to protest at the designated place by following Covid-19 guidelines has been filed in the Supreme Court. The plea filed by Delhi-based lawyer Reepak Kansal has sought framing guidelines to balance citizens right to protest with right to free access and movement, according to PTI.‘Excellent at drama’, says Meenakshi Lekhi on Kejriwal’s house arrest claimResponding to Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)’s claims regarding Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s house arrest, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Meenakshi Lekhi on Tuesday said that “everyone knows he is excellent at doing drama”. “It is not house arrest but rest in the house. We have video footage of last night in which he can be seen, we do not know what did he eat at some marriage function that he is at his house. Everyone knows he is excellent at doing drama, I doubt if his degree is from the Indian Institue of Technology (IIT) or the National School of Drama (NSD),” Lekhi, Lok Sabha MP from New Delhi constituency told ANI.Amit Shah meets farmer leaders ahead of crucial talks on farm lawsA day before the government’s crucial sixth round of talks with representatives of protesting farmers, Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday met a select group of union leaders in a bid to break the deadlock. According to a report in PTI quoting sources, 13 farmer leaders were called for the meeting, which began after 8 pm. The farmer leaders included eight from Punjab and five from various nationwide organisations.5-member Oppn delegation to meet President tomorrow on farm lawsA delegation of opposition parties will meet President Ram Nath Kovind on December 9 over concerns on the three new agriculture laws enacted by the Centre in September and to seek their repeal, senior leaders said Tuesday. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said that the five-member delegation - Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, NCP chief Sharad Pawar, a representative of the DMK, CPI general secretary D Raja and he - will meet the President tomorrow at 5 pm on behalf of the Opposition parties.Taking to our people on location for meeting with Shah, says Rakesh TikaitWe are talking to our people on where the meeting is to be held: Rakesh Tikait, Spokesperson, Bhartiya Kisan Union on being asked about the meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah.‘Tomar assures MSP to Haryana farmers’, says Khattar after meeting minister“For our government, the interest of Haryana’s Annadata has always been important and will always be. Regarding farmers’ issues today I met Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar. He has assured over Minimum Support Price and said “MSP pr kbhi aach nhi aayege,” Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar tweeted after meeting Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Tuesday in New Delhi.Wanted to go to the border not as CM but as a common man, says KejriwalI had planned that today I would go to the border not as CM but as a common man to express my solidarity with the farmers. I think they came to know about my plan and they did not let me go: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal.“If I was not stopped, I would have gone and supported the protesting farmers in their Bharat Bandh movement. I am glad that Bharat Bandh was a success. I prayed for the protesting farmers while sitting inside,” he added.Punjabi singer Jass Bajwa joins farmers’ protest Punjabi singer Jass Bajwa joins farmers’ protest against Centre’s farm laws, at Ghazipur border (Delhi-UP border)“The Government should agree to the demands of the farmers,” Jass Bajwa said.We should be allowed to hold protest at Ramlila Ground, says Punjab Kisan UnionWe do not want to cause any inconvenience to anyone from Delhi or Haryana, we should be allowed to hold protest at Ramlila Ground: RS Mansa, Punjab Kisan Union at Singhu (Haryana-Delhi border)Delhi deputy CM Sisodia holds sit-in protest outside Kejriwal’s houseDelhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia holds sit-in protest outside chief minister’s residence alleging Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal is under house arrest. #WATCH: Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia hold sit-in protest outside Chief Minister's residence alleging Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal is under house arrest. pic.twitter.com/QGeedRLXTXProtests held in parts of Nagpur city, rural areasProtests were held in several parts of Maharashtra’s Nagpur city and rural areas on Tuesday in support of the Bharat Bandh called by farmers demanding repeal of the Centre’s agriculture laws.The bandh, however, received a mixed response from traders who supported farmers but did not shut their establishments.Farmers today are much better informed, says Congress leader Kamal NathAre the farmers stupid that they’ve gathered here in such numbers? There’s a huge difference in the farmers from 30 years ago and now. The farmers today are much much better informed: Congress leader Kamal Nath said, as quoted by news agency ANI.BKU’s Tikait says farmer leaders to meet Amit Shah at 7 pmRakesh Tikait, spokesperson of (Bhartiya Kisan Union) BKU Tikait faction UP, said that farmer leaders are going to meet Amit Shah. Meeting to take place at 7 pm today.There will be a press conference at Singhu border, says Rakesh Tikait. He also urged farmers to clear the blocked carriageways going towards Ghaziabad from DelhiShiv Sena never supported farm laws, says Sanjay RautShiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Tuesday said the Uddhav Thackeray-led party never supported the three farm laws in Lok Sabha as alleged by the BJP. Raut suggested that Prime Minister Narendra Modi or Union Home Minister Amit Shah can hold talks with cultivators who are observing the Bharat Bandh against farm laws.Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar and Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar hold a meetingHaryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar hold a meeting at the latter’s residence.Group of farmers block a carriageway of NH-44 near Singhu borderA group of young farmers have blocked one carriageway of NH-44 outside a Gurdwara, a few kilometers before Singhu border.Centre should call a Parliamentary session and discuss these reforms: Bhupinder Singh HoodaFormer Haryana chief minister and Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda said, “I agree that some reforms are needed. But these Acts which have been passed, have no reflection of these reforms. They should call a Parliamentary session and discuss these exact reforms.”Manohar Lal Khattar arrives at Narendra Singh Tomar’s residenceHaryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar arrives at the residence of Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar to meet him.Farmers’ associations demonstrate march on the streets of PuducherryFarmers’ associations demonstrate march on the streets of Puducherry, in support of Bharat Bandh called by farmer unions against the Central Government’s farm laws.Puducherry chief minister V Narayanasamy was also present.Shopkeepers in Delhi’s Sarojini Nagar market tie black ribbons around their arms to show solidarity with farmers’ protestsDelhi shopkeepers in Sarojini Nagar market tie black ribbons around their arms to show solidarity with farmers’ protests, on Bharat Bandh.“We are doing this to show our support for the farmers’ cause. Why can’t the government grant a simple demand of the MSP,” says one shopkeeper.BJP is perplexed by farmers and Arvind Kejriwal: Manish SisodiaDelhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia said the BJP is perplexed by the farmers and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. “They are perplexed after he went to meet the farmers at Singhu border. He has been put under house arrest ever since he returned, his house has been barricaded. Entry/exit of people not being allowed. BJP is scared that the CM will take to the streets in favour of Bharat Bandh and speak for farmers. They don’t say anything to Captain Amarinder because the two are colluding to call the farmers anti-nationals,” Sisodia said.DMRC closes Pandit Shree Ram Sharma station on Green lineThe Delhi Metro Rail Corporation has closed Pandit Shree Ram Sharma station on Green line (Inderlok to Mundka) for security reason. DMRC officials said that trains will not stop at this station. The station is located near Tikri border. “Entry and exit gates of Pandit Shree Ram Sharma station on Green Line are closed,” DMRC tweeted.Will present oppn parties’ collective stand before President tomorrow, says Sharad PawarNationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar said five to six people from different political parties are on Wednesday going to sit, discuss and take a collective stand. We have a 5pm appointment with the President and will present our collective stand before him.Activists, leaders of Bharatiya Kisan Union and others blocked Delhi- Pauri Highway Activists and leaders of BKU, BKU( Tomar), Bhartiya Kisan Sabha, Kisan Vichar Manch and Bhartiya Kisan Andoland have blocked Delhi- Pauri Highway at Mawana Khurd in Meerut district.Arvind Kejriwal had shown his support for the farm bills when he notified a gazette: Smriti IraniArvind Kejriwal had shown his support for the farm bills when he notified a gazette. Gazette is notified when the government accepts a bill administratively and politically. So he has given his acceptance to this bill already, says Union Minister and BJP Leader Smriti Irani.Shops in Maharashtra seen open amidst Bharat BandhShops in Maharashtra seen open. There is regular traffic movement in Matunga area of Mumbai amidst Bharat Bandh.TRS leaders protest in support of Bharat BandhTelangana Rastriya Samiti leaders K Kavitha, KT Rama Rao and others, along with party workers, protest in Ranga Reddy in support of Bharat Bandh called by farmer unions against Centre’s farm laws.If government can make law they can repeal it as well: Farmer leaderFarmers’ associations demonstrate at Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (Delhi-UP) border as part of Bharat Bandh call.“If government can make law they can repeal it as well. They must work with farmer associations and experts. We will leave only after we get it in writing,” says a farmer leader.Police take positions along barricades at Singhu borderThe police have taken positions along the barricades and at several other points at the Singhu Border amidst the ongoing Bharat Bandh. They have set up new restrictions using ropes to prevent people from taking one of the two walkable routes along the borderline. The stage at Singhu Border saw a much larger gathering than earlier days, and farmers said that there has been an influx of new farmers since Monday night. “About 200 trucks laden with farmers are set to arrive at Singhu Border by today afternoon. Many have already reached, hence the increase in the rush,” said anavjeet Singh, a farmer from Balauli village of Ropar district.Punjab farmers protesting farm laws in Mohali, block Chandigarh highwayPunjab farmers protesting the farm laws in Mohali, block Chandigarh highway, on Bharat Bandh.Farm laws brought by Centre will finish farmers of the country: Mumbai Dabbawala AssociationThe farm laws brought by the Centre will finish the farmers of the country. Farmers have started a massive agitation in north India and Bharat Bandh was announced for today. Mumbai Dabbawala Association supports the Bandh, says Subhash Talekar, president, Mumbai Dabbawala AssociationClaim of Arvind Kejriwal being put on house arrest is incorrect, says Delhi PoliceThis statement is absolutely incorrect. As being the CM of Delhi, he can move around wherever he wants, says Anto Alphonse, DCP North, Delhi.Opposition who is asking to roll back these laws is hypocritical : Prakash JavadekarThe opposition who is asking to roll back these laws is hypocritical as they had passed the contract farming act while in power. Congress has mentioned the introduction of these laws in their manifesto, says Union Minister Prakash JavadekarAssam Police detain a few people who were protesting Assam Police detain a few people who were protesting in front of Janata Bhawan in Guwahati today, in support of Bharat Bandh called by farmer unions.BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi will join the mayors and other councilors outside Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal’s residenceBJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi will join the mayors and other councilors outside Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal’s residence. West Delhi MP Parvesh Sahib Singh Verma is outside the CM’s residence. Arvind Kejriwal has not been put under house arrest: Anto Alphonse, Deputy Commissioner of Police North, DelhiIt is a general deployment to avoid any clash between AAP and any other party. CM has not been put under house arrest: Anto Alphonse, DCP North, DelhiNo one is allowed to go inside Arvind Kejriwal’s residence: Saurabh BharadwajNo one is allowed to go inside. He (Kejriwal) is not allowed to come out. MLAs, who had a meeting with the chief minister yesterday, were beaten up by Police when they went to meet him. Workers were not allowed to meet him either. BJP leaders are being made to sit outside his residence, says Saurabh Bharadwaj.Delhi Police barricaded Kejriwal’s residence, putting him in house arrest like situation: Saurabh BharadwajThe chief minister met farmers at Singhu border yesterday. He had said that we will serve them like ‘Sevadars’ and support them. After he returned, Delhi Police barricaded his residence from all sides, putting him in a house-arrest like situation, at the behest of Home Ministry, says AAP’s Saurabh Bharadwaj.Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal put under house arrest after his visit to farmers, tweets AAPDelhi Police has put chief minister Arvind Kejriwal under house arrest ever since he visited farmers at Singhu Border yesterday, tweets Aam Aadmi Party (AAP).Protestors in Jharkhand raise slogans and go on a march in Ranchi Protestors in Jharkhand raise slogans and go on a march in Ranchi on account of Bharat Bandh, against the new farm laws.CITU took out a portest march in AsansolCentre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) took out a protest march in Asansol today, in support of the Bharat Bandh called by farmer unions against Central Government’s farm laws.Left parties in West Bengal raise slogans against farm laws  Left parties in West Bengal raise slogans against farm laws and burn effigies in Jadavpur area of Kolkata“In West Bengal there is complete bandh in support of the peasant’s demand. We imagine similar situations prevailing across India as well,” says Sujan Chakraborty, CPI(M) leader.If govt has a heart, it will talk to farmers: Sanjay RautIf the government has a heart, be it the Home Minister or the Prime Minister, they themselves will go and talk to them (farmers), says Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut.RJD workers show support for Bharat BandhWorkers of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) workers burn a tyre at Ganj Chowk in Darbhanga in protest against the central government and show their support to Bharat Bandh called by farmers’ unions.Karnataka Congress leaders protest in support of Bharat BandhKarnataka Congress leaders Siddaramaiah, BK Hariprasad, Ramalinga Reddy and others protest in support of Bharat Bandh called by farmers’ unions. They raise slogans against the Centre and show black flags in front of Gandhi statue at Vidhana Soudha in Bengaluru.Appeal to all to maintain peace in Bharat Bandh: Rachakonda Police, TelanganaIt is appealed to all to maintain peace in Bharat Bandh. Action will be taken against those who indulge in any forcible closure or stoppages, say Rachakonda Police, TelanganaOfficers are ensuring that no one imposes Bandh forcibly: Additional Commissioner of Police, Gautam Buddh NagarOfficers are taking rounds in their respective areas and ensuring that no one imposes Bandh forcibly. Everyone has been instructed to ensure security of railway stations, bus stands, metro stations and autos. We will strictly deal with anyone who takes law in their hands: Additional CP.Ensuring public don’t face inconvenience : Additional Commissioner of Police, Gautam Buddh NagarWe are ensuring that public don’t face inconvenience and there’s no traffic disruption. Adequate security deployed at all important entry/exit points to/from the district. We also deployed PAC (Provincial Armed Constabulary) force, says Love Kumar, Additional Commissioner of Police, Gautam Buddh Nagar.Slogans against the new farm laws raised by Left organisations in Karnataka’s KalaburagiSlogans against the new farm laws raised by Left organisations in Karnataka’s Kalaburagi, on account of Bharat Bandh Telangana Road Transport Corporation workers in Kamareddy extend their support to Bharat BandhTelangana Road Transport Corporation workers in Kamareddy extend their support to Bharat Bandh by farmer unions. A bus driver says, “CM raised his voice against Farm laws. Going with him, we the workers of RTC are protesting here. Farmers should not be subjected to injustice.”Left political parties protest in Andhra Pradesh in support of Bharat BandhLeft political parties protest in Parvathipuram of Vizianagaram district of Andhra Pradesh, in support of the Bharat Bandh called by farmers unions, against Central Government’s farm laws.Pune APMC market remains open on ‘Bharat Bandh’“We support farmers’ agitation. But we’ve kept the market open today so farm produces coming in from other states can be stored or else they will rot. It will be sold tomorrow only,” says a local trader, Sachin PaygudeDelhi Traffic Police lists borders to Haryana that are open Available open borders to Haryana are - Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders. Tikri, Jharoda borders, Dhansa are closed for any traffic movement. Badusarai border is open only for light motor vehicles like cars and two-wheelers. Jhatikara border is open only for two-wheeler traffic, says Delhi Traffic Police.Farmers try to close liquor shop near Hall gate Golden temple during Bharat Bandh protest in AmritsarFarmers tried to close liquor shop near Hall gate Golden temple during Bharat Bandh protest against the farm laws in AmritsarBharat Bandh: Banks to remain open Bank unions have said they stand in solidarity with the farmers but will not participate in the bandh. Our protest will be completely peaceful: Bharatiya Kisan Union spokespersonOur protest will be completely peaceful. If someone gets stuck for 2-3 hours in a Bandh called by us, we provide them with water and fruits. Ours is a different concept: Rakesh Tikait, Spokesperson, Bharatiya Kisan UnionFarmers staying at Burari’s Nirankari Samagam Ground gathered for prayers this morningFarmers staying at Burari’s Nirankari Samagam Ground gathered for prayers this morning. The protest at the Ground entered 13th day today. Left political parties, trade unions and farmer unions in Odisha stop trains at Bhubaneswar Railway Station Left political parties, trade unions and farmer unions in Odisha stop trains at Bhubaneswar Railway Station. Swabhimani Shetkari Saghtana staged ‘Bharat Bandh Rail Roko’ protest and briefly stopped a train todaySwabhimani Shetkari Saghtana staged ‘Bharat Bandh Rail Roko’ protest and briefly stopped a train today in Malkapur of Buldhana district. They were later removed from the tracks by police and detained.All examinations scheduled on December 8 under Osmania University jurisdiction postponed: Controller of Exams, Osmania UniversityAll examinations scheduled on December 8 under Osmania University jurisdiction have been postponed due to Bharat Bandh. The revised schedule will be given in due course of time. Examinations scheduled from December 9 will be held as per schedule: Controller of Exams, Osmania UniversitySonia Gandhi to not celebrate her birthday in view of farmers’ protestCongress interim president Sonia Gandhi will not celebrate her birthday on December 9, in view of the ongoing farmer’s agitation against agriculture bills and Covid-19 situation across the country.Will take strict legal action against disruptors: Delhi PoliceThe Delhi Police have said they will take strict legal action against those who would try to disrupt the movement of traffic or people or forcefully close shops during the Bharat Bandh.There will be complete ‘Bharat Bandh’ till 3 pm: Farmer leader Balbir Singh RajewalThere will be complete ‘Bharat bandh’ till 3 pm on Tuesday, but emergency services will be allowed, farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/live-update/bharat-bandh-today-live-updates/story-LdVg0trDXKLvcS2Oh1ZFAO.html
08-12-2020||India||Central Vista redevelopment: Halt activities, wait for verdict, SC tells Govt||The Supreme Court on Monday directed the Centre to immediately stop all construction and ancillary activities in the historically significant Central Vista area of New Delhi where a new Parliament, Central Secretariat and union ministries’ offices are planned to be built. With the court rebuking the Centre for reportedly going ahead with constructions and shifting of trees in the area without waiting for a final judgment on validity of the Central Vista redevelopment plan, the government had to furnish an apology and record an undertaking to restrain itself. “We thought we were dealing with a prudent litigant,” the SC bench, led by justice AM Khanwilkar, told solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who represented the Central government in the bunch of petitions that have challenged the Central Vista plan over change of land use, conservation of heritage structures and environmental regulations. The bench, which included justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna, referred to a recent press release issued by the government as well as certain media reports about how trees were being shifted since the construction on the proposed site may begin this month. “The fact that there is no stay does not mean you can go ahead with everything. We did not expect you to go ahead and start construction so aggressively. We only allowed you to go ahead with the paperwork but we are now concerned over all this,” it said. The bench reminded Mehta that the court order on March 6 this year clearly recorded that everything the authorities do pertaining to the redevelopment project would be subject to its judgment.  “We showed you some deference when we did not pass a specific order of stay on that date (March 6). We expected you to also show deference to this court. But now, we want to make it clear. No constructions, no demolition, no cutting of trees till we finally decide...we can pass that order today itself,” the bench told Mehta. At this, the solicitor general requested the bench to give him time till Tuesday to come back with instructions, as he added that some trees might have already been translocated, but that the construction is still two months away. In response, the bench asked Mehta to seek instructions from competent authorities on the phone right away. Five minutes later, Mehta joined the proceedings again, and tendered an apology on behalf of the government. “We tender our apology. On instructions, I am ready to make a statement that there will be no construction, no demolition, no cutting of trees or translocation till this court finally decides the matter,” Mehta submitted before the bench. The court then recorded the solicitor general’s undertaking in its order while clarifying that the government could only proceed with the foundation stone laying ceremony on December 10, and procedural paperwork but that there cannot be alterations to the site. “We don’t want any physical changes or alterations because they can be irreversible,” it told Mehta while wrapping up the suo motu (on its own notice) proceedings. Also Read: Govt denies CPWD request for tweaks in Central Vista projectAhmedabad-based HCP Design Planning and Management Private Ltd has been tasked with redeveloping the Central Vista avenue, which includes constructing a new Parliament building with state-of-the-art technology and expanded seating for over 1,200 members of both Houses, 11 buildings to house the administrative offices of all 51 central ministries, an underground Metro station running below these Central Secretariat offices, chambers for members of the Parliament, the Prime Minister’s office and residence, and even an arboretum of rare plants behind the Mughal Gardens. The redevelopment plan also involves turning the North and South Blocks into a National Museum, refurbishing and extending the National Archives, and moving the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts to the India Gate hexagon. The new Parliament complex with a built-up area of approximately 60,000 metre square was expected to be ready by 2022 (Tata Projects won the bid in September to construct the building for ₹862 crore). The other structures had varied timelines but the entire project was expected to be completed by 2024. The bench had on November 5 reserved its judgment in the matter after hearing in detail a clutch of petitions. Argued through senior counsel Shyam Divan, Sanjay Hegde and advocate Shikhil Suri, the petitions objected to the proposed change in land usage of the Central Vista — the historical boulevard of approximately 3.5 km from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate, and further to the National Stadium, by the Delhi Development Authority. Issues of environmental norms and possible destruction of heritage buildings have also been raised in the petitions, which have further emphasised that the “Central Vista is a symbol of India’s historic past, its nationhood and its vibrant democracy.” On its part, the Central government, through the solicitor general, has defended the project, saying the plan was based on a broad vision to save approximately ₹1,000 crore of public money every year by housing all the ministries in 10 buildings that will be connected through a metro route, and improving their coordination. It has added that the existing Parliament building, on account of being nearly 100 years old, was under tremendous pressure and that not a brick of the heritage structures will be touched while building a new Parliament, Central Secretariat and various ministries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-vista-redevelopment-halt-activities-wait-for-verdict-sc-tells-govt/story-tfPSazKGCB5htjETxv0lxM.html
08-12-2020||India||Strike over new farm laws across India today||As law enforcement authorities prepare for a Bharat Bandh called by farmers, the Centre has issued an advisory asking all states and Union Territories to make adequate arrangements so as to prevent any trouble. Several states —those governed by political rivals of the Centre’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) — have backed the bandh and made public their support for peaceful protests against three contentious laws that the farmers are protesting. On Tuesday, travel may be affected in several parts of the country with a section of cab and taxi unions supporting the bandh. Several traders at mandis, too, have decided to join the agitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/strike-over-new-farm-laws-across-india-today/story-XSa6FAbicAeNxESZzZtICN.html
08-12-2020||India||PM Modi to inaugurate Pravasi Bharatiya Divas Convention on January 9: MEA||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the Pravasi Bharatiya Divas Convention to be held in virtual format on January 9, the ministry of external affairs said on Monday. The website for the 16th Pravasi Bharatiya Divas 2021 will be launched by minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan on Tuesday, marking the commencement of online registration for participation in the convention, the MEA said in a statement. In view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the 16th PBD Convention will be held in virtual format on January 9. Pravasi Bharatiya Divas Convention is the flagship event of the government of India and provides an important platform to engage and connect with the overseas diaspora. The theme of PBD 2021 is “Contributing to Atmanirbhar Bharat”. On the forenoon of January 9, Prime Minister Modi will inaugurate the Pravasi Bharatiya Divas Convention, the MEA said. The winners of ‘Bharat ko Janiye Quiz’ will also be announced in the inaugural session. The PBD Convention will include two Plenary Sessions -- ‘Role of Diaspora in Atmanirbhar Bharat’ and ‘Facing Post Covid Challenges-Scenario in Health, Economy, Social and International Relations’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-pravasi-bharatiya-divas-convention-on-january-9-mea/story-hcVJtoGctG3ECmI2nPch7N.html
08-12-2020||India||Govt’s criticism can’t be ground for penal action, says Supreme Court||Criticism of the government, even in the strongest terms, must be protected from criminal prosecution under charges of hate speech or public mischief, ruled the Supreme Court on Monday, outlining the contours of hate speech and constitutionally--protected freedom of expression. In a 128-page judgment, justices AM Khanwilkar and Sanjiv Khanna held that “disloyalty” to the government by law and comments was not an offence if it did not call for violence and public disorder. The judges, who were hearing a petition by journalist Amish Devgan to quash FIRs over his controversial comments on Sufi seer Moinuddin Chishti, also underlined that “political speech relating to government policies requires greater protection for preservation and promotion of democracy” as freedom to express and speak is the most important condition for political democracy. “Comment or criticism of the government action, in howsoever strong words, must be protected and cannot be a ground to take penal action unless the words written or spoken, etc have pernicious tendency or intention of creating public disorder,” said the bench, adding that law and policies are not democratic unless they have been made and subjected to democratic process including questioning and criticism. “Dissent and criticism of the elected government’s policy, when puissant, deceptive or even false would be ethically wrong, but would not invite penal action...Government should be left out from adjudicating what is true or false, good or bad, valid or invalid as these aspects should be left for open discussion in the public domain,” held the court, pointing out that elected representatives in power have the right to respond and dispel suspicion. The court maintained that without exciting the feelings that trigger public disorder by acts of violence, “political views and criticism cannot be made subject matter of penal action” because there is difference between ‘government established by law’ and ‘persons for the time being engaged in carrying on administration’. “Disloyalty to the government by law and comments even in strong terms on the measures or acts of the government so as to ameliorate the condition of the people or to secure cancellation or alteration of those actions or measures by lawful means, without exciting of those feelings of enmity and disloyalty which imply excitement to public disorder or use of force, is not an offence,” asserted the bench. The court clarified that what would not be protected is an anti-democratic speech in general and political extremist speech in particular, which has no useful purpose, if and only when in the nature of incitement to violence that ‘creates’, or is ‘likely to create’ or ‘promotes’ or is ‘likely to promote’ public disorder. During a television show on June 15, Devgan made objectionable comments against the seer held in high esteem by tens of thousands of devotees. The journalist tweeted his apology soon after the show, but multiple FIRs were registered against him across the country under laws related to hate speech and outraging religious feelings of a community. The court declined to quash the FIRs on the ground that it would be for the trial court to examine the content of the TV debate to ascertain whether his comments violated any law or not. It, however, clubbed all the FIRs into one case to be tried at Ajmer in Rajasthan, and also protected Devgan from arrest till the completion of investigation on the condition that he will cooperate with the probe. At the same time, the judgment, authored by Justice Khanna, extensively discussed the concept of hate speech, as it said that any attempt at dissemination of discrimination on the basis of race, religion, caste, creed or regional basis must be condemned. Describing ‘tolerance’ as a great virtue, the court said, “Dignity of citizens of all castes, creed, religion and region is best protected by the fellow citizens belonging to non-targeted groups and even targeted groups. As stated earlier, in a polity committed to pluralism, hate speech cannot conceivably contribute in any legitimate way to democracy and, in fact, repudiates the right to equality. “||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-s-criticism-can-t-be-ground-for-penal-action-says-supreme-court/story-3q4NMC9JAmOROpVh79AGOL.html
08-12-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||The evidence is anecdotal at the moment, but there would appear to be a mini-boom in tech jobs in Bengaluru, Chennai, and some of the smaller cities in the South that have traditionally been hubs for technology businesses, with many of the new jobs coming from multinational companies that already have a presence in these regions. It is anecdotal, but not counterintuitive.In a conversation with this columnist in September, ahead of the launch of his book, Netflix CEO Reed Hastings spoke of how his company would try and get people back to work as soon as it was safe to do so because WFH wasn’t “as good as being together and talking about things”. He added that Netflix wasn’t “optimising the culture for the pandemic” and spoke of the challenges of remote work. “We are all coasting on relationships we built before Covid. I think it is very challenging to develop new employees who never get to know us.” Hastings said that while in his experience “the physical workplace is superior”, this was the case for him, and that “maybe for a 20-year old who grew up on Tinder” the reverse would be true.I feel exactly the same way, but there are many companies that have discovered the benefits of WFH in the course of this very strange year. At least some of them have decided that a significant portion of their workforce will continue to WFH even after the pandemic. This isn’t always driven by the right motives – cost, not quality of life, is a driver in many cases – and there may be a price to pay for it down the line (in terms of organisational or workspace culture, and all that contributes to the business), but WFH is here to stay. This is true in every geography.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicCompanies that were pioneers in outsourcing work to India – and tech firms are on top of this list by a long distance – are figuring out that if they are anyway going to move to remote working for many of their employees, then they might as well – provided the right kind of people are available – move those jobs in India, where they could be remote, or not.That could explain the scramble for technology workers in Bengaluru. One technology recruiter I spoke to made it sound like the boom days of the late 1990s and mid-2000s, when technology workers could and would literally walk across the road to their new companies (I wonder what the WFH equivalent of that could be). He might be overstating the intensity, but the trend is clearly there.It is also becoming clear that this trend could extend well beyond technology. Any work that is currently being done remotely, and which the company believes can continue to be done remotely, is work that is no longer restricted by geography, no matter what might previously have been assumed. All such work (or at least some of it), could move – and all the things that worked to India’s advantage during the first waves of IT and business process outsourcing will likely work for it in this context. That includes a well-educated, technically savvy, English-speaking workforce; excellent connectivity; and lower salaries and cost of living than in most Western nations.Also Read: 2 Indian Covid-19 vaccine producers apply for approvalWhile the anecdotes I have heard have come Bengaluru and Chennai, this is a trend any city with good connectivity, schools, and health care facilities, can leverage to its advantage (readers will notice that I didn’t use the more expansive quality-of-life descriptor simply because it is very tough for a city to suddenly improve its).Urban renewal, in India’s current, emerging and aspiring outsourcing hubs should be part of the post-Covid plans of state governments if they want to tap into it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-pned3AMzi2pWCkwpsfEhTO.html
08-12-2020||India||Govt denies CPWD request for tweaks in Central Vista project||The Union environment ministry’s Expert Appraisal Committee (EAC) on infrastructure projects has rejected an application by the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) to amend the terms of reference for redeveloping the common central secretariat buildings as part of the Central Vista Redevelopment Project. The application was made a day after environment ministry approved the earlier terms of reference. In the minutes of its meeting on November 25, published on Monday on the ministry’s Parivesh website, EAC said CPWD should “refrain from the piecemeal approach for the proposed development and redevelopment.” CPWD and its consultant Kadam Environmental Consultants Limited agreed to withdraw the proposal in the present format, according to the minutes. “ EAC (Infra-2) decided to return the proposal in original and asked project proponent to apply afresh while adopting an integrated approach for the proposed development/ redevelopment,” the minutes added.CPWD had submitted a conceptual plan for redeveloping the common central secretariat buildings and central conference centre along with the Prime Minister ‘s office and residence, a Special Protection Group (SPG) building and the vice-president’s enclave -- all part of the Central Vista Redevelopment Project -- to the environment ministry for environmental clearance. Also Read| Central Vista redevelopment: Halt activities, wait for verdict, SC tells GovtAll these buildings were not part of the initial plan submitted by CPWD to the environment ministry, official documents suggest. The original plan submitted involved only the common central secretariat and the central conference centre.  The application angered citizen groups, which were upset by the piecemeal approach taken towards implementing the Central Vista project.The CPWD had received an environmental clearance for only one project as part of the Central Vista redevelopment -- a parliament building. The clearance granted for that project is being challenged in the Supreme Court. CPWD categorised the central secretariat and other buildings in question as a separate development (although they are a part of overall Central Vista project) for which a clearance hasn’t been granted. The first step is to apply for the terms of reference, which are approved by the EAC after an EIA is conducted. Based on the EIA, the EAC decides to approve or reject a project. That stage has not yet been reached in the case of the central secretariat project.An EAC member said on condition of anonymity: “Though the parliament building has been approved separately, we don’t want to consider other parts of the same project in isolation. They have been asked to submit a consolidated proposal for all other related projects of the Central Vista redevelopment.”The application for amending the terms of reference, available on the Parivesh website and seen by HT, suggests that the Prime Minister’s office, Prime Minister’s residence, vice-president’s enclave and Special Protection Group building were added to the proposal. This led to an increase in the built-up area from 1,754,057.35 sqm to 1,837,057.35 sqm and a rise in waste water generation, municipal waste generation and investment cost from Rs 11,038 crore to Rs 11,794 crore.The approval of the terms of reference is the initial clearance needed for any development project. Several citizens wrote to the chairman of the EAC, T Haque, to reject the application on grounds that it is only a part of the larger Central Vista Redevelopment Project, which was being pursued in a piecemeal manner, leading to improper assessment of its environmental impact.“The project proponents have been taking advantage of laws and regulations by calling this ‘an evolving project’. Many new components of this project have come to light only due to public questioning. EAC has at least pushed for an integrated environmental assessment. Who will ask for a full cost and viability assessment? So far there has been no government disclosure on any of this,” said Manju Menon, a senior fellow at the Centre for Policy Research think tank.Haque did not respond to queries from HT on the return of CPWD’s application to amend the terms of reference. CPWD did not respond to queries from HT on whether the department will put in place a consolidated plan for Central Vista Redevelopment Project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-denies-cpwd-request-for-tweaks-in-central-vista-project/story-pRlSdY4wRzVginFP8h7KjI.html
08-12-2020||India||Jobless for 9 months, over 8,000 Tripura teachers go on indefinite protest||Nine months after losing jobs, over 8,000 terminated school teachers of Tripura started an indefinite sit-in protest demanding the state government to provide a permanent solution to their crises. The teachers formed a joint forum comprising three separate organizations - Justice for 10323, Amra 10323 and All Tripura Ad Hoc Teachers’ Association - to protest in Agartala since morning. They claimed that they met chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb in September this year and were assured of a permanent solution.“We didn’t get any response since the chief minister assured us of giving a permanent solution. We are without our jobs for last nine months and are facing difficulties to meet our domestic expenses. So, we are protesting for an indefinite period till we are given permanent jobs and die-harness jobs to families of the deceased terminated teachers,” said Dalia Das, a member of the joint forum. Also read: Prez Macron dials PM Modi, gets support on action against terror and radicalisationBefore their meeting, the state cabinet approved age-relaxation for these teachers to provide them opportunity for applying in 9,700 group C non-technical posts which would be notified in a phased manner. The age relaxation would be in force till March 31, 2023.The Tripura High Court terminated a total of 10,323 school teachers due to their faulty recruitment process in 2014. These teachers were appointed in postgraduate, graduate and undergraduate posts in different phases since 2010. Challenging the order, the sacked teachers and the erstwhile Left Front government filed Special Leave Petition in the Supreme Court and the apex Court upheld the High Court’s order in 2017. Of the total 10,323 teachers, over 8,000 were reappointed on an ad-hoc basis, the tenure of which expired on March 31 this year. The rest got themselves placed in different positions in government departments. After their termination, they held protests in different phases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jobless-for-9-months-over-8-000-tripura-teachers-go-on-indefinite-protest/story-bTs2duw1ss2eIAQHxng8tJ.html
08-12-2020||India||‘No ornaments of Lord Jagannath went missing during special ritual’: Temple administration||About 10 days after it was alleged that the ‘sun and moon’ ornament of Lord Jagannath went missing, the Sri Jagannath Temple Administration on Monday said the jewels were never missing. The precious ornaments were used in the Nagarjuna Vesha ritual.Nagarjuna Vesha of Lord Jagannath and his siblings in the temple was held on November 27 without the presence of any devotees due to Covid-19 restrictions. A day after the ritual, an employee of the temple was seen coming out of the temple carrying the decorative ‘sun and moon’ piece that stirred a controversy.However, on Monday, the niti administrator of the termple, Jitendra Kumar Sahoo, said the “sun and moon” ornaments which were seen outside the temple on November 28 were actually made of thermocol.Also read: No clue yet about mysterious disease at Eluru in AP, patients flood hospital“Temple servitor Basant Chandra Rana had prepared two extra ‘sun and moon’ ornaments of thermocol, beyond the items listed by the temple commander for Nagarjuna Vesha. As the same ornaments made of gold were already there, the thermocol ornaments were not used,” he said.The Niti administrator said after the Nagarjuna Vesha was over, two senior servitors, Bhandara Mekap Madhusudhan Mekap and Daita sevayat Ramchandra Das Mahapatra, were handed over the artificial ‘sun and moon’ ornaments on their request.Nagarjuna Vesha is observed during the month of Kartika when Panchuka (last five days of Kartika month) is observed as six days instead of five. The vesha is celebrated in commemoration of the killing of Kartyavera Arjuna, one of the main kings slain by Parsuram. The vesha was last observed in 1994 when six devotees were killed in the ensuing stampede.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-ornaments-of-lord-jagannath-went-missing-during-special-ritual-temple-administration/story-rlJUOSSTWCDtAX6C653YaK.html
08-12-2020||India||Former Odisha minister arrested in job scam to face Lokayukta probe||Former Odisha minister Pradeep Panigrahy is likely to face more trouble after the state government recommended a probe by the Lokayukta into the charges of corruption against him.This is the first corruption allegation referred by the state government to the Lokayukta after the anti-corruption Ombudsman was created in Odisha a little more than a year ago. “The government led by chief minister Naveen Patnaik is known for its strong action against corruption in public life and committed to provide a transparent administration to the people of Odisha,” the Chief Minister’s Office said in a statement.Panigrahy, who was arrested by the state CID last week on charges of cheating, forgery and conspiracy had allegedly conspired with his would-be son-in-law Akash Pathak to dupe several youths in Ganjam district. Pathak and Panigrahy had allegedly taken Rs 6 lakh each from around 120 job aspirants by promising them jobs in Tata Motors. They had taken money from the job aspirants with the promise to engage them as Engineering and Management trainees in Tata Motors with a salary ranging from Rs 7 to 8 lakh per annum.Pathak, who had projected himself as the Managing Director of Tata motors, was to marry Panigrahy’s daughter on December 11 in a palace hotel of Udaipur. At the height of the Covid-19 pandemic, Panigrahy had allegedly flown in chartered planes with the Pathak family to various places in the country and stayed in expensive hotels.The 56-year-old Panigrahy who was the blue-eyed boy of chief minister Naveen Patnaik not long ago, had lost his access to the CM, whose assembly constituency Hinjili he looked after for almost 10 years. Last week, he was expelled from the primary membership of BJD after his links with suspended IFS officer Abhay Kanta Pathak and his son Akash was revealed. The IFS officer is now in jail in a disproportionate assets case.Panigrahy’s woes also may mount after the court of additional district judge in Bhubaneswar rejected his bail petition on Monday. The MLA who has been sent in judicial custody for 14 days by the order of the SDJM’s court, had moved the Khurda District and Sessions Court for bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-odisha-minister-arrested-in-job-scam-to-face-lokayukta-probe/story-9dCQHbFeL1SA3fRr6PavVO.html
08-12-2020||India||College principal in Guwahati arrested for allegedly raping daughter||Police in Guwahati have arrested the principal of a college for allegedly raping his daughter several years ago. He was arrested on Sunday based on a complaint from his daughter, police said. He was produced in a city court on Monday and remanded in judicial custody for 14 days. According to the police, the complainant had lodged an FIR on November 30 alleging that her father had sexually harassed her for several months. The FIR has been lodged under sections 376, 354, 352, 506 and 294 of IPC for rape, criminal assault to outrage modesty, criminal intimidation, obscene acts etc. “The accused was arrested following complaints by his daughter. The complainant says that she was sexually assaulted around 10 years ago, but she hadn’t complained then as she was very young,” said Nikumoni Bhuyan, in-charge of all-women police station at Panbazar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/college-principal-in-guwahati-arrested-for-allegedly-raping-daughter/story-3aAfFY123MWCDnoAvkmnsO.html
08-12-2020||India||RERA Act introduced to remove problem of trust deficit between builders, homebuyers, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said that there was a trust deficit between builders and home buyers, and the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) Act was introduced to remove this problem. While inaugurating the construction of the Agra Metro project via video conferencing, Modi said, “People with wrong intentions brought disrepute to the entire real estate sector, upsetting our middle class.” The prime minister said that there was a trust deficit between the builders and the home buyers, and the RERA law was introduced to remove this problem. He added that some recent reports showed that middle class homes were getting completed quickly after the introduction of this law. He also said that all-round development, from modern public transport to housing, was going to make life easier in cities. Noting that the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana was inaugurated from Agra, the prime minister said that more than one crore houses have been approved for the urban poor under this scheme. Modi said help is being provided to middle class families of the city to buy houses for the first time. He said so far, more than 12 lakh urban families have been given help of about Rs 28,000 crore to buy houses. The prime minister said infrastructure like water and sewer are being upgraded in several cities under the AMRUT mission, and help is being given to local bodies to make public toilets better in cities and to implement a modern system of waste management.Also Read |  BJP govt able to start, finish development projects on time: PM Modi “Dreams of today’s new India are big (‘badhe’) and enormous (‘viraat’). But, visualizing the dreams is not enough, courage is needed to fulfil them. When you move ahead with courage and dedication, no obstacle can stop you. The youth of India and smaller cities are displaying this courage and dedication,” he said. “The role played by metro cities in the 20th century is now being played by smaller cities like Agra,” the prime minister said. He said that metro rail coaches are being made in India under the Make in India mission. When it comes to the matter of metro network, India is becoming self-reliant, he said, and added that Agra is the seventh city of Uttar Pradesh to have the metro rail facility. “Agra has an age-old identity. Now, a new dimension of modernity is getting attached to it. The city which has treasured history of hundreds of years is all set to march in tune with the 21st century,” Modi said. “In the past six years, the speed and scale with which work has been done on the metro network in UP and in the country, shows the identity (‘pehchaan’) and commitment of the government,” he asserted. Modi also remarked that cities of western UP have everything, which is needed for self-reliance. “The farmers here have a tremendous potential. In the matter of animal husbandry, this region is a leader in the country. There is a huge scope for the dairy and food processing industry here, and this region is also moving ahead in the service and manufacturing sector,” he said. He added that with modern infrastructure and modern facilities, this potential of western UP is increasing. The first Rapid Rail Transport System (RRTS) is being constructed between Delhi and Meerut, he said, adding that a 14-lane expressway between Delhi and Meerut will soon serve people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rera-act-introduced-to-remove-problem-of-trust-deficit-between-builders-homebuyers-says-pm-modi/story-TCLWZirCL6FxN0o1YjQlvI.html
08-12-2020||Editorials||Free speech vs hate speech | HT Editorial||In a significant order on Monday, a two-judge bench of the Supreme Court (SC) — comprising Justice AM Khanwilkar and Justice Sanjiv Khanna — laid out the theoretical basis for distinguishing free speech and hate speech and mounted a strong defence of the former while outlining the dangerous implications of the latter. The bench was considering a petition by journalist Amish Devgan to quash multiple First Information Reports (FIRs) against him for his remarks against the Sufi saint, Khwaja Moinuddin Chisthi. The SC refused to order the quashing of the FIRs, but the real import of the order lies in its pronouncement on the nature of free speech and its limits in India.Based on an extensive comparative study of how diverse jurisdictions deal with free speech, India’s own constitutional provisions, and the existing academic literature on the subject, the order puts up a robust defence of free speech and adopts, rightly, an expansive view of what free speech constitutes. In its view, the “freedom to express and speak” is the most important condition for a political democracy. It adds that laws and policies are not democratic unless subject to questioning and criticism and that dissent and criticism of the government’s policy — even if it was false — would be ethically wrong but not invite penal action. Importantly, it says governments should be left out of adjudicating what’s right or wrong, true or false, for these are matters of open discussion in the public domain and that political speech on government policies requires “greater protection” for preservation of democracy. Finally, it points out that instead of being an elite indulgence, free speech has empowered the marginalised. By firmly standing in favour of the constitutional principle of liberty and the fundamental right of free speech, the SC — at a time when these values are often subject to arbitrary action — has done well and must observe it consistently in its own treatment of matters. The order also, once again rightly, takes a position against hate speech, defined in terms of context, content, and impact. The order refers to the greater onus on “persons of influence” — which may include political, social, media leaders — while highlighting the need greater latitude to those oppressed groups who may, due to their experiences, resort to a degree of harshness in utterances. At a time when along with the greater threat to free speech, there is proliferation of hate speech, the SC’s observations deserve careful attention and adherence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/free-speech-vs-hate-speech-ht-editorial/story-fV6TyVn1xTsyLefkFjJvpI.html
